15-09-2021||World||Nadhim Zahawi becomes new education minister in UK cabinet reshuffle||In a major cabinet reshuffle, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has appointed Nadhim Zahawi as the education secretary, replacing Gavin Williamson who was the first minister to indicate an exit after he tweeted that it had been his privilege to serve in his role since 2019 when Johnson first took charge.Zahawi was until now the vaccines minister in the UK government.
15-09-2021||World||Biden admin pressing India to resume export of Covid vaccines: Report||The Joe Biden administration has been pressing Prime Minister Narendra Modi reportedly to let India resume exporting Covid-19 vaccines, and is tying it to a possible prominent role for him at a global summit US President plans to hold on the sidelines of the UN general assembly meetings.“We have been regularly communicating with (the) government of India in bilateral and multilateral channels to discuss vaccine supply and inquire about timeline for exports,” a US official told Axios news publication, insisting, at the same time, that “these conversations are not tied to a specific summit or engagement”.Prime Minister Modi’s participation in the summit will not be incumbent upon his agreeing to resuming export of vaccines.The summit has not been announced yet.Prime Minister Modi will be joining his counterparts from Australia and Japan - Scott Morrison and Yoshihide Suga - and President Biden for the first in-person summit of the Quad (Quadrilateral Security Dialogue) at the White House on September 24, according to announcements by the Indian ministry of external affairs and the White House. And, the pandemic is on the agenda, along with climate change and the Indo-Pacific.India ceased export of Covid-19 vaccines earlier in the year after it faced internal criticism for not inoculating enough Indians in the wake of a massive surge in cases caused by the more virulent Delta variant.India is in a far better place with half of its eligible populating having received at least one shot of a vaccine.Axios reported that Biden administration officials have said they understand this is a sensitive issue and have thus decided to adopt a “soft approach” to Modi and it added, citing officials, the administration has “decided against trying to pressurise Modi by conditioning his participation on his willingness to release vaccines to Covax. He’ll be welcomed regardless of his decision”.The United States had itself banned the export of Covid-19 vaccines as it sought to marshal all available resources to vaccinate Americans and build a stockpile of vaccines for use domestically, by invoking special wartime powers of the president. This had created a shortfall of raw material for vaccines in India, as supplies were blocked from shipping.The United States lifted the curbs as part of a relief package it announced for India to help it deal with the crippling surge in cases fuelled by the Delta variant, along with oxygen concentrators, therapeutics such as remdesivir and personal protection equipment for healthcare workers.The Biden administration plans to push participants at the summit to contribute vaccines to the WHO-run Covax initiative, which is trying to ensure equitable distribution of vaccines around the world. Some countries have distributed vaccines through bilateral arrangement to earn and build diplomatic equity.Axios reported that the Biden administration plans to invite Russia, which has stayed away from Covax, to the summit, as well as China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-admin-pressing-india-to-resume-export-of-covid-vaccines-report-101631727784818.html
15-09-2021||World||India criticises Pakistan, OIC at UN Human Rights Council||India on Wednesday criticised Pakistan for using the UN Human Rights Council to spread “false and malicious propaganda” against the country as part of efforts to divert the world community’s attention from rights violations committed by Islamabad. Exercising its right of reply in response to Pakistan’s statement at the 48th session of the council in Geneva, an Indian representative said: “It has become a habit for Pakistan to misuse the platforms provided by the council to propagate its false and malicious propaganda against my country.” The representative also referred to rights violations in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and said, “The council is aware of Pakistan’s attempts to divert the council’s attention from serious human rights violations being perpetrated by its government, including in the territories occupied by it.” Pakistan, the Indian side said, has “failed to protect the rights of its minorities, including Sikhs, Hindus, Christians and Ahmadiyas”, and thousands of women and girls from minorities have been “subjected to abductions, forced marriages and conversions in Pakistan and its occupied territories”. It further said Pakistan has been “engaged in systematic persecution, forced conversions, targeted killings, sectarian violence and faith-based discrimination against its ethnic and religious minorities”. Incidents of violence against minorities and attacks on their places of worship and private property have occurred with impunity. “A ‘climate of fear’ continues to drastically impact the daily lives of minorities,” the Indian representative said, adding dissenting voices from among civil society, human rights defenders and journalists were “muzzled daily” with the support of the government. “The impunity with which such abuses have been carried out exposes the hollowness of Pakistan’s commitment to human rights,” the representative said. Pakistan has also been “globally recognised as a country openly supporting, training, financing and arming terrorists, including UN proscribed terrorists, as a matter of state policy”, the Indian side said. The Indian side also rejected a reference made by the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) to Jammu and Kashmir and said the “OIC has no locus standi to comment on internal affairs of India”. The OIC, it added, has “helplessly allowed itself to be held hostage by Pakistan, which holds the chairmanship of their Geneva Chapter, to subserve its own agenda”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-criticises-pakistan-oic-at-un-human-rights-council-101631726219781.html
15-09-2021||World||Pakistan open to pardon TTP members if they give up terror activities, says Qureshi||Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said that the government would be will give amnesty to members of the banned Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) if they pledge to not indulge in terrorist activities. In an interview with The Independent, Qureshi expressed concern over the reports of the Afghan Taliban releasing TTP terrorists."If those guys come and start creating problems for us over here, it will affect innocent lives and we don't want that," he said.The TTP is said to be traditionally located in the eastern districts of Nangarhar Province, near the border with Pakistan. Qureshi, who is now worried about TTP creating instability in Pakistan, was evasive about the Afghan Taliban role in violence across the border as their fighters intensified offensive against Afghan defence forces earlier this year. Also Read | Taliban leader Mullah Baradar on Time's list of 100 most influential people of 2021Pakistan is now fighting domestic insurgency from local Taliban offshoot as well as al-Qaeda and the Islamic State. Islamabad wants the Taliban to use its influence for convincing the TTP to give up terrorist activities and submit themselves to the Constitution of Pakistan."If [the TTP] are willing to mend fences and not take the law into their hands and not get involved in terrorist activities and they submit and surrender to the writ of the government and the Constitution of Pakistan, we are even open to giving them a pardon," Qureshi said."But as long as they do not come and start undertaking terrorist activities [in Pakistan]. That is our concern," he added.Qureshi blamed the former Afghan government, led by Ashraf Ghani, for not taking action against the TTP while terming the Taliban's assurance of not allowing terror groups to use Afghanistan's soil against any country as “positive”. He, however, added that it remains to be seen if the Taliban would act on their assurances.Despite the Taliban’s repeated denial of any presence of foreign terrorists in Afghanistan, A recent UN report said that fighters from various countries and militant groups continue to operate in the country and most are reported to be, at minimum, “tolerated or protected by the Taliban.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-open-to-pardon-ttp-members-if-give-up-terror-activities-says-qureshi-101631717820938.html
15-09-2021||World||Imran Khan says world should give Taliban more time, US misunderstood Haqqanis||Instead of sitting and thinking that "we can control them", the world should come forward to incentivise Afghanistan and provide some more time to the Taliban, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said in an interview to CNN. 'We' in Imran Khan's comment meant the United States and not Pakistan as Imran Khan said Afghanistan has a tradition of rejecting puppet government. "No puppet government in Afghanistan is supported by the people. It gets discredit among the people.Pakistan had intelligence inputs that the Taliban would not be able to take over all of Afghanistan and there will be bloodbaths after the US forces left. Now, the world should give more time to the Taliban to form a legitimate government and make good on their promises Imran Khan said. On being asked about women's rights under the Taliban rule, Imran Khan said it is a mistake to think that someone from outside will be able to give Afghan women rights. "Afghan women are string. Give them time. They will get their rights," Khan said.On Pakistan supporting the TalibanCountering the allegations which are not new for Pakistan and Imran Khan that Pakistan was supporting the Taliban, the prime minister said that his country can't fund war when it barely meets its own expenses. "The total budget of Pakistan is $50 billion for 220 million people. [...] Did we have the capacity to fund another war [when] we can barely meet our own expenses?" he said.'US never understood what the Haqqani network was'Imran Khan said Haqqanis are a 'Pashtun tribe living in Afghanistan'. They were Mujahideen who were fighting the Soviets. "They were born in a Pakistani refugee camp," Imran Khan said giving his own explanation of how the Haqqani Network started.Imran Khan was strongly pitching for a government in Afghanistan with the Taliban presence and during Wednesday's interview too, he said had he been the prime minister of Pakistan at the time when Pakistan joined its hands with the US in this war, he would not have sided with the United States. "The Afghan Taliban weren't attacking us. I wish if I was in government. I would have told the US that we are not going to take them on militarily because first, we have to serve the people. My responsibility would have been to the people of my country," Khan said.‘Want normal relationship with the US like India has’On US-Pakistan relationship after Taliban takeover of Afghanistan and the withdrawal of the US troops, Imran Khan said he had not spoken with Joe Biden. ""I would imagine he's very busy, but our relationship with the US is not just dependent on a phone call, it needs to be a multidimensional relationship," Imran Khan said.Imran Khan said Pakistan now wants a normal relationship with the US like the "US has a relationship with India" and not a "one-dimensional relationship where they are paying us to fight."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-says-world-should-give-taliban-more-time-us-misunderstood-haqqanis-101631724881686.html
15-09-2021||World||Dalai Lama alone will have final say on reincarnation: CTA chief Penpa Tsering||Against the backdrop of China’s repeated efforts to portray a role for itself in the selection of the next Dalai Lama, the Sikyong or head of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), Penpa Tsering, has said the Tibetan spiritual leader alone will have the final say on his reincarnation. In an interview, Tsering said the current impasse in the Tibetan Parliament provides a “lot of space for the Chinese government to create trouble” within the Tibetan community. Tsering also spoke about the CTA’s plans to integrate Tibetan settlements in India to make them administratively more manageable. Q. As the Sikyong or head of the Central Tibetan Administration, what are the three big issues you would identify as a primary concern for the Tibetan community? How would you tackle them? A. We are going through a huge social and demographic change because of which we’ll have to do quite a lot of restructuring in the years to come, particularly to do with the integration of settlements and integration of schools, because we are scattered in more than 45 different communities, compact and scattered in India. So in the long run, when more people move out of the settlements, then it becomes expedient on us to integrate the settlements into more compact, larger communities so that it becomes administratively more manageable for us. [And] at the same time, be able to preserve our language, culture, religion and way of life for what it was meant to be when we first came into exile in 1959 and the vision of his holiness, the Dalai Lama, and the successive Indian leadership that has given us so much support and help, that has reduced a lot of our existential problems. Those are the major challenges that we have to meet today. Q. You had your election quite a while ago and there’s a kind of impasse in the Tibetan Parliament. How are you planning to tackle that? A. It’s not really a refusal to take oath [by some members]. They’ve taken oath but not on the basis of the charter. Our democracy is quite a mix of presidential [and] parliamentary [systems] because the election of the Sikyong is more presidential in nature and the Parliament is more parliamentary in nature. So it’s a mix of two systems of democracy, where the delineation of the division of power between the three pillars of democracy is quite distinct and...one organ of democracy overreaching on the other, here in terms of the executive or the Kashag overreaching on the legislative and the judiciary is not mandated in the charter. Therefore, it’s not legally provided for the cabinet to interfere or intervene. But I did suggest that if all the 45 people who were elected...to the Parliament come to us and give us the mandate, then we promise to be fair. Other than that, there is no clarity in terms of how to resolve this, other than the role of the election commission. And the charter also doesn’t specify as to what happens if some members do not take oath of office as per the laws. So, it is up to the members to decide whether this impasse should continue for the larger interests of the cause and the people, or this should be elongated for a longer time. So, as I always say even in our personal lives, we face a lot of challenges and as Buddhists, we believe in impermanence. So, it’s a matter of time [and] it should be resolved. Q. I asked this question because there are some concerns that if this state of affairs continues, there could be problems going forward into the next financial year. You would have problems with your budget and governance. A. I firmly believe that it should be settled before that, but then it’s up to the members as I said before...The problem is there because there is a solution, the solution should come before the time limit that you have mentioned Q. Which is about March-April, I guess. A. Yeah, we follow the same financial year as India does. Q. I also asked this question because there are some who feel that this state of affairs continuing provides opportunities to others to interfere and let the problem go on for longer. A. Definitely. It gives a lot of space for the Chinese government to create trouble within the [Tibetan] community, and it also affects the image of the Tibetan movement as such. And also, the very fact that we have been practicing democracy over the last 50 years, that also gets effected. But whenever you have a problem, there are also opportunities. This creates more awareness within the public about the laws and the system and all that. So I believe now people are more aware of what is happening within the community and I think the elected leaders should be aware of where it’s heading to. And the fact that democracy also involves a lot of accountability and responsibility to the people and answerability also to the people. So that way, it helps the public to understand the system better and eventually, I hope this will have a longer impact on the public when they make the decision as to who they should elect as members of parliament. Q. We are in very interesting times as far as the India-China relationship is concerned, and that obviously has an impact on the Tibetan administration and the larger Tibetan committee. How far has the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) impacted your administration or the Tibetan community at large? A. There is a lot of interest within the community, from the government of India, from the US government and also the changing dynamics in Europe. So, the continuing impasse also affects the functioning in terms of our outreach to the international community, including India. But we have not backtracked on this. The administration is going ahead. We have been having a series of meetings with top officials and concerned leadership in different countries. Q. Does that include China? Have there been any new fresh contacts with them? A. Unofficially yes, there are some feelers, but we have to check the credibility of these channels of communications that are opening up. Q. The other thing that everybody has been debating is the way the Chinese have been aggressively saying they are going to decide the next Dalai Lama. It’s an issue that has come up repeatedly. How do you look at that aggressive Chinese posturing on this issue? A. That obviously involves politicisation of the whole reincarnation issue because if the Chinese government is really serious about the reincarnation of the 14th Dalai Lama, then they should be giving more attention to the living 14th Dalai Lama than the future 15th Dalai Lama. And as a communist regime which does not believe in religion or life after death, this is purely a spiritual matter. When you talk about reincarnation, it’s the person who’s going to be reincarnated who decides where or how he or she should be born. So, in the case of his holiness, the Dalai Lama, he is a spiritual leader. We are talking about his reincarnation, so it’s completely up to his holiness to decide where he will be born, not the Chinese government. Q. Given the fact that the Dalai Lama is at an advanced age, has the CTA started preparations for this issue? A. In terms of the process of selection of a reincarnation, I personally believe that the Central Tibetan Administration should not have any role in that. This is a purely spiritual and a religious process. So it’s up to the religious leader, particularly his holiness the Dalai Lama, to decide, not the administration, but once his reincarnation is recognised, then the role of the CTA comes into being. Q. The other issue is the return to India of another Tibetan spiritual leader, the Karmapa. Recently, we saw senior officials from Sikkim giving indications that they would like him to come back. A. Definitely, devotees of Karmapa Rinpoche are very concerned and I’m sure Karmapa Rinpoche also would like to return. But at the same time, there has to be mutual understanding between the government of India and Karmapa Rinpoche himself. We are talking about how to smoothen things out and look at ways where there could be a mutual consensus on how he should return and how he will be treated in India. So, those concerns are being discussed and the Indian government is also very keen that he returns. Q. Has there been progress in this regard? A. It has only been three months since I took over. Whenever I get the opportunity to go to Europe next time, I think there will be confabulations on this matter, including a personal meeting with the Karmapa Rinpoche. I will be playing the role of messenger if it helps. Q. There has been some concern over the younger members of the Tibetan community moving out of India to the West, particularly the US. Is there a concern that maybe you’re losing some of the brightest from among the community? A. On any given issue, there are good sides, bad sides to it. So we can’t make a judgment on what is completely white or what is completely black, because there are advantages of people moving out, in the sense that they have more economic opportunities. And because of that, they’re able to support their families here or inside Tibet. So, in terms of economic benefits, those are there, and also political benefits in terms of Tibetans being resettled in 25-30 different countries and becoming nationals of those countries...and [understanding] the system. So, there are a lot of opportunities to optimise the potential that the younger generation of Tibetans, who reside in other countries, provide to lobby for Tibet in their respective nations. But on the other side, the Tibetans who are resettled there are not in compact communities, even if they are in one city. But fortunately, because of the leadership of his holiness, the Dalai Lama, we have Tibetan associations everywhere. So, irrespective of whether they are dispersed in different regions, they still come together for major events and political activities that concern the cause of Tibet. Here also in India, we have challenges as well as opportunities. We talked about integration, which will be long-term and a difficult task to convince Tibetans to integrate...but at the same time, we can work towards creating opportunities and windows for people to look at things from a different perspective and see how best it can be managed. Q. There was a significant uptick in the US administration’s outreach towards the Tibetan administration during the term of president Donald Trump. Do you see that continuing? A. Definitely, it’s all because of the benevolence of his holiness, the Dalai Lama, and the respect that the leadership and the people of America have towards him. So, that trend will continue because it’s not just the administration or the White House or the state department, but also within the Congress, which is bipartisan, bicameral in nature. Perhaps, Tibet is one of the very few issues where the two parties [Democrats and Republicans] can come together. I have had personal experience, having served there. So that will continue, definitely. Q. Have you had good cooperation with the Indian side in countering the Covid-19 pandemic, especially issues such as vaccination and medical treatment? A. Definitely, it’s mainly because of the support and help of the Indian government that we have been able to vaccinate a lot of people, comparable to many developed countries, because we have completed more than 92% of vaccination for the first shot and more than 50% of the second shot. The support from the government has been immense, but at the same time, irrespective of the differences – the issues of differences are few – the issues that we can come together [on] are many. And one of these issues is Covid. So, many monasteries, many institutions, non-governmental organisations and individuals contributed in a combined effort To make the, uh, uh, to handle the Covid situation in a manner that any society would have liked to see. I’m very proud that everybody was very involved in this and very appreciative of the cooperative effort with which they did the job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dalai-lama-alone-will-have-final-say-on-reincarnation-cta-chief-penpa-tsering-101631721779118.html
15-09-2021||World||Rishi Sunak retains role as UK finance minister, foreign secy Raab demoted in Cabinet rejig||Indian-origin Rishi Sunak retained his position as finance minister in the UK government after the latest cabinet reshuffle, Downing Street announced on Thursday. British Prime Boris Johnson removed Dominic Raab as foreign secretary after UK's chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan. Elizabeth Truss, who has brokered a series of deals with the EU since its complete exit from the bloc, has been appointed as the new foreign secretary. She became the only second female foreign secretary in the UK's history.Priti Patel, another Indian-origin leader, retained her position as UK home secretary.Johnson has shown trust in Sunak's handling of Britain's economy amid multiple waves of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) which forced nationwide lockdowns. Sunak was highly rated both in surveys of Conservative Party members and in polls of the general public, which helped him secure his place in the Cabinet.On the other hand, Opposition parties had been demanding Raab's resignation for failing to make a crucial phone call to his then Afghan counterpart Hanif Atmar as the Taliban advanced on Kabul last month. Raab’s office was advised to call Atmar to request him to help evacuate local translators who had helped British officials and the military. But Raab, who was on holiday in Crete, never reportedly made the phone call.The major rejig comes amid a decline in Johnson's approval rating. In May, the Conservative leader's approval rating declined to 38% from 45%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianorigin-rishi-sunak-retains-role-as-uk-finance-minister-in-cabinet-rejig-101631718171456.html
15-09-2021||World||US says it had a last-ditch deal with Taliban, but Ashraf Ghani's escape derailed it||The United States had struck a last-minute deal with the Taliban according to which the Taliban were not supposed to enter Kabul and Ashraf Ghani was supposed to remain in his post until a settlement was reached in Qatar, but Ghani's last-minute decision to flee the country about which no one apparently had no inkling derailed everything and resulted in the fall of Kabul, Zalmay Khalilzad has told the Financial Times. Zalmay was the special representative for Afghanistan reconciliation at the state department and, as he claimed, he managed to secure a two-week grace period hours before the fall of Kabul.Ghani's escape led to a vacuum and the Afghan army was disbanded. "There were questions of law and order in Kabul after Ghani fled . . . The Talibs [then] . . . say: ‘Are you going to take responsibility for security of Kabul now? . . . And then you know what happened, we weren’t going to take responsibility,” Khalilzad said in the interview. He said on August 12, the US and the Taliban met and reached an accord on August 14 that the Taliban will not capture Kabul; they will wait outside Kabul.Ashraf Ghani was not going to be part of the future government as his resignation was a precondition set by the Taliban, but Ghani was supposed to be there till the negotiation goes on.While this narrative fits into what the US has been claiming that Kabul's fall was hastened by the crumbling of the government, Ashraf Ghani repeatedly claimed that he was forced to leave the country to avoid bloodshed. In his video messages, he reiterated that he did not escape the country; he was made to leave.Khalilzad, the 70-year-old Republican, who is blamed for the Doha peace agreement, was not removed from his post as special Afghanistan envoy even during Biden's time. Born in Afghanistan's Mazar-i-Sharif, Khalilzad is an ethnic Pashtun. His entry to the United States was as a high school exchange student.He said though what happened in Kabul and how the US troops had to withdraw from the country was not his or the US's responsibility, he mourned the failure to deliver a political settlement with the Taliban, which should have happened years earlier. "There will be a lot of soul searching," he said in the interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-envoy-says-ashraf-ghani-s-escape-derailed-last-ditch-deal-with-taliban-to-save-kabul-101631715499048.html
15-09-2021||World||Irked by Moon's deterrence remark, Kim Jong Un's sister warns of 'destruction' of South Korean ties||The powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un on Thursday criticised the speech of South Korean President Moon Jae-in in which he had termed Seoul's growing missile capabilities as a “sure deterrence" against provocations from Pyongyang. Moon was commenting on Seoul's defence capabilities after Seoul's first successful test of a submarine-launched ballistic missile."Enhancing our missile capability is exactly what's needed as deterrence against North Korea's provocation," Moon had said after the test.In a statement carried by North Korean state media, Kim Yo Jong said that Moon's remark was inappropriate, warning a “complete destruction” of ties with the South. The test came hours after the South Korean and Japanese militaries reported Pyongyang firing two ballistic missiles into the sea. The apparent display of military might by the two countries is expected to exacerbate tensions in the Korean Peninsula. Experts suggest that the arms race has accelerated under Moon's regime as he pushes for greater autonomy on foreign policy matters amid military developments in both North Korea and China. "South Korea would face many political and legal obstacles to develop nuclear weapons, both internal and external," Ramon Pacheco Pardo, a Korea expert at King's College London, told news agency Reuters. "So it will develop all other capabilities to deter North Korea and show who the strongest Korea is," he added.The negotiations to stop North Korea from nuclear tests and developing ballistic missiles have ended in a deadlock. While the US military said that the missile launches did not pose an immediate threat to US personnel or allies,  they underlined the destabilising impact of the North's weapons programme.Pyongyang has been violating UN Security Council resolutions despite facing global sanctions. A US state department spokesperson said that the missile launch posed a threat to Pyongyang's neighbours, but didn't mention South Korea's tests.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irked-by-moon-s-deterrence-remark-kim-jong-un-s-sister-warns-of-destruction-of-south-korean-ties-101631713864826.html
15-09-2021||World||UK PM reshuffles cabinet, education secretary Williamson first to indicate exit||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday readied a fresh cabinet "to build back better from the pandemic" in a reshuffle that cast foreign secretary Dominic Raab's future into doubt.Raab, who deputised as premier last April when Johnson was in intensive care with Covid-19, has faced sustained criticism for his handling of the Afghanistan crisis.The spotlight was also on education secretary Gavin Williamson, who like Raab was notably absent from the government front bench of the House of Commons at Johnson's weekly question and answer session.The gaffe-prone Williamson was the first minister to indicate he was out of a job, tweeting that it had been a "privilege" to serve in his role since 2019 when Johnson took office on a vow to "get Brexit done".Now that Britain has formally left the European Union after a years-long divorce, the Conservative government has been battling to tame one of the world's highest per capita death tolls from the pandemic.Johnson on Tuesday outlined a plan to restore restrictions if needed, to avert fresh crisis for the state-run National Health Service heading into what could be a difficult winter with hospitalisations rising again.After days of speculation, a Downing Street source confirmed the reshuffle was happening, saying Johnson would "put in place a strong and united team to build back better from the pandemic"."The PM will be appointing ministers this afternoon with a focus on uniting and levelling up the whole country," the source added.Vacationing as Kabul fellRaab was on holiday on a Greek island as the government scrambled to evacuate British nationals and Afghan staff as the Taliban advanced and seized power last month.Trade Secretary Liz Truss, who has brokered a series of deals since Britain's full exit from the EU in January, has been tipped to replace Raab.Williamson meanwhile has faced a barrage of complaints about his handling of school closures, examination arrangements and university admissions during the coronavirus emergency.Brexit point man Michael Gove has been suggested as a replacement for Home Secretary Priti Patel, another arch Brexiteer who has been under pressure due to a surge in migrant crossings from France, along with bullying claims.However, Patel sat alongside Johnson in the Commons on Wednesday, suggesting she may be safe.Finance minister Rishi Sunak was another flanking the prime minister, having emerged as a Conservative darling during the pandemic.But Justice Secretary Robert Buckland and Housing Secretary Robert Jenrick confirmed on Twitter that they were on the way out."On to the next adventure," Buckland said.As Johnson met with colleagues in his office inside the Commons, away from the public glare of 10 Downing Street, his official spokesman said the premier understood "the importance of having a diverse cabinet".But the spokesman would not guarantee that female representation in the ministerial team would be maintained at its current high level.Political strategist Dominic Cummings, the Brexit mastermind who fell out with Johnson last year, branded the shake-up the "Carrie reshuffle", suggesting that allies of the prime minister's wife will be rewarded.The Downing Street spokesman denied this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-reshuffles-cabinet-education-secretary-williamson-first-to-indicate-exit-101631714977662.html
15-09-2021||World||Hurricane Nicholas enters Louisiana, causes heavy rain across landscape||Hurricane Nicholas weakened to a tropical depression as it crawled from Texas into southern Louisiana on Wednesday, unleashing heavy rain across a landscape where Hurricane Ida destroyed thousands of rooftops now covered with flimsy tarps.Forecasters said Nicholas would slow to a stall over central Louisiana through Thursday, with plenty of water still to dump east of its center, drenching the Gulf Coast as far as the western Florida Panhandle. Southeast Louisiana faced the biggest flooding threat, and Governor John Bel Edwards warned people to take it seriously, even though Nicholas was no longer the hurricane that made landfall in Texas on Tuesday.“This is a very serious storm, particularly in those areas that were so heavily impacted by Hurricane Ida,” Edwards said.Forecasters warned people along the central Gulf Coast that up to 20 inches (50 centimeters) of rainfall are possible through Friday in places across a region still recovering from Category 4 hurricanes — Ida weeks ago and Laura last year.Galveston, Texas, recorded nearly 14 inches (35 centimeters) of rain from Nicholas, the 14th named storm of the 2021 Atlantic hurricane season, while Houston reported more than 6 inches (15 centimeters). The New Orleans office of the National Weather Service said late Tuesday that as much as 10 inches (25 centimeters) of rain could fall in parts of Louisiana, with some areas seeing particularly intense periods of 2 to 3 inches (5 to 8 centimeters) of rainfall per hour.In the small Louisiana community of Pointe-aux-Chenes, Ida peeled open the tin roof of Terry and Patti Dardar’s home, leaving them without power and water for more than two weeks since. Nicholas made the damage that much worse, soaking the upstairs. But it also provided them with badly needed water, which their son Terren and grandchildren collected in jugs and poured into a huge plastic container through a strainer. From there, a pump powered by a generator brought the water inside.His mom, Patti, said the family didn’t have anywhere else to go after Ida, so members were doing their best during Nicholas.“We ain’t got no other place," she said. “This is our home."Governor Edwards noted that 95,000 electric customers were still without power more than two weeks after Ida hit. And he said the new storm could mean some who had regained power might lose it again. Homes already badly damaged by Ida were not yet repaired to the extent that they could withstand heavy rain, Edwards added.Energy companies working to restore power to remaining areas in the state said Wednesday that they were watching Nicholas closely but didn't expect it to affect their restoration times.A spokesman for Entergy Louisiana said Nicholas so far has not caused any delays to previously announced times to restore power. Crews cannot operate when lightning is within 10 miles (16 kilometers) and can’t put bucket trucks in the air at winds greater than 30 mph (50 kph), said Jerry Nappi. But once conditions improve they would quickly resume work.Joe Ticheli, manager and CEO of South Louisiana Electric Cooperative Association, said rain really doesn’t stop the linemen, who are outfitted with slicker suits and grit.“These are tough guys, and they relish all of this,” he said. The coop services about 21,000 customers across five parishes including parts of the hard-hit Terrebonne and Lafourche parishes. Ticheli said the coop has returned power to about 75% of its customers with the remaining 25% mostly in the hardest-hit parts of southern Terrebonne parish.In the weather-battered city of Lake Charles, in southwestern Louisiana, Mayor Nic Hunter said ahead of Nicholas the city prepositioned assets should they be needed, and city crews scoured the drainage system to keep it free from debris that might cause clogs and flooding.Lake Charles has been hammered. Hurricane Laura caused substantial structural damage across the city of nearly 80,000 residents. Weeks later Hurricane Delta ripped through the same area. Freezing temperatures in January burst pipes across the city, and then a May rainstorm swamped houses and businesses yet again.The mayor says he's naturally worried about how his people are coping.“With what people have gone through over the last 16 months here in Lake Charles, they are very, understandably, despondent, emotional. Any time we have even a hint of a weather event approaching, people get scared,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-nicholas-enters-louisiana-causes-heavy-rain-across-landscape-101631711869061.html
15-09-2021||World||Covid-19: China’s Fujian outbreak spreads||The Chinese education ministry on Wednesday said students and teachers should “stay put” during the upcoming holidays in China in the backdrop of the country’s first “school-centric” Covid-19 outbreak in Fujian province.The number of Covid-19 cases in the eastern coastal Fujian province rose to 152 on Wednesday, prompting authorities to shut down more schools, impose stricter travel restrictions and expand mass nucleic acid testing.Tourist places have been closed and large-scale gathering activities such as weddings have been cancelled in the province.From Wednesday, kindergartens in some regions of Fujian’s capital city Fuzhou suspended classes. “The investment zone with investors from the nearby Taiwan island conducted nucleic acid tests for over 10,000 teachers and students from 69 kindergartens,” the Global Times reported.Though all the cases until now have only been reported from Fujian - the cities of Putian, Quanzhou and Xiamen - the fresh outbreak has also prompted cities in other parts of the country to issue travel warnings ahead of major holidays comprising the mid-Autumn festival next week and the week-long National Day break in October.Cities like Guangzhou, Jilin and Maoming in other provinces and provinces like Heilongjiang and Shanxi have advised citizens against non-essential travel.Chinese state media has called the Fujian outbreak the first “school-centred” Covid-19 cluster in China - dozens of school-going children have tested positive, the youngest a four-year-old.In Putian, for example, the first city where cases were discovered, the current outbreak has spread to two kindergartens, three primary schools and one middle school.Taking a cue, Wang Dengfeng, an education ministry official, said on Wednesday that students and teachers were being encouraged to stay put during the upcoming holidays when millions of Chinese are expected to travel. “We encourage everyone to stay in the area for the holidays if there is no essential need to leave,” Wang Dengfeng said.The warning from Wang Dengfeng came despite education ministry data showing on Wednesday that China has fully vaccinated 91% of students aged 12-17 against the coronavirus.The two-dose vaccination rate of teachers and students over 18 years old has exceeded 95%, the ministry said.China has largely been able to contain the Covid-19 pandemic - first detected in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019 - but new outbreaks continue to occur in various parts of the country.A Delta variant outbreak in July and August spread to several provinces, raising concern about new and more contagious variants.As of Tuesday, China’s national health commission (NHC) says it has administered more than 2.15 billion doses of vaccines, fully vaccinating more than 900 million people.The efficacy of the domestically developed serums, however, has been called into question particularly in dealing with the Delta variant.As of September 14, mainland China had recorded 95,413 confirmed cases and the number of deaths remained at 4636.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-china-s-fujian-outbreak-spreads-101631712058150.html
15-09-2021||World||Iran resumes commercial flights to Afghanistan||Iran Wednesday resumed commercial flights to Afghanistan that had been halted after the Taliban assumed power, news agencies reported.The semiofficial Fars news agency reported that a charter return flight transported passengers from Tehran to Kabul. It said a second flight from northeastern city of Mashhad left for Kabul, too.The flights were from the Mahan Air Airbus fleet. Iran stopped flights to Afghanistan in mid-August.Tehran has remained a critic of the Taliban and has routinely urged the formation of a government representing all Afghan groups.Iran and Afghanistan share some 945 kilometers, (580 miles) of borders. Reportedly, Iran hosts some 800,000 registered Afghan refugees and more than two million undocumented Afghans live in the country over the past four decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-resumes-commercial-flights-to-afghanistan-101631706215761.html
15-09-2021||World||Myanmar anti-coup protesters attack more military-owned communications towers||Anti-coup protesters in Myanmar said Wednesday they had destroyed four military-owned communications towers over the last week, as demonstrators step up attacks on government infrastructure.Myanmar has been in chaos since the military toppled Aung San Suu Kyi's government in February, sparking huge democracy protests and a bloody junta crackdown.Since last Thursday anti-junta fighters have destroyed four communications towers belonging to the military-owned Mytel in western Chin state, according to a spokesperson for the "Zoland People's Defence Force."The continuing bloodshed has pushed some in the anti-coup movement to form such defence forces in their townships -- made up of civilians who fight back against security forces, often with homemade weapons.The attacks on the towers, near the town of Tedim, around 20 kilometres from the India border, were to "block the SAC from their money source," the spokesperson said, using an acronym for the State Administration Council -- as the junta calls itself.Local media also reported several towers belonging to Mytel -- one of the country's four main cell networks -- had been destroyed in Chin state in recent days.Mytel data and wifi services in the state capital Hakha had been down since Friday, a resident told AFP on condition of anonymity.It was unclear if the outage was due to damage to cell towers or if authorities had imposed an internet blackout.A junta spokesman did not respond to a request for comment.Last week protesters said they targeted 11 Mytel mobile phone masts in the central Sagaing region.That spate of attacks came after the self-proclaimed "National Unity Government", made up mostly of lawmakers from Suu Kyi's ousted party, urged citizens to target military assets in their areas.More than 1,000 civilians have been killed and nearly 8,000 arrested since the coup, according to local observers.The junta has defended its power grab by alleging massive fraud during elections in late 2020 which Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy won by a landslide.A diplomatic headache looms at the UN General Assembly, which started Tuesday in New York, over who member states will recognise as representing Myanmar at the world body.The junta is seeking to install its own representative to replace current ambassador and outspoken democracy supporter Kyaw Moe Tun, who was appointed by Suu Kyi's government and has refused junta orders to quit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-anti-coup-protesters-attack-more-military-owned-communications-towers-101631706977711.html
15-09-2021||World||Al Qaeda likely to be capable of attacking US from Afghanistan in a year: Report||Al Qaeda will take a year or two maximum to become capable of planning an attack on the United States from Afghanistan, a Bloomberg report quoting two senior US intelligence officials, has claimed. The group has already started activities in Afghanistan after the Taliban captured the country and if this is any indication, then the terrorist group will be on their feet by a year or two.This comes at a time al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri, who was rumoured to be dead, was seen in a video released by the al Qaeda on the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attack.The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, following the withdrawal of the US troops from the country is being seen as a catalyst to terrorist activities in the region, though the interim Cabinet of the Taliban government reiterated that they will not allow their land to be used for any terror activity. However, the Cabinet itself has terrorists with international sanctions.“The current assessment probably, conservatively, is one to two years for al-Qaeda to build some capability to at least threaten the homeland,” Lieutenant General Scott Berrier, director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, said. While completing the withdrawal of the troops, Pentagon maintained that it will have "over-the-horizon" capabilities to defend the country. In fact, following the blast at Kabul airport on August 26, the US carried out two strikes in Afghanistan.“We’re thinking about ways to gain access back into Afghanistan with all kinds of sources and accesses,” Berrier said.CIA deputy director David Cohen agreed with the timeline of one to two years and said that al Qaeda has already started its activities. US-based SITE Intelligence Group said in the latest hour-long video, al-Zawahiri was seen speaking on several issues, including the situation of Afghanistan, the withdrawal of the US troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/al-qaeda-likely-to-be-capable-of-attacking-us-from-afghanistan-in-a-year-report-101631706518590.html
15-09-2021||World||UK PM Boris Johnson issues 3 warnings if Covid-19 cases spike||Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned that his government could bring back mandatory wearing of face masks, advise people to work from home (WFH) and, make use vaccine passports compulsory if a spike in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during this winter threatens to overwhelm the National Health Service (NHS), news agency Bloomberg reported on Wednesday.Unveiling his winter plan on Tuesday, Johnson told a press conference that he hoped a strengthened vaccination program- beginning from next week and includes booster shots for the over-50s and vaccines for children as young as 12, will be enough to keep Covid-19 under control.According to a report by the BBC, the winter plan has been divided into two parts — Plan A and Plan B. Under Plan A, which was announced by health secretary Sajid Javid, ministers will encourage the unvaccinated people to take the vaccine dose, provide vaccines to children between 12-15 years and start a booster programme for millions, the BBC report said. The plan will also comprise continuing testing, tracing infections and self-isolating those who have Covid-19, it added.Under plan B, compulsory vaccine passports might be used for mass events, face masks might be legally mandated in some places, people will be urged to be more cautious and might also be advised to work from home, the above report also said. However, this plan will only be imposed if the NHS is under pressure.The UK has so far recorded 7,282,810 cases, 134,446 deaths and 5,847,593 recoveries due to the coronavirus disease. On Tuesday, the country saw another high of 26,628 new cases. Despite the daily tally remaining high, the government has regarded the current pandemic pressure on the NHS as “manageable”.England’s chief medical officer Chris Whitty, said during Tuesday’s press conference that while Covid-19 cases had stabilised to some extent, the UK is approaching the most difficult part of the year, adding the number of infected patients is “drifting up” and variable across the country. “We are entering the winter with this reasonably high level and it wouldn’t take many doubling times to get into trouble,” Whitty further said.Meanwhile, a person, on the condition of anonymity, told Bloomberg that the government might bring back the legislation to enforce a regional or national lockdown in the UK as a last resort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ukpm-boris-johnson-issues-3-warnings-if-covid-19-cases-spike-101631701628787.html
15-09-2021||World||Afghan female football players enter Pakistan after Taliban's return||Fearing persecution under Taliban rule, members of Afghanistan’s women football team arrived in Pakistan along with their families, according to local media reporHinduts on Wednesday. It was not immediately clear how many women players and their family members were allowed to enter the neighbouring Pakistan, the country accused of covertly providing support to Islamist fundamentalists.Pakistan’s information and broadcasting minister Fawad Chaudhary welcomed the members of the Afghan football team, saying the players entered the country via the Torkham border. He further stated that they had a valid Afghanistan’s passport and Pakistani visa, but didn’t elaborate what kind of visas were issued.“We welcome Afghanistan Women football team they arrived at Torkham Border from Afghanistan, The players were in possession of valid Afg Passport, pak visa,” tweeted Chaudhary, adding that the Afghans were Nouman Nadeem of Pakistan Football Federation.Pakistan’s English language daily, The Dawn, reported that the female footballers were issued emergency humanitarian visas after the Taliban’s return to power.Also Read | 'India's concern inappropriate': Taliban say nothing wrong in China helping AfghanistanThe Islamist hardliners don’t want women to play any sport, especially where they could potentially be exposed. They have also re-established the ‘ministry of propagation of virtue and prevention of vice’ to impose their harsh version of Sharia law that prohibits women from venturing outside their home without a male relative or work alongside other men.The dreaded ministry was known for installing moral police in the streets of Afghanistan and violators were severely punished. Flogging, stoning and executing the violators in public were the common modes of punishment. A Taliban official said that the hands of thieves would be cut off, while those involved in “illegal intercourse” will be stoned, reported New York Post."We just want a peaceful country with Islamic rules and regulations. Peace and Islamic rulings are the only wishes we have," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-female-football-players-enter-pakistan-after-taliban-s-return-101631698367382.html
15-09-2021||World||'India's concern inappropriate': Taliban say nothing wrong in China helping Afghanistan||With the Taliban and China expressing willingness for cooperation, Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen has recently said that there is nothing wrong in China helping Afghanistan under the Belt and Road Initiative. "Some of India's concerns aren't appropriate, neither are they plausible," Suhail Shaheen said replying to Global Times' question specific to India."Some Indian media outlets said cooperation under the BRI is a cause for concern for India. So what's your response?"-- Suhail Shaheen was asked.Uyghur militants of ETIM left Afghanistan: Taliban assure China"We are working with other countries in the interest of our country and our people. It is important for us that every relationship we form with other counties is on the basis of our mutual self-interests in order for it to be a win-win situation. This is our policy. Some of India's concerns aren't appropriate, neither are they plausible. While having ended the occupation, we need to focus on the reconstruction of Afghanistan. And now China has come forward to help us with the construction of Afghanistan to create jobs for our people. So what is wrong with that? They, rather than us, should reconsider their position," the Taliban spokesperson said adding that the Taliban government in Afghanistan is looking forward to receiving delegations from China and Russia in near future.The Taliban have termed China as their most important partner, while China is also extending support to Afghanistan.The Taliban have also assured China that the members of theEast Turkestan Islamic Movement, a threat to China, have left Afghanistan.According to experts, China is eyeing to capture the Bagram airbase in Afghanistan which used to be a US base before. In the interview, Suhail Shaheen said China can take part in the construction of Afghanistan and provide assistance in other essential sectors. "After this, both countries can then enter into mutually beneficial bilateral agreements which best serve the interests of both countries through mutual respect," the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indias-concern-inappropriate-taliban-say-nothing-wrong-in-china-s-help-101631698510911.html
15-09-2021||World||Sputnik V 97.2% effective against Covid-19, says RDIF citing data from Belarus govt||Sputnik V, Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine, has been found to demonstrate 97.2% efficacy against the coronavirus, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) announced, citing data from the Republic of Belarus’ health ministry. Further, the RDIF also said that no severe adverse events associated with the vaccination and no deaths related to the vaccination were observed, according to the data from Belarus.The RDIF also said that the data was based on results of over 860,000 people who were inoculated between January and July this year. “The Russian vaccine has demonstrated 97.2% efficacy against coronavirus in Belarus. The efficacy of Sputnik V was measured based on data from more than 860,000 people vaccinated between January and July 2021,” the RDIF said in a statement on Wednesday.Also read | Dr Reddy’s Labs gets approval for phase 3 trials of Sputnik Light in IndiaBelarus, also a neighbour of Russia, was the first foreign country to register Sputnik V for the inoculation of its citizens against the Covid-19 pandemic. The RDIF facilitated technology transfer to help in localising the production of Sputnik V vaccines in Belarus by the Belmedpreparaty company, which is successfully manufacturing the vaccine. In April 2021, the Belarusian health ministry authorised the shots produced in the country. Also, in the same month, Sputnik Light, the single dose vaccine, was also registered in Belarus.Earlier in the month, RDIF also said that the vaccine demonstrated an efficacy of 94.8% over 21 days after administering the first dose and 95.9% against hospitalisations, based on real world data released by the health ministry of San Marino.Meanwhile, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories in India has received a nod from the subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to conduct phase 3 clinical trials for the Sputnik Light vaccine. The two-dose Sputnik V vaccine is one among the six shots that have been granted an emergency use approval (EUA) in India and is currently being used in the country’s Covid-19 vaccination drive.The Gamaleya National Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology developed the Sputnik V vaccine with assistance from the RDIF, Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, which also markets the vaccine globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sputnik-v-97-2-effective-against-covid-19-says-rdif-citing-data-from-belarus-govt-101631698389834.html
15-09-2021||World||Covid-19: China shuts down schools, starts mass testing in Fujian after province reports 50 fresh cases||China's Fujian province on Wednesday reported 50 fresh cases of Covid-19. The province has recorded 152 cases in the last five days.Fujian has shut down schools in multiple cities, in order to phase stricter epidemic prevention and control measures, reported Global Times.The province has sped up mass testing for Covid-19 cases.Tourist attractions were also shut down and large-scale gatherings like weddings were suspended.The majority of the cases in the Fujian province were reported from Putian city, 33 cases were reported in the city.Putian city has reported two chains of transmission, one from Primary School and another one from the Xiesheng shoe-making factory, where 28 workers were found to have been infected.A worker from the factory told the media that many of the infected workers who were close contacts of the first patient identified in the factory were "not feeling well" and "showed flu-like symptoms" before they were confirmed with Covid-19, reported Global Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-china-shuts-down-schools-starts-mass-testing-in-fujian-after-province-reports-50-fresh-cases-101631692458783.html
15-09-2021||World||Filmmaker Sahraa Karimi’s plea: ‘Don’t recognise Taliban govt in Afghanistan’||The head of Afghanistan’s state-run cinema company has called on the international film community to push their respective governments to boycott recognising the Taliban administration in Kabul. Sahraa Karimi made the clarion call on the sidelines of the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF) in Canada.A filmmaker and activist, Sahraa Karimi became the first woman to head Afghan Film back in 2019. “I believe we shouldn’t be silent. Politically, filmmakers should raise their voice and push decision-makers not to recognise the Taliban,” she said in a virtual conversation with Afghan-Canadian director Tarique Qayumi.She asked filmmakers around the world to join in an “act of resilience” and tweet out the hashtag #DoNotRecogniseTaliban. Sahraa Karimi, who escaped Kabul soon after it fell to the Taliban, had been given the scope to express her views on the Afghan crisis at the TIFF and the Venice Film Festival.The filmmaker said if the international community recognises the Taliban government, the future of those like her, especially women, “will be destroyed”.As chairperson of government-run Afghan Film, she hasn’t heard yet from the Taliban-run ministry of information and culture, except for an advisory that says women in Afghanistan should remain at home.Karimi was included into the TIFF’s programme just two days before the festival commenced on September 9. Sahraa Karimi had rushed to Kabul airport on August 15, but due to the chaos surrounding the airlift ops, it took her nearly 40 hours to get a flight out of Afghanistan. She travelled with her brother’s family, and was accompanied by two female assistants, as she first went to Istanbul before heading to Kiev later on.She is also a director, and her debut feature, Hava, Maryam, Ayesha, a women-centric project, was the first fully Afghan production in a long time. It was filmed entirely in Kabul in Afghanistan with a cast of Afghan actors. It received critical acclaim at the Venice Film Festival.Sahraa Karimi’s next film is unlikely to be filmed in her home country, now run by the Taliban group. She said it will be about the experience of fleeing Afghanistan as the Taliban assumed control, and it is tentatively titled: Flight from Kabul. “It’s very important to tell this story,” she said, adding that project may be filmed elsewhere unless a “miracle” occurs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/filmmaker-sahraa-karimi-s-plea-don-t-recognise-taliban-govt-in-afghanistan-101631693336202.html
15-09-2021||World||SpaceX's all-civilian crew to take off today: 5 facts about Inspiration4 mission||SpaceX is set to launch four people into space Wednesday on a three-day mission that is the first to orbit the Earth with exclusively private citizens on board. A Falcon 9 rocket, with a Dragon capsule at its top, is scheduled to take place from the Kennedy Space Centre in Florida on Wednesday at 8:02pm Eastern time (5:32am IST on Thursday). The mission is known as Inspiration4.The spaceship's trajectory will take it to an altitude of 575 kilometers (357 miles), deeper into space than the International Space Station (ISS). After that, the capsule will descend back to Earth, landing off the coast of Florida with the help of giant parachutes.The trip is paid for by Jared Isaacman, a 38-year-old high school dropout and founder of payments processing company Shift4 Payments. The other three crew members are 29-year-old Hayley Arceneaux, a pediatric cancer survivor and physician assistant, 42-year-old Chris Sembroski, a former US Air Force employee and Sian Proctor, a 51-year-old geology professor.Here are the five key things to know about the mission:1. This spacecraft has already taken 10 astronauts to the ISS on three separate missions.2. The Dragon capsule, eight meters high and four meters wide, has been modified for this flight. A huge glass dome has been installed to offer passengers a 360-degree view of space.3. The Dragon capsule will orbit Earth for three days at an altitude higher than the ISS.4. The crew trained for just under six months, compared to years of preparation required for professional astronauts. Though the flight is expected to be fully automated, the team has been trained by SpaceX to take control in the event of an emergency.5. The crew members' sleep, heart rate, blood and cognitive functions will be analyzed during the mission in order to study how rookies react in space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacexs-all-civilian-crew-to-take-off-today-5-facts-about-inspiration4-mission-101631690884957.html
15-09-2021||World||Why Queen Elizabeth sent congratulatory message to North Korea's Kim Jong-un||Queen Elizabeth II sent a congratulatory message to North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un on the country's national day last week.A Buckingham Palace spokesperson told the CNN that the United Kingdom's Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) sent the message to the people of North Korea on behalf of the Queen, when the secretive country observed her national day on September 9.The spokesperson added that it was a “standard practice” similar to other national days across the world and “has been done before.”“As the people of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea celebrate their national day, I send my good wishes for the future,” the message sent by Queen Elizabeth read, according to North Korean state media Korean Central News Agency (KCNA).KCNA also confirmed the message from the British Queen was received on September 7, two days before the dictatorial state celebrated the 73rd anniversary of its founding, according to a report on Daily Mail.“Kim Jong Un, president of the State Affairs of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK), received a message of greeting from Elizabeth II, queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, on September 7,” the report read.The British Queen's spokesperson said, “Her Majesty in all dealings with other Heads of State acts on the advice of the FCDO.” A FCDO official told the CNN that the Queen had sent similar congratulatory messages to North Korea on her founding day in previous years, too, although this was the first time that such a message was revealed to the public.North Korea marked her national day this year with a midnight military parade in capital Pyongyang. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un reportedly appeared on a platform in Kim Il Sung square and waved at the crowd. However, there was no reports of him addressing the gathering, according to North Korean media outlet Rodong Sinmun.The country's media reported on Monday that the North Korean military test-fired a new "long-range cruise missile" on Saturday and Sunday, amid a long standoff with the United States over its nuclear programme.ALSO READ | 'Lift sanctions on liquor and suits’: North Korea’s precondition to restart talks with USNorth Korea remains under international sanctions for its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programmes, which Pyongyang says it needs to defend against any ‘invasion’ by the United States.The extremely secretive nation severed almost all of its ties with the outside world in 2020 to prevent an influx of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.Even though there has been no reported major outbreak of Covid-19 in North Korea, and no indications that the pandemic struck the country, experts doubt the veracity of Pyongyang's claim the country has not seen a single case of the virus.ALSO READ | North Korea rejects nearly 3 million Chinese Covid-19 shots, gives humanitarian angleEarlier this year, North Korea reportedly turned down the proposal for Covid-19 vaccine aid through an United Nations-backed immunisation programme. Kim Jong-un ordered North Korean officials to execute a tougher epidemic prevention campaign in their style to prevent the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/queen-elizabeth-kim-jong-un-north-korea-national-day-message-101631686027709.html
15-09-2021||World||Taliban leaders Baradar, Khalil-ur-Rahman Haqqani involved in major row: Report||Abdul Ghani Baradar, the deputy prime minister in the Taliban setup in Kabul, and Khalil-ur-Rahman Haqqani, a minister and senior leader of the Haqqani Network, were involved in a “major row” over the sharing of power, according to the BBC. The argument between the two leaders over the make-up of the Taliban’s interim cabinet occurred at the presidential palace in Kabul last week, BBC cited unnamed senior Taliban officials as saying. There have been reports of differences between various sections of the group’s leadership over the composition of the governing structure in Kabul almost since the Taliban marched into Kabul on August 15. The leaders from the Taliban’s political office were believed to be opposed to a larger role for the Haqqani Network, which is considered the main fighting arm of the Taliban and has close ties with Pakistan’s military establishment. There were also differences between leaders from Kandahar province, the Taliban’s traditional stronghold, and leaders from north and east Afghanistan. After Baradar disappeared from public view in recent days and rumours swirled that he had been shot and injured during a quarrel at the presidential palace in Kabul, the leader issued an audio message on Monday to say that he was alive and “away on trips”. BBC Pashto cited a Taliban source as saying that Baradar and Haqqani, the minister for refugees, had “exchanged strong words, as their followers brawled with each other nearby”. Another senior Taliban member based in Qatar and a person connected to those involved “confirmed that an argument had taken place late last week”. The BBC’s sources said the argument broke out because Baradar was “unhappy about the structure of their interim government”. The row also stemmed from “divisions over who in the Taliban should take credit for their victory in Afghanistan”. Baradar “reportedly believes the emphasis should be placed on diplomacy carried out by people like him, while members of the Haqqani group – which is run by one of the most senior Taliban figures – and their backers say it was achieved through fighting”, BBC reported. People familiar with developments told Hindustan Times on condition of anonymity that there was considerable disquiet among the Taliban’s top leadership over several appointments unilaterally made by the Haqqani Network even before the interim cabinet in Kabul was formed. The Haqqani Network is also responsible for the security of Kabul. The Taliban have denied all reports of disagreements within their leadership. The Taliban officials told the BBC that Baradar had left Kabul and travelled to the southern city of Kandahar following the row. In his audio message, Baradar is heard saying he was “away on trips”. He added: “Wherever I am at the moment, we are all fine.” Despite the audio message being posted on several Taliban websites, social media users questioned why Baradar had not issued a video statement. The Taliban have released conflicting statements on what Baradar is currently doing. A spokesman said Baradar travelled to Kandahar to meet the Taliban’s supreme leader Haibatullah Akhundzada but later told BBC Pashto he was “tired and wanted some rest”. Baradar, who held several key positions in the Taliban’s earlier regime and was imprisoned in Pakistan during 2010-18, has played a crucial role in the Taliban’s negotiations with the US and other countries. He signed the controversial peace deal with the US in February 2020. Khalil-ur-Rahman Haqqani is the brother of Jalaluddin Haqqani, the founder of the Haqqani Network that has been blamed for some of the most violent attacks in Afghanistan, including the 2008 suicide car bombing at the gate of the Indian embassy in Kabul that killed nearly 60 people. The group has been designated a terror organisation by the US and the UN and its current head, Sirajuddin Haqqani, is the interior minister in new Taliban setup and carries a $5-million US bounty on his head. There has also been much speculation about the status of Akhundzada, who has not been seen in public since the group took over Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-leaders-baradar-khalil-ur-rahman-haqqani-involved-in-major-row-report-101631689616298.html
15-09-2021||World||North Korea fires 2 ballistic missiles into waters off eastern coast||North Korea fired two ballistic missiles into waters off its eastern coast Wednesday afternoon, two days after claiming to have tested a newly developed missile in a resumption of its weapons displays after a six-month lull.South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff said the missiles were launched from central North Korea on Wednesday afternoon. Japan’s coast guard says they landed outside Japan’s Exclusive Economic Zone in the waters between Japan and the Korean Peninsula. Seoul said South Korean and US intelligence authorities are analyzing more details about the North Korean launches.South Korean and US intelligence authorities are analyzing more details about the North Korean launches, the joint chiefs' statement said, adding that South Korea has boosted its anti-North Korea surveillance posture.Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga said the missiles landed outside of the Japanese Exclusive Economic Zone in the waters between northwestern Japan and the Korean Peninsula.“The firings threaten the peace and safety of Japan and the region and are absolutely outrageous,” Suga said. “The government of Japan is determined to further step up our vigilance and surveillance to be prepared for any contingencies,” he said.Japan’s coast guard said no ships or aircraft reported damage due to the North Korean launches.North Korea had said Monday it tested a newly developed cruise missile twice over the weekend. North Korea’s state media described the missile as a “strategic weapon of great significance,” implying they were developed with the intent to arm them with nuclear warheads. According to North Korean accounts, the missile flew about 1,500 kilometers (930 miles), a distance putting all of Japan and US military installations there within reach.Many experts say the weekend tests suggested North Korea is pushing to bolster its weapons arsenal amid a deadlock in nuclear diplomacy between Pyongyang and Washington.Wednesday's launches came as Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi was in Seoul for meetings with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and other senior officials to discuss the stalled nuclear diplomacy with the North.It's unusual for North Korea to make provocative launches when China, its last major ally and biggest aid provider, is engaged in a major diplomatic event.Moon’s office said Moon told Wang that he appreciates China’s role in the international diplomatic push to resolve the North Korean nuclear standoff and asked for Beijing’s continuing support of such efforts. Wang called for further development in bilateral relations between Beijing and Seoul, but it wasn't known if Wang specifically addressed the North Korea issue.Moon’s office said the government plans to hold an unscheduled national security council meeting later Wednesday.The nuclear diplomacy between the United States and North Korea has stalled since 2019 when the Americans rejected the North’s demand for major sanctions relief in exchange for dismantling an aging nuclear facility. Kim’s government has so far threatened to build high-tech weapons targeting the United States and rejected the Biden administration’s overtures for dialogue, demanding that Washington abandon its “hostile” policies first.The North’s resumption of testing activity is likely an attempt at pressuring the Biden administration over the diplomatic freeze after Kim failed to leverage his arsenal for economic benefits during the presidency of Donald Trump.North Korea ended a yearlong pause in ballistic tests in March by firing two short-range ballistic missiles into the sea, continuing a tradition of testing new US administrations with weapons demonstrations aimed at measuring Washington’s response and wresting concessions.North Korea still maintains a self-imposed moratorium on nuclear and long-range missile tests, a sign that it may not want to completely scuttle the nuclear negotiations with the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-fires-2-ballistic-missiles-into-waters-off-eastern-coast-101631684062698.html
15-09-2021||World||Chinese court dismisses high-profile #MeToo case||A Beijing court has dismissed a high-profile sexual harassment case levelled by a woman against a top television host, saying there’s insufficient evidence to support her claims.The allegations of groping and kissing levelled by Zhou Xiaoxuan, then an intern, against Zhu Jun, anchor with national broadcaster, CCTV, were at the centre of China’s MeToo movement in 2018.The incident had taken place in 2014, Zhou Xiaoxuan had said in her detailed allegations posted online.Zhu Jun had denied the allegations and counter-sued Zhou Xiaoxuan for defamation. The court’s dismissal of the case late on Tuesday night is likely to have an impact on the movement.“The Haidian People’s Court said in a judgment which only identified Zhou and Zhu by their surnames that the evidence submitted was “insufficient” to prove sexual harassment,” Reuters news agency said in a report on Wednesday.Zhou Xiaoxuan, according to Reuters, told a small group of supporters after the court’s decision that after three years of pushing her case she felt “exhausted” and “disappointed” on hearing the verdict. In her view, Zhou Xiaoxuan said, she had not been given a chance to give a proper account of what happened.Zhou Xiaoxuan said her team would appeal the verdict. “We will definitely appeal, because in this case we didn’t look at any of the core facts at all, that is all of the surveillance videos,” the statement said.In an online interview with HT in 2018, Zhou Xiaoxuan, then known by her moniker, Xianzi, had said that the #MeToo movement in India had been inspiring.She had said the anti-sexual harassment movement in India was a source of “great encouragement and inspiration” to her and others fighting the battle in China amid social stigma and restricted media coverage.“Although the target of my allegation is just a TV presenter, people (in China) associate him with authorities and think of him as someone who has a positive image,” Zhou Xiaoxuan had said.The anchor’s close association with the government had often made her nervous. “Inevitably, there were doubts and criticism. We were haunted by censorship, and people kept accusing me and others of not calling the police from the very beginning,” she had told HT.Last week, a court in the eastern Shandong province dismissed another high-profile sexual assault case brought by a female employee of technology giant Alibaba, who alleged she was raped by a manager after a dinner.The court ruled that “forcible indecency” committed by the accused was not a crime.In July, Chinese-Canadian pop star Kris Wu, who has acted in the 2017 Hollywood movie XXX: Return of Xander Cage, was arrested after several women came forward alleging rape and sexual coercion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-court-dismisses-high-profile-metoo-case-101631684275327.html
15-09-2021||World||Canada elections: 18.5% rise in advance voting||Ahead of federal elections on September 20, Canadians have started to vote, with a nearly 18.5% increase in advance voting figures over 2019, and almost 1 million mail-in ballots being requisitioned, a twenty-fold rise.As the period for advance voting, which was from Friday morning to Tuesday morning expired, Elections Canada estimated that 5.78 million voters have utilised that opportunity, an increase of 18.46% over that recorded in October 2019, when the last federal elections were held. The expanded options were introduced by Elections Canada due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and were particularly important as the fourth wave continues in the country.In a release, chief electoral officer Stéphane Perrault said, “I want to thank the electors who took advantage of advance polls for their patience and their help in making this a safe experience for everyone. I also want to thank the tens of thousands of election workers for making this possible.”The outlet Global News also reported that as the deadline ended on Tuesday, approximately 1.03 million Canadians registered for special mail-in ballots. That does not include over 50,000 Canadians abroad who are using that path to vote overseas.While Elections Canada had originally expected between two and five million voters to seek mail-in ballots, the actual figure is lower but several times the 50,000 mark from 2019.Turnout could be the critical component of the result of the snap elections called by incumbent Prime Minister and leader of the ruling Liberal Party Justin Trudeau on August 15. His party fell 13 seats short of the 170-majority mark in the House of Commons in 2019. This call was a gamble to convert that minority into a majority, but according to the latest polls, the margins between the Liberals and the principal opposition Conservative Party are so narrow that the result of the elections could be unpredictable. The tracker 338 Canada projected that the Liberals could get 146 seats, 11 fewer than in 2019 and the Conservatives 126, an addition of five. The Liberals have the slimmest of leads in overall vote share, at 32% against 31.7% for the Conservatives. The poll tracker from the outlet CBC News gives the ruling party just a 16% chance of getting a majority.The turnout was 67% in 2019, a fall of 1.3 per cent from 2015, when Trudeau garnered a majority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-elections-18-5-rise-in-advance-voting-101631683315334.html
15-09-2021||World||China tells Taliban it will not interfere in Afghanistan’s internal affairs||China has assured the Taliban government in Afghanistan that Beijing respects its sovereignty and territorial integrity and will not interfere in its internal affairs.In a meeting with acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi in Kabul on Tuesday, Chinese ambassador to Afghanistan Wang Yu said Beijing hopes that a “broad and inclusive” political structure is being established in Afghanistan.The assurance from China comes on the same day Beijing said it will donate three million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to Afghanistan in the first batch with more emergency supplies to follow.The vaccines will be part of the $31 million worth of food, winter weather supplies, vaccines, and medicine that Beijing pledged to provide Kabul earlier this month.In Kabul, Wang Yu told Amir Khan Muttaqi: “China respects the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Afghanistan, will not interfere in Afghanistan’s internal affairs, and supports the Afghan people to independently choose a development path that suits their national conditions.”This was the second publicised high-level China-Afghanistan meet in Kabul after the Taliban swept to power last month.In late August, Abdul Salam Hanafi, the deputy head of the Taliban political met Ambassador Wang Yu in Kabul.During his Tuesday meeting with Amir Khan Muttaqi, Wang Yu thanked the Afghan side for its efforts to protect the safety of Chinese citizens, Chinese-funded enterprises, and the embassy in Afghanistan.Amir Khan Muttaqi, according to a report in Chinese official media, thanked China for its support and assistance, saying that China is Afghanistan’s friendly neighbour and its policy towards Afghanistan has always been fair and objective.With the help of China and the international community, Amir Khan Muttaqi said Afghanistan hopes to continuously improve its governance capabilities to better combat terrorism.He added that Afghanistan will never allow any forces to use the Afghan territory to do things that endanger the interests of China and other countriesIn Geneva, Chen Xu, head of the Chinese Mission to the UN, said China will donate, in the first batch, three million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to Afghanistan, with more emergency supplies to follow.“China has decided to urgently provide food, materials for winter, Covid-19 vaccines, and medicines worth 200 million yuan ($31 million) to Afghanistan,” Chen Xu said.“China will continue to respect the Afghan people’s wish and needs, and do its best to support Afghanistan in its peaceful reconstruction and economic development,” Chen Xu told the High-level Ministerial Meeting on the Humanitarian Situation in Afghanistan.Chen Xu also said that China supports the UN in playing a bigger role in alleviating the humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan and helping Afghanistan achieve a smooth transition and embark on the path of peaceful development at an early date.“China welcomes UN’s flash appeal for humanitarian assistance for Afghanistan, supports UN to strengthen cooperation with other multilateral mechanisms related to the Afghanistan issue and form synergy by complementing each other,” he was quoted as saying by the official news agency, Xinhua.He told the meeting that under the current circumstances, the international community needs to step up assistance to Afghanistan.The United States and its allies were more obligated to provide economic, livelihood and humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people, Chen Xu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-tells-taliban-it-will-not-interfere-in-afghanistan-s-internal-affairs-101631682055438.html
15-09-2021||World||California Governor Newsom retains job, sweeps recall election||California Democratic Governor Gavin Newsom handily beat back an effort to oust him from office in Tuesday's special election, overcoming a Republican campaign to unseat him over his liberal policies on immigration, Covid-19 and crime.Newsom, a first-term governor beset by challenges including the Covid-19 pandemic, extreme drought and severe wildfires, boosted turnout among Democrats with a flurry of late campaigning and easily overcame the move by Republicans to recall him.By late Tuesday, returns showed Newsom easily winning a majority of support from voters who said he should remain in office. With 46% of precincts reporting, Newsom was up by more than 30 points, with 67% support compared to 33% who wanted to recall him, state data showed.U.S. television networks projected Newsom had defeated the recall effort about 40 minutes after polls closed on Tuesday."I'm humbled and grateful to the millions and millions of Californians that exercised their fundamental right to vote," Newsom said in a victory speech Tuesday night in the state capital of Sacramento."Economic justice, social justice, racial justice, environmental justice, our values where California has made so much progress, all of those things were on the ballot this evening," Newsom said.The decisive win significantly bolsters Newsom's chances in next year's regularly scheduled gubernatorial elections, while weakening any likely Republican challengers, said Republican political strategist Mike Madrid.Key to Newsom's success was an all-out campaign to mobilize a Democratic base that had initially been sleepy, assuming that the governor would win because the state is so overwhelmingly Democratic.He made the campaign a referendum on former Republican U.S. President Donald Trump, linking Trump with his main challenger in the recall election, Larry Elder, a Republican talk show host who had made controversial statements about minorities and women.In the final days of the race, Newsom appeared alongside President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris, who formerly represented California as a U.S. senator and attorney general.Malia Cohen, an elected member of the California Board of Equalization who spent the last several days campaigning to raise turnout among African American voters, said the effort was key to the campaign's success."You can feel the energy," Cohen said Tuesday. "I see 'No on recall' on bumper stickers and buttons people are wearing. I didn't see that until Friday."With 34.3% of precincts reporting, Elder had garnered about 43% of the vote on the portion of the ballot asking who should replace Newsom if he were recalled, state data showed.Elder has vowed to remove requirements for COVID-19 vaccines and mask wearing. In the days leading up to the recall vote, he and Trump pushed the narrative that Democrats planned to steal the election.The removal of Newsom, who was elected in a landslide in 2018, would have set off alarms among Democrats, coming in one of the nation's most liberal states just over a year before the 2022 elections that will decide control of Congress.Democrats outnumber Republicans 2-to-1 in the state, and polls consistently showed that a strong majority of voters opposed recalling Newsom.But Democrats worried that complacency among their voters could have tilted the election toward Republicans. Newsom's immigration and crime policies - along with the governor's handling of the pandemic - fueled the petition drive by conservatives to put the recall question on the ballot.In early voting and vote by mail, Democrats returned ballots at more than twice the rate of Republicans. This prompted fear among Republican leaders that their voters had taken to heart false claims of election fraud pushed by Trump and conservative media after Biden won the 2020 presidential election.In response, the California Republican Party promised to fight for election integrity and released videos showing party officials confidently mailing in ballots.Tying the recall effort to Trump and efforts in Texas, Georgia and other states to tighten abortion restrictions and impose new laws that Democrats believe curtail voting rights helped Democrats turn out their voters. "We could see changes like what's happening in Texas," said Katie Van Note, 27, a dance instructor who voted in Oceanside, just north of Carlsbad, and described her politics as left-leaning.The Secretary of State has until Oct. 22 to certify the results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-governor-newsom-retains-job-sweeps-recall-election-101631678363537.html
15-09-2021||World||Americans to pay more for organic eggs after trade spat with India over soy meal||Americans could soon be paying more for organic eggs, and it’s largely because of a trade spat the US is having with India. The US, which relies on the South Asian nation for more than 40% of its organic soy meal used to feed chickens, is investigating claims that India is unfairly dumping and subsidizing the product and harming American companies. The outcome is likely “significant tariffs,” according to Ryan Koory, director of economics for Mercaris, which tracks organic markets. That’s spooking merchandisers, who are hoarding soy meal as a response, which is contributing to tight supplies and a surge in prices.Consumers could see higher prices for organic eggs at a time when conventional eggs are also rising on increased retail demand. Soaring soy meal could also result in pricier organic meat and even dairy, adding to food inflation that’s become rampant across the globe since the pandemic began.John Brunnquell, head of Egg Innovations, one of the biggest US producers of free-range eggs, has managed to find meal for his more than one million birds, but still faces prices of $1,700 a ton, more than double a year ago.  Organic soybeans for feed in the US reached $29.92 a bushel Friday, up 47% from a year ago. Along with the trade tensions, pandemic-related shipping disruptions are contributing to the price spike.Brunnquell estimates that the average industry cost to produce a dozen organic eggs went up 15 cents to 20 cents based on higher feed prices alone. “We are seeing all of our costs go up, packaging, cartons, feed, freight labor,” Brunnquell said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/americans-to-pay-more-for-organic-eggs-after-trade-spat-with-india-over-soy-meal-101631680860167.html
15-09-2021||World||Think tank report calls for more attention on Sikh separatists in US||A leading American think tank is calling for authorities to pay more and urgent attention to US-based individuals and entities campaigning for Khalistan, saying they are backed by the same elements as those that have propped up people espousing the separatist cause of a free Kashmir, namely Pakistan.“The US government cannot afford to allow separatist movements from India, including those with ties to militant and terrorist groups, to grow unchecked among its otherwise law-abiding Sikh community,” the Hudson Institute, the think-tank, said in a report published on Tuesday, titled, “Pakistan’s Destabilization Playbook: Khalistani Activism in the US”. It’s been jointly authored by leading experts on South Asia Husain Haqqani, Christine Fair, Aparna Pande, Sam Westrop, Seth Oldmixon and Michael Rubin.“Its experience with Islamist extremist groups must serve as a template for dealing with Khalistan extremists, and so recruitment or fundraising for militancy or ‘martyrdom’ must not be allowed on US soil, even if the actual acts of violence are to take place far away, in India. US authorities must not let ostensibly peaceful pro-Khalistan activism become the precursor of a new wave of violence in India’s Punjab state.”The report calls for the US to investigate the “likelihood of unlawful foreign funding of the Khalistan movement” without further delay. And it warned against repeating the US handling of the case of the Kashmir American Council (KAC).In 2011, the FBI said KAC and its founder Syed Ghulam Nabi Fai had run a decades-long scheme to conceal the transfer of at least $3.5 million from the government of Pakistan - including the ISI - to fund his lobbying efforts in America related to Kashmir. He was jailed for conspiracy and tax-evasion.Fai has resumed his activities since his release, and has been seen multiple times at demonstrations and protests called by the Sikhs for Justice, which was banned by India in 2019; its founder-leader Gurpatwant Singh Pannun was declared a terrorist by India in 2020.India has asked the United States to act against them as well but has felt frustrated by the lack of any response.There may be some reason for hope and optimism now. Lisa Monaco, the current deputy attorney general and No.2 in the department of justice (DoJ), had led a team that had prosecuted Fai in 2011 as assistant attorney general. She is closely familiar thus with Pakistan’s secret funding of groups such as KAC in the US.Like Fai and his outfit, which has since gone defunct and has been replaced by the World Kashmiri Awareness Forum, Pannun and his proscribed organisation are tied to Pakistan, the report has said citing publicly available material and published accounts in newspapers.In fact, the report noted, the SFJ leadership had made no attempt to conceal its links to Pakistan: the outfit opened a “permanent office of SFJ” in Lahore, Pakistan in 2018; in 2019, Pannun organised a truck rally in Houston against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Howdy Modi event, joining Pakistan-backed Kashmir separatists - “call by Pro Khalistan Sikhs & Organizations Supporting People of Kashmir”.Evidence of Pakistan’s backing to separatist Khalistani groups in the US goes back to 2006 when a New York court, the report recounts, convicted a Pakistan national of providing money and financial services to the Khalistan Commando Force, which was described by US authorities as “a terrorist organisation responsible for thousands of deaths in India since its founding in 1986”.The report suggests the US should designate all groups responsible for terrorist attacks in India; designate individuals determined to have been connected to terrorist outfits; use terror financing laws and regulation against US-based groups espousing Kashmir and Khalistan separatism, and investigate them for violating US laws on foreign funding; and use legal tools to monitor suspected Kashmiri and Khalistan terrorism sympathisers and advocates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/think-tank-report-calls-for-more-attention-on-sikh-separatists-in-us-101631680974994.html
15-09-2021||World||From fake news to fan culture: China lays out what’s allowed on a ‘Marxist civilized' Internet||China is laying down the law on what behavior is -- and isn’t -- allowed on a “civilized,” Marxist internet, in a sweeping set of guidelines for governing what is already one of the world’s most-heavily policed digital spheres.The upcoming regulations, many based on previous draft guidelines, span greater protection for minors against online bullying to combating fake news and verifying online accounts. The over-arching idea is to ensure online content abides by “the guiding status of Marxism in the ideological cyberspace sphere,” the official Xinhua News Agency reported, citing an online summary posted by the State Council.The new guidelines potentially provide a framework to further tighten the government’s grip on internet giants from Tencent Holdings Ltd. to ByteDance Ltd. and the vast amounts of content and data they generate. They coincide with a broad campaign to influence online norms, from suppressing what Beijing calls “fan culture” to forcing giants to open up their closed ecosystems by linking to rival services.It’s unclear when the final regulations will be published. In its summary, the State Council said more regulation was needed to improve ethics and behavior. To that end, a nationwide platform will be established to curb online rumors and fake information, while amplifying propaganda about the Communist Party’s achievements, Xinhua said.“The country plans to better regulate the production, publication and distribution of online content, classify the management of online accounts and build a national mechanism to stop and prevent disinformation,” the news agency reported. “Campaigns will be launched to fight online crimes, and efforts will be made to protect personal information and data security.”Beijing’s renewed scrutiny of online content comes after a months-long effort to rein in the growing influence of its internet titans and press them to share the enormous wealth they’ve amassed during a decade-long tech boom. Xi Jinping is pushing a philosophy of “common prosperity” that, beyond tightening supervision of once free-wheeling tech giants, also includes prodding the nation’s youth toward more productive pursuits and eradicating content the Party considers counter to that ambition.Other points in the summary included:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-fake-news-to-fan-culture-china-lays-out-what-s-allowed-on-a-marxist-civilized-internet-101631679322382.html
15-09-2021||World||Afghanistan on brink of collapse, Taliban fighters surviving on donation: Report||Since its takeover by the Taliban, Afghanistan has been facing cash crunch, with global aids freezing and daily limits set on withdrawal from bank accounts. Now, a report in New York Post has claimed that most of the Taliban fighters have not received money in months.Also Read: Indian ambassador thanks Qatar for supporting Afghan evacuation effortsMost of the countries have refused to recognise the Taliban regime, which officially calls the country Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. And so, cash is barely trickling in.After the Taliban takeover, foreign assistance was frozen and the International Monetary Fund and World Bank halted loans. The United States also stopped $9.4 billion in reserves to the country's central bank. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) also asked its 39 member nations to block Taliban assets.In such a scenario, Afghanistan's econpmy has been crumbling and prices soaring. The United Nations cautioned this week that 97 per cent of Afghanistan's population could soon go below the poverty line - a worrying level from the pre-Taliban takeover figure of 72 per cent.The New York Post reports that a significant number of Taliban fighters outside major cities are surviving on very little food and sleep in trucks or whatever suitable shelter they can find. The publication also claimed that local community members give food and other supplies to Taliban members.Also Read: ‘Don’t have capacity to handle new refugee influx', says TurkeyThe Taliban have already imposed a $200 withdrawal limit on citizens who travel for miles to visit a city and then wait for hours in queues to get cash. Many banks have been closed since the Taliban takeover, and those that are open have limited cash withdrawals.Meanwhile, the UN said on Tuesday that four million Afghans are facing "a food emergency" and the majority live in rural areas where $36 million is urgently needed for the coming months to ensure the planting of winter wheat, feed for livestock, and cash assistance for vulnerable families, the elderly and disabled.Rein Paulsen, director of the Food and Agriculture Organization’s Office of Emergencies and Resilience, told reporters that this emergency is characterised by "extreme gaps in food consumption, very high levels of acute malnutrition and excess mortality".At a UN meeting in Geneva on Monday, the international community pledged to provide over $1 billion in humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan. Taliban government's acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi thanked the global community for the help and said they want good bilateral relations with the world's countries, including the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-on-brink-of-collapse-taliban-fighters-surviving-on-donation-report-101631674655395.html
15-09-2021||World||‘Tax the rich’: Democrats try to popularise the idea, but plan may fall short||A proposal making its way through Congress and even adorning the dress of one of its most prominent lawmakers, "tax the rich" has become a rallying cry for Democrats as they seek to remake the United States' social safety net. It received a prominent airing on Monday when Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a Democratic House representative who often decries the country's economic inequalities, wore a gown bearing the slogan written in scarlet capital letters to New York's splashy Met Gala.“The time is now for childcare, healthcare, and climate action for all. Tax the Rich,” Ocasio-Cortez wrote on Instagram along with a photo of the white off-the-shoulder dress she said she had borrowed.The lawmaker is expected to support a plan backed by President Joe Biden to spend $3.5 trillion over 10 years that would pay for expanding a host of social services by upping taxes on wealthy Americans and corporations.But experts argue that while some rich people may see their taxes go up, the very wealthiest will experience less impact than advertised because the bill fails to levy taxes on the increase in value of assets such as real estate and stocks."It depends on how you define rich. The bill certainly raises taxes on very high earners and does so in many different ways," Corey Husak, senior government relations manager at the Washington Center for Equitable Growth, told AFP."The bill taxes multimillionaires and people who are merely rich, much more than it's going to affect people who are outrageously rich."Some of the proposed tax changes represent "a real though a modest increase in the progressivity of the US tax code rate," said Samuel Hammond, director of poverty and welfare policy at the Niskanen Center.But by wearing her motto-bearing dress to an event where tickets cost $35,00 and tables are up to $300,000, New York-area representative Ocasio-Cortez "did the rich a great service, not unlike when an Oscar winner uses their award speech to chastise Hollywood."It allows a wealthy audience to feel progressive without any real costs," Hammond said.Narrow pathBranded "Build Back Better," Biden's plan is intended to "transform" American society by instituting universal pre-kindergarten, reducing child care costs, improving health care access, boosting investments in public housing, legalizing millions of migrant workers, and expanding measures to fight climate change.Republicans say they won't support it, and Democrats intend to pass it with their votes alone -- a difficult task is given that they control both the House and Senate only by razor-thin margins.Aiming to raise nearly $3 trillion in new revenue, a plan circulated by the Democratic leadership of the tax-drafting House Ways and Means Committee would see tax rates for America's top-tier earners rise from 37 percent to 39.6 percent.The rate for the most profitable businesses would jump from 21 percent to 26.5 percent.However, centrist Democratic Senator Joe Manchin, who has called for negotiations on the plan to be slowed down and won't support a bill as large as proposed, prefers a lower 25 percent tax rate.And the plan may not raise as much revenue as Democrats believe: Congress's nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation released an estimate saying it would bring in around $2.1 trillion over 10 years.'Sweat of their brow'Husak said provisions in the bill, like a three percent surtax on people making more than $5 million a year, would indeed increase taxes on the rich.But the plan doesn't levy taxes on increases in the value of assets owned by the wealthiest Americans, nor does it close a loophole that allows their heirs not to pay tax on the capital gains when they inherit them."When you're talking about billionaires, they're not making wealth by the sweat of their brow, so to speak. They're getting it because they have large capital assets that increase in value," Husak said.The Senate must also back the plan, and after stock markets surged during the Covid-19 pandemic, the head of the Finance Committee has objected to the fact that billionaires won't pay taxes on their investment gains."I feel very strongly that, yearly, billionaires who did extraordinarily well in the pandemic should make tax payments," Senator Ron Wyden said Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tax-the-rich-democrats-try-to-popularise-the-idea-but-plan-may-fall-short-101631671199645.html
15-09-2021||World||Will Covid-19 ‘end’ in the next 6-8 months? Here's what experts say||For those hoping for an imminent end to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has the world in a chokehold, there is some bad news. Epidemiologists say that we ought to brace for more of what we've already been through – renewed outbreaks, more waves of the infectious disease, cancelled classes in educational institutes, and hospitals overwhelmed with the burden of treatment on the verge of a medical breakdown – all over again. Michael Osterholm, the director of the Center of Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, warned there could “easily” be another surge in the coronavirus disease in fall and winter, as continued surges hit vulnerable populations across the globe.Also Read | China scrambles to control ‘school-centred’ Covid outbreak in Fujian province“I see these continued surges occurring throughout the world," the Bloomberg news agency quoted Osterholm as saying. “Then it will drop, potentially somewhat precipitously. And then I think we very easily could see another surge in the fall and winter [of this year].”Almost all experts agree at this point that the end to Covid-19 is not in sight anytime soon, at least not for the next six to eight months. Before the pandemic comes to end, every single person in the world will be infected by the virus at least once, with an unlucky few having to deal with it more times than that. The race between the waves of transmission that lead to new variants of the coronavirus and the battle to get the globe inoculated against it won’t be over until the coronavirus has touched all of us.The key challenge in the race against Covid-19 was once to come up with an effective vaccine against the disease; but as the world learned to deal with the virus, the challenge has now expectedly shifted to a new marker – inoculating the global population, and ensuring the protection stays for a sustainable period of time. Even though immunisation rates rise with each day, billions of people around the world are yet to be vaccinated, and there will always be people who are vulnerable to the virus: Newborn babies, people who can’t or won’t get inoculated, and those who get vaccinated but suffer breakthrough infections as their protection levels ebb.Another key danger is the possibility that the virus mutates into a vaccine-resistant variant, although it is not the only risk ahead. In light of such a scenario, scientists say that eliminating the coronavirus anytime soon may just be short of a pipe-dream, and we ought to brace for more outbreaks in classrooms, on public transport, and in workplaces over the coming months, which will be rough.“I can just tell you, this is a coronavirus forest fire that will not stop until it finds all the human wood that it can burn,” said Osterholm, sounding a grim alarm.Watch | Covid-19 in children: Are active cases rising? Know antibodies countKanta Subbarao, director of the WHO Collaborating Center for Reference and Research on Influenza at the Peter Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity in Melbourne, said, “With the pandemic, we have this enormous force of infection; that has counterbalanced the ability of the virus to proof-read.”As a result, Covid-19 could be like the flu, requiring regular vaccine top-ups to remain effective as the coronavirus evolves.A few researchers also say SARS-CoV-2 is poised to become completely resistant to the first generation of vaccines. A study from Japan, which has yet to be published or peer-reviewed, suggests that potentially dangerous mutations in the delta variant are already being picked up in a global database used to track such developments. Reports of current strains breaking through vaccinations or triggering higher fatality rates have not held up to rigorous scrutiny thus far.Although opinions vary, the current scientific consensus says that the coronavirus pandemic will end, if at all, at different times in different places. A key element determining this timing will, obviously, be vaccination. Although the world is unlikely to completely eradicate the virus, experts agree that the current outbreak will be tamed once most people – perhaps 90-95% of the global population – have a degree of immunity due to vaccination or previous infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-covid-19-end-in-the-next-6-8-months-here-s-what-experts-say-101631664663817.html
15-09-2021||World||Gavin Newsom's fate at stake as Californians vote in recall election||With Gov. Gavin Newsom’s fate at stake, Californians on Tuesday cast the last of the ballots that will decide whether he continues to lead them or if the nation’s most populous state veers in a more conservative direction amid anger over his actions during the Covid-19 pandemic.Newsom, a Democrat who is leading in polls, is only the fourth governor in US history and the second in California to face a recall. He was elected in a landslide less than three years ago.“I’m feeling good, as long as we can get out that vote," Newsom said after greeting volunteers in San Francisco hours before the polls closed.A recall election has a less predictable dynamic than a regular election, he said.“They designed this to catch us while we’re sleeping," Newsom said. "But I think you’ve seen in the early voting Democrats have been coming out strong, and I’m just humbled by that.”The leading Republican candidate is conservative talk show host Larry Elder, who is seeking to become California’s first Black governor.Newsom got a final push late Monday from President Joe Biden, who warned that the contest could shape the country’s direction on the pandemic, reproductive rights and the battle to slow climate change. The results also are likely to influence the 2022 midterm elections, when control of Congress will be in play again. The party that controls the White House historically loses seats in midterms.Biden said the issues that defined the 2020 presidential race have been resurrected in California, with potentially disastrous results if Newsom is removed. Speaking to hundreds of cheering supporters during a twilight rally in the coastal city of Long Beach, south of Los Angeles, Biden referred to Elder as a “clone” of Trump.“The eyes of the nation are on California,” he warned. The recall vote is “going to reverberate around the nation and ... around the world.”Elder staged his capstone rally in nearby Orange County, where he urged supporters to reach out to friends and neighbors to vote. The GOP will need a heroic Election Day turnout to catch Democrats, who have been turning in mail ballots in larger numbers. Nearly 8.6 million of California’s 22 million voters already have cast mail-in ballots.“Make sure you have your friends vote, vote, vote, and try and get 10 more friends to vote. And hit every call, make every call, knock on every door. We’re going to win this thing if we turn out the vote,” Elder said from a hotel ballroom in Costa Mesa.US House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, a California Republican, called the election an opportunity to change course in a state where Democrats hold a nearly 2-to-1 advantage among registered voters. He cited homelessness, rising crime and the wildfire-driven closure of national parks, which he said was due to “forest mismanagement.”“And you want to reward that?” McCarthy said Tuesday on Fox News Channel’s “Fox and Friends.In 2003, Californians removed Democratic Gov. Gray Davis and replaced him with Republican Arnold Schwarzenegger. The “Terminator" actor won re-election in 2006, the last time a GOP candidate won statewide office in California.This recall was fueled largely by anger over Newsom’s actions during the pandemic, which included imposing the nation’s first statewide shutdown order. Critics said he was heavy handed, shuttering businesses and keeping children out of classrooms for longer than necessary. Newsom said his actions saved lives.“I am angry. It should be a freedom of choice. What is this? A dictatorship?" asked Janet Webb, a 69-year-old Lafayette resident who voted for Elder.She said squabbles over Newsom's handling of the pandemic have split her family and friends and may prompt her to move out of state.“I can’t live here like this if they’re going to force everyone to get a vaccine," Webb said.California voters have just two questions on Tuesday’s ballot: Should Newsom stay in office? And if not, who should replace him? There are 46 replacement candidates to choose from.If a majority of voters approve Newsom’s removal, the candidate who gets the most votes on the second question becomes governor. If voters keep Newsom, the results on the second question are irrelevant.Briana Mendoza, 30, said the last thing California needs is more turmoil. She voted to keep Newsom.“We’re in the middle of a pandemic. Why would we recall the governor who has been really trying to curb the spread of the virus?” the San Diego social worker said.Mendoza does not believe Newsom brought the recall upon himself by attending a birthday party at an upscale Napa Valley restaurant last fall in violation of his own administration’s coronavirus rules. Instead, she thinks the effort to unseat him is a backlash by a small minority of Republicans in a firmly Democratic state.“We don’t want Elder in office,” she said. "This is ridiculous. We just got Trump out. We don’t want a Trump puppet.”Beyond Elder, other prominent Republicans in the race include former San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer, Assemblyman Kevin Kiley, former Olympian Caitlyn Jenner and businessman John Cox. The best-known Democrat is Kevin Paffrath, a financial adviser with a large YouTube following.How California votes could determine how aggressively Democrats campaign on Covid-19 restrictions that many Republicans have decried as unnecessary and overly burdensome.Newsom’s ouster would be a stunning rebuke in California, where the Democratic Party controls every statewide office and dominates the Legislature and the congressional delegation.His advisers expressed increasing confidence that the governor would survive the effort to drive him out more than a year before the end of his first term. The campaign had 25,000 volunteers on the streets over the weekend and has sent 31 million text messages to voters.Republicans have criticized him relentlessly for high taxes and housing prices that are out of reach for many in the working class.In recent days, Elder suggested the results of the recall election could be skewed by unspecified “shenanigans,” echoing Trump’s baseless claims of voting fraud in his 2020 race with Biden.There has been no confirmed evidence of widespread fraud. Elder's campaign website has linked to a “Stop CA Fraud" site where people can sign a petition demanding a special legislative session to investigate the “twisted results,” well before any results were announced.Newsom said he would accept the election results and urged Elder and others to do the same. “As an American, I’m ashamed. I’m disgusted by it. Stop. Grow up. These people literally are vandalizing our democracy and trust in our institutions," he said.Asked to provide evidence of any suspicious voting activity, Elder spokeswoman Ying Ma said the campaign wants “every proper vote to be counted” and “whatever shenanigans there are will not stand in the way of him becoming the next governor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gavin-newsom-s-fate-at-stake-as-californians-vote-in-recall-election-101631666589659.html
15-09-2021||World||US army head secretly called China over fears Trump could spark war: Report||The top US general secretly called his Chinese counterpart twice over concerns then-President Donald Trump could spark a war with China as his potential election loss loomed and in its aftermath, the Washington Post reported on Tuesday.US General Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, called General Li Zuocheng of the People’s Liberation Army on Oct. 30, 2020 - four days before the election - and again on Jan. 8, two days after Trump supporters led a deadly riot at the US Capitol, the newspaper reported.In the calls, Milley sought to assure Li the United States was stable and not going to attack and, if there were to be an attack, he would alert his counterpart ahead of time, the report said.The report was based on "Peril," a new book by journalists Bob Woodward and Robert Costa, which they said relied on interviews with 200 sources and is due to be released next week.Trump, in a statement, cast doubt in the story, calling it "fabricated." He said if the story was true Milley should be tried for treason. "For the record, I never even thought of attacking China," Trump said.Milley's office declined to comment.Republican Senator Marco Rubio called on President Joe Biden, a Democrat, to immediately fire Milley."I do not need to tell of you the dangers posed by senior military officers leaking classified information on US military operations, but I will underscore that such subversion undermines the President’s ability to negotiate and leverage one of this nation’s instruments of national power in his interactions with foreign nations," Rubio said in a letter to Biden.Asked about the Washington Post report, White House spokesperson Karine Jean-Pierre declined to comment and referred questions to the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Defense Department.Trump, a Republican, named Milley to the top military post in 2018 but began criticizing him, as well as other appointees and former staffers, after losing the presidential election to Biden in November 2020.The Washington Post reported that Milley was motivated to contact Beijing the second time in part due to a Jan. 8 call with US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who had asked the general what safeguards were in place to prevent an "unstable president" from launching a nuclear strike."He's crazy. You know he's crazy," Pelosi told Milley, the newspaper reported, citing a transcript of the call.According to the cited call transcript, the general replied, "I agree with you on everything."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-army-head-secretly-called-china-over-fears-trump-could-spark-war-report-101631662069114.html
15-09-2021||World||Hurricane Ida: Missing Louisiana man may have been eaten by alligator||A 504-pound alligator believed to have killed a 71-year-old Louisiana man in Hurricane Ida floodwaters has been captured with what appears to be human remains in its stomach, the St. Tammany Parish Sheriff's Office said.The 12-foot alligator's capture ends a two-week search by local and state agencies for Timothy Satterlee Sr, who had last been seen on Aug. 30 checking the storm damage outside his home in Slidell, about 35 miles (55 km) northeast of New Orleans.The attack occurred the day after Ida, one of the most powerful hurricanes ever to strike the US Gulf Coast, slammed Louisiana, causing devastating flooding in some areas outside a new levee and floodgate system protecting the city.An alligator "weighing a startling 504 pounds" was caught on Monday in a trap set by two Louisiana Department of Wildlife licensed nuisance hunters, according to a statement Monday from St. Tammany Parish Sheriff's Office."Once the alligator was searched, it was discovered to have what appears to be human remains inside its stomach," the sheriff's office said. "Investigators will work with the St. Tammany Parish Coroner's Office to verify those remains belong to Timothy Satterlee."Wildlife agents were scouring the area in air boats on Saturday when a drone they had deployed spotted a "rather large" alligator not far from the Satterlee's home, said Capt. Lance Vitter, a spokesperson for the sheriff's office.They set traps, which proved successful on Monday. The agents then euthanized and cut open the alligator "and that's when they discovered the body parts," Vitter said. "It was the upper parts of a human body."The Satterlee's home is not far from an area frequented by tourists who visit for the "swamp tours" promising sightings of alligators and other wildlife, Vitter said. Alligators do not usually attack humans unless the food they have stashed has been displaced, as can occur during major storms, he said.Satterlee's wife saw a large alligator attack her husband after he had gone outside their raised home to check on the contents of their ground-level shed. The alligator had him in a "death roll" and had ripped off one of his arms, Vitter said, recounting the wife's statement to authorities. The wife, 68, intervened and the alligator disappeared into the water.Bleeding badly and starting to black out, the husband told her to get in their small boat and seek help, Vitter said. Vitter added that it would have been difficult for the wife to get her husband into the boat without his help and without it tipping over. She left him on their stairs.The wife found help about one mile away and returned only to find her husband was no longer on the stairs, Vitter said. "She just never thought in her wildest nightmares that she would get back and he'd be gone."Satterlee was a staple of his community in Slidell, volunteering at the local school and cooking for storm victims in the past, Vitter said, adding that he hoped finding the alligator will bring some closure for his wife."Now that we have located the alligator at least she can get a death certificate," Vitter said.According to the Smithsonian's National Zoo & Conservation Biology Institute, male alligators can grow as heavy as 1,000 lbs (454 kg). (Reporting by Nathan Layne in Wilton, Connecticut Editing by Alistair Bell and Dan Grebler)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-ida-missing-louisiana-man-may-have-been-eaten-by-alligator-101631661580579.html
15-09-2021||World||Former US intelligence agents admit giving defense secrets to UAE||A trio of former US intelligence agents admitted on Tuesday to hacking for the United Arab Emirates.The US accused Marc Baier, Ryan Adams and Daniel Gericke of sharing critical US defense technology and secrets with government agencies in the UAE and at least one unnamed private company, in a criminal complaint that charged them with violating US hacking and arms trafficking laws.Their operation began in October 2015 when they were among several employees of an unnamed US firm offered lucrative jobs in the UAE to work on cyber-intelligence, according to the complaint, filed in San Francisco federal court. By February 2016, they had accepted the jobs and were using their contacts in the US to obtain restricted intelligence on behalf of their new employer. Later that year, Baier persuaded another  company to sell him a cyberweapon known as zero-click malware, which allows hackers to remotely infiltrate individual devices without their owners’ engagement, according to the US. The $750,000 deal was executed that year, and the technology was weaponized as a tool called Karma, detailed in a 2019 report by Reuters, which reported the charges earlier Tuesday.In a parallel document filed to the court, the defendants admitted to the Justice Department’s claims as part of an agreement to defer their prosecution. The agreement requires that all three quit their jobs in the UAE, cut off any affiliation with that government within 60 days and provide a report of their dealings to the FBI within 90 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-us-intelligence-agents-admit-giving-defense-secrets-to-uae-101631661113575.html
15-09-2021||World||Biden failed to secure summit with Xi Jinping in call last week: Report||President Joe Biden proposed a first face-to-face summit with his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, in a call last week, but failed to secure an agreement, the Financial Times reported on Tuesday.The newspaper quoted multiple people briefed on last Thursday's call as saying that Xi did not take Biden up on the offer and instead insisted Washington adopt a less strident tone toward Beijing.The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment. But a source who was among those briefed on the 90-minute Biden-Xi call confirmed the report was accurate."Xi apparently intimated that the tone and atmosphere of the relationship needed to be improved first," the source said.China's embassy in Washington did not immediately respond when asked to comment.The Financial Times quoted one of its sources as saying Biden had floated the summit as one of several possibilities for follow-on engagement with Xi, and he had not expected an immediate response.It cited one US official as saying that while Xi did not engage with the idea of a summit, the White House believed that was partly due to concerns about COVID-19.The G20 summit in Italy in October has been talked about as a possible venue for a face-to-face meeting, but Xi has not left China since the outbreak of the pandemic early last year.The call between Biden and Xi was their first in seven months and they discussed the need to ensure that competition between the world's two largest economies does not veer into conflict.A US official briefing before the conversation called it a test of whether direct top-level engagement could end what had become a stalemate in ties, which are at the worst level in decades.The White House said afterward it was intended to keep channels of communication open, but it has announced no plans for follow-on engagements.Chinese state media said Xi had told Biden that U.S. policy on China imposed "serious difficulties" on relations, but added that both sides agreed to maintain frequent contact and ask working-level teams to step up communications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-failed-to-secure-summit-with-xi-jinping-in-call-last-week-report-101631660854559.html
15-09-2021||World||Taliban deny reports of recovering $6.5 million, 18 gold bricks at former Afghan VP's home||The Taliban have denied reports claiming that they found $6.5 million and 18 gold bricks during a raid at the residence of former Afghanistan vice-president Amrullah Saleh. ۱/۴ احمدالله وثیق، معاون کمیسیون فرهنگی طالبان در صحبت با روزنامه اطلاعات روز، کشف ۶.۵ میلیون دالر پول نقد و ذخیره‌گاه سلاح از خانه‌ی امرالله صالح در ولایت پنجشیر را رد کرد. وثیق جزئیات بیشتر ارائه نکرد. pic.twitter.com/4tbW6337nIThe clarification came after a video went viral on social media which showed two suitcases stuffed with cash and gold bricks, while two men whose faces cannot be seen properly are going through the stuff. The reports claim that the money and the gold were recovered from Saleh's residence during a raid by Taliban leaders.Taliban say they have found 6.5M US dollars from @AmrullahSaleh2 house when they were searching. pic.twitter.com/3L1ryVWObTAhmadullah Wasiq, deputy head of the Taliban Cultural Commission, denied reports in an interview to Afghan daily Al-Itteza. The same video was also shared by an Afghan journalist named Tajuden Soroush. According to his Twitter bio, Soroush is a senior correspondent at Iran International television.Earlier, the Taliban executed Amrullah Saleh's brother Rohullah, reportedly during fighting in Panjshir, a last holdout of the resistance forces.The report of the death of Amrullah Saleh's brother Rohullah Azizi came on Friday amid reports of massive escalation between the Taliban and the Northern Resistance Front in Panjshir.Meanwhile, the whereabouts of Amrullah Saleh and Ahmad Massoud, leader of the Northern Resistance Force, are not yet known.The Taliban took over Afghanistan last month after the US-supported government collapsed with the fall of Kabul. The Taliban, designated as the terrorist group by the US, captured the presidential palace on August 15.On September 7, the Taliban unveiled their cabinet as the group formally announced their government after taking over Afghanistan in a lightning offensive last month. The "acting" government will be led by Mullah Mohammad Hassan, the little-known head of the Taliban’s leadership council, spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid announced in a press conference in Kabul. Abdul Ghani Baradar, the face of the Islamist group, was named as his deputy.The appointments also included Khairullah Khairkhwa who will be serving as the information minister of the country, Mullah Yaqoob as the defence minister and Amir Mutaqqi as the foreign minister.There was no evidence of non-Taliban in the line-up, which has been a big demand of the international community. The group also made no mention of women as part of any governance structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-deny-reports-of-recovering-6-5-million-18-gold-bricks-at-former-afghan-vp-s-home-101631612128733.html
15-09-2021||World||Antony Blinken says ties with Pakistan under review over Afghanistan||The United States is reviewing its relationship with Pakistan, which is a Major Non-Nato Ally (MNNA), in view of its role in Afghanistan over the last 20 years and more, which, secretary of state Antony Blinken told lawmakers at a hearing on Monday, amounted to “hedging its bets”.Antony Blinken also delivered a very clear message to Pakistan telling it to “line up” with the broad majority of nations to force the Taliban regime to uphold the basic rights of Afghan people, including women and children; allow humanitarian assistance and form a representative government.Watch: Was Taliban govt's Deputy PM killed by Pak-backed Haqqanis? Mullah Baradar audio emerges amid rumours TESTY EXCHANGESAntony Blinken testified on Monday on the pullout of American troops from Afghanistan at a hearing of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. The nearly five-hour session was marked by testy exchanges with Republican lawmakers and occasional rap-on-the-knuckles from Democrats.He goes before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Tuesday.House lawmakers grilled the secretary of state on a range of issues relating to the withdrawal - the timeline, being surprised by the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government, the unplanned and chaotic evacuation and, leaving without ensuring every American citizen Afghan ally had been evacuated.DUPLICITOUS PAKISTANTwo Democratic lawmakers - Bill Keating and Joaquin Castro - brought up Pakistan. Calling Pakistan’s role in Afghanistan “duplicitous”, Keating asked if the administration was reviewing the relationship with Pakistan, its status as one of only 17 countries that the United States has designated MNNAs.The other MNNAs are Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, Brazil, Egypt, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Kuwait, Morocco, New Zealand, the Philippines, Thailand, and Tunisia (Taiwan gets the same treatment without the official designation).Pakistan was added to the list in 2004 for its role in the war in Afghanistan and the hunt for the perpetrators of the 9/11 attacks.Pakistan’s role is coming under increased scrutiny and criticism. Andy Biggs, a Republican member of the House of Representative and a staunch ally of former president Donald Trump, had introduced a bill in the House in January calling for ending Pakistan’s status as an MNNA.“Given its long term support for the Taliban, is it time for the United States to reassess its relationship with Pakistan and reassess its status as a major non-Nato ally,” asked Representative Castro, who was following up a line of questioning on Pakistan opened by fellow Democrat Keating.Secretary of state Antony Blinken replied: “For the reasons you’ve cited as well as others, this is one of the things that we’re going to be looking in the days and weeks ahead: the role that Pakistan has played over the last 20 years but also the role that we would want to see it play in the coming years, and what it will take for it to do that.”A US secretary of State could not have been more openly scathing of Pakistan’s role at this time when Islamabad has reclaimed its pre-eminent position in Afghanistan’s present and future, and its continued influence over its creation, the Taliban. The US also needs Pakistan’s cooperation for the safe passage of its citizens, partners out of Afghanistan.Representative Keating brought up Pakistan first at the hearing. He was troubled by the relationship with Pakistan. Recalling its role in the creation and labelling of the Taliban, he went on to nail Pakistan’s deeply entrenched interest by citing Prime Minister Imran Khan’s quote that Afghanistan had broken “the shackles of slavery” when the Taliban took back power.“We used to always hear diplomatically that we have a complicated relationship with … Pakistan,” Keating said. “I would say it’s often duplicitous.”Antony Blinken said he agreed with the congressman’s assessment of the role played by Pakistan over the past 20 years and even before.It’s been one, he said, that has “involved hedging its bets constantly about the future of Afghanistan; it’s one that’s involved harbouring members of the Taliban, including the Haqqanis; it’s one that’s also involved, at different points, cooperation with us on counterterrorism”.Pakistan’s role in Afghanistan has also been shaped by its concerns about India in that country, the secretary of state added. He did not elaborate.INDIA’S DEVELOPMENT ROLEIndia has completed more than 500 development projects in Afghanistan in the last 20 years, with footprints in all of its 34 provinces, at an estimated $3 billion. India has also been a preferred destination for Afghan people for higher studies - former president Hamid Karzai studied in India - and medical treatment. Bollywood productions are more popular there than any other places, and the best and most talented Afghan cricketers play in the top professional league in India.Pakistan, on the other hand, is viewed by most Afghans as a sponsor and mentor of a regressive regime that denies them rights and privileges enjoyed by most Pakistanis in Pakistan.GOING FORWARD“We have to look at as an insistence that every country, to include Pakistan, make good on the expectations that the international community has of what is required of a Taliban-led government,” Antony Blinken said as the hearing, speaking to the relationship with Pakistan going forward.India, the United States and other countries have said the Taliban regime can expect to get international recognition and legitimacy and financial assistance only if they can verifiably guarantee basic rights for its citizens, including women, children and minorities.“Pakistan needs to line up with a broad majority of the international community in working towards those ends and upholding those, those expectations,” Antony Blinken said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/antony-blinken-says-ties-with-pakistan-under-review-over-afghanistan-101631595634130.html
