16-09-2021||World||Several rockets fell in Kabul, might have hit power plant: Reports||Several rockets hit the Kabul neighbourhood on Thursday evening at around 9pm, local media reported, sharing a video of the unconfirmed rocket attack. Reports said the incident took place near a power plant in Khair Khana which is a residential suburb in the northwest of Kabul. The casualty of the attack was not immediately known. Several Afghan media shared a video of the claimed attack.Aamaj News, which reported the attack said there was no immediate casualty but properties of the local residents were left damage because of the attack. جزییات فرودآمدن چندین فیر راکت بر کابل:منابع به آماج نیوز می‌گویند که چندین فیر راکت‌ در ساحه سرکوتل خیرخانه، مربوط به ناحیه هفدهم شهر کابل فرودآمده، تاکنون از تلفات انسانی این رویداد چیزی گفته نشده، اما خسارات مالی برای باشندگان این منطقه بجا مانده است.#آماج_نیوز https://t.co/ZdRb4chjC6 pic.twitter.com/MXZqRMjS4MSeveral rockets hit the area near a power station in #Kabul, local media reports. ▪️No damage or casualties reported so far. pic.twitter.com/Fubcufy3mEThe purported attack comes days after the Taliban announced their interim cabinet and the situation in the country is far from being stabilised. Last month, while the United States was withdrawing its troops from Afghanistan, a blast took place in the vicinity of the Kabul airport killing over 160 people including US soldiers. Following this, the United States conducted two strikes in Afghanistan and the last was in Kabul.The Taliban have reiterated that they will ensure Afghanistan soil is not used for any terror activities, though US defence officials said al Qaeda has already started its movement in Afghanistan and a report says that US security experts estimate that the terrorist organisation will take a maximum of one to two years to become capable of striking an attack in the US from Afghanistan. On Thursday, the Taliban reportedly seizes a truck loaded with arms and ammunition heading to Pakistan amid reports claiming that weapons left by the US forces in Afghanistan are being smuggled into Pakistan.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/several-rockets-fell-in-kabul-might-have-hit-power-plant-reports-101631813518699.html
16-09-2021||World||Taliban ban female employees from entering ministry of women||Taliban have barred female employees from entering the Ministry of Women Affairs in Kabul, allowing only males into the building, an employee of the ministry said."Four women were not allowed to enter the building", Sputnik quoted the employee as saying.The women intend to protest the move near the ministry.As the Taliban took control of Afghanistan once again after 20 years, experts believe that Afghan women are most likely to face an uncertain future under the terrorist group regime.Previous generations remember the ultraconservative Islamic regime that saw regular stoning, amputations and public executions during Taliban rule before the US-led invasion that followed the September 11, 2001, terror attacks.Under the Taliban, which ruled in accordance with a harsh interpretation of Islamic law, women were largely confined to their homes.The US has completed the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan, ending one of its longest wars.The Taliban's seizure of the war-torn country came after international forces withdrew from Afghanistan, with the United States officially beginning its departure back in May.Last month, in its first-ever presser after taking over Kabul, the Taliban had assured that the group is committed to providing women with their rights based on Islam."Taliban are committed to providing women with their rights based on Islam. Women can work in the health sector and other sectors where they are needed. There will be no discrimination against women," said Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid.After coming to power last month, the group backtracked from its assurances to respect women's rights in Afghanistan and announced a ban on coeducation.Taliban early this month announced a new government sans any women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-ban-female-employees-from-entering-ministry-of-women-101631813122505.html
16-09-2021||World||'Effective leader': Barack Obama endorses Justin Trudeau in Canadian polls||Barack Obama endorsed Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Thursday in the Canadian election, calling him an effective leader in a rare endorsement of a candidate in a Canadian election by a former American president.It is the second time Obama has done it. Obama also urged Canadians to re-elect the Liberal leader in Canada’s last election in 2019.Obama tweeted Thursday that he was proud to work with Trudeau and described him as an effective leader who has strong democratic values.Trudeau is in a tough re-election fight with his Conservative rival ahead of Monday’s parliamentary elections. Obama's endorsement helped Trudeau with progressives in 2019.Obama also endorsed Emmanuel Macron for president in France’s 2017 election, and he warned British voters against leaving the European Union.Trudeau formed a close relationship with Obama when he was president.The former president has long been popular with many Canadians."This is welcomed by Trudeau and Co. but not a surprise," said Nelson Wiseman, a political science professor at the University of Toronto “Will Obama’s endorsement make a difference? Not many voters are still undecided so the material impact of Obama’s endorsement is minimal in my opinion. I think it is more symbolic of Liberal affinity with the Democrats which has been the case since JFK in the 1960s. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/effective-leader-barack-obama-endorses-justin-trudeau-in-canadian-polls-101631812363577.html
16-09-2021||World||World Bank to discontinue ‘Doing Business’ reports after irregularities found in data||World Bank Group has decided to discontinue ‘Doing Business’ reports that used to assess investment climate in countries after data irregularities were found in 2018 and 2020, reported news agency Reuters. In August 2020, World Bank paused the publication of Doing Business reports following a number of irregularities were reported regarding changes to the data.The international financial institution later confirmed that the changes were inconsistent with the Doing Business methodology. The World Bank has now said in a statement that a new approach will be worked out to assess countries' business and investment climates after the irregularities raised ethical matters involving former bank staff and board officials, according to Reuters.The irregularities had affected four countries: China; Saudi Arabia; United Arab Emirates; and Azerbaijan. According to the initial Doing Business 2018 report, China had a score of 65.3 with a global ranking of 78, similar to the previous year’s. After the corrections in data for indicators like Starting a Business, Getting Credit, and Paying Taxes indicators, China’s score fell to 64.5 and global ranking to 85.“Taking as given the published data for all other countries, China's global ranking in Doing Business 2018 would have been 85, a decline of 7 places relative to the previous year," World Bank had said in a review report.Also Read | 'Deeply concerned': World Bank freezes aid to Afghanistan after Taliban takeoverEconomies like India, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Togo, Bahrain, Tajikistan, Pakistan, Kuwait, China, and Nigeria made notable improvements in the Doing Business 2020 report after they, according to the World Bank, implemented one-fifth of all the reforms in 2018-19 recorded worldwide.In 2014, India was at 142nd position on the Ease of Doing Business Index and made significant improvements after the government launched an ambitious program of regulatory reforms. India moved to 63rd position on World Bank's Ease of Doing Business Ranking 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-bank-to-discontinue-doing-business-reports-after-irregularities-found-in-data-101631805989405.html
16-09-2021||World||Massoud has a lobbyist in US; Taliban are also looking for one: Report||Panjshir leader and the face of Northern Resistance Front, Ahmad Massoud has signed up a lobbyist in the United States this week, a New York Times report said. The contract was filed with the Justice Department on Wednesday evening and the work will be done pro bono (free, for the public good), the report said. So what will Robert Stryk, the lobbyist, do? He will shore up support for the anti-Taliban force, which is firm on their decision of not surrendering and declaring a parallel government. While the international community is silent on whatever is happening in the Panjshir valley and countries are far from the discourse of recognising the NRF, the lobbyist will do his work. The NYT report said that the Taliban are also looking for representation as they want international funding and legitimacy.Meanwhile, the Afghanistan-US Democratic Peace and Prosperity Council a well-financed Afghan group active in Washington is discussing the possibility of forming a government in exile, the report said. What is this council doing now after the fall of Afghanistan? Reports said it is now promoting protests against the Taliban.The NYT report said that Stryk who will represent Massoud in Washington has represented similar cases in the past as he was the lobbyist of former Congolese President Joseph Kabila and also represented the administration of President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela.Panjshir spokesperson Ali Nazary has admitted that there has been a new contract. As of now, while the struggle in the valley is still going on, the aim of lobbying is asking for material support, including weapons. Plus, the NRF will also lobby for theUS not recognising the Taliban.The clash in the Panjshir Resistance is still going on and reports said Massoud and Afghanistan's former vice president Amrullah Saleh are still in Panjshir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/massoud-has-a-lobbyist-in-us-taliban-are-also-looking-for-one-report-101631803322248.html
16-09-2021||World||UN official meets Afghan minister Sirajuddin Haqqani, discusses humanitarian aid||An official of the United Nations on Wednesday met Afghanistan’s new interior minister Sirajuddin Haqqani and held a discussion on the ongoing situation in the war-ravaged country after the Taliban’s takeover. The official also spoke to Haqqani on humanitarian aid.Taking to Twitter, a Taliban spokesperson said on Thursday, “Sirajuddin Haqqani, Minister of Interior, IEA, met Head of United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) Deborah Lyons and her delegation yesterday. They discussed the ongoing situation of Afghanistan and humanitarian aids. The IEA Interior Minister stressed that UN personnel can conduct their work without any hurdle.”Also Read| Taliban leaders Baradar, Khalil-ur-Rahman Haqqani involved in major row: ReportThe UN mission in Afghanistan, on the other hand, said that during Wednesday’s meeting, Deborah Lyons stressed an absolute necessity for all UN and humanitarian personnel to be able to function without any threats or obstruction to deliver aid and conduct work for the people of Afghanistan.Sirajuddin Haqqani, who is one of the world’s most wanted terrorists is founder of the Haqqani network, which was designated as a terror group by the United States in 2012.Sirajuddin carries a bounty of USD 5 million on his head. He is suspected of carrying out a series of bombings in Afghanistan’s capital Kabul in 2008 and also plotting the assassination of former president Hamid Karzai.Repeatedly, the Taliban have targeted the United Nations during the 20-year long military mission led by the US in Afghanistan.In 2009, militants of the Islamic Emirate killed five UN foreign staff members in an attack on a guest house in Kabul, according to news agency Reuters. Two years later in 2011, seven UN staff members after protests erupted in the northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif. And in July this year, the UNAMA said that the main compound in Herat was attacked by anti-government elements, killing at least one security guard.Also Read| A month later, Akhundzada, Haqqani and Yaqoob remain in shadowsAs the Taliban gained control over Afghanistan in August, the UN has referred to the current situation as a humanitarian emergency of internal displacement and has said it will remain committed to delivering humanitarian assistance to millions of people in need.Amid the growing humanitarian needs in the country, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres held a high-level conference on Monday where he urged the global community to offer a lifeline to millions of vulnerable Afghani citizens. “Development gains must also be protected to link the humanitarian response with the medium and long-term stability of Afghanistan. The rights, safety, and wellbeing of women and girls are an essential part of this link,” Guterres said.(With ANI, Reuters inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unofficial-meets-afghan-minister-sirajuddin-haqqani-discusses-humanitarian-aid-101631801369557.html
16-09-2021||World||AUKUS: China lashes out at US-UK-Australia security alignment||China on Thursday strongly criticised the new US-Britain-Australia (AUKUS) security partnership, saying it will “severely” damage regional security and spark an arms race.Under the partnership, announced by US President Joe Biden, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Wednesday, the US, and Britain will provide Australia with the technology and capability to build nuclear-powered submarines.The new security arrangement is set to worsen China’s ties with western countries, especially with Australia.Like with the US, Beijing-Canberra ties have been soured by more than one reason; the strains first appeared in 2018 when Australia became the first country to publicly ban Chinese tech giant Huawei from its 5G network.Beijing was furious in 2020 when Australia became one of the first countries to call for an independent investigation into the origins of the novel coronavirus, which started from the central Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019.On Thursday, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian lashed out at the trilateral security group.Zhao Lijian said the trio was “severely damaging regional peace and stability, intensifying an arms race, and damaging international nuclear non-proliferation efforts”.Countries should not build partnerships that target third countries, he told a media briefing in Beijing on Thursday.“This proves once again that these countries are using nuclear exports as a tool for geopolitical games,” Zhao Lijian was quoted as saying by Chinese state media.Zhao Lijian said the US and UK’s decision to export highly sensitive nuclear-powered submarine technology to Australia was a case of “extremely irresponsible” double standards.Zhao Lijian added that the three countries should abandon the “…obsolete cold war zero sum mentality and narrow-minded geopolitical concepts and respect regional people’s aspiration and do more that is conducive to regional peace and stability and development - otherwise they will only end up hurting their own interests”.“China will closely watch the situation’s development,” Zhao Lijian said.In Washington, asked to respond to the AUKUS announcement, the Chinese embassy spokesperson, Liu Pengyu, said countries “should not build exclusionary blocs targeting or harming the interests of third parties. In particular, they should shake off their cold war mentality and ideological prejudice”.The Global Times said Australia had now “turned itself into an adversary of China”, in an editorial published on Thursday.The editorial asked: “The US and its allies are messing up the world. They are even touching the bottom line of the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. Here comes an interesting question: Who is more capable of withstanding the global chaos? China or them?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aukus-china-lashes-out-at-us-uk-australia-security-alignment-101631789887983.html
16-09-2021||World||'Why do we risk...': Pakistan wants countries to recognise Taliban, miffed with wait-and-watch policy||Pakistan is miffed with the international community’s wait-and-watch policy on recognising the Taliban’s interim government in Afghanistan. Pakistan’s national security adviser Moeed Yusuf said that the current approach would push the war-torn country towards an economic slump, reported Dawn newspaper."If the world is interested in this conversation, it needs to happen directly with the new government. For influencing and moulding governance in the way the world wants, it should have a conversation with them. Without engagement that would not be possible," Dawn quoted Yusuf as saying.While the international community has stepped up humanitarian aid efforts in Afghanistan, it has shown no immediate interest in recognising the Taliban, given the Sunni Pashtun group’s history of gross human rights violation in name of imposing their harsh version of Sharia law. Several countries have said that they will wait and watch the actions of the Taliban, which claim to be different from the last time they ruled Afghanistan.Warning about the consequences of abandoning Afghanistan, Pakistan’s NSA said that a security vacuum could again make the region safe haven for terrorists. “You already know ISIS (the militant Islamic State group) is already present there, Pakistani Taliban are there, Al Qaeda is there. Why do we risk a security vacuum?" he added.Yusuf has been repeatedly calling on countries to engage with the Taliban while warning about either the refugee crisis or terrorism or both. Earlier this month, the security official said that the world needs to constructively engage the Afghan Taliban in order to prevent governance collapse and avert another refugee crisis, reported news agency PTI."The world must think about the cost of abandonment of Afghanistan," he said at a webinar organised by the Centre for Aerospace & Security Studies (CASS).Meanwhile, Pakistan, accused of supporting the Taliban during years of insurgency, was proactive in the government formation in Afghanistan. Pakistan's powerful intelligence chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed recently met the group’s de-factor leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, who was later named the deputy prime minister of the provisional government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-wants-countries-to-recognise-taliban-miffed-with-wait-and-watch-policy-101631788055515.html
16-09-2021||World||Where is Taliban's Mullah Baradar? What this interview clarifies||To refute rumours about his probable injury or death, Afghanistan's deputy prime minister Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar had to apparently sit in front of a camera and issue a statement. It was an interview by Radio Television Afghanistan. Though it was a radio interview, it was video-recorded and was released by Taliban leaders on Twitter to show that their leader is alive. Earlier, the Taliban released an audio message but the speculation could not be put to rest.Mullah Baradar is in KandaharThe interview was taken in Kandahar, reports said which establishes the fact that Mullah Baradar is in Kandahar. Reports said that Mullah Baradar had fled to Kandahar following an argument between him and a Cabinet member. The fight reportedly broke out at the presidential palace in Kabul. The Taliban and the Haqqani have been engaged in a power tussle to mediate which Pak ISI chief Faiz Hameed reportedly came to Kabul. But reports said this fight between Baradar and Khalil ur -Rahman Haqqani and their followers was a massive one and Baradar left the city the next day. Latest interview of Deputy Minister of the Islamic Emirate Mullah Baradar Akhund (HA). https://t.co/QYwz9JYQXYNo internal rift, says BaradarApart from refuting the rumours of his injury or death, Baradar also denied any feud among the new Cabinet. "Praise be to God, we have a lot of kindness and mercy amongst us, such that does not even exist in a family. In addition, for many years, we have suffered and given sacrifices, in order to end the occupation. That is neither for power nor for the position," Baradar said in the interview.'Didn't know Qatar foreign minister was coming'As Baradar was out of Kabul, he could not meet Qatar foreign minister when he visited Kabul. "We were not aware that the Foreign Minister was coming from Qatar. Had we known, we would have postponed our trip. And we were on a trip, therefore, the meeting didn't happen," Baradar said when he was asked why he did not meet the Qatar minister. It may be noted that Baradar remained the head of the Taliban's Qatar office and shares a close relationship with Qatar.Reading from a scriptBoth Baradar and the person who interviewed him read from a paper held out in front of them. Taliban leaders have been promoting the interview and Ahmadullah Muttaqi has shared the available clip of the interview where Mullah Baradar can be seen several times on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/where-is-taliban-s-mullah-baradar-what-this-interview-clarifies-101631786745216.html
16-09-2021||World||UN official raises concern over children's security in Afghanistan||Virginia Gamba, United Nations Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, has raised concerns over the security of children in Afghanistan saying that high levels of violence endured by children in Afghanistan are rising, a report said."Afghanistan continues to be one of the most dangerous places for a child to live and grow. I am appalled by the continuing and rising high levels of violence endured by children in Afghanistan, including those caught up in combat," the International Forum For Rights And Security (IFFRAS) said in its report.The midyear report of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) is of also very high concern. It showed a significant increase in child casualties between January 1 to June 30 this year.Child casualties comprised about 32 per cent of all civilian casualties, of which 20 per cent were boys and 12 per cent were girls. In numbers, these were recorded as 1,682 child casualties, a 55 per cent increase as compared to the first six months of 2020. Girl casualties nearly doubled, marking the highest level ever recorded by UNAMA, and boy casualties too increased by 36 per cent, according to IFFRAS.In July, the Fifth Report of the UN Secretary-General on Children and Armed Conflict in Afghanistan, highlighted 6,473 grave violations against 6,131 children during the two-year reporting period from January 1, 2019, to December 31, 2020, with nearly half attributed to the Taliban. The most prevalent violation remained killing and maiming.Antonio Guterres, UN Secretary-General, had also rightly issued a warned the Taliban that the vast majority of grave violations against children were "committed by the Taliban". "I condemn the armed group's practices and call upon the Taliban to swiftly take all measures to halt the increased recruitment and use of children and abide by national directives prohibiting the recruitment and use of children."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-official-raises-concern-over-children-s-security-in-afghanistan-101631784887883.html
16-09-2021||World||'Stab in the back': France feels ‘betrayed’ after Australia turns to US for nuclear-powered submarines||France expressed fury on Thursday over Australia's surprise decision to scrap a huge submarines deal in favour of nuclear-powered subs from the US, slamming the move as a breach of trust."It's really a stab in the back. We had established a relationship of trust with Australia, this trust has been betrayed," Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian told France Info radio."I'm very angry today, and bitter... this is not something allies do to each other," he said."This unilateral, sudden and unforeseeable decision very much recalls what Mr Trump would do," Le Drian added, referring to the previous US president Donald Trump who exasperated Europe with unpredictable decision-making.France's Naval Group, partly owned by the state, had been chosen to build 12 conventionally powered submarines to Australia, based on France's Barracuda nuclear-powered subs in development.The contract was worth around Aus$50 billion (31 billion euros, $36.5 billion) when announced in 2016.But US President Joe Biden and the prime ministers of Australia and Britain announced Wednesday a new defence pact that would see Canberra get a nuclear-powered submarine fleet, a privilege reserved for few American allies.The move underscores increasing concerns about China's growing influence in the Indo-Pacific region, where France is also looking to protect its interests that include the overseas territories of New Caledonia and French Polynesia.Asked if Paris had been "duped" by Washington over what Le Drian once called a "contract of the century" for France's naval yards, the minister replied: "Your analysis of the situation is more or less correct."He said France and its allies had been working on a "coherent and structured Indo-Pacific policy" in the face of Beijing's growing regional might."We had been discussing that with the United States just recently, and here comes this break," Le Drian said, calling it "a huge breach of trust"."We'll need clarifications. We have contracts -- the Australians need to tell us how they intend to get out of them," he added.- 'Clear-eyed' - Defence Minister Florence Parly called Australia's about-face "very bad news with regards to keeping one's word", while adding that France is "clear-eyed as to how the United States treats its allies"."In terms of geopolitics and international relations, it's serious," she told RFI radio on Thursday.Parly and Le Drian had already denounced a "regrettable" move by Canberra in a statement overnight, saying it underscored the need to bolster "a European strategic autonomy"."There is no other credible way to defend our interests and our values in the world, including in the Indo-Pacific," they said.President Emmanuel Macron -- who is due to meet German Chancellor Angela Merkel for already scheduled talks later Thursday -- has repeatedly said that Europe needs to develop its own strategic and defence capabilities to be less reliant on the US.Parly and Le Drian said that France retains its ambitions in the Indo-Pacific region as the "only European nation" with a presence there, due to its overseas territories with nearly two million French citizens and over 7,000 troops."France is a reliable partner and will continue to stick to its engagements, as it has always done," they said.vl-js-cf/sjw/jvNAVAL GROUP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stab-in-the-back-france-feels-betrayed-after-australia-turns-to-us-for-nuclear-powered-submarines-101631780437893.html
16-09-2021||World||With China's population set to decline, this county is handing out cash to couples to have babies||A county in western China will give cash subsidies to couples to have children, the latest push to encourage more births in a country where the population is set to decline in coming years.  Families with three children in Linze county in Gansu province will be able to receive 5,000 yuan ($777) in a lump sum payment when the third child is born, as well as 10,000 yuan a year before the kid reaches three years old, the local government said in a WeChat post this week. Families with one or two children can receive smaller subsidies, and the local authority has promised subsidies for schooling fees and home purchases.  Panzhihua city in the southwestern province of Sichuan became the nation’s first city in July to offer cash handouts to encourage childbirth. Authorities are taking more active steps to slow the declining birthrate, making a surprise decision in May to allow all couples to have a third child and promising supportive measures to help parents raise kids. Read More: Why China Is Struggling to Boost Its BirthrateLinze’s policy was introduced because the number of permanent residents in the area has shrunk significantly, falling 22,000 in the latest census from the previous one 10 years earlier, local health official Jia Yongming said in a report by Beijing Youth Daily. The county government aims to increase the local population by 9% by 2030 from 2020.worl||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-china-s-population-set-to-decline-this-county-is-handing-out-cash-to-couples-to-have-babies-101631779352633.html
16-09-2021||World||At least 50 rebels and pro-government troops killed in clashes in central Yemen||At least 50 rebels and pro-government troops, including a high-ranking officer, have been killed in clashes in Yemen's central province of Al-Bayda, military sources told AFP on Thursday. "A colonel and 19 other loyalists were killed in the past 24 hours in fighting with the Huthi insurgents in Al-Bayda ditrict," a government military official said. "Thirty rebels also met their fate in battlefield clashes and air strikes."The Huthis rarely report casualty numbers but the figures were confirmed by other military sources. The Iran-backed rebels have made advances in Al-Bayda province in recent weeks as they also fight for control of the strategic city of Marib in the north. In February, the Huthis escalated their efforts to seize Marib, the government's last toehold in the north, and the fighting has killed hundreds on both sides.Control of the oil-rich province would strengthen the Huthis' bargaining position in peace talks.The battle for Marib has also raised fears of a humanitarian catastrophe, as many Yemenis have fled to the area to escape fighting in other parts of the country.The conflict in Yemen flared in 2014 when the Huthis seized the capital Sanaa, prompting Saudi-led intervention to prop up the internationally recognised government the following year.Since then, tens of thousands have been killed and millions pushed to the brink of famine in what the United Nations calls the world's worst humanitarian crisis. Swedish diplomat Hans Grundberg, the UN's new envoy for Yemen, arrived in Riyadh on Wednesday to meet with Yemeni and Saudi officials, marking his first trip to the kingdom since taking office earlier this month.While the UN and Washington are pushing for an end to the war, the Huthis have demanded the re-opening of Sanaa airport, closed under a Saudi blockade since 2016, before any ceasefire or negotiations. faw-dm-sy/th/kir||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-50-rebels-and-pro-government-troops-killed-in-clashes-in-central-yemen-101631777535303.html
16-09-2021||World||Australia to get nuclear-powered submarines as first initiative of AUKUS||Australia, the UK and the US have announced a new trilateral security partnership against the backdrop of China’s assertive actions across the Indo-Pacific, with the grouping’s first initiative aimed at equipping Australia with nuclear-powered submarines. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among key world leaders that Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison called on Wednesday to inform them of the new partnership before it was formally unveiled at a virtual conference of the leaders of the three countries. Morrison also spoke to Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and was due to call leaders of several regional countries on Thursday. Modi said in a tweet he and Morrison had “exchanged perspectives on regional developments” and the upcoming Quad Summit. The two leaders also reviewed progress in the bilateral comprehensive strategic partnership and the recent 2+2 ministerial dialogue. Australian foreign minister Marise Payne too made a phone call to her Indian counterpart S Jaishankar before the announcement.The creation of the new alliance called AUKUS will build on the existing and strong security cooperation between the three members of the grouping, though it could be seen as a provocation by China. Relations between the three members of AUKUS and China are already strained over a range of issues, including trade disputes, Beijing’s aggressive actions in the South China Sea and human rights violations in Hong Kong. Also Read | PM Modi to hold bilaterals with US, Australia, Japan before Quad summitThe most significant aspect of the new security partnership was its first initiative – a move to develop nuclear-powered submarines for Australia, which has never operated such vessels. “As the first initiative under AUKUS, recognising our common tradition as maritime democracies, we commit to a shared ambition to support Australia in acquiring nuclear-powered submarines for the Royal Australian Navy,” said a joint statement issued by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and US President Joe Biden. The leaders said they would “embark on a trilateral effort of 18 months to seek an optimal pathway to deliver this capability”. The partnership will leverage expertise from the US and the UK, building on submarine programmes of these two countries, to “bring an Australian capability into service at the earliest achievable date”. The development of Australia’s nuclear-powered submarines will be a joint endeavour between the three countries, with the “focus on interoperability, commonality, and mutual benefit”. The UK said in a statement that the design and build process for the submarine initiative will create hundreds of scientific and engineering roles across Britain, and drive investment in high-tech sectors. Australia committed itself to the “highest standards for safeguards, transparency, verification, and accountancy measures to ensure the non-proliferation, safety, and security of nuclear material and technology”, and said it would fulfil all its obligations as a non-nuclear weapons state, including with the International Atomic Energy Agency. However, the nuclear-powered submarine initiative led to the scrapping of Australia’s $90-billion programme to build up to 12 French-designed submarines and triggered an angry response from the French government. The Australian government had concluded the country’s largest defence deal for the submarines with French company Naval Group in 2016. France’s foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and defence minister Florence Parly said in a joint statement that the decision was contrary to the letter and the spirit of cooperation between France and Australia, based on a relationship of political trust. Australia’s decision to go with the American choice leads to the removal of an ally and a European partner from a relationship at a time of “unprecedented challenges in the Indo-Pacific region”, and “marks an absence of coherence that France can only...regret”, the two ministers said in the statement. Also Read | PM Modi to attend Quad summit in Washington on Sept 24: MEANew Zealand Prime Minister Jessica Ardern said shortly after the announcement regarding the AUKUS alliance that Australian nuclear-powered submarines would be banned from her country’s waters in line with a long-standing policy on such vessels. The cooperation between the US and Australia through AUKUS is also expected to build on the initiatives the two countries are engaged in under the framework of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, which includes India and Japan. The first in-person summit of Quad leaders is scheduled to be held in Washington on September 24. AUKUS also dovetails with the Boris Johnson government’s tilt towards the Indo-Pacific under a comprehensive revamp of foreign and security policies in order to unlock new opportunities across the region. The UK’s integrated review of security, defence, development and foreign policy was unveiled in March and was followed by the first operational deployment of the aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth to the Indo-Pacific. Australia is now set to join an elite group of only six countries – India, the US, the UK, France, Russia and China – that operate nuclear-powered submarines. It will also be the only country to have such submarines without having a civilian nuclear power industry. “The United States has only ever shared [nuclear-powered submarine] technology with the United Kingdom, so the fact that Australia is now joining this club indicates that the United States is prepared to take significant new steps and break with old norms to meet the China challenge,” Sam Roggeveen, director of the Lowy Institute’s international security programme and a former senior strategic analyst in Australia’s key intelligence agency, the Office of National Assessments, wrote in a piece on Thursday. “Australia cannot have this capability while assuming that it does not come with heightened expectations that Australia will take America’s side in any dispute with China,” Roggeveen added. AUKUS will also work to support a rules-based international order and to defend the shared interests of the three countries in the Indo-Pacific. The three sides will also enhance technology sharing and foster deeper integration of security and defence-related science, technology, industrial bases and supply chains. The alliance will also enhance trilateral collaboration focused on joint capabilities and interoperability, including cyber capabilities, artificial intelligence, quantum technologies and additional undersea capabilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-to-get-nucleaur-powered-submarines-as-first-initiative-of-aukus-101631777590260.html
16-09-2021||World||Canada elections: Oppn charges Justin Trudeau with violating Covid-19 norms||Liberal Party leader and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who has made management of the Covid-19 pandemic a major plank for the 2021 federal elections, was slammed by opposition leaders for holding a large, indoor campaign event in a suburb of Toronto, which, they alleged, violated health and safety norms.That event was organised in the town of Brampton on Tuesday in support of a clutch of MPs from the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) including Indo-Canadian Ruby Sahota and Kamal Khera.The opposition latched on to photographs and videos from rally which appeared to show a large crowd not maintaining social distancing norms.“Justin Trudeau held an event in a packed room in contempt of common sense and social distancing guidelines. That’s Justin Trudeau - the man who lectures you about the rules he isn’t willing to follow himself,” Conservative Party leader Erin O’Toole said while campaigning in Saguenay in the province of Quebec.The outlet CBC News reported, “Photos of Liberal supporters packed closely together at venue in a city that was once Canada’s Covid-19 hotspot raised some alarm on social media.”It added, “Attendees were crammed at the front of the room with little space separating them, while the back of the vast banquet hall sat largely empty.”Canada is in the midst of a fourth wave of the pandemic and Justin Trudeau has made issues like mandatory vaccinations and his government’s record in countering the health crisis central to his pitch to voters.The Liberal Party, however, countered the criticism, stating that the capacity of the venue was 1,000 and the number of persons there was 400 thereby well within the norms set by the province of Ontario. At an event in Halifax, Trudeau also defended the rally, saying all public health guidelines were “followed”.While Trudeau has accused Erin O’Toole of being in the thrall of anti-vaccination groups, he faced renewed criticism over calling the election, scheduled for September 20, in the first place. Erin O’Toole said, “This pattern of behaviour on Covid will only get worse if Trudeau is rewarded for plunging the country into a $600 million election in the middle of a pandemic.”Those views were echoed by New Democratic Party leader Jagmeet Singh, as he told reporters, while at a stop in Windsor, Ontario, that the election call was a “selfish decision by Mr Trudeau”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-elections-opposition-slams-justin-trudeau-for-violating-covid-norms-101631774046891.html
16-09-2021||World||Joe Biden mocked after calling Australian PM 'that fellow down under'||United States president Joe Biden, notorious for his often embarrassing slip-ups during public addresses, has a new gaffe to add to the list. This time, the US president appeared to forget Australian prime minister Scott Morrison's name during a press conference about a key military alliance, and in the next moment, referred to him as “that fellow down under”.The apparent slip-up came during the announcement of the new AUKUS military alliance among the United States, Australia, and Britain to share advanced military technology. Biden was flanked by television screens which beamed in the two other premiers – UK prime minister Boris Johnson and Australia's Scott Morrison.Also Read | Australia to get US nuclear submarine technology as China looms largeIt was all fine till the moment Biden, after announcing the pact, turned to the leaders to thank them for partaking in the alliance. “Thank you, Boris,” the US president said, showing his appreciation for the British premier. Then, turning to Morrison, he said, "And I want to thank that fellow down under. Thank you very much, pal. Appreciate it, Mr. prime minister.”Although Americans are used to the 78-year-old president's gaffes, many of which also appeared during the run-up to the presidential elections (The Time Magazine even has a list of Top 10 Joe Biden Gaffes), the Australian media and the country's netizens were quick to latch on to the embarrassing slip-up.US President Joe Biden appeared to forget Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s name during this morning’s historic announcement of a new defence pact.Biden said “I wanna thank that fella down under” after thanking UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson.https://t.co/a9AwdxnrYj#9News pic.twitter.com/0aULXfJJS2Surely “That fella Down Under” is the equivalent of running into someone in the pub whose name you can’t remember and can only come up with “Maate”.“That fella down under” ouch. It’s like sucking up to the boss all year and being called “mate” at the office Christmas Party. #biden #ScottyDoesNothingFor what it's worth though, the signing of the AUKUS military pact between the United States, Britain, and Australia was hailed as successful by all the involved quarters, a move that would establish a security partnership for the Indo-Pacific. It also paves the way for Australia to acquire nuclear-powered submarines from the United States to counter China's growing maritime influence in the region.The United States and its allies are looking for ways to push back against China's growing power and influence, particularly its military buildup, pressure on Taiwan, and deployments in the contested South China Sea.Under the partnership, announced by US president Joe Biden, British prime minister Boris Johnson and Australian prime minister Scott Morrison, the United States and Britain will provide Australia with the technology and capability to deploy nuclear-powered submarines.Also Read | PM Modi to hold bilaterals with US, Australia, Japan before Quad summit“We need to be able to address both the current strategic environment in the region and how it may evolve because the future of each of our nations and indeed the world depends on a free and open Indo-Pacific enduring and flourishing in the decades ahead,” Biden said.Scott Morrison, too, said that Australia will continue to meet all our nuclear non-proliferation obligations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-mocked-after-calling-australian-pm-that-fellow-down-under-101631770023193.html
16-09-2021||World||A month later, Akhundzada, Haqqani and Yaqoob remain in shadows||A month after Sunni Pashtun Islamists militarily took over Kabul, there is uncertainty and confusion within the Taliban government with US designated global terrorist and Interior Minister Sirajuddin Haqqani remaining in the shadows and visiting Quetta earlier this week. Haqqani belongs to Miramshah or Peshwar Shura of Taliban with Defence minister Mullah Yaqoob Omari is part of the Quetta Shura. Haqqani is said to have returned to Kabul on Wednesday night.Also Read | 10 changes in Afghanistan in 30 days of Taliban ruleKabul watchers say that the main players of Taliban, particularly self-declared Emir-ul-Momin Haibatullah Akhundzada’s whereabouts are not clear as he has not been seen in public either in Kandahar or in Kabul. While deputy prime minister Mullah Baradar is in Kandahar nursing his angst at being politically humiliated by both Haqqani and Yaqoob, the latter two are also lurking in the shadows. “Haqqani’s visit to Quetta over the weekend shows that the crown prince of terror is still worried about his physical safety in Kabul due to over the horizon capabilities of US Central Command as well as the resistance still led by Amrullah Saleh,” said a senior official. Haqqani has a bounty of $10 million on his head as declared by the FBI.According to intelligence officials, the Taliban government is still to start governing as there is political jostling within the Cabinet with Haqqani group controlling Kabul through the domination of its Zadran tribe military cadre touching nearly 6000. Even the intelligence chief of Taliban government is special assistant to Sirajuddin Haqqani. As there is no regular Afghan Army as such, the role of defence minister Yaqoob is largely ceremonial as Taliban cadre are with Haqqani. The key portfolios of border and tribal affairs and, information and broadcasting are held by hardcore Taliban terrorists who were released from Guantanamo Bay prison by the Obama administration.To add to political instability in Afghanistan is the regrouping of al Qaeda forces as publicly declared by a top CIA official. Al Qaeda has filial ties and symbiotic relationship with Taliban even though they belong to opposing schools of Islam with former a Wahhabi-Salafi group and the latter a Deobandi group. The regrouping of al Qaeda means that there is no change in the present Taliban from the past and will give sleepless nights to counter-terrorism organizations in the neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-month-later-akhundzada-haqqani-and-yaqoob-remain-in-shadows-101631768563062.html
16-09-2021||World||AUKUS: UK, US and Australia launch pact to counter China||In a development termed historic and a game-changer, the US, the UK and Australia on Wednesday announced a trilateral security partnership called AUKUS that will enable Canberra to deploy nuclear-powered submarines in the Indo-Pacific in a major challenge to China and its claims in the region.US President Joe Biden, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison launched the alliance in a joint virtual appearance.The AUKUS pact will strive over the next 18 months to equip Australia with nuclear propulsion technology, which the United States has shared only with the United Kingdom under a decades-old arrangement put together in the face of the threat from the then Soviet Union.Australia’s nuclear-powered submarines, when they deploy, will be armed with conventional weapons only and not nuclear weapons, the leaders said.The leaders also made it clear that the new alliance does not and will not supersede or outrank existing arrangements in the Indo-Pacific region such as the Quad, which the US and Australia form with India and Japan, and Asean, and that it will compliment these groups and others.“This is about investing in our greatest source of strength, our alliances and updating them to better meet the threats of today and tomorrow,” Joe Biden said. “It’s about connecting America’s existing allies and partners in new ways.”He added: “The United States will also continue to work with Asean and the Quad … our five treaty allies and other close partners in the Indo-Pacific.”TRILATERAL SECURITY PARTNERSHIPPrime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia, a member of the Quad and other multilateral groups in the region, also sought to convey continued salience of these formations for Australia. “The AUKUS will also enhance our contribution to our growing network of partnerships in the Indo-Pacific region: ANZUS (Australia, New Zealand and the US); our Asean friends; our bilateral strategic partners, the Quad; Five Eyes (US, UK, Australia, Canada and New Zealand) countries; and, of course, our dear Pacific family.”None of the three leaders mentioned China and senior Biden administration officials who briefed reporters ahead of the announcement insisted “this partnership is not aimed (at) or about any one country; it’s about advancing our strategic interests, upholding the international rules-based order, and promoting peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific”.CHINA THREATBut the threat emanating from China’s increasingly aggressive territorial claims in the Indo-Pacific and its worldwide ambitions are the reason for this new partnership - to equip, empower and embolden Australia, a fellow traveller and an ally that has been loathe challenging China.“I think pulling Australia into the shared technology for subs and undersea warfare is a fantastic development! It further multilateralises what were previously different kinds of bilateral or plurilateral arrangements - absolutely essential for the successful balancing of China,” said Ashely Tellis, Tata chair for strategic affairs at the Carnegie Endowment for International Pease and the dean of Indo-Pacific experts.Asked if this new partnership created a super security group in the Indo-Pacific, relegating others such as the Quad, to a lesser league, Tellis said that this new arrangement “does not negate the role of the Quad since it is not in any case a military alliance”.THE QUAD GROUPThe Quad - which is a shortened version of its formal name Quadrilateral Security Dialogue - has been focused thus far on non-security issues in its escalating interactions.There is a military component to it though, as reflected in the Malabar exercises hosted annually by India. All four countries participated in 2020, with Australia returning to the exercises 14 years after the last time in 2007. Australia had backed out of the Quad around then, putting it in suspended animation.The Quad was resurrected in 2017 with the return of Australia and it has grown rapidly since, from meetings of officials on the sidelines of Asean to ministers to leaders in a virtual summit in March and now to an in-person summit later this month.Calling the new partnership a “game-changer” because it brings fresh momentum to two of America’s closest alliances, Michael Kugelman of Wilson Center, a leading American think tank, said, “I don’t think it’s fair to compare this new pact to the Quad. The US alliances with the UK and Australia are much stronger and longstanding than the relationships between Quad members. And let’s be clear: the Quad isn’t an alliance. It’s a grouping of friendly, like-minded states.”He added: “I see the Quad as a useful complement to the AUKUS. The Quad is focused on counterbalancing China through joint initiatives that revolve around dialogue and non-traditional security cooperation. The AUKUS by contrast provides muscle and military technology firepower. Given that both initiatives are meant, in different ways, to counter China, there are notable strategic benefits for New Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-uk-and-australia-launch-indo-pacific-pact-101631768286344.html
16-09-2021||World||Frozen economy, confined rights: 10 changes in Afghanistan in 30 days of Taliban rule||It has been a month since the Afghan capital of Kabul fell to the Taliban, following the lightning-fast offensive which won the group control of the state machinery in the war-torn land. Afghanistan watchers and political commentators across the world were stunned by the Taliban blitzkrieg, which coincided with the withdrawal of the United States and allied troops from the country at the end of a nearly 20-year war. The militants made rapid territorial gains in a little over three months' time, as they captured one provincial capital after another; eventually, Kabul fell to the offensive on August 15, 2021.The sheer tempo of the Taliban takeover surprised many in the international community, and the aftermath reflected widespread domestic and global ramifications regarding human rights and concerns regarding the proliferation of terrorism. The Taliban are now shifting to their roles as the new rulers of Afghanistan, with the insurgents announcing a hardline interim government that betrayed several of their earlier promises to put up a ‘moderate’ face.Here are 15 of the most important changes that have taken place in Afghanistan in the past 30 days:1. Curbs on women: Days after winning back power in Afghanistan, the Taliban announced a series of measures reflecting their views on women's rights. There have been reports of women being barred from going to work, and some being beaten in recent weeks for protesting the Taliban rule. A spokesperson from the group also told an Australian broadcaster earlier this month he did not think women would be allowed to play cricket since it was “not necessary” and would be against Islam.2. Music goes silent: Taliban authorities in Kandahar, the birthplace of the movement, issued a formal order against radio stations playing music. Radio stations have replaced their normal menu of Hindi and Persian pop and call-in shows with sombre patriotic music.3. ‘Redefining’ culture: Cultural activities are allowed, the Taliban say, so long as they do not go against Sharia law and Afghanistan's Islamic culture. Already, colourful signs outside beauty parlours have been painted over and jeans have been replaced by traditional dress.4. Resistance rallies in Panjshir: The National Resistance Front of Afghanistan, which groups opposition forces loyal to local leader Ahmad Massoud in the last stronghold of the Panjshir valley, has pledged to continue opposing the Taliban. However, the Taliban offensive against the rebels continues, and the militants have presently taken control of Bazarak, the provincial capital of Panjshir.5. Taliban lead a hardline government: The Taliban appointed hardline figures to their all-male cabinet in Afghanistan, including multiple senior leaders with millions of dollars worth of US bounties on their heads. The move was widely seen as a signal that they were not looking to present a more ‘tolerant’ face to the world, contrary to former promises.6. No participation of women in politics, curbs on employment likely: The cabinet appointments announced by the Taliban on September 7 did not include a single woman; nor was there a ministry dedicated to women's welfare and interests. Waheedullah Hashimi, a senior figure in the Taliban close to the leadership, even said that Afghan women should not be allowed to work alongside men. This could effectively bar women from employment in government offices, banks, media companies, and beyond.7: No protest without permission: Protests against the newfound Taliban regime have grown stronger in Afghanistan, but the rulers keep pushing back, saying they won't tolerate any resistance to their authority. The Taliban have ordered demonstrators to seek permission from the ministry of justice before holding protests. They said that purpose, slogans, place, time and all 'other' details of the protest need to be shared with the government authorities and security agencies.8. Journalists tortured, slaughtered across Afghanistan: The Taliban continue to violate the basic human rights of media personnel, harassing, torturing, and killing them across Afghanistan. Journalists are scared; feeling hopeless as the spirit of journalism they built in the past two decades is ceasing to exist now.9. Europe in a fix over migrant crisis: Triggering memories of the 2015 Syrian refugee crisis has forced Greece to seek a potential block on Afghan asylum-seekers as it says Europe must take collective responsibility to resolve the crisis. Greece has said it does not want to turn into Europe's gateway again. Turkish authorities have also stepped up efforts to block any refugee influx into the country.10. Economic crisis approaching: A month after seizing Kabul, the Taliban face daunting problems as they seek to convert their lightning military victory into a durable peacetime government. Drought and famine are driving thousands from the country to the cities, and the World Food Programme fears food could run out by the end of the month, pushing up to 14 million people to the brink of starvation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/frozen-economy-confined-rights-10-changes-in-afghanistan-in-30-days-of-taliban-rule-101631759360831.html
16-09-2021||World||'Most airbrushed photo': Social media roast Time cover featuring Meghan, Harry||Britain's Prince Harry and his wife Meghan on Wednesday graced the cover of Time magazine's annual 100 most influential people in the world issue. While the couple looked picture perfect, people on social media are making fun of the photo and criticizing it for alleged heavy airbrushing and Photoshop work. "Hahaha this is the weirdest photo!! I thought it was fake it looks so bad," wrote one user on Twitter.The photo shows Meghan at the centre of the cover page donning a white button-down and trousers. While Harry is photographed slightly crouched behind her right side with a background of trees."This might be the most airbrushed photo I’ve ever seen," wrote another user.This might be the most airbrushed photo I’ve ever seen. https://t.co/wB6BTXq3BnSome blamed "bad editing" for the extra smoothening of the former royal couple's faces. "This is the weirdest photo. They look powerful but I thought it was fake, the editing is really bad.”"Low-res I know, but they kinda look like they got photoshopped onto their own bodies," said a Twitter user.
16-09-2021||World||Australia to get US nuclear submarine technology as China looms large||Australia decided to invest in US nuclear-powered submarines and dump its contract with France to build diesel-electric submarines because of a changed strategic environment, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Thursday. US President Joe Biden announced on Wednesday that the United States is forming a new Indo-Pacific security alliance with Britain and Australia that will allow for greater sharing of defense capabilities. It's a move that could deepen a growing chasm in US-China relations.As a result, Australia notified France that it would end its contract with state majority-owned DCNS to build 12 of the world’s largest conventional submarines. Australia has spent 2.4 billion Australian dollars ($1.8 billion) on the project since the French won the contract in 2016.Morrison said US nuclear submarine technology wasn’t an option open to Australia when the AU$56 billion ($43 billion) deal was struck in 2016. The United States had until now only shared the technology with Britain.Morrison said he told French President Emanuel Macron in June that there were “very real issues about whether a conventional submarine capability” would address Australia’s strategic security needs in the Indo-Pacific.“Of course they’re disappointed,” Morrison said. "They've been good partners. This is about our strategic interest, our strategic capability requirements, and a changed strategic environment and we’ve had to take that decision.”Australia had not yet decided what class of submarine it would select and did not know how much the nuclear fleet would cost, Morrison said.But Morrison said Australia’s defense budget would grow above the current 2.2% of gross domestic product.The first of the 97-meter (318-foot) Shortfin Barracuda submarines, an adapted French nuclear sub design, was to be delivered in 2027.Morrison said he expected the first of the nuclear subs, which are to be built in the Australian city of Adelaide, would be built within a decade.Top French officials made clear they were unhappy with the deal.“The American choice to exclude a European ally and partner such as France from a structuring partnership with Australia, at a time when we are facing unprecedented challenges in the Indo-Pacific region, whether in terms of our values or in terms of respect for multilateralism based on the rule of law, shows a lack of coherence that France can only note and regret,” French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and Defense Minister Florence Parly said in a joint statement.Left out of the new alliance was Australia's South Pacific neighbor New Zealand, which in the 1980s enacted policies and laws to ensure it remains nuclear-free. That includes a ban on nuclear-powered ships entering New Zealand ports, a stance which has seen it clash, at times, with the USPrime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Thursday that New Zealand wasn’t asked to be part of the alliance and wouldn’t have expected an invitation.“The centerpiece, the anchor of this arrangement are nuclear-powered submarines,” Ardern said. “And it will be very clear to all New Zealanders, and to Australia, why New Zealand would not wish to be a part of that project.”Ardern said the new alliance didn’t diminish its close ties to the US, Britain, Australia, and also Canada, which had been solidified through the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing arrangement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-turns-to-us-for-nuclear-powered-submarines-aim-to-thwart-china-101631763472617.html
16-09-2021||World||Al Qaeda regrouping in Afghanistan, says CIA||United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) on Wednesday (local time) said that they are noticing early signs that Al Qaeda may be regrouping in Taliban-controlled Afghanistan.According to the Deputy Director of the United States Central Intelligence Agency David Cohen said that current intelligence reports indicate "some potential motion of Al Qaeda [returning] to Afghanistan," reported Intelnews.org.However, the CIA, in particular, is already working to develop "methods to work within the horizon", he said.Cohen said that American intelligence agencies are closely monitoring the situation. Speaking at the Intelligence and National Security Summit in Washington, DC, Cohen acknowledged that the shuttering of the United States embassy in Kabul, as well as the closure of a network of CIA stations across Afghanistan, had "diminished" the ability of American intelligence agencies to assess conditions on the ground, reported Intelnews.org.Cohen added that much of the intelligence that has been collected in recent weeks comes from "over-the-horizon platforms", meaning that the collection is taking place from countries that border Afghanistan.At the moment, the United States intelligence community estimates that it could take Al Qaeda between one and two years to amass its former strike capability, so as to directly threaten American interests, reported Intelnews.org.The presence of Al Qaeda in Afghanistan was the primary reason behind the invasion of the country by the United States in 2001.However, with the Taliban back in power in Afghanistan, there are concerns that Al Qaeda may make a comeback in the war-torn country.Under the leadership of Osama bin Laden, Al Qaeda worked closely with the upper echelons of the Taliban in the 1990s and early 2000s. Contacts between the two groups continue to exist, and could potentially deepen following the exit of the United States and its Western allies from Afghanistan, reported Intelnews.org.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/al-qaeda-regrouping-in-afghanistan-says-cia-101631760135777.html
16-09-2021||World||Taliban bust-up at presidential palace in Afghanistan: What really happened||A report in the BBC has claimed that a massive brawl erupted between two factions of the Afghanistan administration at the presidential palace just days after they set up a new government in the country.The report even claimed that leader of one of the factions, Abdul Ghani Baradar, has been killed. This was later denied by Baradar.A look at what appears to have transpiredWhat was the brawl about?The argument, according to the BBC report on the matter, appeared to centre around two primary causes of contention: Which faction did the most to secure victory over the United State and how power is to be divided up in the new Afghan cabinet.The two sides involvedThe brawl was between supporters of two rival and powerful factions within the Afghan administration:Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar: Deputy PM and the leader who signed the Doha agreement on behalf of the Taliban. He is believed to have fought the Soviets in the 80s side-by-side with the one-eyed cleric Mullah Omar, and was known to be one of his most trusted commanders. The two founded the Taliban in the early 1990s. He is believed to be unhappy about the structure of the interim government.Khalil ur-Rahman Haqqani: Minister for refugees and a prominent figure within the militant Haqqani network. He is the brother of Jalaluddin Haqqani, the founder of the Haqqani network, which yields great power and influence within the Taliban. He is also the uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the new acting interior minister.Baradar is said to be of the opinion that post-Taliban victory, the emphasis should be placed on diplomacy carried out by people like him, while members of the Haqqani group say it was achieved through fighting. The two leaders reportedly exchanged strong words during the argument, following which their followers fought with each other nearby, the BBC reported.Rumours of Baradar's deathThe rumours around the fallout between the two sides gained traction late last week with the disappearance of Baradar from public view. This led to speculation that he may have died in the brawl. However, the BBC, citing unnamed Taliban sources, said Baradar had left Kabul and travelled to the city of Kandahar following the row.Baradar's faction released an audio recording of him on Monday, where the deputy PM said "he had been away on trips". "Wherever I am at the moment, we are all fine," he said.The official Taliban lineTaliban insisted there were no arguments or clashes. However, the statements released around the reason for Baradar's absence from public view appear to be contradicting.A Taliban spokesman first said Baradar had gone to Kandahar to meet the Taliban's elusive supreme leader Hibatullah Akhundzada, but then when quizzed about by the BBC, the spokesperson said Baradar was "tired and wanted some rest".The timing of the face-offThe timing of the alleged spat appears significance because it follows delays in announcement of the final government, which will replace the current caretaker government. There is also speculation that one of the key reasons for the spat was the role of each faction under the new government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-bust-up-at-presidential-palace-in-afghanistan-what-really-happened-101631756383593.html
16-09-2021||World||Australian nuclear subs will be banned from New Zealand waters: Jacinda Ardern||New Zealand will not lift a decades-long ban on nuclear-powered vessels entering its waters in the wake of key ally Australia's decision to develop a nuclear submarine fleet, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Thursday.Ardern said her Australian counterpart Scott Morrison had briefed her on Canberra's plan to develop nuclear-powered submarines with the help of the United States and Britain.She described the deal as "primarily around technology and defence hardware", playing down implications for the so-called "Five Eyes" partnership of the United States, Britain, Australia, Canada and New Zealand."This arrangement in no way changes our security and intelligence ties with these three countries, as well as Canada," the New Zealand leader said in a statement.But she also said New Zealand would maintain a ban on nuclear-powered vessels that dates back to 1985, meaning Wellington will not allow the prized naval asset being developed by Australia into its waters."New Zealand's position in relation to the prohibition of nuclear-powered vessels in our waters remains unchanged," Ardern said.The ban was introduced in the wake of French nuclear testing in the Pacific and led to the US navy banning its warships from entering New Zealand ports for more than 30 years.The destroyer USS Sampson visited in late 2016 but only after the then-prime minister John Key gave a special exemption, saying he was "100 percent confident" the vessel was not nuclear powered or carrying nuclear weapons.Official US policy is to neither confirm nor deny whether its vessels are nuclear-capable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-nuclear-subs-will-be-banned-from-new-zealand-waters-ardern-101631754638885.html
16-09-2021||World||Taliban's Baradar says reports he was hurt in internal clash are false||Afghanistan's acting deputy prime minister Abdul Ghani Baradar appeared in a video interview posted on Wednesday to deny reports that he was hurt in a clash with a rival faction of the Taliban."No this is not true; I am OK and healthy," Baradar said in an interview with state TV which was posted on Twitter by the Taliban's political office in Doha."The media says that there is internal disputes. There is nothing between us, it is not true."The brief clip showed him seated on a sofa next to an interviewer with an RTA state television microphone, apparently reading from a sheet of paper."There is nothing to worry about," he said.Earlier, an official from the Taliban's cultural commission said on Twitter that the interview would be shown on RTA TV to disprove "enemy propaganda". Taliban officials have issued repeated denials in recent days that Baradar had been hurt.The denials follow days of rumours that supporters of Baradar had clashed with members of the Haqqani network, a group affiliated with the Taliban based near the border with Pakistan and blamed for some of the worst suicide attacks of the war.Baradar, one of the founding members of the Taliban and once seen as the likely head of a Taliban government, had not been seen in public for some time. He was not part of the ministerial delegation which met Qatari Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani in Kabul on Sunday.In the clip, he said he had been on a trip when the visit took place and had not been able to get back in time.On Wednesday, Anas Haqqani, younger brother of the Taliban's newly appointed Acting Interior Minister Sirajuddin Haqqani, also issued a statement on Twitter denying reports of internal rifts in the movement.The rumours follow speculation over rivalries between military commanders like Haqqani and leaders from the political office in Doha like Baradar, who led diplomatic efforts to reach a settlement with the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/talibans-baradar-says-reports-he-was-hurt-in-internal-clash-are-false-101631754398464.html
16-09-2021||World||SpaceX makes history, launches 4 amateurs on private Earth-circling trip||SpaceX, the American aerospace company founded by businessman Elon Musk, made history on Wednesday night (early morning India time) by launching the Inspiration4 mission with the world's first all-civilian crew into space. The four amateur astronauts are travelling to an altitude of 357 miles (575 kilometres) above the surface of the Earth, which is much further and deeper into space than the International Space Station (ISS), in the private flight that will encircle the Earth for three days. The event generated great interest across the world since it is expected to pave a new era of human spaceflight for average people, rather than just government-sponsored astronauts.Also Read | 5 facts about the SpaceX Inspiration4 missionThe SpaceX flight was powered by the Falcon 9 rocket, which took the Crew Dragon capsule carrying the civilians roaring into space. The launch occurred at 8pm eastern time on Wednesday (which translates to around 5:32am IST on Thursday) from Nasa's Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral in Florida, where the Apollo 11 mission once took off for the Moon.
16-09-2021||World||US working on new Covid-19 rules for international visitors||The Biden administration is considering requiring vaccinations against Covid-19 and contact tracing of international visitors after the US revamps current broad restrictions that bar many foreigners from travelling to the US, a top White House adviser has said.Jeffrey Zients, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, said on Wednesday that because of the recent increase in Covid-19 cases, current travel restrictions will remain in place until the administration rolls out a “new system” for regulating international travel.The system will include a prominent role for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.“We will also be putting in place contact tracing to enable CDC to follow up with inbound international travelers and those around them if someone has potentially been exposed to Covid-19,” Zients said, “and we are exploring vaccination requirements for foreign nationals traveling to the United States.”Zients made the comments to a panel that advises Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo on issues around travel and the US tourism industry.The US currently bars most non-Americans who have traveled to China, India, the United Kingdom, most of Europe, Brazil and other countries in the previous 14 days. Airlines and other travel companies have pushed the administration to ease the restrictions, particularly on UK visitors.Separately, Anthony Fauci, the government's top expert on infectious disease, has said he would support a proposal to require vaccination for people on domestic flights.The airline industry is adamantly opposed to such a requirement, saying it would be difficult to enforce and could lead to long lines at airports. Industry officials say it would be unfair to single out air travelers with a mandate that would not affect people who travel by train, bus or car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-working-on-new-covid-19-rules-for-international-visitors-101631750451863.html
16-09-2021||World||Watch Live: SpaceX launches world's first all-civilian Inspiration4 mission||SpaceX has launched the Inspiration4 – the world's first spaceflight crewed entirely by civilians – from the legendary launch complex 39A Nasa's Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral in Florida, where the Apollo 11 mission once took off for the Moon. The launch occurred at 8pm eastern time on Wednesday (which translates to around 5:32am IST on Thursday). As the countdown clock on the SpaceX counter hit zero, the Falcon 9 rocket fired up its engines and took the Crew Dragon capsule roaring towards space. The SpaceX mission intends to take the all-civilian crew to an altitude of 357 miles (575 kilometers) above the surface of the Earth, which is much further and deeper into space than the International Space Station (ISS).Liftoff of @Inspiration4X! Go Falcon 9! Go Dragon! pic.twitter.com/NhRXkD4IWgThe event is being watched with great interest around the world since it is expected to pave the way for a new era of space travel for common people, and not just government-sponsored astronauts. However, it is to be noted that the crew travelling in this spaceflight is still “trained” to a measure and the passengers are far from ‘average’.Also Read | 5 facts about the SpaceX Inspiration4 missionJared Isaacman, a 38-year-old billionaire and philanthropist with pilot training, is sponsoring the trip. He is also the commander of the spaceflight, having chosen the rest of the crew himself through a competition.Isaacman is joined in the SpaceX mission by Hayley Arceneaux, a pediatric cancer survivor and physician assistant. Chris Sembroski, a US Air Force veteran who now works as an aerospace data engineer, is also part of the crew. The other member is Sian Proctor, a 51-year-old geoscientist who was almost selected to become an astronaut for NASA in 2009.Follow live updates on SpaceX's Inspiration4 launch:SpaceX is conducting a live stream on its YouTube channel, which began roughly four hours ahead of the liftoff.Netflix, which will be putting out a documentary series with the Time Magazine on the SpaceX Inspiration4 mission, is also running a live stream on its YouTube channel.The live updates from the SpaceX Inspiration4 mission are being tweeted out in real-time by the official Twitter handles of SpaceX and Inspiration4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/watch-live-spacex-launches-world-s-first-all-civilian-inspiration4-mission-101631748893957.html
16-09-2021||World||Magnitude 6 earthquake hits China's Sichuan province; 2 dead||Two people were killed when a shallow earthquake struck southwestern China in the early hours of Thursday, triggering the second-highest level of emergency response by rescuers in Sichuan province, state media said.The US Geological Survey put the magnitude of the quake at 5.4 but the China Earthquake Networks Centre measured it at magnitude 6.0. Both put it at a shallow depth of 10 kilometres (six miles).It struck around 120 kilometres southwest of the sprawling megacity of Chongqing, which along with its surrounding area is home to around 30 million people.China Global Television Network (CGTN) said the local government had confirmed two deaths, without specifying where they had been killed or providing further details.The Xinhua news agency said Luzhou City had sent emergency personnel to the area, without elaborating.USGS said that "significant damage is likely and the disaster is potentially widespread", in a preliminary assessment.A powerful 7.9-magnitude quake in Sichuan province in 2008 left 87,000 people dead or missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-sichuan-province-struck-by-earthquake-of-magnitude-6-101631748247242.html
16-09-2021||World||China sees 'Cold War mentality' in US, British, Australia pact||China’s Washington embassy reacted to a new security pact announced by the United States, Britain and Australia on Wednesday by saying that countries should "shake off their Cold-War mentality and ideological prejudice."The United States, Britain and Australia said on Wednesday they would establish a security partnership for the Indo-Pacific that will involve helping Australia acquire nuclear-powered submarines, as Chinese influence over the region grows.Asked to comment, Chinese embassy spokesman Liu Pengyu said countries "should not build exclusionary blocs targeting or harming the interests of third parties. In particular, they should shake off their Cold-War mentality and ideological prejudice."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-sees-cold-war-mentality-in-u-s-british-australia-pact-101631747411419.html
16-09-2021||World||Tested railway-borne missile system to strike threatening forces: North Korea||The missiles fired by North Korea on Wednesday were a test of a new "railway-borne missile system" designed as a potential counter-strike to any forces that threaten the country, state news agency KCNA reported on Thursday.The missiles flew 800 km (497 miles) before striking a target in the sea off North Korea's east coast, KCNA said.On Wednesday, South Korean and Japanese authorities said they had detected the launch of two ballistic missiles from North Korea, just days after it tested a cruise missile that analysts said could have nuclear capabilities. The North Korean launches came the same day that South Korea tested a submarine-launched ballistic missile (SLBM) The two Koreas have been in an increasingly heated arms race, with both sides unveiling more capable missiles and other weapons.The tests by nuclear-armed North Korea drew international condemnation and concern, however, with the United States saying they violated UN Security Council resolutions and posed a threat to Pyongyang's neighbours.North Korea has been steadily developing its weapons systems, raising the stakes for stalled talks aimed at dismantling its nuclear and ballistic missile arsenals in return for US sanctions relief.The North Korean test was conducted by a railway-borne missile regiment that had been organised earlier this year, the KCNA report said."The railway-borne missile system serves as an efficient counter-strike means capable of dealing a harsh multi-concurrent blow to the threat-posing forces," said Pak Jong Chon, a North Korean marshal and member of the Presidium of the Politburo of the ruling Workers' Party of Korea, who oversaw the test, according to KCNA.'CHEAP AND RELIABLE'Photos released by state media showed an olive-green missile rising on a column of smoke and flame from the roof of a train parked on tracks in a mountainous area.South Korea had reported the missiles were fired from the central inland area of Yangdok."Rail mobile missiles are a relatively cheap and reliable option for countries seeking to improve the survivability of their nuclear forces," Adam Mount, a senior fellow at the Federation of American Scientists, said on Twitter. "Russia did it. The US considered it. It makes a ton of sense for North Korea."Mount and other analysts said the system is likely constrained by North Korea's relatively limited and sometimes unreliable rail network, but that it could add another layer of complexity for a foreign military seeking to track and destroy the missiles before they are fired.According to KCNA, Pak said there are plans to expand the railway-borne missile regiment to a brigade-size force in the near future, and to conduct training to gain "operational experience for actual war."The army should prepare tactical plans for deploying the system in different parts of the country, Pak said.It is unusual to see the sheer variety in missile delivery systems and launch platforms that North Korea develops, said Ankit Panda, a senior fellow at the US-based Carnegie Endowment for International Peace."It’s not very cost effective (especially for a sharply resource-constrained state) and far more operationally complex than a leaner, vertically integrated force," he said on Twitter.The railway system displayed on Wednesday could possibly set the stage for developing one capable of launching a larger, nuclear-armed intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), Panda added.He also noted that some of the missile systems displayed by North Korea may be about “technology demonstration,” which may not be fully deployed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tested-railway-borne-missile-system-to-strike-threatening-forces-north-korea-101631747011941.html
16-09-2021||World||AUKUS: Biden announces Indo-Pacific alliance with UK, Australia to thwart China||President Joe Biden announced Wednesday that the United States is forming a new Indo-Pacific security alliance with Britain and Australia that will allow for greater sharing of defense capabilities — including helping equip Australia with nuclear-powered submarines. It's a move that could deepen a growing chasm in US-China relations.Biden, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison appeared together virtually to detail the new alliance, which will be called AUKUS (pronounced AWK-us). The three announced they would quickly turn their attention to developing nuclear-powered submarines for Australia."We all recognize the imperative of ensuring peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific over the long term," said Biden, who said the new alliance reflects a broader trend of key European partners playing a role in the Indo-Pacific. “We need to be able to address both the current strategic environment in the region and how it may evolve.”The new security alliance is likely to be seen as a provocative move by China, which has repeatedly lashed out at Biden as he’s sought to refocus US foreign policy on the Pacific in the early going of his presidency.Before the announcement, a senior administration official sought to play down the idea that the alliance was meant to serve as a deterrent against China in the region. The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to preview the announcement, said the alliance’s creation was not aimed at any one country, and is about a larger effort to sustain engagement and deterrence in the Indo-Pacific by the three nations.Johnson said the alliance would allow the three English-speaking maritime democracies to strengthen their bonds and sharpen their focus on an increasingly complicated part of the world.“We will have a new opportunity to reinforce Britain’s place at the leading edge of science and technology, strengthening our national expertise, and perhaps most significant, the U.K., Australia and the US will be joined even more closely together, " Johnson said.The three countries have agreed to share information in areas including artificial intelligence, cyber and underwater defense capabilities.But plans to support Australia acquiring nuclear-powered submarines are certain to catch Beijing's attention. To date, the only country that the United States has shared nuclear propulsion technology with is Britain. Morrison said Australia is not seeking to develop a nuclear weapons program and information sharing would be limited to helping it develop a submarine fleet.The Australian prime minister said plans for the nuclear-powered submarines would be developed over the next 18 months and the vessels would be built in Adelaide, Australia.Australia had announced in 2016 that French company DCNS had beat out bidders from Japan and Germany to build the next generation of submarines in Australia’s largest-ever defense contract. It was not immediately clear what the new alliance would mean for the deal with the French defense contractor.Morrison said the three countries had “always seen through a similar lens,” but, as the world becomes more complex, “to meet these new challenges, to help deliver the security and stability our region needs, we must now take our partnership to a new level.”Matt Pottinger, who served as deputy national security adviser in the Trump administration, said that equipping Australia with nuclear-powered submarines was a significant step that would help the US and its allies on the military and diplomatic fronts.Underwater warfare capabilities have been Beijing’s "Achilles' heel,” Pottinger said. A nuclear-powered submarine fleet would allow Australia to conduct longer patrols, giving the new alliance a stronger presence in the region.“When you have a strong military, it provides a backdrop of deterrence that gives countries the confidence to resist bullying,” said Pottinger, who is now a visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. “Part of the problem right now is that Beijing has gotten rather arrogant and it’s been less willing to engage productively in diplomacy.”The announcement of the new security alliance comes as the US-China relationship has deteriorated. Beijing has taken exception to Biden administration officials repeatedly calling out China over human rights abuses in Xianjing province, the crackdown on democracy activists in Hong Kong, and cybersecurity breaches originating from China, as well as Beijing’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic and what the White House has labeled as “coercive and unfair” trade practices.Even as White House officials have repeatedly spoken out about China, administration officials say they want to work with Beijing on areas of common interest, including curbing the pandemic and climate change.Biden spoke by phone with China’s President Xi Jinping last week amid growing frustration on the American side that high-level engagement between the two leaders’ top advisers has been largely unfruitful.After the 90-minute phone call, official Xinhua News Agency reported that Xi expressed concerns that US government policy toward China has caused “serious difficulties” in relations.Asked on Tuesday about media reports that Xi had declined to commit to meet with him in person, the US president said it was “untrue.” Biden did not speak in “specific terms” about the new AUKUS alliance during last week's call with the Chinese leader, according to the senior administration official.The US and Australia, along with India and Japan, are members of a strategic dialogue known as “the Quad.” Biden is set to host fellow Quad leaders at the White House next week.Biden has sought to rally allies to speak with a more unified voice on China and has tried to send the message that he would take a radically different approach to China than former President Donald Trump, who placed trade and economic issues above all else in the US-China relationship.In June, at Biden's urging, Group of Seven nations called on China to respect human rights in Hong Kong and Xinjiang province and to permit a full probe into the origins of COVID-19. While the allies broadly agreed to work toward competing against China, there was less unity on how adversarial a public position the group should take.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aukus-biden-announces-indo-pacific-alliance-with-uk-australia-to-thwart-china-101631746611253.html
