02-07-2020||News||Covid-19: How tech can ensure equity in education||Every day at 9 am, my daughter sits in front of a laptop in her school uniform and attends classes over Zoom. Even her extracurricular activities, such as music competitions and debates, are organised over the video-conferencing app. But for sports and in-person interactions, there is little she misses out on. Her coaching institution, too, has moved to an online platform.However, not everyone is so lucky. Not far from my house, children in ragged clothes wander aimlessly, often crowding around a new customer, hoping for a few coins. The municipal schools are closed, and hence there is little to engage their attention. Between the two extremes of the elite private and government schools lie many low-cost private and public schools which suffer from varying level of deficiencies in education technology and pedagogy. As per Unesco’s estimates, over 280 million children in India have been impacted by school closures due to Covid-19. The government has succeeded in getting children into school with nearly 100% enrolment, but one-fourth drop out after class 8, and over half after the class 10. The drop-out rates for girls and those from the marginalised sections are higher. The learning outcomes, whether measured by the National Achievement Survey 2017 or the Annual Status of Education Report 2019, haven’t shown much improvement. Even lower middle class parents have been taking their children out of government schools and putting them in low-cost private schools. Kendriya Vidyalayas and Navodaya Vidyalayas aside, government school systems suffer from poor information technology (IT) infrastructure and IT-trained teachers. The School Education Quality Index (SEQI) Report 2019 by NITI Aayog indicates that in states such as Kerala too, half the elementary schools do not have computer-aided learning, and even in the best-performing states such as Tamil Nadu, one-third of secondary schools do not have computer labs. The survey includes private schools, too.The usual explanation of poor students in cities and rural areas not having computers/smart mobile devices and high-speed broadband has often been cited for the inability of government schools to get on to the blended online learning bandwagon. However, every third person now has a smartphone, and rural India has 227 million active Internet users — a clear lead of 10% over urban India. Over the years, there has also been a push by the government towards technology-enabled learning; self-learning online portals such as Swayam, e-Pathshala and Diksha have come up and school books are available online. Doordarshan, too, has started special education broadcasts, which are also available on YouTube. Government school teachers use WhatsApp to send small videos and exercise sheets. The effectiveness of these interventions in enhancing learning outcomes, though, remains uncertain. Research says that the academic content delivered through a passive one-way communication does not engage a student’s curious mind. On the other hand, active learning can lead to improved cognitive outcomes. Additional factors such as unavailability of separate rooms for children as well as noisy surroundings in homes have been mentioned. But given these extraordinary times, where physical presence is not possible, the blended online delivery of school lectures by teachers remains the most effective way. Results from J-PAL’s Educational Technology Evidence Review from 126 studies on the role of technology in education indicate that blended learning, ie. combining online and in-person instruction can deliver as good an outcome as in-person class experience. This, however, requires teachers to be trained in technology-enabled active learning pedagogy. The State could even have a component for tech-enabled learning as part of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan for IT infrastructure, devices, teaching-learning material, teacher training and engaging quality teachers in the district. If what gets measured gets done, the NITI Aayog and ministry of human resource development will have to increase weightage for computer-aided learning and computer labs in SEQI, which allocates 10 out of nearly 1,000 grade points. Given that technology tools often make it possible to collect data on how something is working, the National University of Educational Planning and Administration could be asked to undertake evaluations, which help policymakers and administrators make better decisions regarding investment in education technology solutions. In India, where the availability of quality teachers, away from capitals/district headquarters and especially in subjects such as math and sciences, remains a challenge, blended online learning has a distinctive advantage of removing the physical barrier between places where teachers are available and where they are needed. It can also help take education to girls, to those from marginalised sections and those in remote areas. It may not solve the problems of the school education system, which requires incentives for schools and teachers, autonomy to principals, well-functioning school management committees, teacher accountability, and management systems including transparent transfer policies. However, it could address India’s most persistent challenge of ensuring quality education in government schools and take us closer to Sustainable Development Goal 4 of ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education. Alok Mishra is director, Development Monitoring and Evaluation Office, NITI AayogThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-how-tech-can-ensure-equity-in-education/story-ZDIe9Y45d97zBMNV1MmU8O.html
02-07-2020||News||The mistaken Chinese calculation | Analysis||China has been uncomfortable with the emergence of another Asian power. Apart from checkmating proposals made by India at the United Nations and other global forums, Beijing has tried to contain New Delhi’s influence in the region. In a bid to throw a cordon sanitaire around India, China has focused on the countries in India’s immediate and extended neighbourhood. It has established a strategic partnership with Pakistan and deepened diplomatic, economic and military engagements with others. The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) has been leveraged for this purpose. China also employs both inducements and coercion. In the Indo-Pacific region, Africa and some other regions, China has unabashedly interfered in internal matters.All emerging great powers tend to be aggressive to maximise their influence in the geopolitical arena. However, in the case of China, such behaviour seems premature. While China has made discernible strides in augmenting its comprehensive national power (CNP), there are still several internal and external challenges that continue to give President Xi Jinping sleepless nights. On the domestic front, these pertain to its economy, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA)’s leadership, national morale, and the rising anti-China sentiment in the international domain.China’s shrinking economy has generated widespread unemployment. The Chinese Communist Party (CPC)-driven policy of empowering State-owned enterprises has impacted the private sector that used to contribute over 65% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and more than 90% of new jobs. Moreover, the relocation of manufacturing, growing debt, and an ageing population that will shrink its workforce, will impinge on China’s economic stability in the long-term.In 2012, Xi had announced the transformation of PLA into a world-class military, that would facilitate its journey towards the “world’s centre-stage” by 2049. Since then, multifaceted reforms have been undertaken to enhance its combat power and accountability to the CPC. However, Xi, who personally monitors the reforms, is unhappy with the professional standards of PLA leadership as it lacks practical war-fighting experience. Several think-tanks have assessed that at this juncture, PLA is well short of the capabilities required to challenge other militaries.National morale is a crucial ingredient of CNP. China’s national morale should not be gauged by its captive media’s reportage and the diplomatic activism unleashed by its new brand of “wolf warriors”. Both are involved in countering the western and Indian media, besides marketing the Chinese model of governance and projecting Xi as a global leader. But beneath the surface, there is growing dissent against the CPC owing to the spike in unemployment, choked civil liberties and victimisation of all perceived detractors and minority communities. Xi’s heavy-handed approach in enhancing the CPC’s control is also creating dangerous undercurrents. As per open-source information, he had dismissed and imprisoned over 2.3 million officials between 2013-2018, including several senior PLA officials and bureaucrats.Given these challenges, PLA’s adventurism in eastern Ladakh appears to be ill-timed and based on flawed assumptions. Perhaps, Beijing never expected a resolute politico-military response from India. India’s military build-up and posturing, along with the measures to hurt its economy and garner international support, will give Beijing the jitters.India’s short-term strategy should aim at restoring the status quo ante along the Line of Actual Control through a combination of military and diplomatic negotiations. The use of force should be considered only after exhausting all possible non-kinetic options. While implementing a kinetic option, we must cater for the escalation, institute viable measures in the cyber domain, and also remain poised to thwart any adventurism by Pakistan.India’s long-term strategy should be guided by its national interests, based on pragmatism. To minimise risk in the face of Chinese deception, the ends, ways and means must be aligned. The ends are the objectives that we wish to achieve vis-à-vis China. The means are the political, diplomatic, economic, military and information elements of national power along with other internal and external resources available to the government. The ways are the most efficient and effective options for the application of resources to achieve the objectives. The ways selected should not get influenced by any extraneous or parochial factors.While garnering international support, India should incrementally exploit the economic pressure points against China and fast-track the initiatives to enhance its combat power and infrastructure development. A re-evaluation of the mountain strike corps to create a deterrent capability is perhaps a strategic imperative. Its application could be in the newly-created battle groups. I am flagging this issue as, during my official visit to China in July 2014, I had sensed PLA leadership’s concerns and anxiety on its raising. Today, India has the military capability to give China a bloody nose. However, the political leadership will also require large tracts of real estate across the border to enable post-conflict negotiations from a position of strength.Since the development of the necessary combat power will take time, in the interim, it would be prudent to align with like-minded nations to balance the regional military power equations. However, this should be undertaken with due diligence.To effectively deal with China’s hostile designs, the nation must stand united behind its soldiers, sailors and airmen. This will help sustain the highest levels of military morale, a sine qua non for victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-mistaken-chinese-calculation/story-uVTG5xX6fLrOobGSl6UV1I.html
02-07-2020||News||Respect women’s autonomy||The Gauhati high court’s ruling, granting a man a divorce on the grounds that his wife refused to wear a shaka (conch shell bangle) and sindoor as per Hindu custom amounted to her refusal to accept the marriage, is a huge step backwards for women’s rights.By wearing these accoutrements of matrimony, a woman is expected to show her devotion to her husband while nothing of this sort is expected from the man. In fact, the sindoor takes on a significant role in a marriage that neither a single woman nor a widow can wear it. It is seen as a mark of respectability.In the Gauhati case, the court went further and ruled that the woman in question was guilty of cruelty under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act 2007, as she did not want to live with her in-laws, and, hence, tried to prevent her husband from looking after his aged mother. The ruling suggests an inbuilt bias in the judiciary, particularly at the lower levels. It deprives the woman of her freedom of choice as to whether she wishes to wear symbols of marriage.This sort of misogyny is insidious as it tends to appropriate and control the woman’s wishes. The ruling – like many others in the past – deny the woman autonomy, and makes her subservient to a pre-defined patriarchal notion of what a “good” wife ought to be like. At a time when more women are entering the workforce and becoming economically independent, it seems misplaced to constrain their behaviour, whether it is within a marriage or otherwise.Unfortunately, many of India’s popular television serials and films also glorify the importance of marriage symbols such as sindoor and bangles. A marriage is a union of equals and should not be contingent on one partner being viewed as being subservient to the other. Equality under the law should be upheld in letter and spirit and the Gauhati ruling seems to go against this. But this is not the first instance of judicial bias against women and their right to autonomy and choice. On June 22, the Karnataka high court ruling on bail in a rape case made an odd comment on the behaviour of the woman. In Rakesh B vs State of Karnataka, the judge said that the fact that victim fell asleep after the crime was unbecoming of an Indian woman, adding that this was not the way our women react when “ravished”. The allusion was that the woman had willingly had drinks with the man in question. No adverse remarks were made about the man’s conduct. Of course, this invited a furious flurry of opposition from civil rights groups and concerned individuals lamenting the deeply entrenched patriarchy at all levels of society including the judiciary.The notion that a married woman is the property of her husband or that a rape victim’s honour is besmirched, rather than the fact that her personal autonomy is violated, has guided several court rulings. The misogyny seen in the judiciary often makes it incumbent on the victim to explain her conduct. For example, why she doesn’t want to wear sindoor; why she was dressed in a particular way; or, where she was when she was assaulted. The absence of injuries on the victim, whether in domestic violence or sexual assault, is often cited as a reason to disbelieve the woman.The law does not discriminate against a woman making choices in a marriage, nor does it lay down any code of conduct for women through which they can protect themselves from sexual violence. The interpretations made by some judicial functionaries are unnecessary when the law itself is clear.lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/respect-women-s-autonomy/story-3b7nVZFgIf1cr1ko5f3u9N.html
02-07-2020||News||On tech, India was naive. It has finally woken up | Opinion||The Chinese government banned Facebook in 2009. And even Mark Zuckerberg — despite having a wife of Chinese origin; learning Mandarin; and doing public relations stunts such as jogging in the smog-filled streets of Beijing to say how much he loved China — was not able to have it change its policy. Zuckerberg even went to the extent of creating new tools to censor and suppress content — to please the communists.But the Chinese were smarter than he was. They saw no advantages in letting a foreign company dominate their technology industry. China also blocked Google, Twitter, and Netflix, and tripped up companies such as Uber. Chinese technology companies are now among the most valuable few in the world. Facebook’s Chinese competitor, Tencent, eclipsed it in market capitalisation in November 2017, passing the $500-billion mark. Its social media platform, WeChat, enables bill payment, ordering taxis and booking hotels while chatting with friends. It is so far ahead in innovation that Facebook is desperately trying to copy its features in the payment system it added to WhatsApp. Other Chinese companies such as Alibaba, Baidu, and DJI, have also raced ahead. Huawei has become a global threat with its 5G technologies and deep government links.As I have mentioned before in these columns, the protectionism that economists have long decried — which favours domestic supplies of physical goods and services — supposedly limits competition, creates monopolies, raises costs, and stifles competitiveness and productivity. But that is not a problem in the technology world. Over the Internet, knowledge and ideas spread instantaneously. Entrepreneurs in one country can easily learn about the innovations and business models of another country and duplicate them. Technologies are advancing on exponential curves and becoming faster and cheaper, making them affordable to every country. Technology companies that don’t innovate risk going out of business because local start-ups are constantly emerging to challenge them.Chinese technology protectionism created a fertile ground for local start-ups by eliminating the threat of foreign predators. The government selected what companies it could best control and gave them the advantage.China actually learned some its tactics from Silicon Valley, which doesn’t believe in free markets either. The Valley’s moguls openly tout the need to build monopolies and gain an unfair competitive advantage by dumping capital. They take pride in their position in a global economy in which money is the ultimate weapon and winners take all. If tech companies cannot copy a technology, they buy the competitor. And then there is data, the most valuable of all technical resources. Data analysis enables everything from micro-targeting of advertisements to voter suppression and population control. Mobile applications are the greatest spying devices ever invented, monitoring not only their users’ interests but also their locations, purchasing habits, connections, political opinions, and health.That is why the top technology companies from both East and West, the monopolists and predators, see India as the juiciest of all spoils. It has a massive market ripe for the picking, and data gold mines. India has also been naïve in its data protection policies and support for domestic innovation; it bought the old propaganda about the need for open markets. There are some big differences, though, between the Chinese and American companies that are vying for the Indian markets. The Chinese government largely controls the actions of its companies, feeds them resources and technologies it has stolen from the West. It gives them every unfair advantage so that it can steal more and subvert democracies. Silicon Valley companies want more data so that they can sell more products. They may show bad judgment and cross ethical lines, but they aren’t playing geopolitics or endangering the sovereignty of free nations.This is why the Indian government’s decision to ban TikTok and other Chinese companies makes sense. What was long holding Indian entrepreneurs back was the lack of Internet connectivity and mobile phones. When these became pervasive, the foreign companies stepped in. Eliminating some of that competition will give Indian entrepreneurs a chance to build world-changing technologies. These will benefit not only India, but also the rest of the world, which is desperately looking for an alternative to Chinese influence and domination. This is not to say that, without broad data and privacy protection policies, Indian technology companies won’t abuse the data that they gather. Such policies are needed as well. But the day politicians talk of breaking up companies such as Inmobi or Jio because they have become global monopolies and gained too much power will be the day of recognition that India has taken strides forward. Right now, what the country has to worry about is the dire threat from the East.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/on-tech-india-was-naive-it-has-finally-woken-up/story-HwFvxarFb5QOdGT4EvEFYL.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||PMC Bank depositors stage online protest||Customers of the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) bank conducted an online protest demanding the return of their money deposited in the scam-hit bank.Many protestors said their entire savings was locked up in the bank and they were finding it difficult to run their household especially amid the lockdown.The depositors said they were first hit by the PMC Bank fraud, then Covid-19 pandemic and added that they now have no work owing to the lockdown. They also criticised the government saying that the YES Bank issue was solved within 24 hours but they have been left in the lurch for months without any respite.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had imposed restrictions on the bank in September, 2019 alleging major financial irregularities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-depositors-stage-online-protest/story-XWbvLN1hDqCROkVqMTaPYM.html
02-07-2020||City||Noida: Three men arrested with 85 kg marijuana||Noida: Police on Thursday arrested three men and recovered 85 kgs of marijuana worth from them, officials said. The seized contraband is slated to be around Rs 12 lakh in the international market, the police said.This is the fourth major haul within the past two weeks in the district, where cannabis being transported into National Capital Region areas was seized and suspects were arrested.According to the police, the suspects had allegedly brought the contraband in three-wheelers from Chhattisgarh. They were arrested on Wednesday night from near a drain between sectors 16 and 17, based on a cue from an informer.Those arrested have been identified as Vijay Sharma and Shahid, both residents of Delhi, and Arif, is from Bulandshahr district of Uttar Pradesh, officials said.“There were eight sacks inside the tempo with cannabis weighing 85 kgs. The suspects had procured the material from outside the region and wanted to supply it in NCR,” said Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida.He added that the suspects are history sheeters and have been jailed on earlier occasions after getting arrested in Ghaziabad and Meerut districts. The police are now gathering more details about their connections and trade network.An FIR has been registered at the Sector 20 police station under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.“We were tipped by an informer. The three-wheeler was loaded with furniture to make it look like a family is shifting home. They were bringing it from Chhattisgarh. The cannabis was packed and kept in the front of the vehicle. The three have been arrested and sent to jail and the contraband has been sent to the lab for testing,” said RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station. Earlier on June 27, three alleged drug traffickers were nabbed in Greater Noida with 300 kg of cannabis, procured from Andhra Pradesh, seized from them. On June 24, another three alleged traffickers were held in Greater Noida while transporting 30 kg of cannabis to the NCR and prior to that, two persons were arrested on June 19 with 200 kg of cannabis, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-three-men-arrested-with-85-kg-marijuana/story-XK34d6CjPj4Dx0n6ZRXjLN.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Yuva Sena urges state to cancel online exams announced by ICT||Yuva Sena, the youth wing of the Shiv Sena, has written to state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant seeking to scrap examinations of the Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT). This comes a week after HT reported that ICT had announced the dates of exams for all students.On Thursday, Yuva Sena, led by state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, wrote to Samant stating that ICT in Matunga was defying the state government’s decision to scrap all exams. “In the interest of students during Covid-19 pandemic, and under the guidance of Yuva Sena chief Aaditya Thackeray, we request you to scrap the examinations planned by ICT,” said the letter signed by Yuva Sena secretary Varun Sardesai. HT had, on June 27, reported that the institute planned to conduct two rounds of e-examinations wherein students could take the tests from their home. On May 2, Samant had announced that all exams barring those for final-year students would be scrapped owing to the lockdown. Later on May 30, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that final-year exams, too, would be cancelled and students will be promoted based on their past performances. ICT administration had claimed that the state’s rules were not applicable to it as ICT is a deemed university. However, Sainath Durge, core committee member of Yuva Sena, said, “The state government’s plan to scrap exams is applicable to all educational institutes, including deemed-to-be universities.” ICT registrar RR Deshmukh did not comment on the matter.Following the letter, the state higher and technical education department issued a government resolution reiterating the decision to scrap all exams. The decision is applicable to all institutions, including deemed ones, the department clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yuva-sena-urges-state-to-cancel-online-exams-announced-by-ict/story-1vULQrEEMLgZAmnyzS9lhM.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Conduct random testing of inmates, deploy additional forces for prisons: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed the prison authorities to conduct random testing of inmates for Covid-19 and also follow guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) scrupulously. The HC, while disposing of a bunch of public interest litigations (PIL) seeking various reliefs for prison inmates after four inmates succumbed to the infection while in prison, has also directed the authorities to deploy additional forces at all prisons as well as the 35 temporary prisons where inmates are kept in quarantine and are undergoing treatment for Covid-19. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice MS Karnik pronounced its judgement on PILs filed by People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) through senior counsel Mihir Desai along with advocates Isha Khandelwal and Kritika Agarwal; and Geeta Bharat Jain, a politician represented by advocate Sunny Punamiya; Archana Rupawate also represented by senior counsel Mihir Desai; and advocate Afreen Khan and Devmani Shukla represented by advocate Bhavesh Parmar.While reading out the operative part of the judgement, the court said it accepted the assurances made by the state government regarding the measures initiated for the well-being of inmates. The bench directed prison authorities to conduct random Covid-19 tests of inmates and to refer for testing any inmate who shows any symptoms for Covid-19. The court also directed the authorities to notify on the prison department’s website details of all the 35 temporary jails that have been set up in 27 districts to serve as makeshift Covid care centres. The court further directed the state government to implement all the measures that it had formulated in the modified draft guidelines based on the suggestions of the petitioner for containing outbreak in prisons and other correctional homes. While stressing on updating family members of prisoners on their health status, the court said, “Every possible endeavour to be made by the prison authorities to scrupulously follow guidelines issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Centre and state governments from time to time regarding safety measures and the standard operating procedures be revised from time to time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/conduct-random-testing-of-inmates-deploy-additional-forces-for-prisons-hc/story-3IIpX85MhXx1tGy1fgqFDM.html
02-07-2020||Noida||Temple objects to biogas plant in Sec-28; Noida authority assures safety||A bio-mechanisation plant being installed by the Noida authority at Sector-28 near a temple has become a point of contention between the temple trust and the authority.According to the Noida Bengali Cultural Association, that manages the 40-year-old Kali temple or Kalibari, the facility -- that converts garbage into compost and cooking gas – is being constructed at 10 metres from temple. Stating that it will turn the area into a garbage dumping ground, the trust says it will hurt the religious sentiments. “We have seen some examples where such plants turn the place into a garbage segregation point and leak hazardous gases. This would create an unpleasant atmosphere around the temple. We request that the construction be halted and transferred to an alternative site,” said Ashok Arya, president Noida Bengali Cultural Association and Noida Kalibari.He added that the even last year the construction was halted after complaints.“Every year thousands of devotees come here during Durga puja. The plant would not just create an unpleasant atmosphere and hurt religious sentiments, but also take a lot of space thereby obstruct pandal set ups. The plot where it is being constructed is a nursery for plant, which is under the Noida authority but is maintained by the temple. We have requested the district administration, Noida authority and the chief minister’s office to shift it elsewhere,” said Anupam Banerjee, member Noida Kalibari.The Noida authority has already constructed 12 such bio-mechanisation plants and is in the process of 25 others that will absorb biodegradable waste from nearby residential areas and hope to cover the whole city.In this case, sector -26 would be serviced. “We don’t have any objection to the facility being constructed here,” said Govind Sharma, president, RWA, sector-26. “As a matter of fact, we even asked the authority to demarcate the boundary between the nursery and temple. The temple was allotted some 1,083 sq metres in 1983 but they have occupied around 3,000 sq metres. They also have a guest house there. The facility is to manage waste at its source.”However, some residents said that they were not informed about the facility being built there.“Also the RWA did not inform residents about its location. My home is also a few metres away from the plant, and if any accident occurs, who will be responsible?,” said a resident who didn’t want to be named.According to the Noida authority, the plant is safe.“We have not received any complaints. The bio-mechanisation plant is absolutely safe and crucial to manage the urban waste. There are many other plants installed by us and they are all very safe,” said Indu Prakash, officer on special duty (health) and head horticulture department, Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/temple-objects-to-biogas-plant-in-sec-28-noida-authority-assures-safety/story-LuO3IeJnnHWFf2gaB3JqwN.html
02-07-2020||Noida||Noida: Covid-19 surveillance begins in district, 90% of daily target hit on first day||The 10-day long special coronavirus testing drive that began in all six districts of Meerut division on Thursday, reached almost 90% of its daily sampling target in Gautam Budh Nagar district on its inaugural day, officials said.Against the target of collecting 4,000 samples per day, as many as 3,618 samples were collected during the drive on Thursday which was kicked off jointly by Narendra Bhooshan, the chief executive officer of Greater Noida, police commissioner Alok Singh, and district magistrate Suhas LY, from Haroula in Sector 5.Under the drive, testing is mostly done using on-site rapid antigen kits and lab-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. The district magistrate said that during the 10-day drive, all the tests conducted within the districts will be considered as part of the special initiative.“The achievement on the inaugural day of the drive is overwhelming. Out of 2,037 samples collected through rapid antigen kits on Thursday, 54 samples tested positive. Our teams have also collected 1,591 samples through RT-PCR tests and their results will come in a few days. Apart from this, 10 samples have also been taken through TrueNat machines, of which no one was tested positive,” the DM said.The DM said with the help of 1,500 surveillance teams and 40 sample collection teams formed for the special drive, the district will soon reach its target of collecting 4,000 samples a day. Each surveillance team, which comprises three civil volunteers and at least one ASHA or other auxiliary health worker, conducts door-to-door surveys to collect information on people with symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “ We have assigned 40 teams – each comprising one doctor, one nursing staff and one assistant – to collect samples of people with Covid-19 symptoms,” the DM said. The DM further said that around 600 student volunteers are also participating in awareness campaigns under the drive. “Volunteers from National Service Scheme (NSS), Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan, and National Cadet Corps (NCC) are also taking part in this drive. However, none of these volunteers will work on the frontline and their primary work would entail putting up posters outside the houses of positive patients and their direct contacts. For the screening purpose, we have deputed over 1,500 surveillance teams,” he said.The DM also said that the district health department is adapting the plan used to eradicate polio in its surveillance measures for the drive. “The pulse polio micro plan is a tested campaign with instructions from the World Health Organization. The features of the plan include pro-active surveillance of the population, estimating resources, recording and reporting cases, and strict monitoring. Till now, patients used to inform the district administration of their symptoms following which they would be tested. But under this new plan, we’ll reach out to every household and monitor every case,” he said.Under the drive, the DM said, that the surveillance teams will mark every screened household with the letter ‘S’ followed by the date when the occupants were screened. “ If someone is found suffering from prolonged illness or symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) or severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), the surveillance team will immediately inform the health officials to test them for Covid-19. If found positive, the patients will be admitted to isolation wards in different hospitals,” he said. The state government had planned the special drive for Meerut division after around 28% of the total Covid-19 related deaths were reported from the region.Till Thursday, out of the total 735 Covid-19 fatalities in the state, Meerut division has reported 207 deaths, including 87 in Meerut, 57 in Ghaziabad, 22 in Gautam Budh Nagar, 22 in Bulandshahr, 14 in Hapur and five in Baghpat. According to the instructions given by the state government, a daily target of collecting 4,000 samples each has been set Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts. Among other districts of the division, 3,000 samples will be taken every day in Meerut, while 1,600 samples will be tested in Bulandshahr, Baghpat and Hapur districts.Meanwhile, 116 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the past 24 hours in the district, taking the overall count to 2,477 cases. District chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said 1,526, including three people discharged on Thursday, have recovered from the disease so far. “So far, 22 Covid-19 positive patients have so far lost their lives. As a result, the district now has 929 active cases,” he said.According to the daily Covid-19 bulletin released on Thursday by the state headquarters in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh had a total of 24,825 Covid-19 cases, including 817 new cases reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-covid-19-surveillance-begins-in-district-90-of-daily-target-hit-on-first-day/story-VH4lVH9mMydJUepIKLCwXK.html
02-07-2020||Noida||Noida: District police dept plans drive to test all ‘vulnerable’ personnel||After a 57-year-old constable died of Covid-19 on June 27, the district police department has started a drive to test all cops suspected to be infected with the virus, as well as those with underlying health conditions or above the age of 50 years. Out of the 5,000-strong police force, about 500 have already undergone tests.“A total of 35 police personnel have tested positive so far in the district, out of which 29 have recovered and four are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Greater Noida. However, one constable died as he was diabetic. With the test drive we will test all cops who are above the age of 50 years and/or suffer with co-morbid conditions and influenza-like-illness (ILI). Our motive is to detect the disease early and start treatment quickly,” said Ankur Aggarwal, additional deputy commissioner of police, the nodal officer to handle Covid-related issues. On Wednesday and Friday, a total of 148 cops were administered RT-PCR and antigen tests. As the police are frontline workers in the fight against Covid, they are exposed to risks all the time. They are deployed in containment zones, handle daily cases where public interaction is unavoidable and perform other duties requiring dealing with public, said officials.“We have not fixed any date as to when we will conduct the tests but we have appealed to all cops via the radio system that anyone, regardless of age or health conditions, who feel they have symptoms, can come to Sector 108 headquarters and get their test done,” said Aggarwal.The police are making a list of all those who are above the age of 50 years and suffer from ailments like diabetes, hypertension or other such diseases.“We do not have exact data as to how many police personnel are above the age of 50 years. Therefore, we have spread the word of getting a Covid-19 test done. After the test, we will be ready with the data so that if in need, we can take timely decisions to treat the needy,” said Aggarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-district-police-dept-plans-drive-to-test-all-vulnerable-personnel/story-pZkP4xWEZyHVdToW6SlyZJ.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM refuses to relieve Daily Ajit editor-in-chief of Jang-e-Azadi foundation responsibilities||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has refused the request of Daily Ajit editor-in-chief Dr Barjinder Singh Hamdard to relieve him as member secretary of the Jang-e-Azadi Memorial Foundation and chairperson of its executive committee.In a letter to Hamdard, the CM urged him to continue in these positions to ensure the successful completion of this prestigious project.SAD REQUESTS HAMDARD TO CONTINUEThe Shiromani Akali Dal requested Hamdard to accede to CM’s appeal and continue to serve as member secretary of the Jang-e-Azadi Memorial Foundation and chairperson of its executive committee. SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema urged Hamdard to reconsider his resignation in the interest of the memorial as well as the wishes of the Punjabi community worldwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-refuses-to-relieve-daily-ajit-editor-in-chief-of-jang-e-azadi-foundation-responsibilities/story-T60mpXZrbPG5lwjIc36JYP.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Cop succumbs to Covid three months before retirement; city police toll 40||A 57-year-old head constable from Pydhonie police station died of Covid-19 taking the number of casualty in city police to 40. So far, a total of 62 policemen have died of Covid-19 in the state police force with more than 4,700 policemen testing positive.The head constable, who was set to retire from service in September this year, was asked not to report to duty as he was aged above 55 years and also had hypertension. However, a few days ago he started showing some symptoms of Covid-19 and underwent the test which revealed him to be positive.“He was admitted to GT Hospital five days ago. He recently experienced severe breathing issue and had to be put on ventilator support. On Wednesday, he succumbed to the disease,” confirmed Subhash Dudhgaonkar, senior inspector of Pydhonie police station.It is still not certain how he contracted the virus, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Pranay Ashok said so far 2,843 Mumbai Police personnel have been tested positive, of whom only 551 policemen are undergoing treatment while 2,252 have recovered. Of the recovered cops, 1,427 have resumed duty.Kalina Covid care centre treated over 1,000 copsCity police on Thursday thanked the healthcare team at Covid care centre, Kole Kalyan, Kalina for successfully treating more than 1,000 Mumbai Police personnel and policemen from other units at the dedicated facility. The four Covid care centres for police personnel in the city helped in effective treatment of hundreds of policemen and bringing down the number of Covid-19 patients in the force.5,638 booked, 2,761 arrestedContinuing its action against those violating lockdown rules, the Mumbai Police booked 5,638 people and arrested 2,761 of them in the past four days. “Strict action is being taken to ensure that the contagious disease is not further spread given the multiple relaxations in the lockdown under Mission Begin Again,” said a senior police officer.26,720 vehicles impounded since 2km rule imposedCity police have impounded 26,720 vehicles since Sunday, the day the Mumbai Police imposed a 2-km radius movement restriction for citizens across the entire city. This includes seizure of 13,523 two-wheelers. On Sunday more than 14,000 vehicles were impounded by the police for various lockdown violations.Medical store owner duped Powai police booked an unidentified person for posing as an Army officer to cheat a medical and general store owner to the tune of ₹20,000. The accused had ordered hand sanitiser, mask and hand gloves and had sent a QR code to the shop owner for the payment and duped him. The 28-year-old medical shop owner told the police that on June 30 her father received a call from the accused stating that he wanted to purchase medical kits to distribute to his department officials. He ordered sanitiser, hand gloves and masks worth ₹83,000. Saying that he wanted to make the payment online, the accused sent a QR code to the victim’s number asking them to scan it to receive ₹83,000 in their account. However, when the owner scanned the code, she lost ₹20,000. After this, she approached Powai police, following which a case was registered under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code as well as relevant sections of the Information Technology Act.Motor training school owners bookedMarine Drive police have booked four people including owners of Vaidya motor training school and Aman motor training school and seized a total 14 cars and 44 bikes for violating lockdown norms. The incident occurred on June 29 when a patrolling van noticed that trainers of these motor training schools were training the people during lockdown, said deputy commissioner of police of zone 2, Rajiv Jain. “They were booked for violating lockdown norms and called for inquiry,” said an officer from Marine Drive police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cop-succumbs-to-covid-three-months-before-retirement-city-police-toll-40/story-dHEeynSDv32q3SsbliSxFM.html
02-07-2020||Noida||Noida: Salaries of GIMS faculty to be at par with Lucknow’s SGPGI, says UP minister||Salaries of all faculty members of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) will be now be equal those of their counterparts at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI), Lucknow, said Suresh Kumar Khanna, the Uttar Pradesh minister for minister for finance, parliamentary affairs and medical education departments.While taking stock of preparedness in tackling the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic at GIMS, Khanna spoke to five infected patients lodged in the Institute’s isolation ward over the phone. “I am really happy to hear from them that they are getting the best treatment at GIMS. The hospitals treating Covid-19 patients will not have to worry about funds, as our government is taking all possible efforts to ensure maximum recovery rate of Covid-19 patients. I have asked the directors of GIMS and Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (commonly known as Child PGI), to send their requisition for establishing additional 100 beds for Covid-19 patients in their hospitals,” he said.Appreciating the efforts of doctors working in the Covid-19 ward of GIMS, Khanna said their services can’t be equated with words or remunerations. “It is the selfless services given by the doctors that the fatality rate in UP is less than many smaller states. Since GIMS has performed exceptionally with its limited resources, the faculties here will soon get salaries equal to their counterparts in SGPGI,” he said.After learning that 451 Covid-19 patients have been cured and discharged, out of the 605 patients admitted so far in GIMS, the minister asked its director Dr Rakesh Gupta to enhance its capacity of beds from existing 150 to 250.Dr Gupta said that the minister’s words will boost the morale of all the staff. “Presently, the basic salary of a professor in SGPGI is around Rs 1,64,000, while in GIMS, it is about 1,40,000. If teachers here get salaries equal to their SGPGI counterparts, we can expect better faculties,” he said.When Dr Gupta informed the minister that several demands, including allotment of land for permanent premises of medical college and hospital, sanction of 18 post-graduate seats despite getting clearance from directorate of national board (DNB) and establishment of trauma centre and dialysis in the hospital are lying pending at the government level, the minister asked him send to the proposal again.Khanna also asked the director of Child PGI to send his hospital’s proposal of pending demands to the government. Despite repeated attempts, however, Child PGI director Dr DK Gupta could not be contacted for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-salaries-of-gims-faculty-to-be-at-par-with-lucknow-s-sgpgi-says-up-minister/story-j60Wqayy22rGBf5EYTJ7GO.html
02-07-2020||City||Low turnout of residents during first week of antigen testing in Ghaziabad||The turnout of people for Covid-19 antigen tests in Ghaziabad is at a dismal rate of about 32%, even as the health department had roped in seven teams which were expected to take up 6,300 samples in a span of six days, starting June 26. Health officials said the low turnout may affect their target of 4,000 tests per day, as directed for conduct during the special surveillance drive which started on July 2 on directions of the Uttar Pradesh government.Each of the seven teams, comprising two lab technicians and a lab assistant per team, has a capacity to conduct about 150 antigen tests per day. However, during the first six days of the drive, the teams could conduct only 2,056 tests. “Out of the 2,056 antigen tests conducted during the week, 126 positive turned out positive. The teams have a potential to conduct 150 tests per day but there was low turnout of residents from areas like Indirapuram, Mirzapur, Vijay Nagar and Vaishali, and the like. This scenario could also affect our testing for the special surveillance drive which started on July 2,” said an officer from the district health department, requesting anonymity.“There have been instances where the turnout of residents has been so low that some areas recorded a turnout of 12, while some recorded a turnout of 32, during the past two-three days. The teams had to sit idle and waited for residents to turn up,” the officer said.According to officials, what is worse is that out of the total 2,056 antigen tests conducted during the week, about 850 tests were conducted at district MMG Hospital and Women’ Hospital, said officials. This meant that only about 1,200 tests were conducted in residential areas where people were expected to arrive and participate in Covid-19 testing.“Testing during the first week has been low and we were expecting that more people will come and get themselves tested through antigen kits. We had already received 8,000 kits and 11,000 more arrived Thursday. So, during the surveillance drive, we are expecting that more tests will be taken up,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.“There were seven teams when antigen testing started on June 26. Now, we have added five more, to a total of 12. These include one team which will be deployed at MMG Hospital and Women’s Hospital each. We are also trying to rope in more lab technicians so that more testing can take place,” Dr Gupta added.On Thursday, on the other hand, a total of 1,765, tests – 775 antigen and 990 RT-PCR tests – were conducted across Ghaziabad, of which 34 came out positive.According to sources, one of the reasons the teams were able to conduct so many tests in a single day may be that they are testing all patients walking in to the Women’s Hospital and the MMG District Hospital, as well as their kin accompanying them.Residents’ welfare associations (RWA) and councillors, meanwhile, said that they have no information about antigen tests being taken up and no officials approached them so far.“We have no information about antigen testing taking place in our areas. Had RWAs been involved, they would have spread awareness in their highrises by putting up information on notice boards and would have urged residents to come forward. But there has been no information given to us about tests being conducted,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners.This was reiterated by Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, the president of flat owners’ federation, who said: “We have not received any communication from the administration or the health department to help them out in the antigen test drive. It seems that officials have sidelined the RWAs. But it is evident that without peoples’ participation, no such initiatives will succeed.”“There is a trust deficit among residents and also fear of Covid-19 which is why they are not inclined to take up tests. They know that if they turn positive, they will be admitted directly to government hospitals, where facilities are inadequate. Above all, the administration should hold meetings with local councillors and take their help, as they can immensely help in bringing residents together for taking up tests,” said Rajendra Tyagi, councillor from Raj Nagar.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said officials were trying hard to achieve the target of 4,000 tests per day during the special surveillance drive.“To increase participation, we will be roping in RWAs, councillors and even NGOs to help create awareness among residents and to encourage them to come forward for testing for Covid-19. The surveillance drive is for the benefit of residents as early testing will help us detect cases early and take up proper treatment,” he added.Under the drive, the department has been given a target of conducting 1,000 RT-PCR tests and 3,000 antigen tests per day for 10 days, till July 12. For the purpose of surveillance, the district has deployed 2,029 surveillance teams, which shall take up household surveys to identify patients with co-morbid conditions such as influenza-like illness (ILI) or severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). These teams have so far covered a total of 1,35,460 households in the district.z||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/low-turnout-of-residents-during-first-week-of-antigen-testing-in-ghaziabad/story-zQjgLLNKLOd9qgOcOQhJwL.html
02-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad extends curfew time by 1.5 hours, begins mass surveillance||With the rising number of Covid-19 cases, Citizens’ movement has been further curtailed in Ghaziabad with the district administration on Thursday bringing forward the time that prohibitory orders will be in place to between 7.30pm to 9am. The order will be in place till July 31.Earlier, the timings were between 9pm to 9am. Failure to comply with the orders that prohibit the gathering of four or more people, would attract penal action under relevant laws. Police have been told to strictly enforce the directive.The Uttar Pradesh government on June 30, while allowing district administrations to impose prohibitory orders as they saw fit, said the night time prohibitory orders in the six districts of Meerut division, which includes Ghaziabad and has a higher disease burden when compared to others, will be from 8pm to 6am while the rest of the state will observe it from 10pm to 5am. “The timing of the shops and business establishments has been revised in order to strictly enforce curfew. I have also directed the police to ensure that all station house officers (SHO) strictly enforce curfew and no one other than those involved in essential services be allowed to move during the night. The prohibitory orders have also been extended up to July 31,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said.The traders however said that despite the earlier curfew, Covid-19 cases have failed to come down in Ghaziabad.“The shops and markets are opening on alternate days on the directions of the district administration. In a month, one shop opens for just 12 days. This is affecting sales. On the other hand, liquor shops and malls are opening everyday. With the revised 7.30pm closing time, the traders will have to start winding up by 6.30pm so that they can also go back home before the curfew starts. We have been trying to urge administration to allow us opening on all days but nothing has happened so far. Infact Covid-19 cases have increased instead of getting decreased,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti – Indirapuram.The district magistrate declined to comment on whether businesses will be allowed to open on all days but said that all efforts were being taken to curb the rising number of Covid-19 cases.“The Union Home Minister on Thursday had met officials of Delhi-NCR and said that good practices prevailing in different areas should be adopted. We have also started a special surveillance drive and expect that more patients with influenza-like illnesses (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (Sari) will be reported in the coming days,” Pandey added.ILI cases are those with symptoms of fever and cough, and SARI are ILI cases that require hospitalisation.First day of surveillanceOn the first day of the surveillance drive on Thursday, about 2,029 teams fanned out in different areas and identified 113 cases of ILI and SARI besides 2500 tests were also taken up.Under the drive each team was assigned to cover 75 houses per day and collect 4000 samples. Against the target of 152,175 houses, the officials said that teams covered only 135,460 houses. The district, as per official estimates, has about 1.2 million houses.The surveillance drive was initiated in five other districts too -- Gautam Budh Nagar, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Baghpat and Meerut, all which fall under the Meerut division. Nigrani Samitis (surveillance committees) in 2,375 rural areas and 1,516 in urban area inform officials about suspected cases and also about adherence to home quarantine norms.The chief minister directed for heightened surveillance activities in Meerut division. While the 1,531 teams were requrired to be formed in Gautam Budh Nagar, it was 2161 in Ghaziabad, 1398 in Meerut, 493 in Baghpat, 1356 in Bulandshahr and 545 in Hapur.“Total 7485 surveillance teams have been roped in under Meerut division and they will note down all the details of people having ILI and SARI symptoms so that early treatment can be taken up. The CM has also directed that 15,000 teams should be formed for surveillance. He has also directed that quarantine centres should be formed in every district where people with symptoms will be brought and later sent to Covid hospitals if they are found positive,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).The officials said that 121 helpdesks have come up in Gautam Budh Nagar, 135 in Ghaziabad, 233 in Meerut, 80 in Baghpat, 138 in Bulandshahr and 97 in Hapur. The help desks have facility of pulse oxymeter and infrared thermometers so that people can come and get themselves screened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-extends-curfew-time-by-1-5-hours-begins-mass-surveillance/story-w2LSp5UcRaven1Io1ENj6N.html
02-07-2020||Delhi||Electronics India gets notice for ‘damaging’ trees on Sardar Patel Marg||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has issued a show-cause notice to the Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL) to “explain” any potential damage caused to trees on Sardar Patel Marg in Chanakyapuri during the road cutting work undertaken by the agency. According to NDMC officials, the ECIL was given permission for road cutting work on June 26 to lay underground cables for installing CCTV cameras along the route. However, after the work begun, it was brought to the notice of the municipal agency that the trenching (horizontal drilling) work to dig pits was being carried out near the tree line, with the result that it could have damaged or weakened the roots of full-grown trees. The municipal agency then issued a show-cause notice to ECIL on July 1.Following the notice, the ECIL Thursday stopped the digging work but its officials refused to comment on the matter.The matter was brought to the attention of the NDMC by a Delhi-based lawyer, who complained that the digging work was being carried out in violation of National Green Tribunal orders and sent a ‘cease and desist’ notice to both the NDMC and the ECIL. The complaint was also sent to the Delhi forest department. “We have written to the ECIL seeking an explanation on violating the conditions of the road-cutting permission as well as previous NGT orders. ECIL officials have intimated us that the work has been stopped for now. They will have to get the permission revalidated,” a senior NDMC official said, on the condition of anonymity.He added that the horticulture department has also been asked to assess the extent of damage, if any, caused to the trees. The stretch has a number of old and deep-rooted trees such as arjuna, jamun, ashoka and amaltas. There are also a few ficus, peepal, semal and exotic trees as well. As per the laid out conditions for road-cutting, trenchless/cutting/digging has to be carried out away from the trees to avoid any damage to the roots...full care shall be taken and if any damage is caused to any tree, the agency carrying out the work will be liable to pay compensation, the notice read.The NGT, in 2013, had asked all public authorities to de-concrete areas around trees and further directed that no kind of construction activity be allowed within a one-metre radius of the tree trunk.Also, trenching within a one-metre radius of the tree trunk, that may damage trees, is a violation of the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994.A senior forest official, who did not wish to be named, said, “A field verification of the site will be taken up. If any damage is found to the trees, a notice shall be sent to the agency and necessary action will be taken.”CR Babu, professor emeritus at the Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystems at Delhi University, said, “Trenching within the one-metre radius of the tree trunk can have an impact on the roots. The extent of damage depends on the width and depth of the trench and the kind of root the trees have. Since most trees on this stretch are deep-rooted, if the trench cuts into the roots, it can harm the supply of nutrients to the tree. These activities must be monitored well in order to save old and full-grown trees from potential damage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/electronics-india-gets-notice-for-damaging-trees-on-sardar-patel-marg/story-xvl7KOizPBHRPs5fvtXKyM.html
02-07-2020||Delhi||Private labs halting tests ‘not acceptable’: HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday stated that private labs halting rapid antigen testing was “not acceptable... at such a critical juncture when the number of Covid-19 cases was shooting up phenomenally, on a day by day basis”. The court was responding to the Delhi government’s statement that private labs had stopped collecting samples for rapid antigen testing.Satyakam, the additional standing counsel (ASC) for the Delhi government told a bench comprising justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad that the Delhi government had written to all private labs individually seeking clarification as to whether they were continuing with the collection of samples for testing after it found that the number of tests had reduced.He said that most laboratories had denied halting rapid antigen testing and added that they had several grievances against the Delhi government, that had largely been resolved by the expert committee constituted by the Lieutenant Governor, Delhi.The court then said if any of the private labs had stopped sending phlebotomists to collect samples for testing for any reason, they must immediately respond to the Delhi government.The bench also said that the private labs should convey to the Delhi government if the expenses incurred by them are not covered by the rate fixed for the test by the Delhi government (₹2,400).ASC Satyakam told the court that a total of 68,041 tests have been conducted via the rapid antigen method from June 18 to June 23 at an average of about 11,350 per day. He said that the initial target of 20,000 per district daily was “quite ambitious” considering that the RT-PCR tests were also being conducted at the sample collection facility simultaneously.He told the court that 41,155 samples were collected within this period (Jun 18-23) through the RT-PCR method and hence a total of 1,09,196 samples had been collected in six days. He submitted that sero-surveillance had been started in Delhi on June 27 with a revised target of 21,793 rapid random samples to be collected across the state.He clarified that the sero-surveillance data will be collected up to July 5 and the results will be made public within one week thereafter.“…about 30 government hospitals have been provided user credentials in the past 24 hours to undertake the rapid antigen test, of which 20 government hospitals have started the process,” he said while proposing that the rapid antigen test be conducted for free at all government dispensaries.The court was hearing a plea by Sanjeev Sharma, through his counsel Rakesh Malhotra, who contended that there have been several instances wherein non-Covid patients needing surgery or other procedures were asked to undergo Covid-19 testing before that, but the hospital concerned did not do so stating they did not have the government’s permission.ASC Satyakam responded that a June 23 circular by ICMR stated that any private lab or hospital would have to approach the ICMR for obtaining authorisation to administer the rapid antigen test.The court asked ICMR to file a status report while also clarifying its stand on the grievance by the Delhi government that some tests undertaken by the private laboratories were not specific to Delhi but were from satellite cities and therefore, there was no clarity about the actual number of tests that were undertaken for residents of Delhi daily, for analysis.The court also asked the Delhi government to file a status report indicating the number of rapid antigen tests conducted from June 27 to July 5. The report has to be filed on or before July 13. The matter will be heard on July 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/private-labs-halting-tests-not-acceptable-hc/story-1RDYNyaVOu74imMqNxLe7M.html
02-07-2020||City||Plasma bank gets ready in just two days||New DelhiTwo days ago, the state-of-the-art convalescent plasma bank inaugurated at south Delhi’s Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) on Thursday was a store room. The hospital worked swiftly to add 10 beds and apheresis machines -- which separates the blood components and collects plasma – and get approval from Delhi’s drug controller before Thursday’s inauguration.This is India’s first plasma bank set up by the Delhi government to help Covid-19 patients in need of the therapy. “There is no vaccine for the disease, but initial results have shown plasma from recovered patients reduces mortality from Covid-19. People of Delhi were facing a lot of problems in getting plasma for corona patients. This bank will streamline the process,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said at the inauguration.“The idea of setting up a bank was floated so that people do not have to keeping calling people randomly or reach out to various organisations in times of need. Once it was decided, all the approvals came through quickly. We already have a very well-established apheresis programme so it wasn’t a challenge for us to start the bank in just two days,” said Dr Meenu Bajpai, faculty-in-charge of the department of transfusion medicine at ILBS.All Covid-19 hospitals under the Delhi government will counsel patients at the time of discharge and get their consent to donate plasma after 14 days. A team will also call those under home isolation to ask them to donate plasma.So far, 63,007 people have recovered from the infection in the city.Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma, containing virus-fighting antibodies, from a person who has recovered from the infection. When given to a patient with Covid-19, it should help their immune system fight the virus.Vinay Prakash, 29, a staff nurse from the endoscopy department of ILBS hospital, lay on a recliner chair attached to a machine that circulated his blood to extract a bag of pale yellow liquid.Prakash got the infection and recovered without any symptoms on June 1. “My sample was collected along with the other staff members as part of the routine screening and I tested positive. Had I not been tested, I would not even have realised I had the infection. And now, I can save someone’s life,” said Prakash, who was among the donors on the very first day. The hospital said 10 people came in to donate plasma on Thursday.For Ajay Arya, 48, a teacher from a Delhi government school, the 25-km journey from West Vinod Nagar to ILBS meant nothing. He knew he would be saving two lives if he donated his plasma. The apheresis machine collects about 500 ml of plasma from each donor, whereas patients need only about 200 ml.“I had recovered from the infection in the first week of June. So, when I got a call from the Delhi government, I was not surprised. I was told that I could save two people with the plasma I donate. I did not even need to think twice,” Arya said.A reception area with the words ‘Delhi Plasma Bank’ greets people at the main building. There are two separate queues for donors and people in need of plasma. To reach the plasma bank, the recovered Covid-19 patients take the elevator to the second floor. To maintain social distance, only four people, facing the four corners of the elevator, can ride at once.“This is a non-Covid hospital and we screen everyone coming in to ensure nobody carries the infection in. This should put the mind of people who have recovered from the infection at ease,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, ILBS. The fear of getting the infection again has been one of the challenges that hospitals have been facing in getting donors.A small trial conducted at Delhi’s biggest Covid19 hospital, Lok Nayak, showed an improved respiratory rate, oxygen saturation and sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA) score that predicts ICU mortality. Duration of ICU stay as well as hospital stay was also less in patients who were given convalescent plasma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plasma-bank-gets-ready-in-just-two-days/story-nsOXm8WlYTFpsygTDF6F2N.html
02-07-2020||Gurugram||Crackdown on illegal mining in the Aravallis: Cops seize 350 trucks in June||A special enforcement team of the Haryana Police has confiscated 350 vehicles engaged in illegal mining activities in the Nuh and Gurugram districts over the last one month. This is a part of a larger crackdown plan of the Haryana Police that was put into effect in December 2019. According to the police, this is the biggest action taken so far against illegal mining groups operating in the two districts over the past two decades. According to police officials, during the period of the lockdown, 50 cases were registered against vehicle owners for transporting illegal mining material and a fine of ₹1.5 crore imposed on them. Although illegal mining operations have been taking place in the Aravallis for over two decades, it was in November 2019 that senior IPS officer Amitabh Singh Dhillon, who was also the director-general of mines and geology department of Haryana, put together an enforcement team to crack down on illegal mining operations in the Aravallis. The state was divided into two parts and two police officials were given charge of each. While assistant commissioner of police(ACP) Rajesh Phogat was given the charge of the Sonepat region, ACP Preet Pal Sangwan was given the task of curbing illegal mining in Gurugram and Nuh. According to the police, illegal mining is most active in Nuh and Gurugram. The areas that are particularly notorious for illegal mining include villages of Pipaka, Panchgaon, Raina, Tapkan, and Dhulawat villages — all of which fall under the Tauru belt.In December 2019, Preet Pal Sangwan formed a team of 25 police officers, who were given the task of tracking the movement of vehicles illegally transport mining material from Aravallis to various construction sites and crusher zones in the region. “The teams have increased surveillance in the area and have roped in local informers, who are actively passing information regarding movement of vehicles at night,” he said. The police have also involved forest officials and locals to carry out the mapping of the areas from where the maximum numbers of illegal mining cases are being reported.The state has so far collected a total fine of ₹29 crore since December 2019. A total of 1,400 vehicles, including tippers, trucks, tractor-trolleys, and earthmovers, have been seized by the police between December 2019 and June 30, 2020. This number also includes 350 vehicles seized in June — the highest so far. “The National Green Tribunal(NGT) had ordered in 2019 that all vehicles that are confiscated will be released only after recovery of at least 50% of the showroom value of such vehicles. Besides, the confiscated vehicle owner will also have to pay a royalty fee, the value of the mineral loaded on the vehicles, along with ₹10,000 fine before the vehicle can be released,” said Sangwan, adding that the state has been suffering severe revenue losses because of the illegal mining activity in the Aravallis. The police added during the course of the operation, several police officers have been attacked by truck drivers carrying illegal mining material. Over two dozen cases of attempted murder have been registered against the driver over the last six months. Sangwan said there have been instances where the drivers have even opened the back of the trucks to unload mining material from moving vehicles on the road to stop the police from chasing them“Recently one of the drivers even turned the dumper turtle due to which a police officer was severely injured and is currently undergoing treatment,” he said.These vehicles were found transporting a wide range of construction material, including bajri, sand, boulder, gatka, gravel, and other items without obtaining a requisite e-rawaana, or an e-transit pass. Apart from vehicles transporting illegal mining material, earthmovers were found engaged in excavation activities.Narender Bijarnia, the superintendent of police, Nuh, said they too have formed teams and increased intelligence in the areas where illegal mining is taking place. “We have set up nakas(check posts) and are taking the help of local informers to stop the illegal mining in areas falling under the Tauru region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/crackdown-on-illegal-mining-in-the-aravallis-cops-seize-350-trucks-in-june/story-9JMH9vQkY0PNxikvL7IgHN.html
02-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram doubling-rate now among slowest among India’s worst-hit districts||In three weeks, Gurugram’s Covid-19 doubling-rate has improved from seven days (on June 11) to 36.5 days (on July 1). Health department officials attributed this slowing of new cases to four main interventions —increase in testing and quicker turnaround time in reporting results, door-to-door screening in containment zones and large outbreak regions, improved contact tracing, and strengthening of home isolation facilities.Gurugram last had a doubling-rate of 36 days in the last week of April. By June 11, cases were doubling every seven days, fastest among India’s 20 worst affected districts (by reported case load). As of Wednesday, however, only four out of India’s 20 worst affected districts had doubling-rates slower than Gurugram’s — Mumbai (43 days), Ahmedabad (67 days), Jaipur (69.5) and Indore (79 days) -- according to an independent analysis conducted by www.paragkar.com/covid19, using data sourced from Covid19India.org, a public dashboard updated daily on the basis of state health bulletins. Hindustan Times has not been able to independently corroborate this analysis for districts other than Gurugram. Dr Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist, Gurugram, said, “For the last two weeks we have been testing more than 900 samples daily on an average. Test results are coming back from the lab within 24 hours. So we are able to isolate positive cases quicker. Earlier, test results were taking anything between 36 to 48 hours and we were not able to isolate positive cases quickly enough.” Prakash added that extensive screening in containment zones for Covid-19 symptoms has helped curb transmission of the virus in badly hit areas.The slowing down of the spread is reflected in other data points as well. During the first two weeks of June, Gurugram had an average test-positivity rate of 51 percent, with 373 tests on average daily. In the second half of the month, the test-positivity rate reduced to 12.4 %, while testing increased to 925 tests per day. The average number of new positives also reduced from 190 cases per day, to 114 new cases per day.Dr Jai Prakash, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program’s district surveillance officer in Gurugram, said, “We have also had an internal restructuring after the appointment of a new chief medical officer on June 12. Duties have been reorganised, so officers who were overburdened are getting more support.” Though unable to provide any data, Prakash said, “Contact tracing has been strengthened. We are tracing a higher number of contacts per patient now than a month ago, which is another factor in slowing the growth of new cases.”However, experts warned that the apparent improvement in Gurugram’s Covid-19 response should be viewed with an important caveat. “Targeted sampling for RT-PCR tests has slowed down. Private labs are still collecting the bulk of samples from Gurugram, while antigen tests have been confined to large outbreak regions. There may still be cases outside of these areas which aren’t being picked up. We will not know until the health department starts collecting more samples for confirmatory tests,” said Dheeraj Singh, a city-based data scientist tracking the district and state level Covid-19 data.Rajesh Kumar, an epidemiologist and former professor of community medicine at PGIMS, Chandigarh, concurred. “Slower doubling rate and lower TPR is desirable. It could mean that your interventions are working, but on the other hand maybe the right people are not being tested anymore. If that is the case, then Gurugram may see another surge in cases during the next two weeks.”Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, did not respond to requests for comment on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-doubling-rate-now-among-slowest-among-india-s-worst-hit-districts/story-T43K0orSSVWjCo0SqQ62OP.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||11 deaths, 568 new cases 520 recoveries in Haryana||Haryana on Thursday reported 11 more coronavirus deaths and recording a spike of 568 cases, taking the number of infections to 15,509. The death toll climbed to 251.Four fatalities were reported from Gurugram, three from Faridabad, two from Karnal and one each from Hisar and Rohtak.As per a medical bulletin, 568 fresh Covid-19 cases and 520 recoveries were reported on Thursday. The cumulative number of positive cases thus stood at 15,509 with 11,019 patients getting cured. There were 4,239 active cases on Thursday.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said the recovery rate has crossed 71%. “The number of cured patients in the last seven days stands at 2,774 as compared to 2,110 positive cases,’’ he said.On Thursday, Sonepat reported the highest number of 131 fresh cases followed by Faridabad (130), Gurugram (106), Jhajjar (35), Karnal (34), Rohtak (31), Rewari and Hisar (18 each), Ambala (16), Mahendragarh (10), Panchkula and Nuh (7 each), Panipat (6), Kurukshetra and Palwal (4 each), Charkhi Dadri and Fatehabad (3 each), Jind and Yamunanagar (2 each) and Sirsa (1). No fresh cases were reported from Bhiwani and Kaithal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/11-deaths-568-new-cases-520-recoveries-in-haryana/story-N5FCRqyWL1YuTZKCIghBBM.html
02-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Two workers die of electrocution at Sec 15 construction site||Two men, working as labourers, were electrocuted while digging at a plot in the Sector 15, Part 2 area, the police said Thursday. Police said they have filed an inquest report under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and no complaint had been lodged so far.According to the police, the incident was reported around 10am when other workers arrived at the site. Police said the victims have been identified as Girish Yadav, 24, and Manoj, 28, both from Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The victims had been contracted for some digging work to lay pipelines for a washroom at a plot. They were working on Wednesday night. Prima facie, it is suspected that while handling a drilling machine, they suffered an electric shock due to some technical fault in the power line.”Police said they have informed the family members of the victims, who are on their way to the city.On May 27, a 34-year-old man, who worked as a lineman for a private company, was allegedly electrocuted while repairing a technical fault at a power cable in Kanhai village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-two-workers-die-of-electrocution-at-sec-15-construction-site/story-fgudyLF7b8uOd4w3GL8BaK.html
02-07-2020||City||Delhi sets up 12-member panel to set Capital on road to economic recovery||New Delhi: The Delhi government has formed a 12-member expert committee to explore economic reform measures to help businesses in the city recover from the impact of Covid-19, the government said in a statement on Thursday.In an interview with HT earlier this week, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the state government’s GST and VAT collections in the first quarter of the year dropped to one-third of what it was in the same period last year, falling from ₹7,275 crore to ₹2,500 crore.As per an order, signed by Ravi Dhawan, special CEO of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the committee will analyse the measures to be taken by various agencies, departments and businesses, and explore moves that improve the ease of doing business and shorten the process of economic recovery from the impact of the pandemic.The committee will be headed by Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson of the Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC), an advisory body to the Delhi government. The committee will also be comprised of commissioners of the labour department and industries department, South Delhi Municipal Corporation, special secretary of the environment department, and representatives of various industries including trade, manufacturing, automobile, finance and hospitality among others, said the statement.Shah said, “The Covid-19 pandemic has caused a devastating economic impact — nationally and in Delhi… Through this committee, we look forward to collaborating with key industry representatives and identifying specific additional measures that government agencies can take to shorten the process of economic recovery.”According to the DDMA’s order, “The committee shall explore reform measures that improve ease of doing business in Delhi and shorten the process of economic recovery from the impact of Covid-19.”The order further said, “The committee shall explore the possibility of renewal or automatic extension of existing licenses issued by various department and local bodies… without penalty or interest. The exception will be in categories such as excise, pollution control, or fire, where safety or revenue-related issues are involved.”“The committee shall explore the requirement or necessity of new licenses or NOCs [no-objection certificates] issued by the various departments to identify licenses that can be abolished or replaced with only prior intimation,” the order read.This committee will also explore provisions of online license issuing systems or doorstep delivery of licensing systems. The key focus of the committee will be exploring economic reform measures that have the potential for revenue mobilisation for the Delhi government.“The committee should explore international best practices that mega-cities and countries around the world are taking to enable economic recovery from Covid-19. The committee shall also examine and suggest penalties or fines or interest imposed on public or business due to the pandemic, which can be waived off to remove undue financial hardship,” the order read.Jayati Ghosh, professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University, said, “At this juncture, an expert committee to explore economic reforms can play an important role. It is high time for Delhi to have an urban employment guarantee scheme. The committee can play important role in such policy drafting. The committee can also formulate more labour-intensive activities in the days to come.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-sets-up-12-member-panel-to-set-capital-on-road-to-economic-recovery/story-hLzzVvtFBQj0HutmYSziTM.html
02-07-2020||Gurugram||In Dundahera outbreak zone, commuters flout rules at will||The district administration’s plan of intensive Covid-19 testing along with strict curbs on movement of people in eight large outbreak regions (LORs) of the city for 15 days, seems to have fallen flat in Dundahera.The enforcement of guidelines in Dundahera, one of the eight large outbreak areas, remained lax on Thursday with locals trespassing barricades in certain designated lanes in the area. Shops remained open and people continued to move freely with little care for the norms in place. According to a list issued by the district administration last week, four areas — Udyog Vihar police station road, Aggarwal Sweets lane, community centre street, Vishal Mega Mart street — in Dundahera ward number 4, had been listed among the large outbreak regions. Padav Chowk was also among the list of areas where police deployment was suggested. Over 90 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Dundahera since the outbreak of the pandemic.On Thursday, at the community centre street, no barricading was found with some residents claiming that commuters had removed the barricading on Tuesday itself, the day it was put up, to facilitate movement of vehicles. In the lane adjacent to Vishal Mega Mart, several shops selling utensils remained open, with people often spotted jumping over the barricades, which had been partially removed. People trespassed the bamboo obstacles in the lane next to Aggarwal sweets as well. Locals said that some of these lanes had been barricaded from one side only, leaving the other entry/exit point open for movement. Apart from the check point outside Udyog Vihar police station, the barricading and fortification using bamboo poles, remained inadequate, allowing people to easily pass. Four policemen from Udyog Vihar police station had been deputed at Padav Chowk and near the community centre street.Subhash Yadav, a native of Deoria, Uttar Pradesh, had come for house hunting near Padav Chowk. “I have moved here recently for a job and I am looking for a room on rent. I was not aware that this area has reported several cases of Covid-19 and that all activity had been restricted here for the next two weeks. I was not subjected to any screening before entering the area,” yadav said.Narender Tiwari, a private company security guard, said, “The police have been making rounds but commuters barely seem to care for the rules. They remove barricades at will if they have to pass through.”A policeman from Udyog Vihar police station, requesting anonymity, said, “We had after consultations suggested five points in Dundahera where barricading could be done as part of the large outbreak region containment strategy. Some of the barricading has been inadequate and we are sensitising people in the area to not venture out while testing is being conducted.”Jitender Gahlawat, assistant commissioner of police, Udyog Vihar, said, “We are conducting regular patrolling in the areas. If any laxity is observed, we will conduct a mapping exercise and depute additional staff to enforce the guidelines.”As per the government order issued last week, a large outbreak is defined as a localised increase in Covid-19 cases within a defined geographical area in a village, a town or a city. The cases may or may not be epidemiologically linked. For operational purposes, a large outbreak is deemed to be present when there are 15 or more cases.Despite several attempts, Ashok Sangwan, divisional commissioner, could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/in-dundahera-outbreak-zone-commuters-flout-rules-at-will/story-RhMEb5maGwllpUJHwdoBBP.html
02-07-2020||City||7-hr power outages likely today in parts of city due to repairs||Gurugram: A large part of the city on the western side of Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway is likely to witness a seven-hour power cut on Friday, as Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPN) will be carrying out a scheduled maintenance activity on its 220 KV power line coming from Daulatabad. The areas which might see power outages include Palam Vihar, Sector 23, Udyog Vihar phases 4 and 5, Chauma, Carterpuri, Sector 23 A and several areas around the ammunition depot, said Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigan (DHBVN) officials.Power supply is likely to remain affected from 9am in the morning to 4pm in the evening, said Omender Bhardwaj, sub-divisional officer, Sector 18, DHBVN.Bhardwaj said that a scheduled maintenance activity is required on the high tension line and it will be carried out by HVPN. “A proposal in this regard had been put up and given the weather conditions, it is important that it is carried out,” he said.The supply will be affected in areas under Palam Vihar sub-station, Sector 23-A sub-station and another located in Sector 18.Bhardwaj also said that all efforts would be made to resume power supply by 3pm but added that they are keeping a cushion of one hour. “We have already sent messages to consumers and informed them of the scheduled activity so that they are prepared for the day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-hr-power-outages-likely-today-in-parts-of-city-due-to-repairs/story-lvQbUu1HyBj3JfF0pbNPtI.html
02-07-2020||Gurugram||City bus service receives lukewarm response on first day of operations||On the first day of resumption of operations since the district went into a lockdown on March 24, the Gurugaman city bus service saw a lukewarm response with minimal ridership on key routes, particularly those plying to and from Metro stations. While ridership numbers for the day had not been compiled until late on Thursday evening, officials in the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited(GMCBL) estimated that there were no more than 150 to 200 commuters per route throughout the day. On two of the six operational routes (from Basai to Huda City Centre, and from Gurugram bus stand to Sikanderpur Metro), buses were seen travelling with merely a passenger or two. While all commuters were thermal scanned to check for fever, no hand sanitiser was provided. Drivers and conductors were all seen wearing masks and some were wearing gloves. Only in one instance, on the Basai to Huda City Centre route was a conductor seen not wearing a mask when interacting with commuters. A bus driver on the Huda City Centre to Basai route, requesting anonymity, said that internal routes had fared better on Thursday. “Earlier, the busiest routes were the ones going to the Metro stations. Huda City Centre used to get a high footfall, but not more than 10 people have boarded from there today,” he said. On other routes, such as Gurugram bus stand to Sohna, and Rajesh Pilot Chowk to Gurugram railway station, a Hindustan Times team observed slightly greater number of passengers — up to 10 travelling in a single vehicle.Vanita Akhaury, spokesperson, GMCBL, said, “We are only operating with one fourth of our fleet right now, around 68 buses. The number of buses, routes and the frequency of buses will be revised next week based on public response and feedback.” While Akhaury did not speculate about the day’s ridership numbers, a senior administration official in the GMCBL, said, “There were six routes operational today which, by afternoon, had serviced about 100 to 150 commuters each. Ridership would not have been very high in the evening, so the overall ridership would be quite low. We will have to wait till tomorrow (Friday) to see how we fared.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-bus-service-receives-lukewarm-response-on-first-day-of-operations/story-FL6zxXsCUF7L9Iu8OAF6xL.html
02-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Relief to HSVP plot owners in Sec 57 as HC allows development||Allottees of over 100 Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) plots in Sector 57 got relief from the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday after the court granted permission for development of these properties and removed a stay on maintaining status quo. HSVP officials said they will now issue occupation certificates, sanction building plans, allow transfer of property and complete other formalities, as required under regulations.The court had granted stay to a land owner on July 18 last year after he petitioned for maintaining status quo and sought the release of the land under Section 24 (2) of the Land Acquisition Act 2013, stating that the acquisition carried out by the authority was in violation of rules.HSVP officials at that time had said that they would approach the court and seek relief on behalf of plot owners, as many of them had already constructed houses and bought plots following all norms. They had however stopped the development of these properties, as per the court order.In light of court directions, there was no development or construction carried out on these plots for almost one year, said officials. “The situation is going to change now and all owners will be allowed to build their houses, their building plans will be sanctioned and other utilities will be allowed operations,” said Hari Singh Jakhar, sub-divisional engineer, HSVP.It may be noted that acquisition of land in Sector 57 started in 2000 and majority of the land falls in Wazirabad village. The ownership of the plots was offered from 2004.The plots in question are of different sizes, such as four marlas (121 square yards), 10 marlas (302.5 square yards) and one kanal (605 square yards).Landowners in Wazirabad, who petitioned the court, argued that acquisition of their land was faulty as the compensation paid to them was quite less. They also wanted the authority to pay fair compensation and enhancement. It is to be noted that HSVP is under a loan burden of around Rs 20,000 crore and authorities are trying to sell residential plots and commercial properties and settling legal issues with plot owners to reduce the financial burden on the authority. In a recent meeting, the HSVP was asked to recover encroached-upon land and put it on auction, officials said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-relief-to-hsvp-plot-owners-in-sec-57-as-hc-allows-development/story-lH2uxHlhTvnXH83quAS3ZM.html
02-07-2020||Gurugram||Health department serves notice to 7 private labs for not collecting contact details||The district health department on Thursday served notices to seven private labs in the city for their alleged failure to comply with government regulations and collect complete contact details of suspected patients submitting their samples for Covid-19 testing.According to health department officials, at least 100 Covid-19 positive cases — who had given samples for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) in private diagnostic labs — have not been traced or contacted due to incomplete addresses.The lack of contact tracing due to incomplete addresses has come across as a major challenge for Gurugram’s healthcare officials, who have been trying to contain the spread of Covid-19 cases that have been on the rise since May this year. The city has reported 5,569 cases till now, of which 1,183 are active and 4,290 have recovered. The death toll stands at 96.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “The department has issued notice to seven private labs for not noting down complete details of patients coming for RT-PCR test. Due to lack of contact details in over 100 Covid-19 cases, it has become difficult to trace patient and their contacts. This affects the overall surveillance to break the chain of transmission.”Earlier this month, five other labs had been served similar notices. Yadav said that there has been a slight improvement in the functioning of private labs since then. The diagnostic labs are required to feed the details of the suspected patients on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Health officials have seen that there are incomplete entries, sometimes with mandatory columns not being filled. In many entries, there are wrong, missing or incomplete addresses. Some cases have permanent addresses of a particular district, details of which have been taken from Aadhaar card or other ID proof, but the patient is found not to be residing in that particular address. Taking note of the issue, state health minister Anil Vij had on June 2 written to the Union health ministry stating that private labs were not sharing full details of the patients, resulting in delay in contact tracing and surveillance activities. The director general of health services also issued notices to 18 labs in Delhi for taking samples from Haryana without any imitation to district or state authorities. Currently, the Union ministry of health and family welfare has been stressing upon the Three T — Test-Track-Treat — strategyf or early detection and containment of the outbreak. It has advised that states must ensure full capacity utilization of all Covid-19 testing laboratories, including the private ones. The ICMR has recommended that laboratories should be free to test any individual as per guidelines for testing a Covid-19 patient and state authorities cannot stop an individual from getting tested. In Gurugram, testing has been ramped up in the last couple of weeks with more than 1,000 samples being collected daily. On Thursday, at least 1,648 samples were collected —501 by private and 1,147 by government labs — for both RT-PCR and antigen detection test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-serves-notice-to-7-private-labs-for-not-collecting-contact-details/story-hPFFihiiQV2zw99gOpa5cN.html
02-07-2020||Gurugram||Gangster involved in over 100 cases of robberies, ATM thefts arrested in Nuh||The police on Thursday arrested a 28-year-old man, a proclaimed offender, from Tauru in Nuh for his alleged involvement in cases of dacoity, robbery, attempt to murder, ATM thefts, and carjacking reported from various cases across the country. The suspect, identified as Sahadat alias Tedha alias Behra, was arrested near Pinagwan in Nuh early Thursday morning. The police had intercepted him after they were tipped off about his movement by an informant. The police said they recovered a countrymade pistol from his possession. Sahadat was as declared proclaimed offender three years ago by Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka police.The Nuh police said Sahadat will be produced before the court on Friday and they will request for his custody for three days. During questioning, Sahadat confessed to his involvement in more than 100 incidents in which he and his gang members robbed people in different cities and uprooted ATMs in at least six states, the police said.Narender Bijarnia, superintendent of police, Nuh, said, “Over the last two-three years, Sahadat, along with his gang members including his brother-in-law, has robbed many commuters and stolen their cars in Nuh. He has also been active in Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, and Bihar has been involved in more than 100 cases of robbery, dacoity and thefts. We are questioning him about the incidents he has been involved in and about the number of members in his gang,” Bijarnia said, adding that Sahadat has been jailed more than six times. The police said the suspect revealed that his gang had conducted ATM thefts in Pune, Ahmednagar, Mangalwada in Karnataka, Dibrugarh in Assam, Kanyakumari, Chennai, and Patna over the last two years.The police said at least four members of his gang were arrested this year in various states, but he had gone underground and was untraceable after February this year.According to the police, during questioning, he revealed that he had been in hiding in Tauru area with his friends. The police said they are conducting raids to arrest them. Sahadat told the investigators that he had returned to Gurugram to revive his, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gangster-involved-in-over-100-cases-of-robberies-atm-thefts-arrested-in-nuh/story-pPXXyLk49ii8qApbRh7zOM.html
02-07-2020||Gurugram||Saral Kendra resumes operations in Gurugram, to register vehicles, issue driving licences||The district administration resumed the operations of Saral Kendra at the Mini Secretariat in the city on Wednesday, although only two services are functional as of now, said officials. These services include the issuance of driving licences and registration of vehicles. In order to maintain social distancing and prevent overcrowding, only 100 tokens are being issued to applicants on a first-come, first-served basis. The Antodaya Saral Kendra delivers more than 500 citizen-centric services through a single-window system. However, the portal was temporarily closed on March 24, when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). District administration officials said with the unlocking process currently underway, the authorities have decided to resume a few of the services in a controlled manner. These services include vehicle registration and issuance of driving licences.Officials said all formalities related to issuance and renewal of driving licences and vehicle registration will be carried out at the Saral Kendra between 9am to 12pm daily. All applicants visiting the office would need to wear masks, follow social distancing protocols and sanitise their hands before entering the office at the Mini Secretariat building. Prior to the lockdown, the Saral Kendras across the state were delivering as many as 546 citizen-centric services of the Haryana government to people. All these services would be resumed in a phased manner, although the details are yet to be worked out, said officials. “The citizens who are coming to the Saral Kendra are being given tokens from counter number 2. All norms pertaining to social distancing and sanitisation are being followed. All applicants must wear masks and if anyone is found without one, he or she will not be allowed inside the premises. Necessary action as per the law will be taken against violators,” said Jitender Kumar, sub-divisional magistrate, Gurugram. Officials also said that stickers and posters have been pasted all across the Saral Kendra, asking people to maintain social distancing and refrain from touching anything unnecessarily. The main focus, as per district administrative officials, is to ensure that work is carried out while minimising the risk of spreading Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/saral-kendra-resumes-operations-in-gurugram-to-register-vehicles-issue-driving-licences/story-nOteuOHCr6Xq46WlhEjiXM.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Murder of 2 cops: Haryana govt to honour police party for cracking case within 24 hours||The Haryana government will honour the police party who nabbed the accused who reportedly murdered two police personnel in Butana on Monday. Announcing this on Thursday, Haryana home minister Anil Vij said that along with the slain police officer, the government will also honour the police team that managed to crack the case within 24 hours.“Sonepat police managed to trace the accused within 24 hours. I also salute the slain police officer who wrote the car’s registration number on his palm, eventually became a clue and helped in cracking the case. The government will honour him along with the police team that killed one of the attackers in an encounter and arrested another,” Vij said. Two policemen, constable Ravinder Kumar and special police officer Kaptan Singh were killed near Butana check point in Sonepat’s Gohana, while on patrolling duty on Monday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/murder-of-2-cops-haryana-govt-to-honour-police-party-for-cracking-case-within-24-hours/story-bAlkcjzv0s7C6o7fK92zgK.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||6 jumbo Covid facilities to get 612 ICU beds||The six jumbo facilities temporarily set up across Mumbai to handle Covid-19 cases will now get intensive care units (ICU), adding 612 ICU beds to Mumbai’s total ICU bed capacity of 1,431.Jumbo facilities were conceptualised and built by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as Covid care centres (CCC1 and CCC2) to quarantine high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients and asymptomatic patients. They are now being converted into dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC) with oxygen beds and dedicated Covid hospitals (with ICU beds) (DCH).Currently, 174 of the existing ICU beds are vacant, recording 88% occupancy. This is relatively better than the scenario is April and May, when ICU beds had 99% occupancy, and critical patients had to wait for up to even a few hours to find ICU beds. These beds are usually needed for severe to critical Covid-19 patients. With the fatality rate in Mumbai at 5.8%, having sufficient ICU beds is crucial. As per data up to June 30, there are 957 critical Covid-19 patients in Mumbai, at approximately 3% of Mumbai’s active cases.BMC floated an expression of interest (EOI) last week, inviting bidders to provide these beds and maintain them for at least six months. Of the six jumbo facilities, the one at National Sports Complex of India (NSCI) currently has 10 ICU beds. As per the latest EOI, NSCI will have 50 ICU beds. The highest number of ICUs will be at the jumbo facility at NESCO compound in Goregaon (250), followed by BKC ground, Bandra (112), and 100 beds each at the facility at CIDCO Ground at Mulund, and Dahisar.As part of the bid, the contractor will have to provide staff for management of the ICU facility, including one senior and one associate consultants, six resident doctors, 10 nurses, two technicians, and eight support staff, for care of a Covid-19 patient, for every 10 ICU beds. A separate cost head has been created under BMC’s budget 2020-2021 to keep track of expenditure on jumbo facilities, and each facility has been given a ‘cost centre’. P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner in charge of projects in BMC, said, “In case of cost centres, accounting is done for a specific geographical unit. As jumbo facilities are newly created, they have been given cost centres. We can identify the expenditure incurred by a specific facility by looking at the cost centre.” So far, BMC has spent a total of ₹630 crore on Covid-19 relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-jumbo-covid-facilities-to-get-612-icu-beds/story-zxZ6yd72ldQTf4hC8hNieN.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Indian Consulate pays for city man’s flight ticket to return home||A 26-year-old resident of Byculla in south Mumbai, who was stranded in the United States of America after losing his job, will be able to return home after the Indian Consulate in New York (NY) agreed to fund his airfare.Aliasgar Merchant, a block-chain developer who lost his job in March as part of the retrenchment due to the Covid-19 pandemic, was able to get a ticket on a flight from NY to Mumbai on Friday.The Consulate has borne his airfare after he had appealed for help, explaining that he had exhausted his savings. Merchant received his air ticket on Wednesday around 2.40pm (EST) from the embassy after verifying his bank details.Merchant had written to the Indian Consulate after he lost his job, and his employment authorisation document was nearing expiry on July 12. The Byculla resident had gone to the US in 2017 to pursue a master’s degree in information technology and had been working there since.When Merchant had initially approached the Indian Consulate in New York, he was recommended to fly back on June 29. However, Air India had asked him to pay $1,361 (₹1,02,929) for his ticket and to contact the Indian Consulate if he wanted the charges waived off due to his financial crisis.He then tweeted to the Indian Consulate for help and was directed to explain his case via email. Merchant submitted that he did not have money to pay his home rent for July and would be unable to afford the flight ticket. After sending them the email on Friday night, the Consulate swung into action and replied on Sunday, June 28, asking him to submit his bank statements and salary slips. On Wednesday, July 1, Merchant received a soft copy of his flight ticket from the Indian embassy.“I first got a call from Air India on Wednesday informing me that the Consulate has borne the cost of my air ticket and that I am booked for the flight scheduled on July 3. I am thankful to the Indian Consulate for helping me when I needed them most,” Merchant said. The Consulate had not responded to HT’s email at the time of going to press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/indian-consulate-pays-for-city-man-s-flight-ticket-to-return-home/story-5i2184opDwRSKVOGLxpuDN.html
02-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan setting up system for checking quality of Punjab water||The Rajasthan government is installing quality monitoring systems for water from Sutlej and Beas rivers from Punjab that comes through the Harike Barrage, said officials.Indira Gandhi Nahar, Sirhind Feeder and Bikaner Canal carry water from Harike Barrage to border districts in Rajasthan – Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Bikaner, Jaisalmer and Barmer – for irrigation and drinking.Rajasthan has long been complaining about polluted water coming from Punjab. Punjab has made efforts to treat industrial effluent and sewage flowing into the two rivers upstream of the barrage.Now, Rajasthan will install real-time water quality monitoring system (RTWQMS) on Indira Gandhi Nahar near Rajasthan-Haryana border and on Bikaner Canal near Rajasthan-Punjab border in six months.“We have floated tenders and bids will open next week,” said Rajasthan water resources department (WRD) secretary Naveen Mahajan. “Work will be completed in six months and will help us get real-time data on the quality of water coming from Punjab,” he added.He said the monitoring system data will be sent to State Pollution Control Board, WRD and public health and engineering department (PHED), which supplies piped drinking water. “The PHED will be able to treat the water on the basis of data about pollutants before supply for drinking,” Mahajan said.The monitoring system will generate information related to pH, tubidity, conductivity, water temperature, dissolved oxygen, bio-chemical oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD), dissolved ammonia, nitrates and chlorides. “This will reflect in pollution control board, WRD and Hanumangarh control room every hour,” the WRD secretary said.According to WRD officials, polluted water of Ludhiana flows into Sutlej through Buddha Nala; and industrial effluent and sewage from Jallandhar, Nakodar and Phagwara get into the river through Kaliban. Sutlej and Beas meet in the upstream of Harika Barrage.People’s organisations in Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh districts have held several protests over polluted water coming from Punjab, which causes water-borne diseases. In April 2019, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot wrote to his Punjab counterpart, Captain Amarinder Singh, for supply of clean water to the state.Punjab has set up 69 sewage treatment plants in the catchement areas of Sutlej and Bear rivers, and five more are under construction. Two CEPTs have also been set up for industrial effluent. The Punjab government alsoplans to start75 STPs in villages in the Sutlej catchment area; construction of four of these is complete.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-setting-up-system-for-checking-quality-of-punjab-water/story-34qoylOCdUonhyxtzcfsaO.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||PUNJAB DGP APPOINTMENT ROW: HC asks UPSC to submit chart on process for names considered in last five years||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday directed the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to produce a chart detailing about process on candidates considered by it for the appointment of director general of police (DGP) in the last five years across India.The direction came during resumed hearing of a batch of petitions in which Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta has challenged Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) order quashing his appointment. The high court bench of justice Jaswant Singh and justice Sant Parkash was hearing an application from another DGP-rank officer, Mohammad Mustafa, who had sought early hearing of the matter.The high court has asked UPSC to produce the chart regarding the consideration made by it for the post of the DGP of different states in the last five years depicting as to how many officers were eligible as per 2009 guidelines for each of such consideration and how many such officers were called for/considered for empanelment in each such consideration. It has also been asked to submit whether the zone of consideration was restricted/regulated as per the relevant department of personnel and training (DoPT) guidelines and what was the inter-se seniority of the empanelled officers among the officers eligible as per 2009 guidelines. The information is to be submitted with supporting documents. The UPSC has also been told to compile the chart showing the comparative merit of all officers considered for the post of the Punjab DGP on adopted criteria.The UPSC has also been asked to state about the number fixed for zone of consideration for the empanelment of eligible officers and if there is no number fixed for the zone of consideration as per 2009 guidelines then whether the DoPT guidelines and instructions were followed to regulate the zone of consideration. Further it has asked to submit if the DoPT guidelines and instructions are not followed what is the process followed by UPSC for restricting/ regulating the zone of consideration; and if there is no restriction for the zone of consideration, then whether all officers eligible as per 2009 guidelines are required to be considered irrespective of their number.The UPSC has been directed to state that whether it asks for the forwarding of the list of all the officers eligible as per the guidelines or leaves it to the discretion of the state to forward and send the list of eligible officers. The UPSC has been told that the pan India practice regarding the number of officers in the zone of consideration for empanelment as DGP be shared.It was on January 21 that the high court had stayed the CAT order. Earlier, the CAT had quashed the February 2019 appointment of Gupta, observing that the procedure adopted by the empanelment committee and the UPSC for preparing the panel violated the Supreme Court judgment in the Parkash Singh case. Besides, Mustafa, another officer Siddharth Chattopadhyaya too has challenged Gupta’s appointment. A 1987-batch IPS officer, Gupta had superseded five senior officers for the post on February 7, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-dgp-appointment-row-hc-asks-upsc-to-submit-chart-on-process-for-names-considered-in-last-five-years/story-OB9uEsdHafWQUQDoPtsxDO.html
02-07-2020||City||Centre to decide on deporting foreign Jamaat attendees: Supreme Court||New Delhi: Deportation of foreign nationals against whom criminal proceedings have been initiated for attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation during mid-March in Delhi will be at the discretion of the central government, the Supreme Court orally observed on Thursday while granting liberty to such foreigners to make representation before the Centre to send them back to their home countries.The bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar made the observation during the hearing of a plea by 34 foreign nationals from various countries, who have challenged revocation of their visas, stating they had not indulged in any serious offence and had attended the gathering before lockdown restrictions were put in place. The petitioners made a vehement appeal for their deportation.“They cannot be deported if there are criminal cases pending (against them). It will be the central government’s discretion”, the bench, which also comprised justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, orally remarked.In an affidavit submitted before the Supreme Court on Wednesday, the central government said that deportation and grant of visas cannot be claimed as a right and foreign nationals can be let go only after legal process under the criminal laws is completed. The Centre also pointed out that individual orders have been issued cancelling the visas of the foreign Tablighi Jamaat members.It was submitted by the Centre that 205 FIRs have been filed against foreign Tablighi Jamaat members in 11 states and 2,765 foreigners have been blacklisted.“Grant of visa is a sovereign function of the centre. There is no right to be deported. Deportation can be allowed if there is no criminal case. There are criminal charges pending against them,” solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, told the court.The apex court eventually adjourned the matter for July 10 to enable the petitioners to file a rejoinder to the Centre’s affidavit.“The pendency of these writ petitions will be no impediment for the concerned petitioners to make representation to the department/competent authority for deporting/sending them back to their respective countries. That representation may be considered by the authority on its own merits and in accordance with law”, the court said in its order.Delhi’s Nizamuddin was sealed on March 30 after it came to light that several people, who had attended a religious event held in March in the area by a Muslim organisation called Tablighi Jamaat, were found to be infected with coronavirus. At least 16,500 people had visited Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin between March 13 and 24.The Union Home Ministry (MHA) had initially, in April, blacklisted 960 foreign nationals who had attended the religious event.The Centre, in its affidavit, claimed the foreign nationals who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat event violated provisions of visa rules and the Foreigners Act since they had arrived in India on limited tourist visas and Tablighi Jamaat activities were not covered by tourist visas.“The petitioners did not seek any specific permission from the Ministry of Home Affairs for engaging in activities in the nature of Tablighi activities. Therefore, it is a clear case of violation of visa conditions”, the affidavit said.The Centre specifically highlighted the provisions of visa manuals that have been updated from time to time, the latest being in 2019.According to para 1.25 of the visa manual of 2019, foreign nationals granted any type of visa shall not be permitted to engage themselves in Tablighi work unless they are granted specific permissions for the same by the Ministry of Home Affairs, the affidavit highlighted. Further, the Foreigners Act criminalises violation of visa conditions. Section 14 of the Foreigners Act makes provision for a jail term of upto 5 years if a person does any act in violation of the conditions of visa issued to him for entry and stay in India.“Apart from that, these foreigners might have violated the provisions of National Disaster Management Act (NDMA) and the Epidemic Diseases Act (EDA)”, the affidavit added.The central and state governments had imposed lockdown and other restrictions to check the spread of Covid-19, invoking the power granted under the NDMA and EDA.“Deportation of foreign Tablighi Jamaat members have not been done till date to ensure completion of legal process going on against them. All such foreign nationals against whom cases have been registered will be deported as soon as the legal processes are completed”, the affidavit said.‘Please deport us’The petitioners through their counsel CU Singh made a vehement appeal for their deportation, stating that the attendees had not committed any grave offence.“Please deport us to our home countries. We came here before any restrictions (imposed due to Covid-19). If we have not committed anything grave, the Centre can consider deporting us,” they said through Singh.The bench observed that the proper course of action for the petitioners would be to challenge the central government’s orders individually before the high court concerned.“This is not something which affects national security. These people came here much before (the Covid-19 restrictions and lockdown). Blacklisting would mean we should not be allowed to return to India but we can be deported,” Singh added.205 FIRs against foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, 2,679 visas cancelledAccording to the affidavit, a total of 205 FIRs have been filed in 11 states against foreign Tablighi members. 2,765 foreigners have been blacklisted so far and visas of 2,679 foreign nationals have been cancelled, it was stated.It was also submitted that 227 foreign nationals left India before a lookout notice could be issued against them.“47 foreigners who attended the Jamaat event are Nepal nationals who are not holding any visa. Visas of remaining 39 cases are under the process of cancellation,” the affidavit said.The orders cancelling visas were intimated to 1,502 foreigners by email. However, 1,168 foreigners on regular visas could not be intimated regarding cancellation of visas as their email ids are not available with the immigration bureau, the central government submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-to-decide-on-deporting-foreign-jamaat-attendees-supreme-court/story-PcYRmDklDcNVjKiqfWVf8O.html
02-07-2020||Delhi||Phone calls, worksheets: Sisodia charts out plan to help offline students||Addressing concerns over the “digital divide” in the education sector, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia Thursday announced that students of 1,030 government schools in the national capital will engage in “learning with a human feel” and have increased interactions with their teachers over phone.Beginning Monday, government schools will resume online classes with three different strategies for class groups between kindergarten and class 8, class 9 and 10, and class 11 and 12. According to the Union ministry of home affairs and the Delhi government directives, all schools in Delhi will remain closed till July 31 in view of the Covid-19 crisis. The government had announced that schools and educational institutions can opt for online or distance learning. However, several stakeholders have pointed out that many students could not attend these classes owing to lack of internet access and/or smartphones and computers.“The digital divide should not come in the way of children’s access to learning opportunities. We have formulated a plan wherein the focus will be on learning with a human feel. This si to ensure that students and teachers stay connected directly,” Sisodia said during a press conference Thursday.Before the summer vacation for government schools began on May 11, students up to class 8 were receiving text messages from schools with learning activities. For students slated to appear for their board examination next year, the directorate of education had organised online classes with two or three sessions a day.From Monday, students from kindergarten to class 8 will receive one worksheet each with questions, tasks or activities on basic reading, writing, understanding, basic numeracy, and happiness curriculum via WhatsApp. Class 9 and 10 students will each receive two or three subject-specific worksheets a day, while those in class 11 and 12 will have online classes.“We have learnt that around 10-20% students do not have access to WhatsApp. For such students, parents can come to the school on a designated day and collect the learning material and worksheets for their wards. Teachers can offer guidance to these students over phone,” Sisodia said.Heads of schools have been asked to ensure class teachers have updated WhatsApp groups and lists of parents whose children are not available on these groups. Students of classes 11 and 12 will attend live online classes in 12 subjects. Teachers will follow up students over phone or WhatsApp to clear any doubts. However, those students who don’t have access to online classes can contact their teachers and they will facilitate offline learning through parents and school management committee (SMC) members,” Sisodia said.On July 1, the department also issued a circular over reconstitution of SMCs – comprising parents, school officials, and area residents– since the existing term is over. “An active SMC is most essential to take remote learning initiatives of DOE to the community,” the circular read.Emphasising that the role of teachers will be crucial in this plan, Sisodia said, “Regular teachers, guest teachers, and contractual teachers will be engaged for this plan.” The announcement is significant as over 20,000 guest teachers were rendered jobless after their contracts lapsed in May. The All India Guest Teachers Association welcomed the move and requested the government to pay them salaries for the months of May and June.School principals will now be working to track students who have been inactive on WhatsApp class groups. “Most of our students are active but a few may have difficulty in accessing the app. We will call such students over phone, check if they need any help and then work out a plan accordingly,” Rakesh Semalty, principal of a government school in Nand Nagri, said. With the education department focusing on a one-to-one interaction with students over phone or WhatsApp, the teaching community has a monumental task ahead of them. Most students have smartphones and those who don’t have are often stressed and feel inferior. It will be difficult to counsel such children and ensure that their learning continues. Also, the department should ensure that proper sanitization facilities are provided in schools when parents visit to collect learning aids,” Pankaj Kumar, who teaches science and computer science at a government school in Shalimar Bagh, said.Private schools in the capital are also continuing with online lessons. While most students in such schools have access to online classes. But students from economically weaker sections have difficulty in attending these classes as they have no smartphones or internet. NGO Justice For All has filed a petition in this regard before the Delhi high court and the case is currently being heard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/phone-calls-worksheets-sisodia-charts-out-plan-to-help-offline-students/story-JR625mouuXwGqMU8PS7KaM.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four held with 306 cartons of illicit liquor in Ludhiana||Four liquor smugglers were arrested and 306 cartons of illicit liquor were recovered from their possession in Model Town on Wednesday. Police have seized a mini-truck and Hyundai Creta from the accused identified as Vinesh Kumar, a resident of Gurmel Park, Tibba; Davinder Singh of Lohara road, Sukhwinder Singh of Gurpreet Nagar and Sanjiv Kumar of Daba road.Assistant sub-inspector Charanjit Singh of anti-smuggling cell, who is investigating the case, said that they setup a checkpoint near Jolly building in Model Town where they signaled a mini truck to stop for checking. Instead of stopping there, the driver of the truck tried to run them over. The police team jumped aside and escaped unhurt.The ASI added that police chased down the accused and nabbed Sanjiv Kumar and recovered 280 cartons of illicit liquor from the truck.Following information provided by Sanjiv, police arrested the remaining accused recovered 26 more cartons of illicit liquor.The police are investigating to find out from where they were smuggling the liquor.A case has been registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC and Sections 61, 78 (2), 1 and 14 of Excise act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-held-with-306-cartons-of-illicit-liquor-in-ludhiana/story-R8DWXAqc13SHph7PcLJOXL.html
02-07-2020||City||Mega green drive in Delhi aims to plant 3.1 million saplings||New Delhi: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said the government will launch a 17-day mega greening drive with a target of planting at least 3.1 million saplings across the national capital. The campaign aims at reducing overall pollution levels and increasing the green cover.The mega-drive titled ‘Plant Saplings, Save Environment’ or ‘Vraksharopan Pakhwada’ will focus on planting shrubs on key stretches that see heavy traffic movement in order to curb dust pollution. Road dust is a major contributor to PM 10, which is a prominent pollutant in Delhi’s air.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal before the 2019 elections had in his guarantee card promised that over the coming five years, his government will plant 2 crore saplings across the city. “We are committed to reducing pollution levels in Delhi. We will plant over 31 lakh (3.1 million) saplings during this 17-day plantation drive. All departments will be involved in this initiative. Our target is to plant 20 lakh (2 million) saplings of big trees and 11 lakh (1.1 million) saplings of small trees and shrubs,” Rai said in a statement.Rai will kick start the drive by planting saplings at the ITO nursery near Yamuna Bank on July 10. All 70 MLAs will hold plantation drives in their constituencies.This year’s target is much higher than last year’s 2.4 million saplings but still lower than 3.2 million in 2018, which has been the highest so far. Mega plantation drives have been Kejriwal governments’ strategy to mitigate air pollution in Delhi. According to officials in the forest department, the nodal agency for plantation in the city, more than 90% of the saplings to be planted will be native species such as peepal, bargad, gular, jamun, gulmohar, sheesham, arjun and pilkhan, among others. The major plantation will be carried out in South (Asola), West (Alipur) and North divisions where large patches are available.“The central government gave the target of planting 15 (1.5 million) lakh saplings in Delhi this year but we will plant double the target this year. While various Delhi government departments will plant 18 lakh (1.8 million) saplings, another 9, 40,000 will be planted by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA),” said Rai.Besides, the three municipal corporations and the New Delhi Municipal Council will together plant 200,000 saplings. Other agencies such as Delhi Metro and Northern Railways, among others too will plant a total of 200,000 saplings.The government has roped in the Forest Research Institute (FRI), Dehradun to perform a third-party audit of last year’s plantation drive. In 2019-20, the Delhi government planted a total of 29, 366, 3.6 million saplings against the target of 24, 18,300 lakh saplings. “We have decided to get a third-party audit done to assess the survival rate of the plantations this year as well,” said Rai. The minister said the aim of the mega plantation drive is to increase Delhi’s green cover to 350 sqkm by 2021 from the current 325 sqkm. “In the last few years, there has been a significant increase in the green cover of Delhi due to the mega plantation initiatives. In 2017 the green cover was 299 sqkm, which increased to 325 sqkm in 2019 and it is estimated that by 2021 the green cover will increase to around 350 sqkm, which will help in a substantial reduction of pollution levels,” said Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mega-green-drive-in-delhi-aims-to-plant-3-1-million-saplings/story-DcTBe0VZYl7xHCk25vo8KO.html
02-07-2020||Delhi||Traffic in Delhi contributes to highest share of toxic VOC emissions||Traffic emissions and the burning of solid fuel contribute to the highest share (80%) of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in Delhi’s air, the national capital’s first-ever analysis of such compounds has revealed. VOCs are gases emitted from certain solids and liquids, affecting local and regional air quality, human health and climate, both directly and indirectly. They are a group of pollutants that can cause a range of health issues, including injury to the central nervous system and even certain cancers, according to the US Environment Protection Agency.A team of 14 researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Kanpur, IIT-Delhi, Laboratory of Atmospheric Chemistry (LAC), Switzerland, Space and Atmospheric Sciences Division and the Geosciences Division (Ahmedabad) conducted the study of the source apportionment of VOCs in Delhi’s air. They collected high-frequency data during January -March 2018.They collected the samples at two locations—IIT-Delhi campus (an urban area surrounded by residential and commercial areas) and Manav Rachna International University (MRIU), Faridabad (a suburban site in a relatively open area and small parks in the vicinity). The study is part of the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) ongoing projects on real-time source apportionment of air pollution as well as the Department of Biotechnology’s on the impact of air pollution on health.“During the analysis, we observed a high concentration of VOCs and trace gases. We also saw strong day-night variations in the concentrations at the two sites. We identified six major contributing factors to VOCs at the sites, including two traffic-emission related factors, two solid-fuel combustion factors and two secondary factors,” SN Tripathi, head, civil engineering department, IIT-Kanpur, and one of the corresponding authors of the study, said.At the urban site, traffic-related emissions contributed 56.6% to the total VOC concentration compared to 36.0% at the suburban site. The researchers found a higher concentration at the urban site, mainly because of heavy vehicular movement during the day and the plying of heavy-duty vehicles during the night as compared to the suburban site.Solid fuel combustion contributed 27.5% to emissions at the urban IIT-D site, and 30.4% to the emissions at the suburban MRIU site.“Emissions from the burning of solid fuels (such as wood, charcoal, coal, biomass, leaves and waste), particularly in the night, were identified as a significant source contributing to a high concentration of VOCs at both the sites,” the study read.According to the study, secondary factors were the most important source of VOCs during the daytime, accounting for 15.9% of the total VOC concentration at the urban site and 33.6% at the suburban site. At the suburban site, the factors were dominated by oxygenated VOCs such as benzene, toluene, xylene, which are mainly emitted from industries and the burning of biomass. These substances are carcinogenic and prolonged exposure to them can adversely impact human health.“The study highlights the crucial role that anthropogenic sources (man-made emissions) play in pollution levels in Delhi. We urgently need measure to reduce such emissions from traffic exhaust and solid fuel combustion to mitigate the severe pollution and environmental impact of VOCs as well as aerosols in Delhi-NCR,” Tripathi said.Interventions such as transitioning to cleaner fuels and ultimately to electric vehicles are required to cut down on these emissions and improve the ambient air quality in the region, he added.“It is crucial to study VOCs to get a complete picture of air pollution and its sources. For instance, when Delhi switched to CNG (lesser polluting fuel) from diesel, it was thought that, for the time being, it would reduce pollution. But CNG emits more VOCs, and eventually, cities like Delhi will have to convert to cleaner fuels to actually control high levels of pollution,” Dilip Ganguly, associate professor, Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, IIT-Delhi, and one of the study’s corresponding authors, said.An air quality analysis conducted by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) during January 1-May 31 this year also revealed high levels of ozone (a product of VOCs and NO2) pollution in Delhi-NCR. The analysis underlined vehicular and industrial emissions as the major reasons behind it.Anumita Roychowdhury, the executive director of research and advocacy, CSE, said, “So far air pollution has been dealt with only in terms of particulate matter (PM), which is not enough, given the complex nature of pollution in Delhi-NCR. Gases such as VOCs are major components of air pollution. They are toxic and harmful and contribute to the formation of ozone and secondary particulates in the atmosphere. We require a holistic approach to address the issue of air pollution. Cleaner action plans, therefore, need to address particles and gases together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-in-delhi-contributes-to-highest-share-of-toxic-voc-emissions/story-HAUNSb49rjJLPYidVep7vN.html
02-07-2020||City||Delhi: NDMC to launch anti-spitting drive, deploy civil wardens||New Delhi: To contain the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease and maintain public hygiene, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has decided to launch an “Anti-Spitting drive” with 10 civil warden squads. Apart from issuing fines, these civic wardens will also spread awareness and educate the public about the ill effects of spitting and urinating in public places.The civic body had in May issued a notification regarding penalty of Rs 1,000 on spitting or urinating in public places under its jurisdiction.According to NDMC officials, these civil wardens will carry a point-of-sale (POS) machine to issue on-the-spot fine. The POS machine will also have the option of e-payment, in case violators are not carrying cash.“If the violator has no money to pay the fine, they will be produced before a special municipal magistrate to take action as per the provisions of law. The civil warden squad will comprise sanitation inspector-level employees of the NDMC,” an official of the civic body said, asking not to be named.He said that civil wardens will be uniformed in a sky-blue shirt marked with the NDMC logo and dark blue trousers.“In the first phase, the anti-spitting drive will cover Connaught Place, Khan Market, Gole market, Sarojini Nagar Market, Bengali Market, Janpath and other prominent market areas. In the second phase, by mid-July, the drive will cover parks, gardens and other public places to fine violators as per the notification issued by NDMC,” the civic body said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-ndmc-to-launch-anti-spitting-drive-deploy-civil-wardens/story-3og36TVMTkyu15t4UTC4AN.html
02-07-2020||Delhi||DU students flags breach of privacy on varsity’s online admit card portal||A section of final-year undergraduate students of Delhi University (DU) colleges Thursday raised concerns over a possible breach of privacy on the varsity’s online portal for issuing admit cards for the upcoming online exams, which are scheduled to start on July 10. Students alleged that anyone can access a student’s admit card that carries personal details such as their mobile phone number, address, date of birth and email id.DU had earlier announced that it would conduct open book online exams for final-year students as a one-time measure in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the need to ensure social distancing. The university is issuing admit cards online through a link available on its website. To access the admit card, students are provided a gateway password that is unique to each college. Students can enter this password along with their roll numbers and names to access the admit card.Vivek Prasad, a final-year LLB student at DU’s Campus Law Centre, said the gateway passwords are being circulated on WhatsApp groups, thereby posing a threat to the privacy of thousands of students. “If anyone gets hold of this gateway password, (s)he can easily access the roll number and names of students, which are available on the college websites, and then access their admit cards. There is a real risk of potential stalkers getting hold of phone numbers, email ids and home addresses of girls using the admit card portal,” he said.Other students, too, raised similar concerns. Suruchi, a final-year BA (Hons) student at Rajdhani College, said, “It’s scary for a student to know that her details can be accessed by anyone online. Our privacy has been openly violated by the university,” she said.Vinay Gupta, dean of examinations, said the university has given a unique password to each of the 60 colleges. “We cannot distribute the admit card in person this year, given the circumstances, and we had to switch to the online mode. We do not expect our students to search for the roll numbers of other students and pull out their personal details. Students should have a moral responsibility to not indulge in something like that, considering the prevailing situation. Some students are trying to create a fuss over nothing,” he said.Later in the evening, Gupta said the administration has fixed the issue faced by law students. “We added an option of one time password (OTP) on the admit card portal of law students since their roll numbers were easily accessible on the website. No other college student should face any such issue since their details are not available online,” he said.However, students of other colleges said their roll numbers are also easily available on websites. Amreen, a student of BA (Hons) English at Gargi College, said, “Some of the colleges have also uploaded a notification mentioning the gateway password on their websites. The college websites also have the names and roll numbers of students. This will lead to cases of online harassment and stalking. Who will take responsibility if something untoward happens?”A group of DU teachers, who are also members of the Indian National Teachers’ Congress, has written to vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi on Thursday saying, “The university administration has uploaded the admit cards on its website which can be accessed by anyone. Examination roll number and names can be accessed from the college websites. Surprisingly, gateway passwords are common for all students. Even an outsider can access the phone numbers, email addresses and home addresses of students which are mentioned on their admit cards. Therefore, the university administration must take notice of this breach of confidentiality and privacy.”Despite several attempts, Tyagi did not respond to calls and texts sent to him seeking his comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-students-flags-breach-of-privacy-on-varsity-s-online-admit-card-portal/story-XEuvgXFFCRNiHJTHsxhjVL.html
02-07-2020||City||SDMC asks teachers to be present at schools, staff unhappy||New Delhi: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has asked its teachers to start coming to schools even as physical teaching remains suspended till the end of July 31 due to the coronavirus pandemic. The teachers have opposed the move, saying all schools are closed in Delhi and regular classes are suspended for students and so then there is no point in asking teachers to go to schools risking their lives. The SDMC in its June 30 order said, “… it is directed that teaching and non-teaching staff of SDMC schools, including aided ones, will attend schools from July 1, by properly maintaining SOP for prevention of Covid-19, to distribute textbooks and other teaching materials collecting from the zonal stores.”The Delhi government had also issued instructions that schools will remain closed in the city till July 31 in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. It had said only those employees (teachers and other staff) will report for duty whose services are absolutely required for Covid-19-related operations.Though schools are shut for students, online classes are being conducted by the municipal schools for their students. They are provided links of recorded audio and video lectures on WhatsApp by municipal schools. Students of East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) schools are also being given assignment and assessment sheets for remote study.Currently, neither Delhi government teachers nor private school teachers are going to schools these days.The South Corporation manages 581 primary schools in its jurisdiction and employs around 6,000 teachers. Till now, only those teachers are visiting schools and going to the field who are engaged in Covid duties. Ram Niwas Solanki, general secretary, Municipal Corporation Teachers’ Association, said Delhi government and North Delhi Municipal Corporation schools are closed even for teaching and non-teaching staff but in SDMC, they are asking teachers to be present at schools at a time when Covid-19 cases are increasing the city every day.Solanki said in EDMC, teachers have been asked to report to school only once in a week as decided by the head of the school for study material distribution.“Asking teachers and non-teaching staff to come to schools every day even when there are no classes at a time of Covid-19 crisis is harassment. Many school buildings were closed and hence they are not even sanitised, so going to schools will only pose threat. This move will only increase crowding at schools and more teachers may get infected with the virus. We have requested the SDMC commissioner and other officials of the civic body’s education department to reconsider their decision,” Solanki said.He, however, said work related to the distribution of books and study material can be done just in a week’s time and there was no need to call teaching and non-teaching staff to schools for the entire month.A senior SDMC official of the education department on the condition of anonymity said the order regarding asking teachers to come to schools would not be revoked.“School will open as per orders to start a fresh admission process, distribution of books and stationery, lesson planning while maintaining social distancing protocol. When other departments are working to full capacity, there is no question of exempting teachers,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdmc-asks-teachers-to-be-present-at-schools-staff-unhappy/story-3w8VPdfI33w3qj1FPPVywK.html
02-07-2020||City||HC suggests complaint helpline for private health care workers||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Thursday said the Delhi government should think of setting up a mechanism like a helpline on which health care workers can call anonymously to complain against private hospitals or nursing homes not providing N-95 masks and PPE kits.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan suggested this during the hearing of a plea by an NGO, which has alleged that nurses in private hospitals and nursing homes were not being provided proper personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and masks to guard against Covid-19 infection.The court said once a complaint is received on the helpline, the Delhi government can inspect the hospital or nursing home concerned and fulfil the PPE kits and masks requirements. It asked the NGO, Distress Management Collective, to give suggestions on how the issues raised in its PIL can be addressed and listed the matter for hearing on July 6.During the hearing, the Delhi government said it was taking action against private hospitals and nursing homes that violate Covid-19 guidelines as and when such instances are brought to its attention.The Delhi government said it had issued an order on April 7 that states if any person, including doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, sweeper or any other staff in government or private sector, died while attending to Covid-19 patients his/ her family shall be provided Rs 1 crore as compensation.It said an order was issued on June 17, notifying that psychiatric social counselling services are being made available to health care workers under a programme called “samarthan”.The Centre, represented by its standing counsel Anil Soni, told the court that it was providing all assistance to states that have to do the actual work. It has in its affidavit said it has provided PPE kits and N 95 masks to states and union territories as per their requirement and it is up to them to “optimally utilise” the protective gear.The plea contended that nurses in private hospitals and clinics were being given used PPE kits. It said all private sector nurses be covered under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package of insurance protection and provided proper psycho-social support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-suggests-complaint-helpline-for-private-health-care-workers/story-tF70CluJ77sExXkDiQYDEN.html
02-07-2020||Delhi||IGL maintenance work at Ashram Chowk||Indraprastha Gas Limited, supplier of compressed natural gas (CNG) and piped natural gas (PNG) in Delhi, will be undertaking pipeline maintenance work at Ashram Chowk over the weekend. The work is likely to impact traffic flow on the stretch during these days.The work will start from 10am Saturday and continue till 10pm Sunday, IGL said in a statement on Thursday.“IGL has obtained permission from all statutory authorities, including the Delhi traffic police, to undertake the work. This maintenance work is likely to impact the flow of traffic coming from Sarai Kale Khan/Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway side towards Mathura Road,” the statement read.In view of the maintenance work, the Delhi traffic police also issued an advisory asking commuters to avoid the stretch and use alternative routes on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/igl-maintenance-work-at-ashram-chowk/story-b6OeWL5nhMz9HhBZ6x1M9H.html
02-07-2020||City||Delhi starts trial for contactless ticketing in buses||New Delhi: The state transport department on Thursday started trials for contactless ticketing in Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses.“On Thursday, a field trial was conducted in an air-conditioned DTC bus based at the Indraprastha bus depot. The trial for the contactless ticket system was conducted on route number 763, from Nizamuddin railway station to Uttam Nagar Bus terminal,” said a senior transport official.To conduct these trials, transport minister Kailash Gahlot has constituted a special task force. The task force led by deputy commissioner (cluster) has been constituted “for timely coordination and implementation of exploring the options of contactless mobile ticketing inside DTC and cluster buses, so that no physical contact between the conductor and commuter takes place due to exchange of cash or ticket,” read the order issued on Wednesday.The task force has officials from the DTC and the Delhi Integrated Multi-modal Transport System Limited. It also has young researchers from IIIT Delhi and experts from WRI India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-starts-trial-for-contactless-ticketing-in-buses/story-DieDfFZGvZBpjwpvvVPfzI.html
02-07-2020||City||Doc with Covid-like symptoms dies but initial tests are negative||New DelhiA young doctor from Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences (MAIDS) died with chest congestion and breathlessness in Rohtak on Thursday evening. Dr Abhishek Bhayana, 27, a junior resident, had started experiencing Covid-19-like symptoms 10 days ago.He had travelled back to his hometown Rohtak, where his first test came out to be negative for the viral infection. Another test done on July 1 was also found to be negative.“Although he had all the symptoms of Covid-19, he tested negative for it. Unfortunately, we have not determined any cause of death so far. Another sample has been sent for testing,” said a doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity.Although he had not been posted in Covid-19 wards of Lok Nayak hospital, which is associated with MAIDS and is the city’s biggest Covid-19 hospital, he had worked in the screening areas of the institute.“Now, every hospital has been getting Covid-19 cases and exposure could have happened anywhere. He did work in the screening area where everyone coming into the hospital is checked for Covid-19 symptoms before being allowed in,” the doctor said.Any health care worker who died of Covid-19 while serving patients with the infection get Rs 1 crore ex gratia as per a scheme announced by the Delhi government. Apart from that, the PM had also announced a 50 lakh insurance cover for all health care workers.So far, at least 2,000 healthcare and hospital staff have tested positive for the infection in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doc-with-covid-like-symptoms-dies-but-initial-tests-are-negative/story-BxA6oPYR971UJNSnPf7brI.html
02-07-2020||Pune||937 positive Covid-19 cases in Pune on Thursday; 14 deaths||Pune, on Thursday, reported the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours at 937. The city also recorded 14 more deaths taking the virus-related death toll to 667. The total count of positive cases in Pune city has now reached 19,042.The number of patients in critical care is 344, while 631 people were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus on Thursday, putting the discharged count at 11,671. One more death was reported in Khadki Cantonment Board area wherein a 62-year-old male admitted to Inamdar Hospital died due to Covid-19.According to the information given by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department, of the 14 deaths reported on Thursday, three deaths each were reported from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and Sahyadri Hospital (Deccan). Two patients died at Sassoon Hospital, while Jehangir Hospital, AICTS Hospital, Ruby Hall Clinic, Inamdar Hospital, Bharati Hospital and Sahyadri Hospital (Hadapsar), reported one death each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/937-positive-covid-19-cases-in-pune-on-thursday-14-deaths/story-8yC2UVmdnibzTQJfV8Z1rL.html
02-07-2020||City||Two siblings murder mother’s ex-spouse in Ludhiana village||Two siblings have murdered their mother’s former husband in Talwara village here, police said on Thursday.A murder case has been registered against the accused.The victim, identified as Gurmel Singh (57), was a priest at a shrine in Talwara. He and the accused’s mother, Shindar Kaur, had rekindled their relationship and were living together. However, the two brothers were against this and ended up murdering Gurmel, police said.Gurmel’s sister Dharamjit Kaur told police that her brother and Shindar had married 35 years ago, but due to strained relations, the two had divorced. Following this, Shindar married her second husband with whom she had sons Jaspreet Singh (25) and Jasdeep Singh (23).However, Shindar’s second husband died three years ago and she started living with Gurmel, the complainant said. As her sons were against their live-in relationship, on June 27 they barged into the shrine and assaulted Gurmel with sticks while he was asleep and fled, the victim’s sister added.An injured Gurmel was taken to a local hospital from where he was referred to PGIMER Chandigarh. He, however, succumbed to his injuries there on Thursday.PAU police station house officer, inspector Paramdeep Singh, said a case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered against the accused who are at large. A hunt is on for their arrest, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-siblings-murder-mother-s-ex-spouse-in-ludhiana-village/story-wsgz3Ty8rzdgrN9jpXM1tK.html
02-07-2020||City||How ‘Lockdown 1 meal a day’ fed a taluka of 130 villages with a dedicated Covid centre||PUNE Until June, 130 villages in Velhe taluka, a population of at least 50,000 citizens were facing the Covid-19 pandemic with no dedicated Covid care centre for tests or quarantines in the taluka.The lack of medical facilities – for testing and quarantine - in the taluka was as stark as the prospect of Covid-19 cases rising.As of July 1, a total of 36 residents from various villages in the taluka have tested positive for Covid-19. Currently, there are three active positive patients. The fact that Velhe today has a handle on the Covid situation rests, in part, in a Covid care centre at the ITI college in Velhe.The brick, mortar and tented structure did not exist till June.In three days it was built up by 75 residents of Wakad, Pune; most of these philantrophists from the IT sector in the city. It began with ‘Lockdown 1 meal a day’, the group’s unofficial name, simply a reflection of what their early charity was dedicated to.It today stands testimony to urban fortunate reaching out to change rural lives – a Covid care centre in Velhe; built by the group volunteers themselves; at the cost of Rs five lakh; all paid for by the group’s volunteer. From‘Lockdown 1 meal a day’ donating food packets during the lockdown, across the city to a 101-bed Covid care centre in Velhe taluka, the effort has been relentless.The centre will serve at least 130 villages and can be accessed by at least 15,000 villagers.“We began our ‘Lockdown 1 Meal a Day’ initiative where we cooked and delivered food to poor people. When the unlock process started in the last week of May, there was 700kg of grain left with us. So went to Velhe village to distribute it. That was when we realised there was a need for a Covid care centre, as there were positive cases found earlier. The total budget of the project went upto Rs 5 lakh and we, members of the group, contributed. Some contributions came from our supporters in the US and Australia,” said Raj Sekhon, owner of an IT company and coordinator of the project.Group volunteers worked for three days to build the centre at the ITI College in Velhe. Beds with saline rods, pillows, bed-sheets and pillow covers were all set up. Initially, it was a 50-bed set up and later on it was increased to 101 beds. As of July 1, a total of 36 residents have tested positive for Covid-19 in Velhe taluka and currently, there are three active positive patients. Twenty-seven close contacts of Velhe’s three active positive patients are in quarantine at this centre. There is a team of doctors and nurses provided by the district administration at the centre. Once a person tests positive, s/he is immediately moved to a government hospital in Pune city. “Looking at the situation there, there was not even a basic medical facility in Velhe. With permission from the tehsildar we took ownership and built a Covid care centre of 51 beds in three days in the first week of June. Later on, we added 50 additional beds. To ensure the safety of medical staff we also provided good quality, reusable PPE kits and face shield for the staff. As an immunity booster we prepared a total of 11,994 medicine doses to be distributed to every house in Velhe taluka,” Sekhon said.Shivaji Shinde, tehsildar of Velhe taluka, said, “As the number of Covid positive patients starting increasing in the taluka we were in need of a proper care centre where we can do testing, and quarantine close contacts. We were in search of help, when this group of people came to our rescue. On their own they built the entire centre, and people are quarantined from all over the taluka. We are very thankful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/how-lockdown-1-meal-a-day-fed-a-taluka-of-130-villages-with-a-dedicated-covid-centre/story-vAej2i07WnXXByQvs8PFYM.html
02-07-2020||City||Stuck with tickets worth ₹2 crore, lottery dealers allege Punjab govt denying refund||With the state government cancelling Baisakhi bumper this year due to the ongoing pandemic, lottery dealers in the state are stuck with tickets worth ₹2 crore. Punjab government has refused to refund or exchange the tickets for Rakhi bumper.In a meeting held here on Wednesday evening, the dealers rued that around 9 lakh tickets worth over ₹22 crore were sold before the announcement that the bumper has been cancelled. However, the dealers are stuck with tickets valued at ₹2 crore.One of the lottery dealers, Som Nath, said, “We have refunded the amount to most customers, but the state government is now harassing the dealers by not allowing refund or exchange of tickets. The government can at least exchange the tickets with the Rakhi bumper, which has been recently announced by the government. But the authorities are not paying any heed.”Recently, the members of Northern India Lottery Association had also conducted a meeting with the officials of Punjab State Lotteries department, but to no avail.Association president H K Chugh said, “The draw for the Baisakhi bumper was scheduled for April 17, but the government cancelled the same on April 11 due to Covid-19. It had conveyed that tickets could be encashed from sellers and post offices, but now the government is not issuing refunds. It is not even exchanging the tickets, which will surely hit the credibility of the department and the state government. Dealers across the state are a harried lot.”“If a person is facing harassment for getting a refund of ₹250, how can he/she expect that the prize would be provided to him with ease,” asked Chugh.He added that they will take up the matter with the state government and would also meet chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh in the coming days, if needed.Punjab State Lotteries superintendent Harjeet Singh said, “Dealers have submitted their demands and the department is looking into it. A few claims made by them regarding the sale of tickets are also suspicious. A decision has to be taken by higher authorities and it would be announced soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stuck-with-tickets-worth-2-crore-lottery-dealers-allege-punjab-govt-denying-refund/story-Wz0wfFleSDh4ZBUdbw6yTL.html
02-07-2020||City||23 ITBP jawans among 35 test positive, Himachal’s Covid-19 count crosses 1000-mark in 105 days||With 35 people, including 23 Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawans, testing Covid-19 positive, the total number of cases crossed 1000-mark on Thursday.The Covid-19 count has climbed to 1,014 in the state.As many as 28 ITBP personnel have been tested Covid-19 positive in Kinnaur in two days.Seventeen jawans were tested positive at Jangi base of the ITBP in Kinnaur district and six at Juri base in Rampur Bushahar of Shimla district.The jawans are of 43rd battalion of ITBP which is deployed in Kinnaur district along the Indo-China border.Some ITBP units moved to Kinnaur from Jammu last month after the violent clash between the Indian Army and Peoples’ Liberation Army which claimed the lives of 20 Indian soldiers.A batch of 59 jawans started off from Jammu on June 21. They took a night halt at Ramgarh base in Panchkula and resumed their journey the next day and reached Jangi base on June 23 and were placed under institutional quarantine at the base. Their samples were sent for testing on Wednesday after five jawans from Reckong Peo base tested positive for the virus.Kinnaur chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sonam Negi said that the jawans have been shifted to a Covid-care facility. The source of infection is being traced.Meanwhile, six jawans currently at Juri base of ITBP have also tested positive. They too came from Jammu. They were also placed under institutional quarantine. The Jangi and Juri ITBP bases have been sealed.Apart from it, an army jawan was tested positive in Sirmaur. He returned from Delhi and was home quarantined.A 22-year-old youth from Jharkhand was tested positive in Lahaul-Spiti district. He works in a private company at Keylong, the administrative headquarters of the tribal district. A Dubai returned man has tested positive in Jogindernagar of Mandi district. Three cases were reported in Hamirpur, three in Una two in Kangra and one in Bilaspur.1000 cases in 105 daysHimachal breached the 1000-mark on the 105th day of reporting its first case, which was detected on March 20. The 900-mark was reached on June 28. It took four days for the count to climb to 1000. As many as 623 cases were recorded in June alone. From March 20 to May 31 there were only 330 cases.This month 61 cases have been reported in just two days.Since the Covid-19 outbreak, Himachal has recorded 1,014 cases. Active cases have down to 359 and 632 persons have been cured.Thirteen people have migrated to other states and eight have succumbed to the virus.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 280 cases followed by Hamirpur with 253 cases. Una district recorded 113, Solan 110 cases, Chamba 52, Shimla and Bilaspur 47 each, Sirmaur 40, Mandi 33, Kinnaur 30, Kullu 5 and Lahaul-Spiti district 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-itbp-jawans-among-35-test-positive-himachal-s-covid-19-count-crosses-1000-mark-in-105-days/story-h143351R97mxPXjE4vmYhK.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Dental students’ exams: HC issues notice to BFUHS||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday issued notice to the Baba Farid University of health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, on a plea challenging the varsity’s move to hold examination in the dental colleges from July 7 amid Covid-19 outbreak.The HC bench of justice Nirmaljit Kaur has asked the varsity to clarify the matter with regard to the central government notification whereby all educational institutes have been closed till July 31. The court has also asked for clarification on allegations from the petitioner that affidavit have been sought from students specifying that they will inform the college authorities in case they are not feeling well and college will not be held responsible for any disease suffered by the students.The petition has been filed by the Dental Surgeons Association of India seeking quashing of notification on examination for MDS and BDS students. They have demanded that the varsity be restrained from holding physical examination until proper guidelines, arrangements and infrastructure are made available.The court was told that the university and the colleges are disassociating themselves from the welfare of students and leaving them to take the risk of physical appearance and taking exam at their own peril. They have termed the affidavit as a violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India and argued that students cannot be compelled to submit such an affidavit jeopardising their health and life. A response has been sought by Friday noon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dental-students-exams-hc-issues-notice-to-bfuhs/story-d9TYMEwP90oq2WBPAY56mN.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Restaurant owner, staff arrested for operating after permitted hours in Ludhiana||Ludhiana police have arrested the owner of a restaurant in Sarabha Nagar, Roche Restaurant, and three employees, for lockdown violations and serving hookah to customers on Wednesday night.The accused have identified as Mayank Chhabra, owner of the restaurant, and his employees, Deep Kumar of New Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, Gagan Singh of New Prem Nagar and Bimlesh Kumar of Rajguru Nagar.Sub-inspector Pardeep Singh said that during night patrolling, he found that the restaurant at I-block of Sarabha Nagar, was operational till late night, while the restaurants are allowed to operate till 8pm.A case has been registered under IPC and Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/restaurant-owner-staff-arrested-for-operating-after-permitted-hours-in-ludhiana/story-JKyFlgwzxazBpt5YF9O3KK.html
02-07-2020||City||Police version is a blatant lie, says family of civilian killed in Sopore shootout||The family of the 65-year-old man, who was killed during a clash with rebels in the Sopore region of north Kashmir, accused the CRPF for his death stating that he was killed in anger by the security forces after their “own men were injured in the attack”.The victim identified as Bashir Ahmad, worked as a civil contractor. Ahmad was accompanied by his three-year-old grandson at the time.Bashir’s wife is a retired station house officer at women’s police station in Baramulla. “The police version is a blatant lie. If he was caught in the crossfire, his body would have been inside his car or his car would have suffered some damage. There’s not even a scratch or a bullet mark on his car,” said Suhail Ahmad, the victim’s son.A photo of a toddler sitting on the chest of his dead grandfather has outraged residents of Kashmir.According to the family, Bashir Khan was driving in his car with his grandson from his home in the main city of Srinagar.While Ahmed’s family has released a video message on social media, accusing the CRPF personnel of dragging him out of his car and shooting him at point-blank range, the Jammu & Kashmir Police said he died in the exchange of fire with militants. The victim’s son said troops later placed the child on his father’s chest and took pictures.Militants threatening family, says IGPAt a press conference Wednesday, Kashmir Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said the family’s accusations against the CRPF were driven by threats issued to them by militants.A wreath-laying ceremony was held at RTC Humhama Campus of CRPF to pay tributes to the slain CRPF personnel.‘Bashir was hit by bullets fired by militants’Special Director General of CRPF, Zulfiquar Hassan said that militants had already taken position in the mosque when the CRPF reached there.“When we reached there, the militants had started firing at the CRPF personnel who bravely retaliated,” he said adding that Bashir was hit by bullets fired by militants.“While alighting from the car, he was shot in the back by the militants,” he said.The 3-year-old boy was rescued by a CRPF man.(with agency input)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-version-is-a-blatant-lie-says-family-of-civilian-killed-in-sopore-shootout/story-xCEFJuYDvW1p1wPHqr84GM.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: IIT Roorkee roped in for infrastructural evaluation of Dadumajra waste processing plant||The Chandigarh municipal corporation has roped in IIT Roorkee for infrastructural evaluation of the waste processing plant in Dadumajra. The IIT will assess the plant’s internal strength and suggest appropriate decisions regarding upgrade or replacement of machinery. In case experts find the entire machinery is defunct, the MC will have to explore the option of setting up a new plantThe MC wrote to IIT Delhi and IIT Roorkee, seeking their help in evaluating the machinery and infrastructure available at the plant. IIT Delhi expressed inability to help at this juncture amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“IIT Roorkee responded positively. It sought detailed project report and the inventory list of the plant, which we have sent them. We are expecting their response by next week,” said a senior MC official, privy to the development.The IIT is yet to formally accept the evaluation work. After studying the detailed project report, it will state its cost for conducting the examination and thereafter, suggestions for improvements or upgrades needed. For this, it will form a team of experts who will conduct site inspection.An inspection visit to the plant will take place after formal agreement between the MC and IIT Roorkee. It is expected to happen in the third week of July.The MC took over the controversial plant from Jaypee on June 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-iit-roorkee-roped-in-for-infrastructural-evaluation-of-dadumajra-waste-processing-plant/story-56mRDzNha05tl8LPtU9puO.html
02-07-2020||City||Pvt hospital owner booked for attacking police team in Batala||The Batala police have booked Navtej Singh Guggu, who runs a private hospital, here on Thursday for attacking the SHO of City police station and his team during a raid at his hospital in Dharampura Colony.On Wednesday, a police team from Dinanagar came to Batala to investigate a robbery case and they got information that some accused are undergoing treatment at Guggu’s hospital.The city police and police team from Dinanagar went to Guggu’s Navtej Humanity Hospital for search but Guggu and his companions resisted their entry.A video of the incident shows a hospital man attacking the police vehicle. On the basis of the video, police have registered a case under Sections 353, 186, 427 and 148 of the IPC against Navtej Singh Guggu and six unidentified persons.Police was sent to hospital for his arrest but he was absconding.Justifying his action, Guggu said, “Police manhandled the hospital staff and patients following which I rushed to the hospital and questioned the SHO about his highhandedness.”“I and my supporters will hold a dharna in front of the SSP office and if police dare, they can arrest me,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pvt-hospital-owner-booked-for-attacking-police-team-in-batala/story-ra4xg54FSa5iy8QomIdWnO.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Youth Development Board to organise awareness campaign on Covid-19 on July 4||Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, chairman of the Punjab Youth Development Board, on Thursday, said the board will organise an awareness campaign on Covid-19 all over Punjab on July 4. Releasing pamphlets and other promotional items for the occasion, he said that as part of this campaign, a cycle rally from Kharar to Chapparchiri will be organised in Mohali, to generate awareness on how to remain safe from the virus.Apart from this, a webinar will also be held on the topic “Covid-19: Challenges and opportunities for youth”. Bindra added that a plethora of activities will be organised and 70 youth club volunteers will go from door-to-door in villages generating awareness. He added that these activities will be carried out zone-wise by dividing Mohali into four zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-youth-development-board-to-organise-awareness-campaign-on-covid-19-on-july-4/story-z1bsRKGPfu01zKq8AdcbXI.html
02-07-2020||Noida||3 held with 85 kg of cannabis in Noida; 4th major drug haul in fortnight||Three alleged drug traffickers were arrested in Noida while trying to smuggle 85 kg of cannabis into Delhi NCR, police said on Thursday. Police also seized the narcotic consignment and identified the arrested accused as Delhi residents Vijay Sharma and Shahid and Bulandshahr native Arif. It was the fourth major drug haul within a fortnight by the Gautam Buddh Nagar police. Earlier on June 27, three alleged drug traffickers were held after a shootout in Greater Noida and 300 kg of cannabis, procured from Andhra Pradesh, was seized from them, officials said. Another three alleged traffickers were held in Greater Noida before that while transporting 30 kg of cannabis to Delhi NCR on June 24.Two others were caught transporting 200 kg of cannabis in the region on June 19, the officials said. In the latest case, the accused were intercepted near a drain between Sector 16 and 17 of Noida on Wednesday night with the illegal consignment valued at over Rs 12 lakh, the police said. “There were eight sacks of cannabis weighing 85 kgs inside a tempo. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the accused had procured the material from outside the NCR and wanted to sell it in Delhi NCR,” Noida’s Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Ranvijay Singh said. The Chhattisgarh-registered tempo used for the transporting the contraband’s consignment too was impounded, he added.The accused were arrested earlier by Ghaziabad and Meerut police, he said, adding the Noida police is further ascertaining their criminal antecedents.An FIR has been registered in Sector 20 police station under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the accused have been remanded to judicial custody, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/3-held-with-85-kg-of-cannabis-in-noida-4th-major-drug-haul-in-fortnight/story-L1rzJZgl9sdDPdrkdfLOpL.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Diagnostic centre to come up on Mata Mansa Devi temple premises||A diagnostic centre with OPD facility will be set up on the Shri Mata Mansa Devi Temple premises to provide treatment at subsidised rates.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, chairman of the Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board (SMMDSB), presided over a meeting of the board on Thursday, during which works worth around Rs 45 crore were approved.He said that besides retired doctors, services of medical practitioners associated with different NGOs will be taken at the centre. The diagnostic centre will be built, managed and run by the SMMDSB.The CM also issued directions to explore the transfer of additional 10 acre adjoining and unutilised land of Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) to SMMDSB for providing amenities to the devotees in a planned manner.A second entry will also be opened at the temple for open view and darshan. Construction of a shed in Chandivas Mandir near Morni will be started next week. Construction of the new corridor connecting passage of Main Mansa Devi Temple and Patiala Temple will be completed by October at an estimated cost of Rs 1.2 crore. Similarly, the construction of an old age home near Laxmi Bhawan premises will be completed by September 2021 at an estimated cost of Rs 10.49 crore. The five-storey building will be able to accommodate 52 persons.Admission to Sanskrit college to start from coming session The admission process for Sanskrit College, named Shri Mata Mansa Devi Sanskrit Mahavidhylaya, will start from the coming session. Till the building is complete, classes will be started in a vacant hall at upper ground floor of Shri Mata Mansa Devi Dharmarth Bhandara Committee. Work to begin on national institute of ayurveda, yoga and naturopathyThe chief minister also issued directions to take up the matter of setting up of National Institute of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, at the temple complex.with the ministry of Ayush, government of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/diagnostic-centre-to-come-up-on-mata-mansa-devi-temple-premises/story-JoR5JVnIiFaFJjEpZnUDUK.html
02-07-2020||City||SAD demands probe into minister Randhawa’s role in FEMA violation by Lally||The Shiromani Akali Dal has demanded that the enforcement directorate should probe the role of Punjab cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa in the FEMA violation case by former Jalandhar rural district chief Sukhwinder Singh Lally, who is reportedly a close aide of Randhawa.During a press conference in Jalandhar on Thursday, Youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Bunty Romana said that Lally was the front-man of Randhawa, who further invested the money that belonged to Randhawa. He added that ED should extend probe into the role of the minister while also demanding CBI probe into the matter.Recently, ED had seized the residential premises of Lally, worth Rs 2 crore, at Nangal Shama village in Jalandhar for alleged FEMA violations.Randhawa refuted the charges said that Akalis have been suffering from ‘Randhawa phobia’ and they should ask his brother Inderjit Singh Randhawa, who is in SAD, about Lally. “These allegations are completely baseless,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-demands-probe-into-minister-randhawa-s-role-in-fema-violation-by-lally/story-5J8vfp834Nokh5LUbwEg5N.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Woman returns from Muscat, avoids quarantine; booked by Pune police||The Kothrud police on Wednesday booked a woman who returned to Pune from Muscat for violating quarantine norms. This is the second such case within month as authorities face resistance for institutional quarantine from those arriving in India under the Vande Bharat mission.The 24-year-old resident of Kothrud returned to Pune from Oman on June 30, but did not follow mandatory protocol of quarantine, officials said. When authorities found that the woman went home, PMC officials filed a complaint with the police.Later, the police filed a first information report (FIR) against the woman based on the PMC complaint under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 188 (disobedience to duly promulgated by public servant), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection and disease dangerous to life) and Section 51 (b) (refuses to comply with any direction given by or on behalf of Central Government or the State Government) of the Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of the of Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulations Act and Epidemic Diseases Act.“The woman who returned from Muscat to Pune on June 30 was asked to be quarantined at a hotel for seven days, however, she violated the rules and went to her house in Kothrud even after a prior warning. The FIR was filed against her,” said Yuvraj Deshmukh, PMC executive engineer and incharge for coordinating quarantine facilities of travellers.As per government orders, everyone returning to the country has to mandatorily spend seven days either at a government quarantine facility or hotel. Following the FIR, the woman was shifted to a hotel. Till now, 3,000 travellers have returned to Pune under the Centre’s Vande Bharat mission, a programme devised to bring back Indians from other nations amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “I have already lost my job and was stuck in Muscat since the past three months due to Covid-19. After returning here, nobody informed me about how I should go for institutional quarantine. I told the officials to allow me to stay at home only for the night as it was difficult for me being a woman, but the police filed an FIR against me. I am already running out of money and now at the hotel, I have to pay Rs 2,000 per day during my quarantine,” said the woman booked by the police. The woman claimed that on June 30, PMC officials contacted her and asked her to go to the hotel . “I requested them on WhatsApp that I wish to be quarantined at the hotel the next day. The official responded saying that it is fine to get quarantined on July 1, when I actually checked in there. Despite this, the FIR was lodged against me. Neither the nodal officers from the PMC, nor the officers from the police station have visited the hotel for confirmation of check-in or for medical checkup,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/woman-returns-from-muscat-avoids-quarantine-booked-by-pune-police/story-AIOn2I0aJ8Rm60jNA8W8TK.html
02-07-2020||City||Work on international airport in Ludhiana to kick-start in two weeks||The work on international airport in Halwara would begin in the next two weeks, said Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma on Thursday.He said the road leading to the airport site would be widened and the PWD (B&R) officials have been directed to start the work on the boundary wall of the international airport at the earliest.The DC visited the site where the civil terminal of the international airport would come up and issued necessary directions to the officials concerned. He was accompanied by Jagraon additional deputy commissioner Neeru Katyal Gupta and Raikot sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Gupta, among others.With the start of international flights from Halwara airport, the area would develop as a business hub that would also boost the state’s economy, Sharma revealed.He informed that the over 161-acre land needed for the construction of the civil terminal has already been acquired and Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has taken possession of the said land. He said they would try to get the runway constructed on priority along with the terminal building so that international flights operations could be started soon.The DC said in lieu of the acquired land, farmers have been paid a compensation of ₹20,61,314 per acre (including 100% solatium, 12% AP and 1.25 multiplier factor). Besides, each eligible family would also be paid ₹5,50,000 as rehabilitation and resettlement amount.Punjab government and Airport Authority of India had signed the agreement for a joint venture for setting up the new civil and cargo international air terminal in Aitiana village of Raikot Tehsil, where the Indian Air Force station is situated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/work-on-international-airport-in-ludhiana-to-kick-start-in-two-weeks/story-ytk5ZtoHGDKLR5w10iL5OL.html
02-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka hikes salaries of contractual MBBS doctors||Karnataka Health Department on Thursday permitted District Health Departments to appoint doctors with MBBS, on a contractual basis with permission of concerned District Health Officers and Commissioners, a statement said.The state government has also hiked the salary of contractual doctors from Rs 45000 to Rs 60000 per month.Earlier in the day, Karnataka Health Minister B Sriramulu urged contract doctors to continue offering their services amid their demand for regularisation of services.“I request the contract doctors with folded hands to continue offering their services. With regard to their two demands, one of salary hike and the other being permanency, I assure all of them that I stand with them and their requests will definitely be fulfilled,” said Sriramulu.The Chief Minister had also discussed about the two issues yesterday and agreed to facilitate the pay hike, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-hikes-salaries-of-contractual-mbbs-doctors/story-TxrzO0wxLiLOANzp4mDIDM.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fancy vehicle number e-auction in Chandigarh from July 14||The Registering and the Licensing Authority (RLA) will hold an e-auction of fancy numbers of a new series, CH01-CB, from July 14 to 16.Registrations will be held from July 4 to 13. The e-auction of leftover fancy/special registration numbers of previous series, including CH01-CA, CH01-BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS will also be held along with the CH01-CB series.It will start at 10am on July 14 and end at 5pm on July 16.Only those who purchased vehicles on a Chandigarh address are eligible to participate in the e-auction.Vehicle owners can register on https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy and obtain a unique acknowledgement number (UAN).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fancy-vehicle-number-e-auction-in-chandigarh-from-july-14/story-R2K52cSw1oV75YxXcqODOK.html
02-07-2020||Bangalore||DK Shivakumar takes charge as Karnataka Congress president, ceremony on Zoom||More than three months after he was declared as president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee and three failed attempts to hold an event for swearing-in ceremony, Vokkaliga strongman DK Shivakumar on Thursday formally took as the state unit president. In a massive show of strength, lakhs of Congress workers across 15,000 locations in the state took part in a ‘Pratijna Divas’ (oath-taking ceremony) over Zoom video app. Incumbent Dinesh Gundu Rao formally handed over the party flag to the new president.Addressing party workers as their state president for the first time, Shivakumar said: “Joining together is the beginning, thinking together is progress, working together is success.”Fifty eight-year-old DKShi (as he is known within the party) has been intensely loyal to Congress. A six-term MLA, Shivakumar has been a minister in four different cabinets in the state. His first stint as a minister came when he was all of 28 in the S Bangarappa-led government. But it was his tenure as the urban development minister in the SM Krishna government where he emerged as the right-hand man of the then CM that catapulted him into the spotlight. Incidentally, his daughter recently got engaged to Krishna’s grandson though the former CM is now with the ruling BJP. Shivakumar’s brother DK Suresh is an MP from Bangalore rural.Shivakumar is one of Karnataka’s richest politicians who during the 2018 assembly polls declared a wealth of Rs 840 crore. He has been accused of involvement in illegal mining, and a housing society scam. Last year, the Enforcement Directorate arrested him in a money laundering case and he was jailed in Tihar. The Congress leader has rejected these charges as political vendetta. What has endeared Shivakumar to the party high command is his troubleshooting skills. Shivakumar, who has never hid his ambition to become the CM, is hoping that helping the Congress come back to power in the 2023 assembly polls would help him realise that dream.L Manjunath, a political analyst, noted how Shivakumar sustains his momentum over the next three years and builds relations with other aspiring leaders within his own party will determine how far he goes. “Nobody can deny his political acumen or dynamism. But he has accumulated a number of enemies both within and outside the party over the years. For now though Congress which had become moribund in the state after the fall of the coalition government has become very active taking on the government and this has been primarily due to Shivakumar’s leadership,” said Manjunath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/dk-shivakumar-takes-charge-as-karnataka-congress-president-ceremony-on-zoom/story-CTPLtirfLCekaHQjbSD4cK.html
02-07-2020||City||Two men deserted by wives end life in Ludhiana||Two men troubled by marital discord ended their lives in separate incidents on Wednesday.A 32-year-old man hanged himself at his house in Basant Nagar after his wife left for her aunt’s house. Police said the man suspected that the aunt was forcing his wife to divorce him. Daba police have booked the aunt and her husband for abetment to suicide on the complaint of the father of the deceased.ASI Gurdial Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused. Efforts are on to arrest them.In another case, a 57-year-old truck driver ended his life by hanging himself at his house in Sawan Vihar Colony, Jamalpur, on Wednesday night.His friend told the police that he was an alcoholic, due to which his wife had left for her parents’ house in Gurdaspur two days ago.On Wednesday night, the 57-year-old called him over the phone and said he was going to end his life.By the time, the friend reached the house, the truck driver was dead.Police have initiated inquest proceedings.Both bodies were sent to the civil hospital for autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-deserted-by-wives-end-life-in-ludhiana/story-5kHlEwje0TEB3wFuejtFUN.html
02-07-2020||Patna||Major part of Patna City sealed day after 63 positive Covid-19 cases reported||The district administration on Thursday decided to seal a major part of Patna City, a bustling part of the state capital, after 63 positive Covid-19 cases were reported from the area on Wednesday night.Patna City houses big markets like Maroofganj and Khajekalan. City’s sub-divisional officer (SDO) Rajesh Roshan said, “Following a spurt in Covid cases in the city area, the administration has decided to seal the areas from Paschim Darwaza to City Chowk, Chamdoria, Chowkshikarpur to prevent spread of the contagion. The 63 cases reported have been narrowed down to a tea and fruit seller in Patna City via contact tracing. All the shops will be closed except the ones providing essential services. The traffic movement will also be restricted. ”The areas will be sealed for the next 14 days and will be divided into 18 containment zones.Though Maroofganj does not fall in containment zone, no vehicle will be able to reach the place due to ban on plying of vehicles in the containment zones. The SDO said, “If the disease spread is not contained during the time the areas are sealed, the places will be closed for 14 more days. Over 100 Covid cases have been reported in the City areas so far.” The administration has decided to put up barricades and banners to declare the restricted areas. “The medical team will be active in the areas for contact tracing. The officials have been directed to sanitise the containment zones and prevent traffic movement,” the SDO said.Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi said, “As many as 50 Covid cases were reported in Khejakalan, 10 in City Chowk and 3 in Alamganj.”Meanwhile, Maroofganj traders complained about business being affected. “Very few traders are coming here from other districts. The business has been badly affected,” said Basant Lal Golbare, convener of Maroofganj Traders’ Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/patna-city-sealed-a-day-after-63-ve-cases-found/story-vDzkNCXqtlxFCTE4SHtXIM.html
02-07-2020||City||3rd in a weekLightning kills 27 in Bihar||PATNA:At least 26 people, including women and children, were killed as lightning struck again in Bihar on Thursday, the third time in a week, taking the toll to 134. Earlier, on June 26, lightning struck 24 districts and left 96 people dead. On June 30, it killed 11 people.A majority of the deaths on Thursday were of farmers working in their fields. While the maximum number of deaths (seven) was reported from Samastipur district, six casualties were reported from Patna, four from East Champaran, two each from Sheohar and Madhubani districts, three from Katihar and one each from Purnea and West Champaran districts.In Patna, five persons, including three women, were killed and three others injured at Dulhin Bazar locality when all of them were working in paddy fields. In East Champaran, officials said a 27-year-old woman and three others were injured at Parsauni village under Patahi police station while a 17-year-old boy,from Ajagarwa village was killed in the lightning strikes.Expressing his condolences, chief minister Nitish Kumar directed the district magistrates (DMs) concerned to immediately provide financial assistance of Rs 4 lakh each to the bereaved families in accordance with the relief norms. He also directed to ensure medical treatment of the injured.Officials of the state’s disaster management department say advance warnings are sent out through text messages, television channels or through posters or pamphlets. “The farmers did not get the warning sent across, and the only way they can be protected is by tackling things at the panchayat level and educating farmers. The majority of the deaths took place due to people seeking shelter under trees,” said an official.The official said that during a storm, people should seek shelter in brick houses. if possible. People should avoid boating, fishing or being in open water during thunderstorms, as water bodies are vulnerable to lightning strikes, and water is a good conductor.(With inputs from Sandeep Bhaskar) Headline: Strikes from skyIntro: Despite govt claims of an early warning system, lightning continues to kill people in alarming numbers Date: FatalitiesApril 19: 5 April 23: 6 April 26: 12May 1: 7May 6: 12May 7: 2May 19: 5June 26: 96 June 30: 11July 2: 26||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3rd-in-a-weeklightning-kills-27-in-bihar/story-Dj2059v95d4FI7w4oIDcdN.html
02-07-2020||City||Domestic airport: Ambala DC visits villages near airforce station to scout for land||Deputy commissioner (DC) Ashok Kumar Sharma, along with other officials of the district administration, on Thursday visited the villages surrounding the Ambala air force station to scout for land for the domestic airport that is set to come up here soon. The DC said that he has spoken to the sarpanches of Garnala, Barnala and Dhankaur villages and told them that if a farmer is willing to give land voluntarily, the administration will buy it at the collector rate. He said after that the administration will initiate discussion with the defence officials.He added that the airstrip of the air force station will be used and all other details such as cost, area, project duration and flight movements will be discussed further. “The proposed airport will undoubtedly increase the beauty and employment opportunities in the area,” Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/domestic-airport-ambala-dc-visits-villages-near-airforce-station-to-scout-for-land/story-jgtXXXn0XGAimP3VMvgEmL.html
02-07-2020||City||Unlock 2.0: Punjab goat farmers await opening of animal mandis||Scores of goat farmers in Punjab continue to reel under financial crisis even as the state enters Unlock 2.0. Farmers say that the goats they are rearing for breeding and dairy purposes have no takers.A weekly mandi held at Bathinda’s Tungwali village was a reliable platform for a large number of goat farmers where traders from Rajasthan and Maharashtra used to come and buy animals from small and medium-scale farmers.Farmers visiting the mandi said at least 200 animals were sold at the fair held on second, ninth, 17th and 24th of every month. However, this mandi was suspended since March 9.Makhan Singh, 38, from Dhurkot village in Ludhiana, has 55 goats but rues for not getting any income from goat rearing. He cultivates rice-wheat cycles on his 2.5 acre land and additional same size of the land on lease for his family of five along with two workers hired to look after the goats.“Visiting Tungwali every week for sale of goats was quite profit-making. For goats I used to get around Rs 15,000 at mandis and now I cannot sell them for even half the market price. Now, I am finding it difficult to make ends meet due to non-availability of buyers for goats,” he said.The mandi is organised by a group of progressive farmers at Tungwali, located 20km from district headquarters. Beatle and barbari are among the most popular breeds reared in goateries in state.Gursewak Singh, of Phulo Mithi village in Bathinda, who started rearing goats in September last year, said he has been waiting for reopening of animal mandi to sell five kids of improved breeds.“My plans to improve family income have dashed and I have to incur extra to feed the goats. Since these animals are of improved breed, local slaughterhouses offer less than half of the market rate of Rs 12,000-15,000 per kid,” he said.The man behind the goat market, Balwinder Singh, said he also is facing financial losses due to restrictions. “I had reared about 100 goats for Bakarid scheduled for next month, but owing to lockdown, no trader is placing any order. Usually, we start getting orders for sacrificial animals at least a month ahead of the festival,” he said.A progressive goat farmer Gurdeep Chahal said goatery is mainly adopted by low-income farmers and due to their limited resources, the lockdown period has caused an immense problem for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-2-0-punjab-goat-farmers-await-opening-of-animal-mandis/story-pNaFo5ROw867YDrIGH1RqK.html
02-07-2020||City||Contractors delaying development works in Ludhiana will be blacklisted, says minister||With residents and councillors raising a hue and cry over the delay in taking up development projects, Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister and Ludhiana (west) MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu announced that the contractors who have either delayed such works or failed to start them despite orders being issued to them would be blacklisted.Ashu conducted a meeting with municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and other officials at Zone D office on Thursday and reviewed different development projects being taken up in the city. Mayor Balkar Sandhu and councillor Mamta Ashu were also present in the meeting.During the meeting, Ashu reviewed the development projects related to Ludhiana Smart City Ltd, operations and maintenance cell, horticulture branch, health branch, recoveries etc. He also inspected the ongoing work of water front development alongside Sidhwan canal and leisure valley in BRS Nagar.Speaking on the working of Tata Company, which is taking up LED streetlights project in the city, Ashu said the next payment for the project would be made only after the contractor explains the energy saving process in detail. He directed the MC officials to impose a penalty to Tata Sons (contractor) for all non-functional streetlights.He also appreciated the civic officials for getting GPS installed in all of its vehicles through CSR, as this would help in better monitoring.Ashu said, “Due to the delay in execution of projects, residents are a harried lot and no laxity would be tolerated in terms of quality or speed of the development works. Contractors are taking the MC for granted and strict action would be taken against them.”MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said, “The MC is also working to expedite recovery of dues from the residents and the amount recovered would also be spent for the development of the city. A monitoring cell has also been set up in the civic body that is taking samples of all ongoing projects and getting them tested from the laboratory at Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/contractors-delaying-development-works-in-ludhiana-will-be-blacklisted-says-minister/story-SpMcqzzGGxkrLRhuAnbqFL.html
02-07-2020||City||Haryana students urge govt to postpone JEE, NEET exams||With Covid-19 cases in Haryana and across the country continuing on the upward spiral, students and parents are urging the Centre to postpone the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) scheduled to be held this month.The National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts the JEE (Mains) for admission to undergraduate programmes in NITs, IIITs and other centrally funded technical institutions, and NEET, for admission to MBBS, BDS, BUMS, BHMS and other medical courses, had decided to hold the exams in July, in hope that the cases would go down.But with no improvement in the situation, many students, especially those living in containment zones, are worried they may facing troubles in reaching the exam centre. While the JEE main paper is to be held between July 18 and 21, the NEET exam is scheduled for July 26.‘NO CLUE ABOUT EXAM CENTRE’Hritik Nain, a NEET aspirant from Rohtak, says, “Only about 24 days are left for the exam but we still don’t know where our exam centre is and how we will reached there, especially since taking a public transport is risky right now. And with many states extending the lockdown till July 31, the government should direct the National Testing Agency to postpone the exams.”‘WHO WILL RESPONSIBILITY IF AN INFECTED CANDIDATE REACHES EXAM HALL’Ashish Jaglan, a JEE aspirant from Hisar, who has been stuck at his uncle’s house in Sonepat since the virus outbreak, says the risk of infection is higher in Sonepat and he doesn’t know how he will appear for the exam, which is barely two weeks away. “Many students will need public transport to reach the exam centre as not everyone has a vehicle of their own. Who will take responsibility if there is an infected student in the exam hall,” he says, adding that due to ongoing situation he has not been able to concentrate on his studies.The students and their parents are writing to the Union ministry of human resource and development, and the ministry of health and family welfare to intervene and ask the NTA to postpone the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-students-urge-govt-to-postpone-jee-neet-exams/story-xJAARsXNiv3rBlh6smSo2I.html
02-07-2020||City||Super spreader weddingPatna DM invokes Epidemics Act||PATNA Days after a wedding function near Patna left around 80 people infected with Covid-19, the district administration Thursday said it would take action under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, against the family members of the groom, who had been suffering from high fever and died two days after his marriage on June 15 without being tested.Patna’s district magistrate Kumar Ravi has asked the sub divisional officer (SDO), Paliganj, where the groom’s family lived, to conduct a probe as to how more than 50 people participated in the wedding ceremony and whether or not social distancing norms and other precautions were adhered to.The groom, a software engineer in Gurugram, had come home days before his marriage scheduled for June 15. As per available information, he had informed his father about his condition and requested him not to go ahead with the wedding.However, his father did not relent and the wedding was organised at Paliganj. The baraat (procession) went to Piplawan at Naubatpur on June 15 and returned to Paliganj on June 16. “The groom passed away on June 17 but his parents cremated the body in a hurry and did not get Covid-19 test done,” said a district administration official.Block development officer (BDO) Chiranjeev Pandey dismissed reports that about 200 people had participated in the cremation of the body. “The body was cremated in a hurry in Patna and so very few people participated in it,” he said.Paliganj sub-divisional officer (SDO) Surender Kumar said the probe team would talk to family members of the groom after their isolation ends. Meanwhile, a close relative of the girl, pleading anonymity, said all close family members had tested negative. He said the girl was in a state of shock after her return to Piplawan on June 17. “Everything was normal during the wedding. The couple was sent off to Paliganj on June 16. However, the 28-year-old groom developed stomach ache on June 16 and was admitted to a hospital, where he passed away on June 17,” he said.The BDO said eight containment zones had been marked in Paliganj and people who had tested positive were returning to their homes after completion of isolation. “All precautions are being taken. The vegetable market in Paliganj, which draws maximum crowd, is being opened in two shifts. Today, fire brigade vehicles were used to sanitise the containment zones,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/super-spreader-weddinggroom-s-family-to-face-action-says-patna-dm/story-5aIuD6pVeSIsahLc5GpHQL.html
02-07-2020||City||Officials manhandled: Seeking arrests, LIT staff goes on strike in Ludhiana||Two days after Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) officials were allegedly slapped and threatened during an anti-encroachment drive in Model House area here, the LIT staff went on strike on Thursday, demanding the arrest of the accused.The staffers rued that an FIR has been lodged against the accused, Ravinder Sonu, but he has not been arrested yet. The staff members also met deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal over the issue.LIT executive engineer Buta Ram said, “Following a complaint submitted by assistant engineer Mandeep Singh, the police have lodged an FIR against the accused and some other persons, but no arrests have been made in the case. Due to this, the office and field staff have refused to join duty till Ravinder is arrested. The DC and CP have assured the staff of immediate action, but the strike would continue till the arrest is made.”Model Town station house officer Rajanpal said, “The police have already booked Ravinder and six other unidentified persons under sections 353 (Whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any person being a public servant in the execution of his duty as such public servant), 186 (obstructing any public servant in the discharge of his public functions) and 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of IPC. The accused are on the run and raids are being conducted to nab them.”The LIT had to postpone the anti-encroachments drive organised to raze illegal structures from 3.03 acres of land in the Model House area on Tuesday. Ravinder and his family members had allegedly opposed the drive and Ravinder had slapped executive engineer Jagdev Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/officials-manhandled-seeking-arrests-lit-staff-goes-on-strike-in-ludhiana/story-cG4GNc3O7CcIy4gKf9pOcK.html
02-07-2020||City||Modi may open Atal Tunnel near Manali in September: HP CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday said that the Atal tunnel in Rohtang would be completed by the end of August this year and Prime Minister Narendra Modi would dedicate this project to the people of the country probably during the month of September. He said this while addressing the people at Sissu in Lahaul and Spiti district.Atal Tunnel which is named after former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee will reduce the distance between Manali and Leh by 46 kilometres.CM also appreciated the people of Lahaul Spiti for effectively tackling the coronavirus pandemic. He said that the country was fortunate to have an able and strong leadership in the form of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Jai Ram Thakur said that the situation in the state was under control. He said that there was a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases in the state as over two lakh people stranded in different parts of the country were brought back to Himachal Pradesh. He said that the people of the state need not worry as the government was fully aware of the situation.CM assured the people of the area that the state government would ensure adequate availability of funds for developmental works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/modi-may-open-atal-tunnel-near-manali-in-september-hp-cm/story-RVekvwLcXB3SWpEwQgnLhP.html
02-07-2020||City||Amritsar police return 10 stolen phones to owners||A 43-year-old labourer, Sanjay Sri Rang Tupe, was surprised when he received a call from the Amritsar police commissionerate on Thursday informing him that his stolen smartphone has been recovered.Police asked Sanjay to collect his phone from the office of deputy commissioner of police (DCP, detective) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar.“I was out running an errand in April when two unidentified bike-borne men had stolen my phone. It has been more than two months and I had purchased a new phone as my hope of getting back the stolen one was dashed. But when I was informed that my phone was recovered, I was elated,” said Sanjay.Similarly, 65-year-old Tarlok Singh was going to take medicine on May 15 when two unidentified persons stole his phone. “I had no hope of getting back my phone but I appreciate the police and am thankful to them. This drive of returning stolen mobile phones of citizens should be continued besides taking strict action against the miscreants,” he said.DCP Bhullar returned the recovered phones to the rightful owners. He said that sometimes victims of mobile snatching and theft think that they will not get back their phones. “We have decided to return the recovered phones to their owners. We are taking strict action against the miscreants,” he said.He added that the recovered phones’ market value is Rs 1.30 lakh. He said that these phones were snatched or stolen from Sharifpura, Sultanwind road, Bhagtanwala, and the area around the Golden Temple.Police verified the IMEI numbers of some of the phones to locate the owners and called them to the police station.“Some phone owners were those who had not lodged police complaint. We traced the owners by using IMEI numbers,” said inspector Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa, in-charge of the CIA wing of Amritsar police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-police-return-10-stolen-phones-to-owners/story-nabIDBEpxMsTEkHfkp6R1M.html
02-07-2020||City||Multani abduction case against ex-DGP Saini transferred to another court||Mohali District and sessions judge Rajinder Singh Rai on Thursday transferred the abduction case against former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini to the court of additional district and sessions judge (ADJ) Rajnish Garg.The case pertains to the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee, in 1991. The application for transfer of the case was filed by Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh, where he stated that he apprehended “unfair proceedings”. The application was moved after ADJ Monika Goyal’s court granted interim bail to Saini in anticipation of SIT adding Section 302 of the IPC to the earlier FIR.The prosecution and defence now have been asked to appear before the ADJ Rajnish Garg’s court on July 6. The court will also decide on the anticipatory bail granted to Saini.Defence counsels APS Deol and HS Dhanoa said, “At present, we are satisfied and will decide after examining the judgment.”Special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula said the prosecution has been pressing that while granting anticipatory bail to Saini, the court “diluted the considerations that were required to imminently be considered”.“Now we will present the statement of eyewitness Gursharan Kaur Mann which she recorded under Section 161 of the CrPC corroborating illegal detention and torture of Balwant Singh Multani at the behest of Sumedh Singh Saini, while seeking cancelation of interim bail granted in anticipation of involving Section 302 of the IPC,” said Narula.A case against Saini was registered under sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) in Mohali on May 6 on the basis of a complaint filed by Multani’s brother Palwinder.Former DSP Baldev Singh Saini, inspector Satvir Singh, sub-inspectors Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh and ASI Kuldip Singh were also named in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/multani-abduction-case-against-ex-dgp-saini-transferred-to-another-court/story-cCKSK6FzOofOru6pMjDCTP.html
02-07-2020||City||HP to receive heavy rainfall, yellow warning issued for July 5, 6||Himachal Pradesh will receive heavy rainfall for the next few days as the state’s meteorological department has issued yellow warning for middle and lower hills of the state for July 5 and 6.Director, state’s meteorological department Manmohan Singh said that due to a fresh western disturbance, heavy rainfall along with hailstorm and thunderstorms are very likely to continue through the state till July 8.Rainfall occurred at few places of the state during the last 24 hours and minimum and maximum temperatures were normal as no appreciable changes were recorded in minimum and maximum temperatures.The highest rainfall occurred in Dharamshala as it witnessed 44mm rain followed by Palampur which received 33mm rain. Naina Devi in Bilaspur district received 25mm rain while Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district received 12.4mm rain.The maximum temperature in the state’s capital Shimla on Thursday was 25.4°C and 16.4°C in Kufri near Shimla.Maximum temperature in prominent hill stations Manali, Dharamshala was 29.6°C each while in Dalhousie, district Chamba was 21.3°C.Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan, district Sirmaur recorded 33.0°C, 35.0°C, 34.8°C and 31.1°C maximum temperatures respectively.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded 27.5°C maximum temperature.Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district recorded 9.9°C degrees minimum temperature which was the lowest temperature in the state while Una recorded 39.0°C maximum temperature, highest in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-yellow-warning-issued-for-july-5-6/story-30Ig0avjdfsXmEnHwq0NxL.html
02-07-2020||City||A day after Kurukshetra man kills himself, his girlfriend also ends life in Mohali||A day after a 22-year-old Kurukshetra man ended his life at his paying guest accommodation in Phase 11, his 26-year-old girlfriend also hanged herself on Thursday.Police said the woman was a native of Jamshedpur in Jharkhand, and worked in the same firm in Sector 66 as the Kurukshetra man. They earlier worked at a Gurugram firm and had moved to Mohali in June.On Thursday, the woman was found hanging from an iron ladder using a dupatta on her PG’s terrace in Phase 11 around 6am. The 22-year-old youth had also hanged himself from a wooden ladder at his residence on Wednesday.ASI Nirmal Singh said both lived in PG facilities in the same locality. “They wanted to get married, but their families were against it. No suicide note was recovered. Their parents have been informed,” he added. The body was sent to the civil hospital in Phase 6 for autopsy. Phase 11 police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/a-day-after-kurukshetra-man-kills-himself-his-girlfriend-also-ends-life-in-mohali/story-frr4bwvo8ojAX2jPptd3XJ.html
02-07-2020||City||Congress, AAP misleading farmers on agri ordinances: BJP||AMRITSAR/PATIALA Defending the Centre on the three ordinances passed for reviving the agriculture sector, Punjab BJP leaders on Thursday said the Congress and AAP were misleading the farmers as the move was in line with the Swaminathan Committee report.Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, former Punjab minister Manoranjan Kalia said: “We want to remind the Congress party that during UPA’s 10-year-long tenure, it did not bother to implement the Swaminathan report, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken the initiative to address the issues of the agrarian sector on the basis of the forgotten report.”He said the BJP-led central government has given the farmers the right to sell out their produce to the highest bidder in the market. He said the Union agriculture minister has repeatedly gone on record that the MSP will not be discontinued and the farmers need not worry.“All the market committees will also keep functioning as before and we promise the farmers of Punjab that BJP will stand committed to protect the agriculture of this state which has made the country surplus in food.”Awareness campaign in villagesAddressing a press conference in Patiala on Thursday, BJP state spokesperson Anil Sareen said the party will launch an awareness drive in villages to tell make farmers aware that their rights are being safeguarded through these ordinances.“The statements of Punjab Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar and AAP’s Bhagwant Mann regarding the ordinances are malicious in nature,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-aap-misleading-farmers-on-agri-ordinances-bjp/story-YaplXCJmZfkTMbAdS4UVMP.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Unified Covid-19 command: Mohali DC meets hospital representatives||In a move to set up a unified command to deal with unforeseen spikes in Covid-19 cases, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan held a meeting with representatives of leading hospitals in the district on Thursday.Dayalan said the main emphasis was on saving lives and for this hospitals that took in Covid-19 patients and provided top notch treatment to them had to be identified. MoUs had already been signed towards this end, he said.Two expert committees were also formed on the occasion. One would be advisory in nature to give inputs in case positive cases reached alarming levels. The other one was a referral committee to suggest categorisation of hospitals on the basis of treatment provided as L1, L2 and L3.Treatment costs in the hospitals identified would also be uploaded on the official website of the district administration for the sake of transparency, Dayalan added.Meanwhile, as recognition of the valuable services rendered by the medical fraternity, Dayalan honoured the doctors present with the Mission Fateh badges and urged them to continue serving the cause of humanity.Among others present on the occasion included the assistant deputy commissioner Aashika Jain, assistant commissioner (general) Yashpal Sharma, civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh and the district epidemologist Dr. Harmandeep Kaur Brar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unified-covid-19-command-mohali-dc-meets-hospital-representatives/story-MusCuPi23AAV0ZpDiEZxRP.html
02-07-2020||Kolkata||99-year-old man, Bengal’s oldest Covid-19 patient, recovers||A 99-year-old man, the oldest person affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in West Bengal so far, has recovered from the disease.The patient, Sripati Nyayban, a resident of Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district, was released from a private nursing home in eastern part of Kolkata on Wednesday. “He did not have problems with blood sugar level but had age-related conditions,” said one of the staff members of the nursing home.Nyayban tested positive on June 28 and underwent treatment for a week. Two of his sons, aged 72 and 53, also tested positive and are undergoing treatment in other hospitals. “My father has a great fighting spirit,” Kanak Kanti Nyayban, the patient’s youngest son, told the media.Nyayban is not the first 99-year-old Indian to survive Covid-19.On June 26, a 99-year old woman, Marceline Saldanha, was released from hospital in Bengaluru, making her Karnataka’s oldest survivor so far. She was admitted to Victoria Hospital on June 17.In April, 90-year-old Bhavani Shankar Sharma, a resident of Jaipur in Rajasthan, defeated Covid-19. He was admitted to the IDH (infectious Disease Hospital) on April 14.In Brazil, a 99-year-old World War II veteran survived the infection in April this year. Second lieutenant (retd) Ermando Piveta, served in the Brazilian artillery division in Africa during the war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/99-year-old-man-bengal-s-oldest-covid-19-patient-recovers/story-t1bEegixf1FP76px3lybpI.html
02-07-2020||City||Himachal may open up for tourism within a week: Jai Ram Thakur||The Himachal Pradesh government is considering re-opening the tourism industry within a week, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Thursday.He was interacting with mediapersons on the sidelines of a review meeting of various developmental projects being undertaken in Mandi district.Thakur said that there was a demand to open the tourism industry in the state but the government was not in a hurry as the Covid-19 cases were rapidly increasing.“However, I have asked the tourism department to formulate standard operating procedures (SOPs) for tourist activities. May be within a week, the tourism activities will be resumed,” he said.Replying to a question on the closure of Darang Salt Mine, CM said that the project was halted due to a technical glitch and the government will make every effort to resume operations at the earliest.Earlier, in the review meeting, Thakur directed the officers to ensure time-bound completion of the developmental projects to avoid cost escalation. Thakur said that work on developmental projects worth ₹4,000 crore was being executed in Mandi district including roads, water supply, electricity, and tourism-related works.He said that in Mandi town, developmental projects worth ₹200 crore were being executed including Asian Development Bank-funded ₹41 crore beautification projects and ₹ 83 crore drinking water augmentation project.Thakur said that as many as 137 PWD projects worth ₹1202 crore have been sanctioned for the district.He directed the officers to remove any hindrances in the execution of projects immediately and any laxity in this regard would be viewed seriously.He said that special focus must be laid on projects nearing completion.The chief minister also directed the officers to use funds allocated to the respective departments within the stipulated period and any lapse in this matter would warrant action.He also directed the officers to make adequate preventive arrangements to minimise losses due to rains.Later, the CM laid foundation stones and inaugurated developmental projects worth ₹5.61 crore.Earlier, while interacting with the party functionaries, CM said that the coronavirus pandemic was not yet over and one must remain cautious so as to check the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-may-open-up-for-tourism-within-a-week-jai-ram-thakur/story-1JTgO3amRA3ddXMXApX87H.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Australia’s Deakin University, Chitkara University announce academic mentorship in software engineering||CHANDIGARH: Deakin University, Australia and Chitkara University, near Chandigarh, have announced an exclusive academic mentorship in software engineering for Indian students, which will commence in September. In the midst of uncertain circumstances caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, Deakin University and Chitkara University have announced the launch of an academic mentorship program to ensure that students continue to achieve their international study goals during this time. The announcement has come at a time when travel is suspended and many students are unsure about having an opertunity to study overseas. Deakin University and Chitkara University have developed a four-year bachelor of software engineering course that will facilitate Indian students to study two years of Deakin University’s licensed curriculum at Chitkara University before transferring to Deakin University in Australia. This transfer is based on conditions, and students after successful completion will receive a Deakin University bachelor of software engineering degree in Australia.Deakin University’s deputy vice- president (global) and CEO (south Asia), Ravneet Pawha, said, “at Deakin we are continuously innovating our offerings and with the current challenges presented by Covid-19, innovative hybrid programs like this would help students keep their study and career goals on track.” “We are proud of our partnership with Chitkara University and delighted to have developed this unique program, which will allow students to study an international degree from their home-country while having academic mentorship through the teaching and support by the faculty at Chitkara University.”This is a one-of-its kind initiative in the international education space, where students will earn 100% credits of prior learning at a leading Indian university before transferring to a Deakin University campus in Australia. As a part of the arrangement, students while studying the first two years of the program at Chitkara will pay local tuition fee. Students will also be co-taught some academic units by Deakin faculty in infrastructure, and resources that will be similar to Deakin. This simply translates in better academic success for students with global careers and an education that saves them huge costs.Chitkara University’s pro-chancellor Dr Madhu Chitkara said “the blended program is being launched at a very appropriate time. Given the current situation, students will be able to continue their education while keeping their dreams of an international education intact.” To apply for the exclusive online study trimester commencing in September 2020, visit https://www.chitkara.edu.in/global/software-engineering/||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/australia-s-deakin-university-chitkara-university-announce-exclusive-academic-mentorship-in-software-engineering/story-tQeImsdL9m3UCPtIguk8sN.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena mocks ‘digital revenge’ on China, says banning apps won’t affect Chinese economy||Days after the Centre decided to ban 59 Chinese applications, the Shiv Sena mocked the move, calling it “digital revenge” for the violent standoff with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley, Ladakh, in which 20 Indian soldiers were martyred.In an editorial in its party mouthpiece Saamana, Sena asked that if the intelligence apparatus knew the apps posed a security risk, why were they allowed to function all these years. It also contrasted the decision to ban Chinese apps with the surgical strike in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) after terror attacks in Uri and Pulwama.On Monday, the Ministry of Home Affairs banned 59 Chinese apps, including TikTok and ShareIt. The Centre stated that it has received many complaints from various sources, including several reports, about the misuse of these apps for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner to servers located outside India. It claimed the move was meant to protect the sovereignty of Indian cyberspace and ensure the interests of crores of Indian mobile users.The editorial said that merely banning apps would not impact the Chinese economy. “After there was a demand to teach China a lesson like Pakistan, India launched an ‘online’ attack or a digital strike on China and created a stir... But merely banning apps will not break the back of China. Chinese businesses have invested heavily in India. Gujarat has the majority of these investments. Chinese company Huawei has been given the contract to erect a 5G network in India. This company having the keys to India’s digital economy is like giving [China] the keys to the future economy of the country. This contract is going to be the biggest threat to India in the future. Is the government not aware of this?” the editorial mentioned.The Centre, according to the editorial, claimed that Chinese intelligence agencies and People’s Liberation Army was using app data of Indian users. “If there was a threat to national security, then why were these apps allowed to function and their businesses [allowed to] thrive all these years?” the editorial questioned. It added that there has been no change after banning these apps. “The Chinese troops are still in Galwan Valley and are refusing to withdraw.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-mocks-digital-revenge-on-china-says-banning-apps-won-t-affect-chinese-economy/story-ztNp2mBQfCuocjJMvJsglI.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Highest surge in positive cases in Pune on Wednesday, 19 deaths||The city recorded a collection of 4,068 samples on Wednesday, as it also saw its highest one-day - 877 positive Covid-19 cases, taking the count of progressive positives to 18,105.The Pune Municipal Corporation also reported 19 deaths within the city, taking the death toll to 662. The city’s testing capacity will now increase to 5,000 samples daily, as rapid antigen detecting kits have been made available.Also, 589 patients were cured and discharged on Wednesday, taking the count of such cases to 11,040.Currently there are 6,403 active patients in city hospitals, of which, 347 are critical.The deaths include six from Sassoon General hospital, two from the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital and one from Kashibai Navale hospital.Global hospital reported two deaths, Sahyadri hospital reported two deaths and KEM hospital reported one death.A 44-year-old male was reported dead at the Inlaks and Budhrani hospital. A 56-year-old, male residing at Rahatni was reportedly brought dead to the Ratna Memorial Hospital on June 27, but was reported on Wednesday. His swab tested positive on June 28.Another, 66-year-old male, residing at Kondhwa was reported dead at Tarachand hospital.One rural death reported is of a 45-year-old male, residing at Chakan, Talegaon, reported dead at Sahyadri Hospital (Deccan).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/highest-surge-in-positive-cases-in-pune-on-wednesday-19-deaths/story-ZBbesW2ghXZVshMufaQaoI.html
02-07-2020||Education||AKU defers MBBS exams, medicos want to be promoted||The Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU) will defer the second professional 2019 and the third professional part-I 2019 (II) examinations in Bihar in view of coronavirus (Covid-19).In a notification issued Monday, the AKU deferred these examinations “till further orders”. The exams were earlier scheduled to commence from July 28.“The decision to defer the MBBS exams was taken by chairman of the examination board, who is also AKU vice-chancellor, after discussion with other members, including external members from the department of science and technology, government of Bihar,” said AKU examination controller Rajeev Ranjan.New dates for conducting these examinations would now be issued after receiving suggestions by the state or central government or necessary directives by the regulator, the Medical Council of India, Ranjan added.“The decision to defer the examinations was taken based on suggestion by medicos, many of whom were stranded outside the state. The medicos had expressed apprehensions of contracting Covid-19 if they were to travel back to appear for the exams,” added Ranjan.The Hindustan Times had on June 28 carried a news report titled “Medicos irked as AKU announces exam dates amid rising Covid cases”.Medicos of intermediate semesters, however, are not satisfied by the AKU decision. They want the university to promote them to the next semester based on marks obtained in previous semesters and are bracing up to seek legal remedy.Barring MBBS and dental, the AKU has already postponed examinations and decided to promote to the next semester all students of B.Tech, B.Pharma, BBA, B.Com and BMC among other courses.“As per the AKU itinerary, our MBBS second professional exams were scheduled in January, this year. However, they got delayed till July because of Covid-19. If the university defers the exams further, we will continue in the MBBS second year for more than two years, whereas the curriculum is of one-and-a-half year only,” said Kritika Singh, a second year MBBS student of the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), stuck in Delhi at present.“Deferring the exams further will not only hold us back in the same class, but also leave us with little time to attend classes and prepare for third professional exams. As such, we are demanding that the students be promoted internally,” she said. “Besides, those whose previous grades are not good and they want to improve should be allowed to do so when the pandemic eases,” said Kritika, who has taken it upon herself to fight on behalf of the medicos. Ranjan, however, said any decision to promote the medicos without conducting exams would have to be taken by the MCI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/aku-defers-mbbs-exams-medicos-want-to-be-promoted/story-BNZp5qvWEEr5p7IVJpSu8M.html
02-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 5 more Covid-19 deaths, 115 fresh cases||Rajasthan reported deaths of five coronavirus patients and 115 fresh cases of the disease on Thursday, taking the total number of fatalities and infections to 426 and 18,427 respectively, according to an official report here.  Two deaths each were reported from Jodhpur and Bikaner and one death was reported from Barmer, it said.Udaipur reported a maximum of 21 cases, while Bikaner reported 12 cases. Ten cases each were reported from Rajsamand and Dholpur, nine each from Jaipur and Jalore, eight from Nagaur, six from Bharatpur, five each from Karauli and Sirohi besides cases from other districts of the state, the report stated.Of the total patients, 14,340 people have been discharged following recovery and 3,358 are active cases in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-reports-5-more-covid-19-deaths-115-fresh-cases/story-8MjiH6Ousc081Vh7QD18yK.html
02-07-2020||Bangalore||D K Shivakumar officially takes charge as Karnataka Congress chief||D K Shivakumar on Thursday officially took charge as president of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee after over three months since he was appointed to the post.Called “Pratijna Dina”, the function to mark the official take-over of Shivakumar as president, along with Eshwar Khandre, Salim Ahmed and Satish Jarkiholi as working presidents of KPCC, is said to have been digitally witnessed by lakhs of people from over 15,000 places.Following the restrictions in place to control the spread of coronavirus, the ceremony was organised at the party’s new office building.Aimed at mobilising the party leaders and cadre, arrangements were made at panchayat and ward-level across the state to see to that they are part of the function through live telecast on TV channels, Zoom, YouTube and social media.The official take-over saw immediate past president Dinesh Gundu Rao handing over the Congress flag to Shivakumar, and this was followed by party workers across locations, who were digitally watching the function, taking oath and reading the preamble of the Constitution.The ceremony was held on Thursday after it was postponed thrice due to Covid-19 related restrictions in place.The Congress high command had on March 11 appointed Shivakumar, a six-time MLA, known to be the Congress’s chief troubleshooter in crisis situations, replacing Dinesh Gundu Rao as the KPCC chief.Rao had quit the post in December after the party’s dismal show of winning only two of the 15 seats in the bypolls.A written message by AICC president Sonia Gandhi was read out by party general secretary K C Venugopal in which she appreciated the judicious use of technology to mobilise the workers and leaders. Former Congress national president Rahul Gandhi telephoned Shivakumar and asked him to work for the party’s success by taking everyone together. Venugopal, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge, former state Congress presidents, former and present party legislators and MPs, Congress leaders from neighbouring states were among others who attended the function here, virtually. Addressing the partymen, Shivakumar, vowing to convert Congress in Karnataka as a cadre-based party, said he was just a party worker and believes in collective leadership. “Joining together is the beginning, thinking together is progress, working together is success,” he said, while remembering that he was being written off during his arrest in a money laundering case, but Sonia Gandhi picked him for the post and even came to prison and spent time with him.Stating that Congress should come to power again on its own in the state, Shivakumar spoke about implementing the Kerala model.“Theres the Kerala model. All big leaders there must represent their booth. We have to follow the Kerala model...,” he said.It was not an easy path for the Vokkaliga strong man to become the KPCC president, as there was opposition from within.He continues to have a tough task ahead in taking together the faction-ridden party.There were reports of Siddarmaiah being in favour of one of his confidantes to be made state president.According to many party insiders, he is said to be the man behind the idea of three working presidents seen as a move loosen Shivakumar’s grip on the party.Several other leaders had also opposed Shivakumar’s name, citing his recent arrest by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case.However, Shivakumar’s loyalty, roles that he has played in the party’s interest during troubled times, worked in his favour.Many feel his appointment would help in consolidating the party in southern parts of the state, where Vokkaligas are in large number.Considered as Congress’s man Friday, Shivakumar had hosted party legislators from Gujarat here in 2017 to ensure the victory of AICC leader Ahmed Patel in the Rajya Sabha elections.He was a key link in the Congress-JDS coalition and had made hectic attempts to prevent the collapse of the H D Kumaraswamy-led government last year after a section of the then ruling MLAs revolted.Speaking at the take-over function, Siddaramaiah said, “Our aim is to remove BJP and bring Congress to power once again to save the country.” He lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi accusing him of lying and betraying the people. He hit out at the government for its handling of COVID crisis and economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/d-k-shivakumar-officially-takes-charge-as-karnataka-congress-chief/story-VXUVoFCprMIhsLrgNcb0xJ.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Thackeray says human beings have given up, prays for miracle to overcome Covid crisis||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray prayed for a “miracle” to overcome the Covid-19 pandemic crisis during a mahapuja of Lord Vitthal at Pandharpur, on Ashadhi Ekadashi, on Wednesday.Every Ashadhi Ekadashi, an 11th lunar day of Ashadha month which is considered auspicious, incumbent chief minister offers mahapuja at Lord Vitthal Temple.Thackeray said human beings have now given up as there are no medicines to cure the virus.“To overcome the Covid-19 crisis, I prayed to Mauli (Lord Vitthal) that we want to see a miracle. Show us a miracle. Human beings have given up,” said Thackeray after he performed a ‘’mahapuja’’ at 2 am along with wife Rashmi.“We have not been able to come up with medicines so far. How to go with day-to-day activities by covering the mouth with a strip of cloth,” he said.This year, doing away from tradition, a handful of warkaries (devotees) came to Pandharpur with ‘padukas’ (holy footprints) of saint-poets Dnyaneshwar and Tukaram as state authorities banned annual pilgrimage in view of the pandemic.To prevent people from visiting temple town, Solapur district administration has imposed curfew in Pandharpur since Tuesday.Collector Milind Shambharkar issued an order bringing restrictions on people’s movement in and around Pandharpur town from 2 pm on June 30 to 12 night on July 2 under the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/thackeray-says-human-beings-have-given-up-prays-for-miracle-to-overcome-covid-crisis/story-WTMAZ9d1k4DunSXA6PNTLM.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Selection of 1,983 PTIs: Vigilance Bureau registers FIR against former Haryana SSC chairman, members||The vigilance bureau has booked the former chairperson and members of Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) for allegedly misusing their positions and tinkering with the selection criteria to help certain candidates get selected as physical training instructors (PTIs). The recruitment of 1,983 PTIs took place in 2010 during the Congress rule. On the basis of a communication from the Haryana advocate general, BR Mahajan, a first information report (FIR) was registered on June 30 by the vigilance bureau (VB) at Panchkula under IPC sections 166, 193, 466, 468, 471 and 120-B and provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act. The FIR does not have any names. The sections invoked in the FIR pertained to punishment for false evidence in a judicial proceeding, public servant disobeying law, forgery of court record or public register, forgery for the purpose of cheating and criminal misconduct by a public servant. A single bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court had on September 11, 2012, set aside the 2010 selections of PTIs on account of changes made in the selection process. An HC division bench had upheld the decision of the single bench. The Supreme Court on April 8 too upheld the HC decision. The content mentioned in the FIR registered by VB has its foundation in the Supreme Court judgment. An apex court bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan and Justice Navin Sinha had said that HSSCs decision of June 30, 2008, to cancel the written examination, the July 11, 2008 decision to call candidates eight times the number of vacancies on minimum percentage of marks for interviews and the decision of July 31, 2008, to call all the eligible candidates for interviews were arbitrary. These decisions were taken without any reason to change the selection criterion published in 2006 which have the effect of downgrading the merit. The top court also said that since commission was a multi-member body, all decisions pertaining to mode of selection and criteria were to be taken by the commission itself, there being no rules or resolution delegating the said power to chairman or any other member. “The decision of not holding written examination, to screen on the basis of eight times of vacancies and percentage of marks and to call all eligible candidates, were taken by the chairman himself, and cannot be said to be decisions of the commission,’’ the SC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/selection-of-1-983-ptis-vigilance-bureau-registers-fir-against-former-haryana-ssc-chairman-members/story-86OqyEUHuedjWPJQC2NKnJ.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal asks Punjab CM to reduce VAT on fuel||Union food processing industry minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Thursday appealed the Punjab government to reduce value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel.The minister said Punjab’s taxation of petroleum products was the highest in the country. She urged the Congress government to reduce the VAT on fuel and provide relief to the common man.Harsimrat said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) wanted fuel prices reduced and party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had publicly cleared his stance on the issue.She said chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had politicised the three farm central ordinances.“The central ordinances are similar to the act passed by the Congress-led Punjab government in 2017. Minimum support price (MSP) on key crops was an outcome of SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal’s efforts and the party will be the first oppose any attempt made to dilute the provision,” she said.Criticising farmers’ organisations, she said, “The BKU leaders did not raise issues such as kurki or attachment of a farmer’s land in the event of non-payment of loan and non-deliverance of food grain supply during the pandemic with the CM”.She also said, “The SAD government opposes the state government’s decision to close down a now defunct thermal plant in Bathinda that was named after the first Sikh master Guru Nanak Dev.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/union-minister-harsimrat-kaur-badal-asks-punjab-cm-to-reduce-vat-on-fuel/story-UuKcDLKLx7gGZgfN77UvJO.html
02-07-2020||Kolkata||7 Kolkata policemen test positive for Covid-19, hospitalised:Report||At least seven sleuths of the Kolkata Police detective department have tested positive for Covid-19, sources at the state health department said on Thursday.Test reports of the seven policemen, who had complained of fever last week, confirmed that they have contracted the disease, a senior officer at the department said.All seven of them have been sent for treatment at different hospitals in the city, he said.The entire premises of the detective department at Kolkata Police headquarters in Lalbazar has been sanitised, he added.Sources at the health department said more than 350 policemen here have been diagnosed with the disease over the past four months.Most of them have, however, recovered, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/7-policemen-in-kolkata-test-positive-for-covid-19-hospitalised-report/story-QyX9lbXGZ5oRmpYGX4iu4J.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Police constable killed in road mishap in Shimla’s Rohru||A Himachal Police constable died in a road mishap in Rohru sub-division of Shimla district on Wednesday night. The victim, Jai Singh, 36, is a resident of Rampur Bushahr. He joined the police force in 2006 and was posted as a constable at Rohru police station in 2008.The accident took place on Wednesday night when he was on his way to his home after work. He lost control of his personal vehicle near Bhamnoli. The vehicle plunged into a gorge, killing him on the spot.Singh’s body was recovered by the police and sent to Government Hospital, Rohru, for postmortem. Rohru deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Suniel Negi confirmed the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-police-constable-killed-in-road-mishap-in-shimla-s-rohru/story-0UBCDPqxhsCsMxLgMXzDHP.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress MP says BJP should kick out actor Anupam Kher for using Guru Gobind Singh’s words to describe Sambit Patra||Chandigarh: Ludhiana Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu on Thursday rebuked actor Anupam Kher for using the “sacred words of Guru Gobind Singh” to describe Bharatiya Janata Party spokesman Sambit Patra.A day after actor Kher tweeted, “Sava lakh se ek bhida du” and tagged Patra, the Congress leader said, “Anupam Kher and his wife (Chandigarh BJP MP Kirron Kher) should be kicked out of the BJP for using Guru Gobind Singh’s words to describe Sambit Patra.”Kher’s tweet was in response to Patra being trolled on social media. Patra had posted a picture of a three-year-old boy sitting on his grandfather, who was shot dead during an encounter in Sopore on Wednesday with the caption: “Pulitzer lovers?”Patra was apparently referring to Associated Press (AP) photo journalists Dar Yasin, Mukhtar Khan and Channi Anand, who were honoured with the 2020 Pulitzer Prize for “striking images of life” in Jammu and Kashmir after the Centre abrogated Article 370 of the Constitution.TAKES ON RSS, SAYING IT’S ‘DILUTING’ SIKH TENETSBittu tweeted: “How dare @AnupamPKher use sacred words of Guru Gobind Singh ji to describe the spokesperson of BJP. It spoils the martial image of Sikhs.”He went a step further and called Kher’s tweet an attempt by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh to dilute the “strong tenets of Sikhism”.He called upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “tender an immediate apology and kick out Anupam Kher and his wife from the BJP”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-congress-mp-says-bjp-should-kick-out-actor-anupam-kher-for-using-guru-gobind-singh-s-words-to-describe-sambit-patra/story-9rKKvwTMZh5mcUQInel7HN.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Nearly 6,000 vehicles seized by cops in 2 days for violating 2-km travel norm||Mumbai Police have seized 5,877 vehicles in the last two days for violation of its guideline prohibiting citizens from travelling beyond two-km radius of their homes, an official said on Thursday.In a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19, the city police issued new guidelines on Sunday, stipulating that citizens cannot travel beyond two-km radius of their residences, except for attending office or in the event of medical emergencies.Accordingly, the police seized 3,508 vehicles on Tuesday and 2,369 vehicles till Wednesday evening for violating the norm, the official said.Out of these, maximum 1,784 vehicles were seized in the western suburbs in last two days, he said.Since the lockdown was enforced in March, the city police have registered 12,251 offences against 25,276 people under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), the official said.More than 14,500 people have been arrested till now in the city for violation of the lockdown orders, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-nearly-6-000-vehicles-seized-by-cops-in-2-days-for-violating-2-km-travel-norm/story-pxoVHY1vldv58h7N9PWzzK.html
02-07-2020||Dehradun||MSME sector plays pivotal role in development, says Uttarakhand CM Rawat||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has said that the MSME sector plays an important role in the development of the State and with Centre defining MSMEs in a new way the enterprises in the State will be benefitted. “The MSME sector has an important role in the development of Uttarakhand,” said Rawat. “Employment generation is a major source, with the Central government defining MSMEs in a new way, the micro, small and medium enterprises of the State will benefit which will have a positive impact on the development of the state,” he added.According to the Chief Minister’s Office, investment limit has been increased in micro, small and medium enterprises, now the investment in plant and machinery up to Rs one crore and enterprises with turnover up to Rs five crore will come under the category of micro industry.Similarly, enterprises with investment up to Rs 10 crores and turnover up to Rs 50 crores will come under the category of small enterprises, while enterprises with investment up to Rs 50 crores and turnover up to Rs 250 crores will come under the category of medium enterprises.Under the self-sufficient package, many provisions have been made by the Central government for the MSME sector.In order to enable the Indian industry to expand and get the necessary facilities, a new classification of the MSME sector was done. In this, the limit of investment has been increased and turnover has also been taken as its standard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/msme-sector-plays-pivotal-role-in-development-says-uttarakhand-cm-rawat/story-bwbRnpXLEstolNP5fXhFiN.html
02-07-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC notice to Jaipur institute, Patanjali over Covid-19 cure claim||The Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday issued notices to Patanjali Ayurved and National Institute of Medical Science (NIMS) University, Jaipur to reply on July 13 on a PIL alleging that Swami Ramdev and Acharya Balkrishna claimed to have found ayurvedic medicine Coronil for curing Covid-19 though they had not sought permission from the authorities concerned regarding the same.Advocate Mani Kumar, petitioner in the case, said the HC served a notice to NIMS University as trials of ayurvedic medicines were conducted by it. “Besides the two, central and state governments have been directed to submit their counter-affidavits by July 13, when the matter will be heard again.”Assistant solicitor general Rakesh Thapliyal, who is representing the Centre in the case, confirmed that notices were issued to NIMS University and Patanjali Ayurved, central and state governments.US Nagar-based Mani Kumar Kumar, in his PIL, has alleged that Patanjali’s Divya Pharmacy had sought permission for immunity boosters, but they claimed on June 23 to have found ayurvedic medicine Coronil for curing Covid-19 .Kumar said the Rajasthan government has also stated that it hadn’t given any permission for clinical trials at NIMS Jaipur. “Ramdev had stated that his company had developed the ayurvedic medicine in collaboration with privately-owned NIMS.”On June 23, Ramdev had announced ‘Coronil’ and ‘Swasari’ as a cure for Covid-19, stressing that they “conducted a clinical case study and clinical controlled trial, and found 69 per cent of patients recovered in three days and 100 patients recovered in seven days”.On Wednesday, Ramdev reaffirmed that Patanjali followed all legal procedures in carrying out clinical control trials of the drugs on Covid-19 positive patients. After successful clinical control drug trials on asymptomatic and patients with mild symptoms, Patanjali also carried out advanced stage research on serious patients, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-hc-notice-to-jaipur-institute-patanjali-over-covid-19-cure-claim/story-rApGjx8Nj0cpLwoQjVpatO.html
02-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka govt issues notice to 18 hospitals for ‘denying’ admission to patient who later died||Karnataka government has issued a show-cause notice to 18 private hospitals for refusing to admit a 52-year-old patient with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms, who later died. According to the notice dated on June 30, a 52-year-old patient died after he was denied admission by 18 private hospitals. The patient was taken to these hospitals on Saturday and Sunday for admission on observing some ILI like symptoms. But none of these hospitals admitted in on the pretext of unavailability of bed/ventilators, read the notice.This is a clear violation of providing medical assistance and admission necessitated under the agreed provision of KPME Registration. They should strictly adhere to the provisions under Sections 11 & 11 A of KPME Act 2017. Private Medical Establishments cannot deny/ refuse/ avoid treatment to patients with Covid-19 and Covid-19 like symptoms, the state Health Department said.By denying the admission to the deceased patient, your hospitals have violated the provisions of the above-said act. You are liable for legal action in this regard, as per the notice.The state Health department asked the hospitals to reply as to why action should not be initiated under the relevant Acts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-issues-notice-to-18-hospitals-for-denying-admission-to-patient-who-later-died/story-FL2FRg1lhqZq9WQASkJUCI.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Amid PPE kits scam, Amritsar govt medical college principal, vice-principal removed||Amritsar: A day after inquiry into the personal protective equipment (PPE) kits scam began, the department of medical education and research removed Dr Sujata Sharma as principal of the Government Medical College, Amritsar, and appointed radiotherapy department head Dr Rajiv Kumar Devgan in her place.Vice-principal Dr Veena Valecha was also removed and Dr Jagdev Singh Kular, professor, anatomy, replaced her.Dr Shiv Charan, the head of the medicine department and the nodal officer of Covid-19 at the hospital, was also transferred to Government Medical College, Patiala.Though college sources said that the transfers were linked to the purchase of substandard PPE kits in April to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, state medical research and education minister OP Soni said the issue was unrelated.“Some officials of the department of medical education and research visited GMC, Amritsar, a few days ago and a decision was taken in a meeting. Officials at other government medical colleges have also been transferred. The decision has no link with the PPE kits scam,” Soni said.DK Tiwari, principal secretary, medical education and research, said, “The decision was taken for administrative reasons in public interest.”When contacted, Dr Sujata Sharma said, “The PPE kits were purchased by the medical superintendent. The GMC authorities are not responsible for buying any equipment for the hospital.”She said, “The medical education department sent the transfer orders and cited that in view of the increase in Covid-19 deaths at GMC, Amritsar, the decision has been taken. The hospital tries its level best to save every life but the Covid-19 patients in Amritsar are not being detected at an early stage by the administration and civil surgeon office.”SCAM UNEARTHED IN APRILIn April, doctors, nurses and other healthcare staff at the hospital refused to use around 2,000 PPE kits procured, alleging that they were substandard and did not include N-95 masks.They also accused the authorities of paying Rs 41 lakh for the kits, which according to the them, should not have cost more than Rs 7 lakh.The medical superintendent of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (the hospital with GMC) Dr Raman Sharma, had bought the kits on behalf of GNDH.Subsequently, Amritsar deputy commissioner Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon marked an inquiry on April 24.Amritsar member of Parliament Gurjit Singh Aujla, who issued a grant of Rs 1 crore to the medical college to fight Covid-19, wrote to the government demanding a probe. In mid-June, he again wrote to the Union ministry of statistics and programme implementation complaining that the inquiry was being delayed. On June 23, the Centre wrote to the Punjab government to complete the inquiry in a time-bound manner. The state government then entrusted the inquiry to the chief administrator, Amritsar Development Authority, who began the probe on June 30. The statements of 20 doctors were recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-ppe-kits-scam-amritsar-govt-medical-college-principal-vice-principal-removed/story-fubyznDq68ExZ69bdMYssO.html
02-07-2020||Bangalore||IMD issues yellow and orange alerts for coastal districts of Karnataka||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) in Bengaluru on Thursday issued a yellow alert for the coastal districts of Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada and Udipi districts for July 1, 2, 4 and 5 and an orange alert for June 3.“North interior and south interior Karnataka are likely to experience light to moderate rainfall during the next five days,” CS Patil, Director of IMD Bengaluru told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/imd-issues-yellow-and-orange-alerts-for-coastal-districts-of-karnataka/story-XW7rbgyyjnteX4vbg9r0rO.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||10-day complete lockdown begins in Thane to curb the spread of Covid-19||A 10-day complete lockdown has been enforced from Thursday in Thane and two other civic administration limits adjoining Mumbai city to contain the spread of coronavirus, officials said.Essential services and medical emergencies are exempted from the lockdown, while inter-city buses, autorickshaws and taxis will not be allowed to operate in these civic limits, they said.The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation (KDMC) and Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation, all part of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), jointly decided on the complete lockdown for next 10 days in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in these areas, the officials said.The lockdown came into force from 7 am on Thursday and will continue till 7 am on July 12, they said.The municipal corporations of Navi Mumbai and Panvel will enforce complete lockdown from July 3 midnight.“We want to break the chain of coronavirus infection.People working in essential services will be exempted from the lockdown and will be allowed to move out for work,” KDMC Commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi said.A TMC official said inter-city bus services, auto- rickshaws, taxis and app-based cabs will not be allowed to operate.“Medical emergencies are exempted. A patient can be accompanied by only one person in a cab or auto-rickshaw, he said.Banks, ATMs, IT, ITeS, India Post, internet and data services and medical shops will be exempted from the lockdown, he said.TMC Commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma, in an order issued on Tuesday, said the city will observe a total lockdown for 10 days from Thursday.Non-essential services will not operate during this period, and nor would movement of vehicles for proposes other than medical and essential travel be allowed, the order said.Movement of all essential goods as well as perishable items will be allowed during this period, it added.Thane Collector Rajesh Narvekar on Wednesday said roads, market areas and other public places are becoming increasingly congested with the introduction of various concessions as per the ‘Mission Begin Again’ order.Also, there is a lot of stress on the health system, police department and district administration. Against this backdrop, lockdown restrictions need to be re-enforced, he said.Similar orders are applicable in Mira-Bhayandar.Thane district on Wednesday registered 1,322 new coronavirus cases, pushing its overall tally to 34,646, the administration said.Out of the total cases, Thane city reported 9,138 cases, Navi Mumbai reported 6,823 cases, while the tally in Kalyan was nearing 7,000.The death toll in Thane district due to the viral infection has reached 1,094, including 340 in Thane, 217 in Navi Mumbai, 120 in Kalyan and 145 in Mira Bhayandar township.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-day-complete-lockdown-begins-in-thane-to-curb-the-spread-of-covid-19/story-n02RuGIGygWoss2FTZBCeN.html
02-07-2020||Patna||Bihar’s super-spreader wedding was attended by 400 people; 200 at groom’s cremation||More than 100 people have tested positive for coronavirus in India after attending the wedding -- and then funeral -- of the groom, who reportedly tied the knot while ill with the disease. Officials in Bihar state said Wednesday the 26-year-old groom had symptoms of the deadly virus when he got married on June 15.He died two days later.“So far 111 people who either attended the wedding or the funeral have tested positive,” said Raj Kishor Chaudhary, chief medical officer in Patna, the state capital.“All others have been identified and isolated.” Doctors are not certain the unnamed groom was the source of the infection as he was cremated before tests could be carried out.But Chaudhary said around 400 people who attended the wedding or funeral would be isolated following a spurt in infections.The groom, a software engineer who returned home from near New Delhi only a week before the wedding, had shown symptoms before the nuptials.He was briefly admitted to hospital, but his family had him discharged and hosted the wedding with over 300 guests.He died at his home two days later, with nearly 200 people attending the funeral. Some had attended both.None of the groom’s relatives -- including his bride -- tested positive, officials said.Authorities have launched an investigation into possible violations of social distancing regulations on the number of guests at both the wedding and funeral.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage No more than 50 guests are allowed at India’s famously lavish and colourful weddings -- and just 20 people at funerals -- to limit the risk of spreading coronavirus.The epidemic is raging across the South Asian country of 1.3 billion people, with almost 600,000 infections and 17,000 deaths reported so far.Bihar, one of the country’s poorest regions and home to 120 million people, has recorded nearly 10,000 cases, with 62 deaths.Experts believe a lack of testing is hiding the true figures and that the nationwide toll is far higher than reported.Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has eased lockdown restrictions despite a surge in cases.But on Tuesday he warned the nation to be more cautious.“We have become lackadaisical,” he said.“I again want you all to observe precautions in the same way as under lockdown.”ja/stu/fox/gle||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-s-super-spreader-wedding-was-attended-by-400-people-200-at-groom-s-cremation/story-zY3a6sS7LO9teFUzFIbDqK.html
02-07-2020||Education||STF to probe for fake appointments of teachers in Uttar Pradesh||The Uttar Pradesh government has handed over the investigation of fake appointments of thousands of teachers in UP Basic Education Council schools, working on the same PAN number, to Special Task Force.Further, more than 100 such cases have also come up in which the salary of two teachers was going to the same bank account.Basic Education Department wrote a letter to the Home Department to investigate the matter. Home department handed over investigation to STF on the instruction of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.“We investigated the people who were doing jobs on fake IDs. People have used the PAN number of the person who’s ID they were using for the Job. Original person received a notice from Income tax department that access money was being transferred into his account. When this matter came forward, other people who were working in this way changed their PAN numbers,” Amitabh Yash, Inspector General of Police, STF said.“So we have asked for the list of people who have changed their PAN numbers. There is a possibility that some of the PAN numbers have errors and people must have rectified them but these numbers should be less. It is possible that PAN number have been changed by the people who were doing jobs on fake IDs. These numbers are in thousands,” added Yash.The move was taken after Anamika Shukla case came to light which pertains to the appointment of teachers allegedly using fake documents in schools across the state.The case came to light after an FIR was lodged against Shukla for allegedly withdrawing over Rs 1 crore as salary for over a year from 25 different schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/stf-to-probe-for-fake-appointments-of-teachers-in-uttar-pradesh/story-a9kqbsyFHFXK2qos1qkmRK.html
02-07-2020||Education||Haryana schools to reopen from July 27 for teachers, non-academic staff||Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal informed that schools will reopen for teachers and non-academic staff in Haryana from July 27.“From July 27, schools will reopen for teachers and non-academic staff only in Haryana and students will not attend schools,” Kanwar Pal said.The Directorate School Education has stated that summer vacations are declared from July 1 to July 26 in all schools of the state.Haryana’s COVID-19 count rose to 14,941 on Wednesday with 393 new positive cases reported in the last 24 hours.According to the state Health Department, there are 4,202 active cases in the state and the number of patients who have recovered/discharged stands at 10,499. The recovery rate in the state is 70.27 per cent while the fatality rate stands at 1.61 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/haryana-schools-to-reopen-from-july-27-for-teachers-non-academic-staff/story-K9Uumknkag9hHA49t6YzPO.html
02-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’ s Covid-19 tally crosses 2,500; 35 new cases reported||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally rose to 2,525 with 35 more people testing positive on Wednesday, a government bulletin said.The state now has 579 active cases, while 1,931 people, including 47 during the day, recovered from the disease, it said.The state’s recovery rate stood at 76.48 per cent, while the mortality rate is 0.59 per cent, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-500-35-new-cases-reported/story-rqYRE8fXfW2xbKhCNcsTwM.html
02-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A walk beyond the iconic Karim’s||The shutters are pulled down. The doorways are closed. The place is empty.This is Karim’s, in Old Delhi. From early morning to late night, the iconic restaurant would always be crowded. The diners would wait for their turn to enter in any of the three eating halls by standing about the alley. Now no one’s here. (No thank you, coronavirus.)But the temporary closure of this gastronomic landmark due to the ongoing pandemic has opened doors to other possibilities, other explorations.The restaurant complex is tucked at the front of Gali Kebabian street, thus named because it was traditionally home to kebab makers. Now, unencumbered by food scents or pressing crowds, the visitor can quickly cross through this part of the alley and wade deeper into it.You shall be surprised to discover that this is one of Old Delhi’s most atmospheric streets. The lane, at first, captivates with its very interesting, weird shape. It begins on the Matia Mahal Bazar road in the form of a tunnel, and a few steps later, suddenly distends into a wide unwieldy space—where lies the aforementioned restaurant. A casual stroller might feel as lucky as a chicken piece elbowing its way through the diner’s throat, finally falling into his comfortable, big stomach.Immediately afterwards the lane constricts into a narrow wedge. The walls here are beautifully discoloured with the patina of several seasons. One notice board is painted in a neat Urdu script, advertising the services of a plumber with a “licence number.”Soon the lane again widens into an opening. Here would be the stall of cook Naimuddin who is famous (among the locals) for his delicious haleem, prepared right on the pavement. This morning, against all odds, the pleasant man is present, fussing over his much-loved dish, bubbling in the gigantic cauldron. His wooden ladle is so huge that you could use it as an oar to row your boat across the Yamuna. Naimuddin reopened his stall following the lifting of the lockdown. He generously gives away the exact recipe of his haleem without being asked, and also offers a spoonful of it to taste.In the old times, when Karim’s hogged all the attention in this street, and Naimuddin used to be everyone’s cool discovery, a curious explorer was most likely to turn back at this point. One assumed that nothing more interesting lay further ahead. And in any case the lane doesn’t go anywhere; it’s a dead-end alley.But the true beauty of the street begins from here. Both sides are lined with the most beautiful flights of staircases. Additionally, the twisting and twisting of the lane itself evokes adventure and suspense, as you wonder what might appear next. Arresting sights wherever you look—in terms of doors and windows. One door is particularly noteworthy with metallic flowers welded onto its metallic surface. At one place, half the wall is painted with a shade of the most ethereal blue, while the rest revealing an array of raw bricks. The contrast is like two vastly dissimilar pieces of music merging harmoniously into each other.Here, the lane gets even narrower. A pair of birds, possibly the pets of a house-owner, are perched behind a grilled window, which is small enough to be a roshandaan (ventilator). The birds are intently looking out at the passerby, as if imploring to be set free.A few steps later, the lane reaches an impasse. The flâneur stands in front of a residence with a facade of three beautiful arches. The air is humming with the steady drone of an AC. A woman is peering out from behind a curtain. The walk ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-walk-beyond-the-iconic-karim-s/story-nkzlTVrtYManzvLgBsgMWI.html
02-07-2020||Bhopal||Donate TV to shelter, but not made in China: MP high court to bail-seekers||The Gwalior bench of the Madhya Pradesh high court has asked two bail applicants, both accused of attempt to murder in the same case, to donate an LED television set worth no less than ~25,000 to a night shelter, specifying that the TV should not be a made-in-China brand, as border tensions simmer between India and the neighbour.The court passed the order on June 26, but it came to light only on Tuesday through Ankur Modi, the additional advocate general (AAG) in Gwalior. The ruling came in the backdrop of a violent brawl between troops of the two countries in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), and calls to boycott Chinese products.The bench of justice Sheel Nagu granted bail to petitioner Arvind Patel, a resident of Datia district, with several conditions, one of which was to donate a TV set to the shelter home and that is not made in China. The bench also granted bail to co-accused Kamlesh Pal, a resident of the same district, with the same condition.“Accordingly, without expressing any opinion on merits of the case, this application is allowed and it is directed that the petitioner be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond in the sum of ~25,000 with one solvent surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the concerned magistrate...The petitioner along with petitioner in McrC No.11789/20 undertake to purchase and install a black coloured LED TV at Renbasera, district hospital, Morar worth at least ~25,000 manufactured in India or abroad except China,” said the order of the court on Patel’s bail plea.Arvind Patel and Kamlesh Pal, residents of Aurina village in Datia district, and two others from the same village allegedly opened fire at another villager in February over a dispute. The other conditions for the bail set by the court were for both accused to cooperate in the trial, not to extend inducements, threats or promises to any person acquainted with the facts of the case to dissuade him/her from disclosing facts related to the case to the court or to the police officer.The court ordered that a compliance report pertaining to the condition it specified on the TV set be submitted along with photographs to the registry of this court. The registry shall supply a copy of its order to the legal aid officer of the state legal service authority, Gwalior, who shall in turn depute a para-legal volunteer to verify compliance with the condition and submit a report to the registry within two weeks of the verdict.“The accused themselves had offered to install the LED TV set in Renbasera. On this, court allowed this and also said that it will be a part of conditions for release of the accused on bail. However, the court also said that the TV set should not be manufactured in China,” AAG Ankur Modi said.Pawan Pathak, the secretary of High Court Bar Association, Gwalior, said, “It’s a unique order of the court. It has further infused a sense of patriotism in all of us...This order will have a wide psychological impact on the minds of people across the country who are boycotting Chinese products...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/donate-tv-to-shelter-but-not-made-in-china-mp-high-court-to-bail-seekers/story-tYboZVhoDxdYVvE8xVA8zM.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Prisoners out on temporary bail cannot report to police station via video calling: HC||The Bombay high court rejected a plea which sought permission for undertrials out on interim bail to report to concerned police stations through video calling.The state while opposing the plea said that as the location of the undertrial, which is one of the conditions of release recommended by the high power committee (HPC), could not be ascertained through video calling, the HC should not permit the plea.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice NJ Jamadar while hearing public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Geeta Jain, independent MLA from Mira-Bhayander constituency through advocate Sunny Punamiya was informed that as per the Supreme Court directions to decongest jails, a HPC was constituted to recommend conditions for releasing the undertrials and convicts on interim bail or parole. The HPC stipulated that undertrials released under the arrangement would have to report once every 30 days to the jurisdictional station house officer.While making submissions in the PIL, on Tuesday, through video conferencing, Punamiya said that due to the spread of Covid-19, such prisoners should be allowed to report to the concerned police station or officer through video calling so that physical reporting was not required. The state through public prosecutor Deepak Thakare, along with additional public prosecutor SR Shinde, however, argued that if physical reporting was dispensed with and the undertrial was permitted the facility of a video call, the police could find it difficult to readily ascertain, in all cases, as to the location of such released undertrial prisoner, more particularly whether he is residing within the jurisdiction of the station house officer or not.Thakare further submitted that in case such a released undertrial prisoner violates the condition of bail, if any, of not leaving the jurisdictional limits of a particular police station and hides in unknown territory, the police would face immense difficulties in tracing him out, if he fails to surrender upon expiry of the temporary period of bail. In light of these submissions, the state sought dismissal of the PIL.After hearing the submissions, the court accepted the contentions of the state and said, “We do not propose to introduce any such arrangement, the possible ills whereof could largely out-weigh the intended benefits.” The court further observed that it did not wish to tinker with the recommendations of the HPC and hence was dismissing the PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/prisoners-out-on-temporary-bail-cannot-report-to-police-station-via-video-calling-hc/story-jFEa4igFDMPPaCXgDVcL1L.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Woman kills 4-year-old over family feud, arrested||Sahar police on Monday arrested a 40-year-old woman for allegedly killing a four-year-old child of her close relative by strangulating him. According to the police, the accused Madhu Gade is a resident of Sahar village in Andheri (East). The minor had gone missing from his house and the parents went looking for him to Gade’s residence. “Gade lived opposite to the victim’s house. On searching the victim’s parents found the minor in the toilet, in an unconscious state,” said the officer.The parents then rushed him to the nearest hospital where he was declared dead. “We have arrested Gade. S has confessed that she strangulated him with her leggings in a fit of rage, as both the families did not get along,” said the officer.The officer said that the families argued over cleaning pathways, drainage and other petty issues. Gade in anger over the fraught relationship strangled the minor. “We have arrested her on charges of murder,” said Shashikant Mane, a senior police inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-kills-4-year-old-over-family-feud-arrested/story-PdJoi8h95cB559aELXzEuN.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Products made by state self-help groups now available on Amazon||In a first, the Maharashtra government has tied up with global online retail portal Amazon to sell products made by self-help groups (SHG) of the state. So far, 33 products made by these self-help groups are available on the portal. State rural development minister Hasan Mushrif made the announcement on Wednesday.In addition, 50 products are also available on Government-e-Marketplace (GeM), an initiative of the Central government where common user goods and services can be procured by government departments. The initiative is part the rural development department’s Umed — Maharashtra State Rural Livelihood Mission, which was started to provide market for the products made by self-help groups. The products have been listed on Amazon under the brand name ‘Wardhini’, as these are made by self-help groups from Wardha district.“Like other sectors, self-help groups also suffered huge economic losses due to lockdown imposed to contain spread of the pandemic. Now, they have been made available on an international platform which will enable them to restart their business,” Mushrif said.This process was started on a pilot basis in May with two products — paper bags and terracotta jewelry — listed on Amazon. The products received good response, leading to a business of more than ₹2 lakh for the self-help groups. “Considering the response, we have now registered 33 products on Amazon, such as eight varieties of papad, four varieties of paper bags, four types of terracotta jewellery, four types of cooking masala, nutri biscuits, masks etc,” the minister said.“The 50 products available on GeM are made by self-help groups from different districts. ,Soon products made by self-help groups from various districts will also be made available on Amazon. They have been asked to provide their best products, and some selected ones will be registered on the online retail platform,” said a senior official from the rural development department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/products-made-by-state-self-help-groups-now-available-on-amazon/story-PdrJ8vYKyx5o52le6XNACL.html
02-07-2020||City||Day before lockdown, Kalyan-Dombivli residents crowd shops to stock up on essentials||Following the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation’s (KDMC) announcement on Tuesday night to impose a 10-day lockdown from July 2, residents thronged the streets on Wednesday to stock up on essentials.KDMC will impose the complete lockdown in its vicinity from 7am on Thursday, till 7am on July 12, to break the chain of the Covid-19 spread. As part of the restrictions, the civic body will not permit counter delivery, and only home delivery of essential goods will be allowed. This led residents to crowd grocery and vegetable shops, a day before lockdown came into effect.“All these days the shops were open and counter delivery was allowed so we could go any time and buy. Now, since there won’t be any counter delivery, it was necessary to stock up on vegetables and fruits. The roads were more crowded than usual as many came out to shop,” said Shalini Rai, 45, a resident of Rambaug, Kalyan (West).On Thursday morning, several localities like Rambaug, Syndigate, Tilak Chowk, and Khadakpada in Kalyan (West); Chinchpada, Kolsewadi, and Tisgaon in Kalyan (East); Tilak Road, Manpada Road, and Phadke Road in Dombivli witnessed long queues outside shops as customers waiting to buy essentials.Rahul Duseja, 30, a resident of Phadke Road, said, “We came to know that the police will strictly act on those found on the road. We don’t want to take any risk and hence decided to buy the necessary things and stay home for the next 10 days.”Police also took to the streets on Wednesday to broadcast announcements on loudspeakers, asking residents to restrict outdoor movement, and stay at home for 10 days. As per Kalyan zone 3 police, a total of 500 policemen will be deployed in different parts of the city on Thursday to keep a lookout for people roaming on streets unnecessarily.“We won’t allow anyone to travel in vehicles unnecessarily. Even if they want to go anywhere, they need to have due permission. Legal action will be taken on the spot against violators. We have already made announcements across the cities so that people are aware of it,” said Vivek Pansare, deputy commissioner of police, Kalyan, zone 3.Meanwhile, KDMC initiated the sealing of most containment zones in the city to ensure there is no public or vehicular movement there.“We have sealed most of the containment zones so that no vehicles enter or exit these areas. The civic body and police will ensure the lockdown norms are followed in the containment zones,” said a senior KDMC official, who did not wish to be named.Last week, the civic body had identified 32 containment zones and had imposed restrictions on counter delivery, public, and vehicle movement in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-before-lockdown-kalyan-dombivli-residents-crowd-shops-to-stock-up-on-essentials/story-T4S9FIyngN1ZnFTPKg15xH.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||4,958 citizens booked in 3 days for flouting lockdown rules, 2,384 arrested||To curb the spread of Covid-19, Mumbai Police has intensified its action against those violating lockdown rules. Over the past three days, 4,958 citizens have been booked for various lockdown violations and 2,384 people have been arrested under section 188 (disobedience to order) of the Indian Penal Code. During March, April, May and most of June, the average number of people booked daily for lockdown violations was 200. Section 144, prohibiting assembly or movement of people (apart from those involved in essential services), remains in force in Mumbai till July 15.“The action comes after we observed many were violating the norms, which endangered not only their health but also that of others in their vicinity. Hence, we imposed strict movement restrictions across the city,” said Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations) and Mumbai Police spokesperson.Last Sunday, Mumbai Police booked 2,061 people and arrested 1,046. Before this, most citizens were booked on April 14 (1,164), which was when hundreds of migrants labourers gathered outside Bandra railway station following rumours of trains running to north India.32 cops test positiveIn the last 24 hours, 32 new cases of policemen testing positive for Covid-19 have been reported, bringing Mumbai Police’s Covid-19 tally to 2,811. Of these, 2,127 have recovered and 1,297 recovered cops have resumed duty. The death toll from Covid-19 stands at 38 for Mumbai Police and 60 for the state police.Health monitors for copsTo monitor the health of policemen in the city, a team of experienced doctors are monitoring policemen and analysing symptoms exhibited by those policemen who are Covid-positive. “The doctors’ team sits in Nagpada Police Hospital and functions in coordination with the four police Covid care centres and also with the Covid-19 helpline opened for policemen,” said a police officer.Police station head tests positiveAnother senior police inspector, who heads up a station in the western region, has tested positive for Covid-19. He got tested on June 29 after feeling under the weather and the results declared he was Covid-positive on June 30. The officer has a fever and a cough and has been shifted to Seven Hills Hospital for further treatment. Those who have close contact with him are in home quarantine.44 at Nagpur Central Jail test positiveSuperintendent of police Anup Kumre of Nagpur Central Jail, said on Wednesday, “Tests were conducted for 157 staff members on Tuesday after two to three staff members reported fever and cough. The reports came on Wednesday and 44 were found positive, including some officers. Their relatives have been quarantined and we are admitting them in the hospital for treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-958-citizens-booked-in-3-days-for-flouting-lockdown-rules-2-384-arrested/story-7bTPI8zE8tUKIsZUI7saEO.html
02-07-2020||City||Butcher fired at with fake gun over chicken, 2 held||Manickpur police have booked three people and arrested two for firing at a butcher using a toy gun in Bappa Seetaram Nagar in Vasai (East) over non-payment of ₹377. The third accused is absconding.The complainant, Irfan Qureishi, was closing his chicken shop on Monday when Sachin Singh, 45; Kiran Sakpal, 33; and Jayesh Singh, 32, asked for 1.5 kg chicken. Qureishi first refused, but later gave him the meat. However, the accused refused to pay ₹377 which led to an argument, said Vijaykant Sagar, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Vasai. One of the accused pulled out a knife while another took out the toy gun and fired black shots in the air to scare Qureishi. As the sound of the shots led to a panic in the area, the trio fled from the spot.“Qureishi complained to us and we registered a case under section 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested Sakpal and Singh, while the other accused is absconding. The arrested duo has been remanded in police custody,” said Sagar.The officer added, “The accused may have procured the toy gun to scare people from one of the stuntmen working in film sets. We are investigating further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/butcher-fired-at-with-fake-gun-over-chicken-2-held/story-JECstxc0N5DTb0L8xP66pN.html
02-07-2020||City||Lightning strikes woman in Jawhar||A 35-year-old tribal woman, Sunita Sapta, was struck by lightning in Narnuli-Bhusarpada in Jawhar taluka late on Tuesday. Locals took her to a hospital where she is undergoing treatment. The lightning struck her hut, partly destroying it while her cow died. Sapta’s right leg was hurt in the incident, hence locals carried her in a make-shift stretcher to the main road till they could find a vehicle to take her to Cottage Hospital.Sapta was alone in her when the incident took place while her husband Chandrakant was at the fields. The tehsildar of Jawhar said a panchanama will be done to examine the extent of damage to the hut as well as the cow’s death. He added that the revenue department will pay a compensation for the damage as it was caused by natural calamity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lightning-strikes-woman-in-jawhar/story-JYynxFIPhOCPnOVFYTsMiO.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Mhada announces lottery for 24 houses at Nashik||Amid the lockdown, the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) has announced lottery for 24 low-cost houses in Nashik. These houses range between 452 square feet to 648 square feet area and cost between ₹13 lakh and ₹20 lakh. The lottery for the houses, which are located at Kalanagar in Nashik, would be held on August 10 at Nashik. The application for this has started and people can submit their application till July 30. Mhada houses are popular due to their low cost as compared to that charged by private builders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mhada-announces-lottery-for-24-houses-at-nashik/story-NMDLBN7ZNALSav9VHWYX8L.html
02-07-2020||City||Bhiwandi power loom owners stare at tough times ahead||Tejas Savla, 46, can see his three-decade-old family loom crumbling due to lack of business amid the lockdown in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Savla had to shut shop as instead of profit he ended up with expenses to maintain the loom and he sees no other option but to sell the business to earn some money for sustenance. Savla is merely one of the thousands of loom owners affected by the lockdown.While the state government eased lockdown norms and allowed power looms to open from June 8, the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) went into a lockdown again on June 18. Looms, which saw a ray of hope at the start of June, had to close once again. Many have lost their livelihood and are reeling under financial distress. They are now looking for some subsidies in power from the government to stay afloat.Savla, a resident of Kalyan, said, “There has been a slump in demand since the past few years, and we have reduced the number of machinery as we were not able to bear the expenses. However, the lockdown has taken a complete toll on profits. We are unable to match the expenses for maintenance and rentals. We might have to shut shop to avoid getting debts. Selling everything will hopefully help us earn some money for survival.”Bhiwandi, a small town around 30kms from Mumbai, is known as a power loom hub with more than one lakh small and big power loom factories. Some of the factory owners are facing huge losses that would take around two years to make up; while a few others plan to shut shop.Despite the municipal corporation allowing around 30,000 power looms in non-containment zones to open up, hardly 2,000 opened up for a few days last month due to dearth in demand.Yusuf Hasan, president of Powerloom Federation, said, “There is a huge drop in demand which is a big reason for the slump in business. Moreover, since the past three months none of the power loom owners have manufactured anything. Power companies or the government has not given any concession to industries while we continue to pay huge tariffs despite our factories remaining shut. There needs to be some relief for power loom companies in such times.”Lack of manpower, funds, materials and difficulty in transportation are few of the reasons that are making loom owners sceptical to reopen business.Jivraj Nagariya, a power loom owner from Bhiwandi, said, “On an average, for 20 machines we need a minimum of 10 people for operations, testing and maintenance related work. However, most of the men were migrant labourers who have moved to their hometowns. Some have returned but most of them are scared to come back in such a situation. With hardly 30% production, we cannot make ends meet. For the revival of these factories and for us to get as much business as before, it will take at least another two years. This will leave a huge impact on smaller factories.” Meanwhile, with only a few days of the lockdown left in Bhiwandi, the municipal corporation hopes to allow some power looms to start functioning. “We are still contemplating on the move. We may allow some of the factories in industrial areas to reopen soon; however, this depends on the spread of the virus in these areas,” said an official from BNCMC.With no clarity on ease in restrictions, loom owners say the future looks bleak for the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-power-loom-owners-stare-at-tough-times-ahead/story-r9KK3fUWwRoJyhEWSzRJKI.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Businesses restart operations: PPE kits, masks, gloves is new normal for professionals||With the lockdown being relaxed since June 3 and the state allowing some non-essential businesses to open, many are figuring out ways by which they can operate while adhering to the safety measures recommended to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Some salon owners said they would focus on home services in the coming months, with beauticians and barbers wearing personal protective kits (PPE), including masks and gloves, for home visits. Samir Srivastav, chief executive officer of the salon and spa chain Jean Claude Biguine (JCB), said, “While the salons are under the strict scrutiny of their management teams to ensure health and hygiene daily, JCB is shifting gears to ramp up the ‘Home Salon Service’ vertical. JCB will only offer essential home salon services such as haircuts, root touch up, waxing, water-less manicure, pedicure that requires minimum skin contact. Services such as massages, nail bar & other spa treatments have been temporarily restricted.”Ishaan Varma, founder of TC1 EMS, a fitness studio in Lokhandwala said, “For next few months, we will be focusing on HOMERUN – our ‘trainers at your doorstep’ programme. TC1 will bring the gym to your home. Electric muscle stimulator (EMS) enables us to do so. We are dealing with niche clientele and can train them indoor as well as outdoor while taking all the necessary precautions and safety measures to ensure risk-free training. Trainers have been instructed to sanitize their hands and equipment frequently. We came to a standstill along with the world, but this is the time to innovate and add value.”Gyms and fitness clubs have been closed, by order of the state government, since March 13.For real estate brokers and consultants, selling or renting homes via video conference is picking up. Amit Wadhwani from Sai Estates, a property consultancy, said, “The model that we have explored is of leveraging our virtual builder services on generating leads for developers.” Sai Estates generates a virtual visit for a potential home buyer and the developer is charged for this, irrespective of whether or not the buyer chooses that apartment. “This was in the backdrop of the lockdown when visits were the most challenging part. Immovable properties aren’t sold easily without site visits and we took the chance to convert the adversity into opportunity,” said Wadhwani, adding that there has been “keen interest and subscription from the industry”.With the Maharashtra government permitting social functions like marriages and engagements so long as the guest list is limited to 50 people, those providing wedding-related services are also trying to adapt to the new rules.Sneha Sedani, founder of the wedding photography and videography firm Rhythmic Focus, said, “ Currently, I do not have assignments, but have drafted a standard operating procedure that we expect the client to follow. This will include no guests coming near the photographers during the wedding, no guests asking us to click their pictures using their phones since that involves touching. I will also prefer clicking pictures of guests and the bride and groom from a certain distance.”Meanwhile, those involved in maintenance and repair of automobiles say fumigating and maintenance of vehicles has ensured some cash flow for them as many vehicles have developed snags due to being stationary for months. Kartik Shetty, an automobile garage owner from Andheri, said, “We have planned visits strictly by appointments and if possible, we send our mechanics with precautions to conduct initial testing of the vehicle to ensure minimal crowding at my garage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/businesses-restart-operations-ppe-kits-masks-gloves-is-new-normal-for-professionals/story-BcM2nthcYAosjKSU3Ha50K.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||10-day lockdown in Panvel, Navi Mumbai and Ulhasnagar||A day after the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) decided to impose a lockdown, Navi Mumbai, Panvel and Ulhasnagar, too, have announced a 10-day lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. While lockdown in Navi Mumbai and Panvel will be implemented from the midnight of July 3 to July 13, Ulhasnagar will observe a lockdown from Thursday (July 2) to July 12.The Covid-19 situation in Navi Mumbai is worsening at an alarming rate with cases having tripled in the past one month. The total number of positive cases increased from 2,284 on June 1 to 6,823 on July 1. The number of deaths have tripled as well from 75 to 217 in one month. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Wednesday reported 218 new cases and six deaths.NMMC commissioner Annsaheb Misal said, “Barring the wholesale APMC market and Thane-Belapur TTC industrial area, entire NMMC will be under strict lockdown from midnight of July 3 to July 13. Only essential services and establishments will be allowed to operate. Private vehicles will also be allowed only for essential services and emergencies.”Also read| Not possible to convert railway coaches into ICUs for Covid-19 patients: Railways inform Bombay HCThe Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) also declared a 10-day lockdown from July 3 to July 13 after the city witnessed its highest one-day spike with 136 new cases. PCMC has witnessed a four-fold rise in cases in one month.PCMC commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh said, “Eminent citizens and residents demanded that we declare a complete lockdown to control the situation. I have hence ordered a complete lockdown from 9pm on July 3 to midnight July 13. Any violations will be strictly dealt with. In the next two days, residents should stock up on essential goods without violating social distancing.”Meanwhile, the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) recorded 68 new cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 1,982. The city has recorded 48 deaths so far.According to the guidelines for the lockdown from Thursday to July 12, residents will have to depend on home delivery of essential goods between 9am to 9pm. The civic body also declared that it will levy a fine of ₹1,000 on those found roaming without a mask.The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), on the other hand, recorded 350 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the toll of positive cases to 6,925. Three new deaths were also reported on Wednesday, taking the toll to 123.TMC has, on Tuesday, announced a 10-day lockdown starting July 2 till July 12. Thane district collector has also ordered lockdown in all rural areas of the district including municipal councils and gram panchayats.TMC on Wednesday recorded 363 positive cases and 15 deaths, taking the total number of cases to 9,135 and deaths to 322. TMC has initiated a special cleanliness movement wherein each day a particular ward will be chosen and employees and officials from that ward and nearby wards will ensure it is clean. The initiative began on Wednesday with Naupada and Kopri wards.Also read| Covid-19: India crosses 6 lakh mark with over 19,000 cases; 434 fatalities in last 24 hours“This initiative is to ensure cleanliness is maintained on roads, nullah, and public toilets. Moreover, the commissioner also did a survey of Naupada and Kopri areas to understand the spread of the pandemic in these areas,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-day-lockdown-in-panvel-navi-mumbai-and-ulhasnagar/story-xalPkQ2KZnh6tQ2KHyPQIJ.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Mira-Bhayander MLA tests positive for Covid||The independent member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) of Mira-Bhayander, Geeta Jain has tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. She is now under home-quarantine and is undergoing treatment, confirmed her husband Bharat Jain.“The MLA has been showing symptoms, like loss of smell, cough, for four days. We got her tested on Tuesday and reports came positive,” said Jain.She is under home quarantine and her health is improving. Being the elected people’s representative my wife was actively working in red zones. We suspect she may have got infected due to her visits, said Jain.Meanwhile, the twin cities of Mira-Bhayander has so far detected 3,165 positive cases with more than 115 deaths. The new commissioner of Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation, Dr Vijay Rathod, has declared a ten-day complete lockdown from Wednesday to 10 July. All grocery, chicken and meat stores, supermarkets, vegetable and fruit markets will be closed. Medical stores and essential services will remain open. The twin cities have 1,129 containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mira-bhayander-mla-tests-positive-for-covid/story-1CG4pKWRtLm75EpTekBeKM.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Visually challenged man donates blood plasma||A month after Nitish Sonawane, a visually impaired music teacher, recovered from Covid-19, he returned to the private city hospital where he was treated and donated blood for the convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) on Monday. CPT is believed to improve the condition of patients infected with the novel coronavirus.Officials at the Vile Parle-based Nanavati Hospital said Sonawane, who travelled almost 15kms from his Mankhurd home, has set an example for thousands of recovered patients who are refuse to donate their blood for CPT.“The whole process took around 40 minutes. Through a needle placed into my vein, blood is drawn out. After extraction of the plasma, the blood is returned into the body. This is done in several cycles,” said Sonawane who plans to donate his plasma again. “There was no reason to let my visual impairment deter my ability to donate plasma. Knowing that I can donate plasma after 15 days, I may return,” he added. Individuals infected with Covid-19 develop antibodies as part of the body’s natural immune response to the foreign pathogen. This antibody invades pathogens and works to eliminate the novel coronavirus in patients. During CPT, these antibodies are infused into the blood of the Covid-19 patients to help to fight against the virus.It was in the second week of May that the 28-year-old was diagnosed with Covid-19 following which he was admitted to Nanavati hospital. He underwent treatment for two weeks before getting discharged on May 31. When Sonawane got to know about the potential benefit of CPT in fighting the virus, he decided to donate his blood. “It was my first day at work post-quarantine when I received a call from the hospital. I informed my superiors (at the music school) that I wish to donate plasma and they immediately agreed. It felt like I was fulfilling my responsibility,” said Sonawane. On June 29, he travelled alone from the Happy Home and School for the Blind—his workplace at Worli - to the hospital and back home. It was also the same day that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray unveiled ‘Project Platina,’ world’s largest plasma therapy trial run by Maharashtra government. More than 500 Covid-19 patients suffering from severe symptoms from across the state are likely to be beneficiaries.Last month, HT had reported that less than 1% of recovered patients were willing to donate blood, posing a hurdle for CPT. Manpreet Sohal, director and chief operating officer, said, “Such good samaritans encourage us to keep fighting this war against the pandemic. Covid-19 survivors like him are a living testament of our grit and determination to eliminate the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/visually-challenged-man-donates-blood-plasma/story-xaxfLbrEGiMPy40cGqPlfM.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Withhold increment of staff not using Marathi for official business deliberately’||The Maharashtra government has on Monday issued a circular making it mandatory for all its departments, local authorities, officials and employees to use Marathi language for official business and communications. It has also asked all department heads to take actions such as warning, mentioning it in the confidential reports, issuing strictures and withholding annual increment as a punishment against the staff found deliberately not using Marathi language in official business.The circular was issued by the Marathi language department.“It is mandatory to use Marathi language for official communication and business. Comprehensive guidelines have already been issued for 100% use of Marathi language in administrative work in the past. Despite that, many departments are still found using English language for issuing government resolution, official communication etc. Complaints in this regard have also been raised by the public representatives time and again,” stated the circular.It further said, “The department heads are again asked to issue strict instructions to their subordinates to use Marathi for all official business. They are directed to strictly implement the instructions and also take necessary action against all those found not using Marathi deliberately. They can issue warning, record it in their confidential report, pass strictures and also withholding annual increment as a punishment.”The circular stated that using Marathi will help people easily understand the information and also follow the instructions. In the budget session of the state Assembly in February, the government had passed a law making Marathi language a mandatory subject in all schools of all the boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/withhold-increment-of-staff-not-using-marathi-for-official-business-deliberately/story-JOfqqBxg8nz127Vr4yixNP.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Jan-May saw drop in farmer suicides’||The first five months of 2020 have seen a drop in farmer suicides compared to the corresponding period in 2019 and 2018, according to state data.From January to May, 826 farmers died by suicide, with the lowest number in the past five years recorded in April (102). The first three months of 2020 saw 198, 201, 168 suicides, while in May, 157 farmers ended their lives. In 2018 and 2019, the first five months of the calendar year recorded 1,117 and 1,085 suicides, respectively. A total of 2,761 and 2,808 farmer suicides were reported in 2018 and 2019, respectively. A majority of suicides (437) in these five months were reported in 11 districts of Vidarbha, followed by Marathwada (273). Western and northern Maharashtra reported 12 and 104 cases till May 31. The state government released the suicide data after a gap of three months due to Covid-19 lockdown. The figures are compiled by the state’s relief and rehabilitation department which gives compensation to kin of farmers if they commit suicide due to indebtedness.Farm experts and government officials cite various reasons for the drop. Loan waiver, which is expected to benefit more than 30 lakh farmers, was announced in the last week of December. The following months reported fewer suicides, after November and December reported 308 and 242 suicides, respectively, an official from the relief and rehabilitation department said. After the beginning of disbursement in the last week of February, the state disbursed ₹12,000 crore in loan accounts of 19 lakh farmers. The scheme has been temporarily suspended due to pandemic, although 11.12 lakh more farmers are eligible for loan waiver worth ₹8,100 crore. Farm activist Vijay Jawandhia cited multiple reasons for the drop in suicide cases. “Amid the greater challenge of the global pandemic, the farmers must have found psychological solace that their crisis is comparatively insignificant. Another reason may have been the announcement of the loan waiver which is expected to be more than ₹20,000 crore. Many farmers are yet to get the waiver, but they must have gotten this mental relief that they are eligible for it. Another reason is the better prices farmers got for cotton and other agriculture produce last year. Against the minimum support price of ₹5,450 a quintal, the market price had gone up by around ₹1000 a quintal,” he said.Jawandhia however added that the number of suicides should not be linked with their plight as challenges before them haven’t reduced.Agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse said, “The drop in suicides is a very pleasant thing, but I would not like to take credit for it immediately. We have been doing everything possible for farmers since we came to power, be it loan waiver or crop loans and quick action against those selling faulty seeds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jan-may-saw-drop-in-farmer-suicides/story-x1jK35zWH7k6I17NhzydDO.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||AEML sets up help desks for bill related queries||To address the rising number of complaints from consumers regarding exorbitant electricity bills, Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) on Wednesday announced that it has taken several measures to address customer queries. Following directives from the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) on Monday, AEML assured consumers that power will not be disconnected over non-payment of dues until all grievances have been addressed.The power utility firm, which has over 27 lakh consumers in Mumbai, has set up 25 dedicated help desks at eight customer care centres in the city. “Consumers can avail the video call facility to speak to customer service teams regarding their queries at all centres. Consumers can call our 24X7 helpline number at 19122 or use WhatsApp to reach us at +919594519122,” AEML said in its statement.Consumers can also avail of the easy monthly installment (EMI) facility via the AEML website. Additionally, they can self-check their bills on the website by uploading account details to cross-verify the meter reading, consumption, and amount payable. AEML is also looking at installing 7 lakh smart meters in the city, which will enable meter reading without human intervention. ”AEML has undertaken various measures such as virtual help desk, EMI facility, as well as proactive awareness initiatives to increase clarity on the billing process among consumers. The consumers will be receiving bills based on their actual consumption with applicable tariff slab benefits. All necessary actions are in accordance with the rules and regulations laid down by the state government and MERC,” said an AEML spokesperson.Following a large number of complaints received from consumers regarding inflated bills, MERC issued guidelines to all utility firms to create robust mechanisms to ensure quick redressal of complaints. It also asked firms to allow consumers to pay bills in three instalments and not disconnect power until the dispute is resolved. With meter-reading suspended in March, consumers were billed based on average consumption in December, January, and February. However, utility firms maintain that actual consumption has been high in those months owing to summer and the lockdown.In a video released on Wednesday, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) said that if the central government had included electricity in the list of items eligible for aid through the National Disaster Response Fund, customers would have got some respite.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aeml-sets-up-help-desks-for-bill-related-queries/story-7efdwUbqCy1CPuNYtN623I.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||On Covid-19 duty, constable helps over 2,000 people; earns accolades||Constable Gautam Chavan, 39, was given a reward of ₹3,000 in cash and a letter of appreciation from additional commissioner of police (South) Nishit Mishra on Tuesday, for services rendered while on Covid-19 duty at Sir JJ Hospital. Attached to the JJ Marg police station, Chavan was assigned to Sir JJ Hospital’s Covid-19 ward on March 23. Since then, he says he has helped close to 2,000 people.Chavan’s working day starts at 8am and ends at 7pm, with a break between 1.30pm and 3pm. “I assist doctors on their routine check-ups. Then I help patients who have been recommended Covid-19 tests or other related tests,” he said. Sanjeev Bhole, senior police inspector at JJ Marg police station said, “Chavan would console those who tested positive and coordinate their requirements. Since Sir JJ Hospital is not admitting Covid-19 patients, Chavan also helps them shift to other hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/on-covid-19-duty-constable-helps-over-2-000-people-earns-accolades/story-j1cQ7gzqob9mdBtdt93yeP.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Reduce electricity bills for June, PIL urges HC||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been moved before the Bombay high court (HC), seeking directions to state authorities and electricity service providers to suspend recovery of the exorbitant amounts billed to customers for June and late charges, given the lockdown and financial problems being faced by citizens.The PIL has been filed by a Mulund-based businessman who received an electricity bill for June, which was 10 times his average bill. The man approached the court as many other citizens had received similar bills, and there was an apprehension that coercive measures would be taken to recover the amounts due.According to the plea filed by Ravindra Desai through advocate Vishal Saxena, since the nationwide lockdown was imposed, his business activities had come to a standstill. Desai said that despite Mission Begin Again allowing businesses to resume, movement restrictions have prevented him from restarting his work.The petition further states that when Desai received his electricity bill for June, the charges were 10 times that of his previous bills. He noted that like him, many Mumbaiites also received similarly inflated bills which they are not in a position to pay. Additionally, this has led to fear among citizens that the electricity providers would resort to coercive measures to recover the amount and also levy late payment charges which again would put a financial strain on them.In light of these submissions, the petition has prayed for directions to reduce the electricity bill for June and formulate a strategy to avoid such high charges until the situation in the city is back to normal. The petition has also prayed for an interim stay on the payment of the June bill till the matter is decided by the court, and to waive off late payment charges for the same.The petition has been admitted and is expected to come up for hearing in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/reduce-electricity-bills-for-june-pil-urges-hc/story-9JYzAxbBLpTZGQi71Eb8bN.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Member of state’s Covid-19 task force tests positive||A crucial member of the Covid-19 task force of nine doctors appointed by Maharashtra government in April, tested positive for Covid-19. He is recovering at a private hospital in Mulund since the past two days. His condition is stable and is showing improvement because of treatment, said his colleagues. Confirming the news, a senior member in the government said, “He tested positive for Covid-19. He has been unwell for a few days. Now for the past couple of days, he is recovering in a hospital in the city. He is doing better than earlier.” The member quoted above said on Wednesday, “There is a possibility that he may require to get plasma therapy. A decision about that will be taken tomorrow.”Plasma therapy is normally given to patients showing serious symptoms of Covid-19, and to patients who are critically ill due to Covid-19. The Maharashtra government appointed a task force of nine doctors in April, primarily tasked with bringing down the mortality due to Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/member-of-state-s-covid-19-task-force-tests-positive/story-7hw4OAF6sLrSuEUw4w0wgL.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Refund ₹833 crore to Vodafone Idea, HC tells I-T department||In a major reprieve for Vodafone Idea Limited, the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the income tax (I-T) department to refund ₹833 crore to the telecom major in two weeks.Vodafone Idea had filed a petition seeking a direction to the I-T department to refund ₹1,009.43 crore as quantified by the department’s order dated May 28, 2020. By way of interim order, the company had sought immediate refund of ₹833 crore, an undisputed refund quantified under the department’s rectification order of May 28 itself.According to its petition, the telecom major had filed returns in September 2014, which was revised in March 2016 and further revised on February 2017. On October 31, 2019, an assistant commissioner of I-T department passed an assessment order determining the refund of ₹733.80 crore to the company. Vodafone Idea, however, sought rectification of the assessment leading to a litigation, which was finally decided by the apex court on April 29, 2020.Pursuant to the Supreme Court order, the department passed fresh orders on May 28 declaring that the company was entitled to refund of ₹1,009.43 crore for assessment year 2014-15. The assessing officer, however, deducted amount of ₹176.39 crore towards demand for several other years that was pending against the company, thus fixing the net refund at ₹833 crore.On June 11, the company wrote to the principal commissioner of I-T department and sought refund of ₹1,009.43 crore, as determined under the order dated May 28, and later also sent reminders. The firm then moved the high court as it did not get any response and contended that the department was bound to release the refund amount as there is no provision under the I-T Act permitting withholding of the said admitted amount once orders are passed determining the refund.I-T department responded to the petition contending that withholding the refund was justified since huge outstanding demand has been pending against the petitioner. It was also submitted on behalf of the department that section 241A of the I-T Act empowers the department to withhold the refund.The bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice Madhav Jamdar, however, refused to accept the argument and said the department’s May 28 order has attained finality. It added that the only remaining issue was whether the assessing officer could have adjusted the amount of ₹176.39 crore from the refund or not.The judges added that the issue can be decided later by the court, but as regards the balance amount of ₹833 crore all proceedings have now culminated and the department cannot withhold the refund on the grounds that they may have a future demand against Vodafone Idea arising out of the pending assessment orders. The bench further said I-T officials had no power to withhold refund against undetermined future demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/refund-833-crore-to-vodafone-idea-hc-tells-i-t-department/story-F2YO96vQre8xB321hbN49O.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Expert finds errors in Balbharti’s Class 12 geography textbooks||A city-based Geography expert has pointed out several errors in the Class 12 Geography textbooks under the revised syllabus that were released by the state’s publishing bureau Balbharti in April this year. Vidyadhar Amrite, an academician and former member of the board of studies of the Maharashtra state board, has alleged that the textbook has several error-ridden marks and diagrams. “To begin, in many places dot maps have been used to show population and other values. The usage of these maps, however, is wrong. Each dot in a dot map should indicate a single value while it has been used in the text to represent ratios, density of population etc,” said Amrite. For instance, one such dot map on population distribution states that a dot is equivalent to settlements above 200 persons per square kilometre. In his report sent to Balbharti, Amrite also said that in the world map showing primary activities, agriculture is seen as a prominent activity only in Canada while prominent agricultural regions in India including Maharashtra are not highlighted. Similarly, in a map on regions that produce rice, prominent areas like Java in Indonesia, New Guinea near Australia, Punjab-Sindh in India and Pakistan, and Venezuela in Latin America have not been shown. A map of Lonar, a town in Buldhana district, has been tagged as Lonar city which, Amrite said, is wrong as it is only a town. As per the Census of India, a place is called a city when its population is one lakh or above. As per the 2011 census, the population of Lonar was 23,416. “Balbharti needs to understand that all the maps and diagrams that are published in the textbook have some relevance to the text. When scales on the maps are used wrongly or when there is inadequate information with a diagram, it is of no use for the students,” added Amrite. Vivek Gosavi, director of Balbharti, said, “All our maps and graphs are approved by the survey of India. We are yet to see the objections raised and will look into them. Our subject experts will see the report and will decide on the validity of the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/expert-finds-errors-in-balbharti-s-class-12-geography-textbooks/story-ZQgW71ikBEeG1j6WqNiC9L.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||IMD issues orange alert: Very heavy rain forecast for Friday, Saturday||The weather bureau has predicted widespread heavy to very heavy rain for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) this week.On Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an orange alert (very heavy rain warning) for Mumbai for Friday and Saturday, and yellow alert (heavy rain) across isolated areas for Thursday. IMD had earlier predicted a yellow alert for Wednesday, but south Mumbai and the suburbs recorded 0.2mm and 0.1mm rain between 8.30am and 8.30pm, respectively. However, there was a slight increase in rainfall across the city after 8.30pm.“Rain over the west coast, including Mumbai region, is expected to increase with isolated heavy to very heavy rain between July 3 and 5 under the influence of high convergence of strong westerly to southwesterly winds at lower tropospheric levels from the Arabian Sea, which will intensify monsoon currents leading to widespread rainfall. A cyclonic circulation lies over south Gujarat and neighbourhood in lower and mid tropospheric level that will further enhance rainfall for parts of north Konkan, including Mumbai,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.Between 8.30am Tuesday and 8.30am Wednesday, Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 9.4mm rain while 6mm was recorded at Colaba (representative of south Mumbai). HT had, on Wednesday, reported that the city witnessed its lowest June rain in five years.Meanwhile, the city and suburbs recorded the day and night temperature close to the normal mark while moisture levels were high at 89% humidity in south Mumbai and 79% in the suburbs during the day, which fell to 81% and 65% by the evening in south Mumbai and suburbs, respectively.IMD has also predicted an orange alert for Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg between Thursday and Saturday, and a similar warning for Palghar for the weekend.The city and suburbs can expect cloud cover with the possibility of moderate rain through the day and heavy showers at isolated areas, the forecast said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/imd-issues-orange-alert-very-heavy-rain-forecast-for-friday-saturday/story-nZtWELvbAjULEXQNNffraN.html
02-07-2020||City||6 school children hurt in mishap in Ludhiana: Police mum over identity of occupants of car||A day after six school children were injured in a mishap near the house of Congress MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid in Sarabha Nagar, the police are still tight-lipped and concealing details of occupants of the car that hit the tree.The victims were identified as Jaspartap Singh, Gursewak Singh, Dev Karan and Kirat. The police didn’t reveal the identity of the other two victims.Sources said the car belongs to Jaspartap’s father Surinder Singh Bindra, who is a former master town planner. The police have said they have received information on only one of the injured, Dev Karan.The complainant, constable Boota Singh, had stated that he was on patrolling duty near Guru Nanak Public School when he saw a Maruti Suzuki Brezza car crashing into a tree in Sarabha Nagar. The police had rescued the injured and rushed them to hospitals.Assistant sub-inspector Jaspal Singh, investigating officer, said that it was a major accident caused due to speeding. All six youngsters in the car sustained severe injuries and were admitted in different private hospitals.According to police officials, it is suspected that a minor was driving the car, adding that facts can be ascertained only after recording the statements of the injured youngsters. The police have lodged an FIR under Sections 279 (Rash driving), 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code.According to the Motor Vehicle Act, in case of an accident involving a minor, the police could take action against his or her parents.The incident was captured in the CCTVs installed in the area. Soon after the footage went viral and residents accused the police of hushing up the matter as it involved the children of high profile people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-school-children-hurt-in-mishap-in-ludhiana-police-mum-over-identity-of-occupants-of-car/story-gqrL1BjM7NIre9Qxo9HivL.html
02-07-2020||City||Rape accused undertrial tests positive for Covid||A 26-year-old rape accused was in judicial custody since past one-and-a-half year in Thane jail tested positive for Covid-19 while undergoing treatment for stomach infection at Sir JJ Hospital. This has led to panic situation in the jail as he was lodged there till June 15. Meanwhile, his appeal for bail in Thane sessions court has been rejected due to his Covid status.H Ahirrao, superintendent of Thane jail, said, “The prisoner was suffering from stomach infection which worsened around June 16 and we took him to Sir JJ Hospital. He did not have any Covid-19 symptoms. Later, during the treatment he tested positive.” Thane jail has around 3,000 prisoners. Ahirrao said all prisoners are screened regularly for symptoms and added, “The prisoner was not infected here. We check for symptoms and conduct timely health check-ups. Our officials or doctors who are working inside the jail are scanned for temperature and oxygen levels every time they leave or enter.”Salim Yusuf Shaikh, the advocate of the accused, however, said the accused’s 70-year-old mother has been running from pillar to post to know about her son’s health condition, but have not been given any clarity. He said neither the jail authorities nor the hospital has given her any information, hence they had appealed for bail.Shaikh said, “On June 19, Kalwa police visited my client’s house and informed that his health condition is deteriorated due to stomach infection. He was shifted from Thane Civil hospital to Sir JJ Hospital. We tried to apply for bail so that his mother could meet him, which was not possible over the past five months due to pandemic. Recently we got information from jail officials that he was shifted to St George Hospital in Mumbai as his Covid-19 report came positive. The judge did not grant him bail as he has tested positive for Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rape-accused-undertrial-tests-positive-for-covid/story-LPR9bRHMDOK97VtatbPBfJ.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Sanitary napkins could be declared as essential commodity: Centre to HC||The centre has informed the Bombay high court that it may consider declaring sanitary napkins as an essential commodity after public interest litigation was filed in this regard. The petitioners, law students, in light of the lockdown and Covid pandemic had sought directions for sanitary napkins to be made an essential commodity and be provided through the public distribution system.The division bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta while hearing the petition filed by the students Nikita Gore and Vaishnavi Gholave through advocate Vinod Sangvikar on June 5 was informed that due to the pandemic situation most outlets dispensing sanitary napkins were shut. As a result of many women from the poor and marginalized sections of the society were unable to maintain personal hygiene due to the non-availability of sanitary napkins.In light of these submissions, the petitioners had sought directions to the government to recognize sanitary napkins as an essential commodity by making changes to the Essential Commodity Act, 1955 and also sought effective implementation of the ‘Menstrual Hygiene Management National Guidelines, 2015’.On June 5, after the state submitted that any addition in the Act was the prerogative of the centre, the bench had directed the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) to respond to the plea within three weeks.In response, MoHFW under-secretary Dilip Kumar Sahu submitted an affidavit last week which said that the petitioners were making sweeping allegations about the government machinery not functioning properly during the lockdown. The affidavit stated that MoHFW has been implementing the 2015 programme for promoting menstrual hygiene for girls between 10 and 19 years of age and states and union territories have a decentralised process for procuring sanitary napkins through a competitive bidding process ensuring quality standards.Sahu further stated in the affidavit, “I most humbly submit that the decision to bring sanitary napkins under the essential commodities may be done after understanding the current market scenario, demand-supply gap, if any; also keeping in mind the various options of brands, quality, specification, costing and preferences of the beneficiaries.”The affidavit added that a decision could be taken after consulting the Consumer Affairs Ministry and involving all stakeholders.As per the directions of the court on June 5, the petitioners have to file a rejoinder to the affidavit after which the petition will be heard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sanitary-napkins-could-be-declared-as-essential-commodity-centre-to-hc/story-Jyd0mSzfJfHOXcCaQ2hlVP.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray offers prayers at Vitthal temple||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray performed special prayers at the Lord Vitthal temple in Pandharpur on Wednesday morning on the occasion of Ashadhi Ekadashi.“I (Uddhav Thackeray) prayed to the Lord that now I want to see magic. Show me that magic because as humans our hands are clasped. We don’t have medicine or anything else. How to live with a mask on our faces? Start destroying corona from today and give the entire world a happy and healthy life,” tweeted the chief minister’s office (CMO). “I also prayed to bring happiness for the agrarian community and fulfil all desires and wishes of people of the state.”This was the first time Thackeray offered prayers at the Pandharpur temple as the CM of Maharashtra. He was accompanied by his wife, Rashmi, and son, Aaditya, who is also the state’s environment and tourism minister. It is a long-standing tradition in Maharashtra for the CM and his spouse to attend the morning prayers at the temple on Ashadi Ekadashi.Despite the Shiv Sena being part of the previous governments, the Thackeray family never took part in this tradition, as no member had contested any election till recently.Last year, Aaditya was the first member of the family to contest and win the Assembly elections. This year, Thackeray, too, got elected as a member of the legislative Council to retain his post as the CM.Thackeray also held a review meeting at Pandharpur late Wednesday evening. He took stock of the situation and also directed authorities to prepare a development plan for Pandharpur. “We are ready to provide all support for development of Pandharpur. Local authorities should prepare a development plan which will be approved by the state government,” Thackeray said in the meeting. He also issued a cheque of ₹5 crore as government grant for Pandharpur.After performing special prayers, he also urged devotees not to visit the temple this year and stay at home. “For the sake of health, I urge devotees and people at large to avoid visiting Pandharpur temple. Instead, perform all your prayers by staying at home,” he said.Traditionally, lakhs of warkaris (pilgrims) – devotees of Lord Vitthal – undertake the wari (pilgrimage) on foot from across the state and reach Pandharpur on Ashadhi Ekadashi. Local authorities decided to keep the celebrations low-key this year because of the Covid-19 outbreak. This year, the wari, with the padukas (footprints) of saints Dnyaneshwar, Tukaram, and seven others was taken to Pandharpur by bus with a limited number of people, and not on foot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-offers-prayers-at-vitthal-temple/story-ryLoG0VMwfedeo8HJehSQO.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||No Lalbaugcha Raja for first time in 86 yrs of its existence||This Ganpati season, the by-lanes of Lalbaug in south Mumbai’s Chinchpokli will be bereft of the usual rush of devotees waiting for a view of their favourite elephant God. For the first time in the 86 years of its existence, the Lalbaugcha Raja Ganpati Mandal (committee) will not have an idol this year, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Instead, an 11-day blood and plasma donation drive will be held at the Lalbaugcha Raja pandal from August 22. The donation camp will aid health workers in the city in their fight against the virus, said Balasaheb Sudam Kamble, president of the committee. While the decision is in the interest of the physical-distancing norms set by the government, devotees of ‘bappa’, as he is fondly referred to, are not too happy. Many have thronged the pandal every year for a ‘darshan’ (viewing) or to ask for a ‘mannat’ (wish) but this year, they will be deprived of the trip. Smita Mestry, a 28-year-old IT professional, has been visiting the Raja every year. To not be able to visit him this year has upset her. “I have a lot of faith in him. At least they should have placed a smaller idol and allowed a virtual darshan for the devotees,” said the Andheri resident.The decision was not so simple, according to Santosh Kambli, the chief murtikar or sculptor of Lalbaugcha Raja. “In most other sarvajanik mandals, there are two idols. A smaller one for the puja and the bigger one is for darshan. But in Lalbaug, the 14-feet idol is the one for both,” said Kambli, whose family has been making the idol for Lalbaugcha Raja for three generations and has held a patent for the idol since 2011. The Maharashtra government had issued guidelines for Ganesh pandals and set the height for all idols at 4 feet. “We cannot reduce the height of the idol as we have been doing puja for 86 years. As we could not build the 14-feet idol, we decided to not have an idol at all,” said Kambli, who has lost around 50% of his business owing to the pandemic. His 79-year-old father, Ratnakar, who usually adds final touches to the idol and draws the eyes, is sorely missing the ‘bappa’ this year. “He [Lalbaugcha Raja] is not just an idol that we make. He is an emotion for our family,” said Kambli. Established in 1934 by the fishermen community of Kolis in Chinchpokli, Lalbaugcha Raja or ‘Mannat cha Raja’ (loosely translated as the wish-granting king), has since come to symbolise the Ganpati festival in the city.Until this year, the mandal had managed to brave the Emergency (1975-77) and the Mumbai riots (1992-93) to set up the 14-feet idol every year. Over 1.5 crore devotees from various parts of the state throng the pandal through the 11 days in hopes of getting their wishes granted. The committee also receives large donations from devotees that are then used in several public service activities. In 2019 alone, the committee received donations to the tune of ₹12 crore.“The decision to not organise the Ganesh festival this year is understandable as we need to focus on the society at present. But for someone who has not missed visiting the Ganesh idol at Lalbaugh fort the past 47 years, I will miss being part of the festivities this time round,” said Ajinkya Mhatre, 68, a retired banker and Borivali resident. For Hassan Khan, 30, visiting the Lalbaugcha Raja every year with friends is an emotion. “Ganpati festival is the biggest one in the city and Lalbaugcha Raja is a flavour of the festival, which will be missing this year,” said Khan, a Goregaon resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-lalbaugcha-raja-for-first-time-in-86-yrs-of-its-existence/story-LrhajG7Mv5AL15JKHDYPpO.html
02-07-2020||City||Faisal Farooq bail plea: HC asks police lawyer to produce L-G permission||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday said the stay granted on the release of Faisal Farooq, principal of Rajdhani School who was booked in connection with the northeast Delhi riots, would be “vacated”, if the police’s lawyer does not produce the permission granted to him by Delhi Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal to challenge the bail granted to Farooq.The court also said that the DCP, legal cell does not have the power to appoint a lawyer to represent the police without approval of the higher authorities.Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said the counsel, who had filed the plea, has not shown any document highlighting authorisation from the LG representing Delhi police in the matter and granted time to advocate Amit Mahajan, appearing for the Delhi Police, to file the letters of communication .The court was hearing a plea by the Delhi Police seeking to cancel Faisal’s bail granted by the lower court. On an earlier occasion, the hearing had seen exchange of words between solicitor general Tushar Mehta and the Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra who submitted that the Central Government has no power to file this petition against the June 20 order of the trial court.Later, ASG Aman Lekhi had appeared in place of the SG who submitted that in this situation, out of disgust, he seeks permission to withdraw his name from the petition.On Wednesday, the issue was again raised where the additional standing counsel (Delhi government) Rajesh Mahajan told the court that ASG Lekhi had no permission from the LG to appear in the matter.He said the counsels have to show the grant of authorisation to file the plea as the L-G can’t approve and give clearance without the aid of the Delhi government council of ministers.This irked the court which came down heavily on both the sides for not solving the issue even when it was informed on the last date that the ASG would appear and the matter was resolved.Advocate Amit Mahajan, appearing for the Delhi police, said that after SG Mehta, ASG Aman Lekhi was also “getting embarrassed” to appear before the court due to the controversy. He said that now instead of the ASG, he would appear and gave some documents to the court showing grant of permission. He said that Rajesh Deo, deputy commissioner of police, (legal), had authorised him to file the plea.However, the court said that the DCP does not have such powers to appoint someone without approval from the higher authorities. He said that the documents filed do not show the permission from the LG and also expressed displeasure on this conduct.The police, in the petition filed through advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair, have challenged the trial court’s June 20 order, which granted bail to Farooq on the ground that it had prima facie not been established that he was present at the spot at the time of incident.The Delhi Police had on June 3 filed a charge sheet before the court against Farooq and 17 others in connection with a building being gutted during the northeast Delhi riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faisal-farooq-bail-plea-hc-asks-police-lawyer-to-produce-l-g-permission/story-lYx4At4KjSDvxpXGSb3j5H.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid-19 cases rise by 5,537, highest in a day; toll is 8,053||Maharashtra on Wedn-esday recorded its sharpest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with 5,537 more infections, taking the count to 180,298. The toll crossed 8,000 to touch 8,053 after the addition of 198 fatalities on Wednesday. Mumbai saw 1,487 new cases and 75 fatalities, taking the tally to 79,145 and toll to 4,631. The state health department has, however, said of the latest fatalities, 69 are from the past 48 hours, while the remaining 129 are from the past few weeks.Many district and civic administrations in the state have announced a reimposition of stricter and curfew-like lockdowns for the next eight to 10 days in the backdrop of the sudden spike in cases. Besides the Thane, Mira-Bhayander, Kalyan-Dombivli corporations, districts like Nashik, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg have imposed stricter lockdown norms. In Mumbai, too, police have prevented people from stepping out of the house unnecessarily. Few other districts like Jalgaon are planning such restrictions for a few days to contain the spread of the virus. In fact, many districts have reported an increased growth rate of cases in rural parts, rather than in urban areas, after activities were opened up on May 22. For instance, in rural Jalgaon, cases rose from 252 on May 21 to 2,652 till Tuesday, while in Aurangabad rural the spike was from 20 cases to 1,011. In Nashik and Solapur rural, cases jumped to 877 and 314 from 113 and 10 respectively. The growth in cases in the corporation areas of these districts was comparatively less, data revealed. Water supply and sanitation minister and Jalgaon’s guardian minister Gulabrao Patil said the social taboo about the virus is making the task of tracing its spread difficult. “Infected people report very late due to the fear of ill-treatment in society. Of the 234 deaths, 70 were reported in 14 to 42 hours of their admission and most of them had comorbidities. People have been hiding the symptoms, making it very difficult in tracing and early treatment. This led to the rise in number of patients and deaths too. We are now planning awareness programmes, besides aggressive tracing with the help of village-level machinery,” he said. Laxminarayan Mishra, collector, Ratnagiri, said stricter lockdown was imposed for eight days, after they found large-scale violations of norms. “The number of active cases has reached 140 after we found a rise in cases last week. Operation break the chain is to restrict the social transmission of the virus,” he said. The reversal of the lockdown at local levels has put a break on the state government’s plan of opening up activities. “There were plans of allowing more staff in red zones and interdistrict transport services in non-red zones as part of our Mission Begin Again, but the sudden surge in case put a spanner in the works. Local authorities have approached us for stricter restrictions of lockdown for the next few days in their bid to contain the spread. Besides the stricter lockdown, local authorities have been asked to ramp up health infrastructure and plan aggressive tracing of patients,” said a state government official.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday had said that while extending the lockdown, the government was planning a few more relaxations in a calibrated manner. The decision by local authorities of making the restriction stricter has created confusion among the people. Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) state chief, Chandrakant Patil, criticised the government for the contradictory decisions by state and local bodies and has asked government to bring clarity on the policy. Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health consultant, said that civic bodies and district collectors should pull up the sleeves and go chasing the virus. “Government appears to be confused over relaxations from the ongoing lockdown as the local authorities and state are not on the same page on this front. It is easy in the rural areas to contain the virus, but it is spreading rapidly in some districts because of the lack of effort. Even in the rest of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the tracing of suspected cases should be done aggressively. Mumbai could succeed in containing it, only because of aggressive tracing done in areas like Dharavi and Koliwada,” he said. Dr Pattiwar said that civic bodies and district authorities should now spare health workers from the contact-tracing job as they are overburdened and should instead rope in volunteers and NGOs. Meanwhile, the state’s case fatality rate (CFR) dropped to 4.47% from 4.69% on June 16, the day on which there was an addition of 1,328 deaths as part of the reconciliation of data. The CFR was 3.79% on June 15. The recovery rate slightly dropped to 51.67% after 93,154 patients were reported to have recovered from the infection. The recovery rate was 52.59% on June 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-19-cases-rise-by-5-537-highest-in-a-day-toll-is-8-053/story-U22gHRBKPCjzgwzrEFFtxI.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||10 wards account for 64% of cases in a week, cause for worry for BMC||Ten wards, which reported 5,315 or 64% of the total cases (8,242) from June 22 to June 29, remain crucial for the city, a week after Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the number of Covid-19 cases may have plateaued in Mumbai. For the past few days, the number of daily new cases is in the range of 1,000 to 1,300, which indicates it may have reached a plateau. However, while the civic body has managed to check the outbreak in initial hot spots such as Worli and Dharavi, these 10 wards, with a sharp surge in cases, remain cause for concern. The wards cover Bhandup, Mulund, Malad, Andheri East, Borivli, Ghatkopar, Andheri West and Kandivli in the suburbs, and Dadar, Mahim and Parel in central Mumbai. In this period, the highest number of cases (829) was reported in S ward, which covers Bhandup, Vikhroli, Kanjurmarg and parts of Powai, taking the ward’s total to 4,381 on June 29 from 3,552 on June 22. Santosh Dhonde, assistant municipal commissioner of S ward, said, “There is a spike in the number of cases because of three reasons. Firstly, there is a lot of movement due to relaxation of lockdown. Secondly, we have increased screening and testing. We are easily screening more than 1,000 citizens daily by organising 10 medical camps daily. Also, now cases are coming from high-rises due to relaxations. Earlier, the ratio of slum and high-rises was 80:20, but it has now become 50:50.”BMC recently launched a rapid action plan to curb spread in the suburbs, including Dahisar, Borivli, Kandivli, Malad and Mulund. Another area of concern is P-N ward (Malad), which was the second highest (675) in the cases reported in the past one week. A BMC official from the ward said, “The number of cases has increased, considering we have increased screening under the rapid action plan launched on June 22.”The other three wards that are in the top 10 list include K-E ward covering Andheri East that was third highest in the number of cases (621), taking its total to 5,242 from 4,621, followed by T ward covering Mulund reporting 592 cases in the past one week and R-C ward covering Borivli (521) cases.Vishwas Shankarwar, deputy municipal commissioner of zone 7 covering the western suburbs, said, “We have conducted 70 medical camps since the past one week as part of the rapid action plan and have identified 191 people suspected to be having Covid-19. Of these, over 25 have tested positive, and other reports are pending.”Shankarwar said, “We are not seeing an unusual spike, but one has to also consider that these are the areas where cases were not being reported earlier. It is due to this that we are now seeing those cases coming out, and also in the case of R-Central ward, we are finding many cases from hospitals who go for treatment of non-Covid-19 issues, but are later found to be positive. However, overall, there is no unusual spike.”Among the other wards in the top 10 list are N ward covering Ghatkopar with 442 cases in the past one week, followed by K-W ward covering Andheri West reporting 423 cases, R-S ward covering Kandivli reporting 416 cases, F-S ward covering Parel, Lalbaug reporting 408 cases and G-N ward covering Dadar, Mahim and Dharavi reporting 388 cases.The eastern suburbs (six wards) covering areas such as Mulund, Bhandup, Kanurjmarg, Kurla, Ghatkopar, Mankhurd and Govandi reported 2,593 cases last week, followed by the western suburbs (nine wards) covering areas such as Dahisar, Borivli, Kandivli, Malad, Goregaon, Andheri and Bandra reporting around 3,585 cases. Central Mumbai covering areas such as Parel, Worli, Dadar, Matunga, Dharavi and Sewri reported 1,277 cases. Meanwhile, in the past one week, 817 fresh cases were reported in south Mumbai that includes areas namely Colaba, Churchgate, Charni Road, Kalbadevi, Malabar Hills, Nagpada, Byculla, Mazagaon. On Wednesday, Mumbai recorded 1,487 fresh cases and 75 new deaths. The city’s case tally rose to 79,145, while the toll touched 4,631. The number of discharged patients in Mumbai is 44,791, with a recovery rate of 56.59 %. Further, active cases stood at 29,715. The fatality rate as of Wednesday was 5.85%, and doubling rate of 42 days. Starting Wednesday, BMC launched its sero-surveillance drive in densely populated slums of Ganpat Patil Nagar in Dahisar and a slum pocket in Govandi. The survey will also be conducted in Dadar, Matunga and Wadala.Sero-surveillance is conducted to diagnose individuals for antibodies of Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, and monitor the spread of the virus. During sero-surveillance, residents undergo blood tests to detect the presence of IgG antibodies, which develop against Sars-CoV-2. For this, a total of 10,000 blood samples will be collected.BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal on Wednesday also issued a circular with guidelines for salons and beauty parlours, stating that BMC, from time to time, may take localised decisions to regulate opening of non-essential shops. The BMC chief also added that for shopping of non-essential goods, citizens should go to nearby shops, adding that long-distance travel will not be permitted, reiterating the Mumbai Police’s order of citizens not travelling beyond 2km for purchase of non-essential goods. However, BMC has said that exceptions will be allowed on humanitarian grounds and medical reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-wards-account-for-64-of-cases-in-a-week-cause-for-worry-for-bmc/story-bggbNyVsXVVgcZeEfhCp7O.html
02-07-2020||City||Motorist booked for crossing Neral railway track despite gate being shut||Following the release of a video showing a car trespassing onto the railway tracks at Neral railway station despite the crossing gates being closed, Karjat railway police force (RPF) on Wednesday registered a case against the driver. The accused, identified as Ketan Chanche, is a 32-year-old resident of Neral. He has been booked under sections 154 and 159 of the Railway Act, for trespassing and negligence. According to railway officials, Chanche allegedly crossed the tracks despite seeing the red signal and that the gate on the other side was almost closed. “Trespassing is dangerous when the gates are closed. In this particular case, legal action has been initiated against the vehicle driver. A case has been registered under the Railway Act for endangering the safety of passengers. Do not cross the tracks when gates are closed,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/motorist-booked-for-crossing-neral-railway-track-despite-gate-being-shut/story-hNtVgY6PurKDRLuP2eqnPL.html
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Barring men from consuming alcohol proved fatal for 2 cops in Sonepat||A day after two policemen on patrol duty were killed near Butana checkpost in Gohana, Sonepat superintendent of police (SP) Jashandeep Randhawa on Wednesday said the accused attacked the cops for not allowing them to consume liquor. Randhawa said constable Ravinder Kumar and special police officer Kaptan Singh were attacked with sharp-edged weapons by Amit Kumar, Sandeep Kumar and their four accomplices, who are at large.“The criminals were roaming around in Sandeep’s car on Monday night when they encountered the cops. Their blind murder was solved with the help of the car number constable Ravinder Kumar had noted down on his hand. Our team had raided Ramnagar area on Sonepat-Jind road, where in an encounter, Amit was killed while Sandeep was arrested. Our team members who sustained injuries in the shootout are stable and out of danger now,” the SP added.On Wednesday, Sandeep was produced in a Gohana court, which sent him in seven-day police remand. A police official privy to the case claimed that the absconding accused included two women. The police said that Amit was accused in at least six cases, including two attempts to murder in Jind in 2014 and 2015. Similarly, Sandeep was also booked in a case of murder bid in Jind, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/barring-men-from-consuming-alcohol-proved-fatal-for-2-cops-in-sonepat/story-l62gZSSxrQm88AeGWQq74I.html
02-07-2020||Delhi||At capacity, Chhatarpur centre to dish out 100k meals a day||New Delhi: More than 1,000 ‘sewadars’ of the Radha Soami Satsang Beas (RSSB) will be involved in cooking and packing meals on a daily basis when the temporary Covid care facility set up in the organisation’s Chhatarpur branch is occupied to its capacity of 10,200 patients. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe meals will be cooked at the institution’s in-house mess — a short walk from the facility — and the costs will be borne entirely by the RSSB, said Sonalika Jiwani, Mehrauli sub-divisional magistrate (SDM).The meals will be spread over five courses — tea, breakfast, lunch, evening tea and snacks, and dinner.Over 3,000 beds have been set up, as of Wednesday afternoon. However, the first batch of patients are yet to be sent to the facility.But the preparations at the RSSB continued unabated. On Wednesday, doctors of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) — tasked with managing the facility — considered patients’ nutritional requirements and submitted a menu to district authorities.The proposed menu had different breakfast and vegetable options for all seven days of the week. “The morning tea will be accompanied by ‘kadha’. The patients will also be served a spoon of chayavanprash and giloy juice everyday,” Jiwani said.Since June 14, when work first began at the facility, the RSSB has been preparing meals for workers employed here, the volunteering sewadars and ITBP personnel. As of Wednesday, meals for more than 2,000 such staffers, including 900 workers and 700 ITBP personnel, were being prepared in the ashram mess.“The food is simple, but is timely and served to us with dignity,” said Vijay Kumar Yadav, an electrician hired to fix wiring at this facility.CAPABLE OF COOKING LARGE QUANTITIESAccording to officials as well as RSSB office bearers, the mess can fix up meals for around 300,000 persons every day.“While previously we cooked meals for large number of people for a few days three times every year, we can also cook meals for an extended period of time if needed,” said an RSSB office-bearer, who asked not to be named.For 70 days during the lockdown, staff at the institution cooked and packed 275,000 meals to be distributed to people in Delhi.When the facility is occupied at its maximum capacity, it will be preparing food not just for patients, but also ITBP personnel, including doctors, nurses, volunteers and other workers.RSSB office bearers said that a relatively small number of sewadars will be involved in cooking, and most of the 1,000 volunteers in the mess will be involved in packing. “We’ll be packing the food in disposable packets to be distributed to each patient,” an office bearer said.Outside the mess, meal packets will be handed over to government volunteers and workers.From there, the food packets will be wheeled to each of the 116 sections where the patients will be housed. “Each section will have at least two volunteers. The patients who are able to walk and help themselves can collect the meals when it arrives in their sections. For those who can’t make it to that point, volunteers will serve them in bed,” Jiwani said.Once patients are done with their meals, they can either leave their used disposable utensils at a single point in their section, or volunteers will collect them from their beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-s-biggest-covid-facility-to-dish-out-100-000-meals-a-day/story-lkrQlswn5jC6YEPbu0zRrO.html
02-07-2020||Education||Private schools’ body says lockdown over, demands full fee; govt says not yet||Private schools in Delhi are free to charge annual and development charges besides tuition fee from July since lockdown is over now, a body representing 400 unaided schools has written to the Delhi government. The directorate of education (DoE), however, has clarified that an order issued on April 18, barring private schools from charging any other component except tuition fee till lockdown is in effect, is still in force. “Our April 18 order is still valid. The government has not lifted the lockdown completely as of now. There has been some relaxation and the schools do not fall under that ambit. The schools cannot charge anything other than the tuition fee,” said Binay Bhushan, director of the DoE. The Delhi government had announced on June 26 that all schools will stay closed until July 31.In its letter to the government on June 25, the Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Private Schools --- an umbrella body of over 400 schools -- said private institutions are finding it difficult to pay salaries of teachers and other staff and managing expenses such as maintenance of buildings and transport.“Your order clearly mentions that this restriction imposed by the government is a temporary phase and the same shall be withdrawn once the lockdown period is withdrawn. Now since the lockdown is officially withdrawn by both the central government as well as by the government of Delhi NCT and the process of unlocking has started, the schools in accordance with the order are free to charge annual fees and development charges on pro rata basis effective from July, 2020,” said SK Bhattacharya, president of the committee, in the letter.The Centre on Monday issued guidelines for the second of a three-phase plan aimed at lifting restrictions imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The fresh guidelines said schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31.As per the April 18 order of the Delhi government, “Annual and development charges can be charged from parents on a pro rata basis, only on a monthly basis after the completion of the lockdown.” The order added that schools can only charge tuition fee. The annual fee is a sum schools charge parents over and above the tuition fee. While the majority of schools charge it once a year, some take the payment half-yearly or quarterly.The school’s body, however, argued that they do not have sufficient funds to meet necessary expenditure. “Some of the schools are complaining that they do not have money to pay salaries of their staff. The schools authorities are ready to give concessions to parents who are facing financial constraints,” Bhattacharya said.Aprajita Gautam, president of Delhi parents association, said she has received several complaints from parents against private schools demanding charges other than the tuition fees from July. “Many parents have approached us, complaining about schools asking for annual fees and other charges from this month. There is a lot of confusion among parents since schools are saying that the Delhi government’s April 18 order is not valid any more. The government should issue fresh orders in this regard,” she said.Prince (goes by first name), whose two children are enrolled in a private school in Janakpuri in classes 8 and 6, said that the school has demanded annual fee and development charges with July fees.“The school has asked us pay an annual fee and development fee with the tuition fee in July, saying that the Delhi government’s order is not valid since unlock has been announced. My shop remained shut two months due to the lockdown. Even after opening the shop, I am not being able to earn much. I won’t be able to pay the entire amount,” he said.Another parent of a class 5 student at a private school in Jamia Nagar said, “The school has uploaded the fee structure of July mentioning annual charges and other components. We won’t pay the fee till the Delhi government issues a clarification.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pvt-schools-body-says-lockdown-over-demands-full-fee-govt-says-not-yet/story-hQc998ueCRWsuIyqlzkbjO.html
02-07-2020||Gurugram||Unlock 2.0: Gurugram RWAs told to maintain status quo, allow helps to enter||As part of ‘Unlock 2’, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has reiterated its directions, issued over the last two months, and asked resident welfare associations (RWAs) in the city to continue to allow domestic helps to enter, regulate walking in common areas and parks, identify vulnerable residents and keep details of coronavirus (Covid-19) patients in their areas confidential.The order, by MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, was issued in this regard on late Tuesday.Singh’s order reiterated that RWAs need to permit entry of all domestic help workers unless they are coming from or going to a containment zone or large outbreak region. He further said that walks in common areas and parks “are to be restricted by staggering the morning and evening times, between 5am to 10pm on basis of odd-even house number scheme, to avoid crowding and maintain social distancing.” He also said that games requiring teams and group activities will continue to remain closed.Two weeks ago, during a press conference, and in communication to RWAs via Whatsapp groups, Singh had said that the civic body seeks their help to identify pregnant women, senior citizens, persons with co-morbidities and children up to 10 years of age in their respective areas; putting up home isolation notices on behalf of MCG at residences of positive cases; deputing security guards to assist regulation of entry and exit in containment zones; coordinating with the MCG for lifting bio-medical waste of residents in home isolation; establishing isolation centres within their respective area, and maintaining confidentiality on details of Covid-19 positive cases and only sharing them with health department officials. Singh’s Tuesday order reiterated all these directions.The order, though, said that RWAs need “to adhere to the guidelines issued by the government in letter and spirit, failing which penal provisions as given in MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs) notifications will be attracted against the responsible office bearers of the RWAs.”His order further stated that complaints from residents about RWAs introducing measures in violation of the MHA order “will be investigated thoroughly and action will be taken against the office bearers of the concerned RWAs wherever necessary.”“The directions have been issued to ensure there is no confusion among RWAs that guidelines issued previously by the MCG have been discontinued. We will continue to both extend and seek their support throughout the coronavirus outbreak,” said Singh.A comment from an RWA could not be received by the time the copy went to publish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-as-city-unlocks-mcg-reminds-rwas-of-covid-duties/story-IqlhLHo2LTLWulhfuxQZQJ.html
02-07-2020||Gurugram||Two try cutting open ATM in Palam Vihar, give up, flee after 30 minutes||Two men allegedly barged into the ATM kiosk of a private bank in a market in Palam Vihar on Tuesday morning, tried to cut open the machine using a gas cutter for close to half an hour, before eventually giving up and escaping from the spot. The entire sequence of events was caught in the CCTV installed inside the ATM.Police said they have recovered footage from the CCTV in which the suspects can be seen entering the ATM and trying to tamper with the machine. In the footage, one of the suspects — wearing a cap, a face mask and carrying a backpack — is seen entering the kiosk, closely followed by the second man, whose face is covered with a helmet. Police said the incident took place at 5.29am on Tuesday and was reported to them in the afternoon. A preliminary probe has revealed that the concerned bank had outsourced the security of the ATM to a third party. A police officer, privy to the investigations, said, “No security guard had been stationed at the kiosk. The suspects were carrying tools, including a gas cutter, which they tried using to cut open the machine. After about 30 minutes , they abandoned their plan and fled. It seems that they were either amateurs or there was some issue with the gas cutter that they had got. No cash was stolen.”Police said several teams had been formed to try and trace the two suspects. A case has been registered against the suspects under sections 380 (theft in dwelling house) and 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) of Indian Penal Code at Palam Vihar police station on Wednesday.Wednesday was the fourth incident of suspects targeting an ATM in the city since the lockdown restrictions were eased in May. Last week, an army officer and his friend were arrested for allegedly stealing Rs 1.29 lakh from an ATM using an electronic cutter on Sohna road in Badshahpur area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-try-cutting-open-atm-in-palam-vihar-give-up-flee-after-30-minutes/story-Y4MZcS0EHzbYR0FAbdlsnK.html
02-07-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal inspects Covid facility at Commonwealth Games Village||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday inspected a 500-bed Covid-19 health care facility being set up at the Commonwealth Games Village near Akshardham temple in east Delhi, where he said that the government will inaugurate its plasma bank on Thursday.“Delhi is in a stable shape now compared to the previous few weeks. The number of cases is going down even though the government has scaled up testing. This is a good sign and nobody should need these beds, we pray. However, for an emergency, we have the infrastructure ready,” said Kejriwal, who was accompanied by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia during the inspection.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Covid facility in the Commonwealth Games Village, which is scheduled to be ready by next week to provide institutional quarantine facility with oxygen support and other necessities to patients with moderate symptoms, will have separate wards for men and women. It will also have a separate section for doctors and health care workers, the chief minister said.This facility is part of the Delhi government’s health care infrastructure augmentation plan aimed at increasing the bed capacity to 80,000 by the end of July – an initiative for which the government has roped in hotels, community halls, banquet halls, sports complexes, premises of religious institutes, etc. A 10,000-bed facility has been set up in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur under the same strategy. The centre will need around 300 health care workers, who will be deployed in three shifts. It will be managed by a volunteer group named Doctors For You, said a senior government official.“The plasma bank will also be inaugurated tomorrow,” Kejriwal said after the inspection.The chief minister had on Monday said that the Delhi government would soon set up a plasma bank in the city for better streamlining of process under which plasma, extracted from the blood of a recovered coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient, could be administered to a patient with moderate to severe symptoms.The plasma bank, which will operate largely like a blood bank, will be set up in the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) hospital at Vasant Kunj in south Delhi. The bank’s services can be availed of by patients admitted in both government and private hospitals, but it has to be recommended by a doctor, Kejriwal had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-inspects-covid-facility-at-commonwealth-games-village/story-nd5TWeRO4esCTZInqLy6SP.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Rickshaw driver found dead in Koregaon Park, Pune||A 48-year-old rickshaw driver was found dead near his vehicle at Koregaon Park on Tuesday night.The deceased has been identified as Rahul Vinayak Jagtap, a resident of Kawadewadi, Koregaon Park.According to police Jagtap had sustained two deep gashes on his forehead and one on his left shoulder.“He lives merely 500-600 metres away from the spot where he was found, near Trinity Court building, lane number 5. There are huge trees surrounding the area so it is difficult to expect CCTV footage,” said police inspector (crime) Ganesh Mane of Koregaon Park police station who is investigating the case.The deceased is survived by two teenage daughters and a wife, said police.While the police are awaiting post-mortem report to ascertain if he was drunk when the incident took placed, Jagtap’s family members have told the police that he was a habitual drinker.A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code at Koregaon Park police station against an unidentified person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rickshaw-driver-found-dead-in-koregaon-park/story-KtWRXxQjoT6sXpCQmETexH.html
02-07-2020||Pune||6,525 vehicles registered at Pune RTO between June 18 and 30||As many as 6,525 new vehicles have been registered at the Pune regional transport (RTO) office from June 18 to 30, according to RTO officials.The RTO was closed to public for almost three months during the lockdown and it resumed its operations in the last month.As per the statistics shared by RTO a revenue of Rs 30,23,36,975 was collected from registration of vehicles between June 18 and 30.“We are now opening our services to the public slowly and taking all the safety precautions while working,” said Ajit Shinde, Pune regional transport officer.“The work related to licence, like learning and permanent license tests has started, but with limited daily quota. Similarly, the vehicle registrations are going on for which we have appointed four RTO inspectors on a full-time basis,” he said.The number of vehicle registration is steadily increasing, we will be taking the review of work every month and accordingly increase our operations,” said Shinde.Meanwhile, the lockdown period saw two auspicious occasions - Gudi Padwa and Akshay Tritiya - when the vehicle registration normally witnesses surge. While this year, there was no sale on Akshay Tritiya as dealers and RTO was shut, during Gudi Padwa in March 2019, 4,426 vehicles were registered as compared to 7,196 registered last year during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-525-vehicles-registered-at-pune-rto-between-june-18-and-30/story-Y0WJHFUKcvObYjlXyqrEFM.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Animal activist’s complaint false, says accused; counter complaint filed||The secretary of a housing society in Kondhwa who was booked for allegedly subjecting two stray dogs to animal cruelty has submitted a complaint application against the animal activist at Kondhwa police station.The man has been identified as Habeeb Patel, while the activist has been identified as Nisha Varma (67), a resident of Kondhwa, and a self-proclaimed member of the Animal Welfare Board.According to Patel the society members had requested the complainant multiple times to not feed the stray dogs in front of the building. Varma undertakes work of animal birth control (ABC) programme of the Animal Welfare Board.“I have been feeding the dogs there for a few months and I do not enter the society at all. The land where I was feeding them, does not have a signboard which says’ trespassers not allowed,’ said Varma.“Once the watchman to change the spot where I fed the dogs as a water tanker use to pass on that route, so I changed the spot,” said Varma.“Once walker told me to move the feeding spot to a relatively empty spot. He came with three watchmen who were recording me and they started by saying that I spread covid int he area,” said Varma.She has claimed that the man threatened to jam the wheels of her cars if she feeds the dogs ner the building again.According to a complaint filed by Varma, Patel allegedly hit and dragged two stray dogs into a vehicle and dropped these dogs in Bopdev ghat.She has lodged two complaints at Kondhwa police station - one regarding an alleged video shot by Patel while dragging and hitting the dogs and the second of criminal intimidation.“We have received a complaint of animal cruelty against a person. A case under relevant sections was registered. If the society members have lodged a complaint, I’m not aware of it yet. It must a complaint application and we will get to it,” said senior police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of Kondhwa police station.Two complaints were lodged and a complaint application was submitted at Kondhwa police station - two by Sharma and one by Patel.Sharma alleged that the secretary threatened her and asked her to stop feeding the dogs while Patel alleges that the woman arrives every day without a mask and feeds stray dogs who then trouble people and children in the building.With the help of Amit Shah of Jeev Seva Foundation, Verma went to the police and narrated the incident. At the same time, Patel has produced a complain application on the letterhead of the society that says that the dogs trouble the children and people of the society.“This is a false complaint lodged by the woman. This is done just to harass us,” said Patel when asked about the case.A non-cognizable case of criminal intimidation was lodged against Patel and a cognizable case under Sections 428, 429 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 11(1)(j) of Animal Cruelty Prevention Act, 1960 was registered against him at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/animal-activist-s-complaint-false-says-accused-counter-complaint-filed/story-avxyw3NRdYH0JTACv3P84O.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Special PMPML squad to get strict with public transport violators in Pune||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses are limited for emergency service staff in Pune city only, however, the PMPML administration claims that the general public is violating the rules and using the public buses.A special squad is now in place to check these violators.Only in Pimpri-Chinchwad are PMPML buses open for public use.“Currently, we are running 150 buses in Pune city only for emergency services’ staff. But, non-emergency services persons are not following the rules and travelling on buses. Now it is has been decided to send in special squads of checkers, randomly, on different routes. Normal bus operations have resumed in Pimpri-Chinchwad. There is a limit of 21 passengers on a bus,” said Anant Waghmare, PMPML transport manager.“Children aged10 and below, and persons above the age of 65 are not allowed on PMPML buses. Face masks are compulsory and in Pune city, the identity of each person is checked before the journey. Most importantly, social distancing needs to be followed strictly. All these instructions which given earlier and are now being stressed to all depot managers. If needed additional checking squads will be deployed as per requirements, but we cannot risk the lives of passengers while travelling by PMPML,” he added.Currently, in Pune city, 150 buses are running daily on 50 different routes. In Pimpri-Chinchwad 100 buses are running. The daily income of PMPML is currently between Rs 15 lakh and Rs 20 lakh, which earlier was as much as Rs 1 crore, on average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-squad-to-get-strict-with-public-transport-violators-pmc/story-kSGTL7tYokUXW6r7M46icM.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Vehicles pile-up in an unusual accident on Navale bridge||As many as seven vehicles piled up in an accident near Navale bridge on Wednesday morning.According to police, no casualties were reported in the incident. However, minor damages were reported for all eight vehicles.The first vehicle in line was a Honda City followed by a Maruti Swift, Tata Nano, Maruti Santro, Maruti Suzuki SuperCarry, Mahindra Jeeto, which was ahead of a Bharat Benz tanker truck.The traffic in the area was held up until the vehicles were cleared.A case under relevant Sections of the Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Sinhgad road police station.Hawaldar Vikas Ramchandra Mate of Sinhgad road police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vehicles-pile-up-in-an-unusual-accident-on-navale-bridge/story-ahkb2734XtWZbqNd7RYHsK.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Car breaks cement barriers, falls off bridge; couple survive accident||A couple had a miraculous escape on Wednesday, as their Honda City (Mh 12 FU 4764) fell off a bridge on the Pune-Bengaluru highway on Wednesday at 9:30 am.Varsha Dubey, the wife, suffered minor injuries, while Rajiv Dubey, her husband is undergoing treatment at the Lifepoint Multispeciality Hospital, Wakad.“We were driving from Kothrud to Waka. What happened, I don’t remember. Our car broke through the cement railing and fell off the bridge. People who were at the spot took us to hospital. My husband has suffered injuries on head and chest,” Varsha Dubey told the Hinjewadi Police.“We got a call from people on the spot. When we reached the spot, no one was there in the car. When we opened the door, we got the mobile number from fast tag papers and we managed to talk to Varsha,” said Ravindra Bavari, police sub inspector Hinjewadi Police Station.“The airbags saved the couple. Barricades have been placed at the spot as of now and vehicles are moving,” added Bavari.The couple are residents the of Swiss County Housing Society, Wakad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/car-breaks-cement-barriers-falls-off-bridge-couple-survive-accident/story-q7FxHHcW37uNzNSHhgupHM.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Congress-NCP leaders demand withdrawal of cases registered in 2010||The leaders from Congress and Nationalist Congress (NCP) have demanded to withdraw cases filed against them in 2010 for removing Dadoji Konddev’s statue from Lal Mahal.The statue was removed in 2010 by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) which had caused a political uproar in the state.NCP MLA Sunil Tingre and Congress leader Arvind Shinde meet home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday and requested him to withdraw the cases.Tingre said, “When Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was in power they withdrew the cases against the BJP members in the issue, but asked us to pay the fine for the damage. Now our request to the home minister is that whatever principle was applied during the BJP rule in sate the same should be applied now.”Shinde said, “The home minister has promised to look into the matter .”Tingre said, “The state government had also announced to withdraw all the political cases in the matter. Under that resolution, it is possible to withdraw the cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-ncp-leaders-demand-withdrawal-of-cases-registered-in-2010/story-8KugvUDUmJRErnEy3USccI.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Covid-19 containment zones increase to 109 from 74 in Pune||The number of containment zones in Pune city has gone up to 109 from earlier 74, as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) revised its containment zone map on Wednesday.According to civic officials, 58 per cent cases came from areas outside non-containment zones in the past two weeks.The civic body did not issue any fresh order about further relaxations with officials hinting that there may not be an immediate easing on existing curbs due to rising cases.Shekhar Gaikwad, municipal commissioner, said, “Though the number of micro-containment zones has increased, areas under them are smaller as PMC is going micro-level. The PMC has now turned a single or multiple buildings or particular lane as a new containment zones.”The PMC, as per revised strategy, has decided to take its review every week.As on Wednesday, Pune’s Covid tally had reached 18,105 cases with 877 new cases and 19 deaths reported within the past 24 hours.As per the new order, 109 containment zones are spread over 15 wards with Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar reporting maximum 12 zones, while Yerawada, Bhavani peth and Kondhwa witnessing only three zones each under restrictions.Earlier on June 24, PMC had issued an order putting 74 areas under containment zones. As per the new policy, the PMC commissioner has empowered the local ward officers to declare areas or buildings reporting new cases as containment zones and seal them with barricades.On Wednesday, Shivaji Market and the Clover Centre commercial complex opened though with certain restrictions.In neighbouring PCMC, the civic body has rolled back some of the relaxations by bringing down shop timings to 9 am to 5 pm while in Camp area commercial markets opened for the first time after three months.According to PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar’s order, the timings for shops and commercial areas have reverted to 9am to 5pm from 7 am to 7pm in view of the rising cases.Mayor holds review meetingOn the background of residents complaining that they are not receiving beds in private hospitals, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol held a review meeting on Wednesday.Moholhas requested municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad to acquire more beds from private hospitals.Mohal said, “We have received complaints from residents of non-availability of beds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-containment-zones-increase-to-109-from-74-in-pune/story-cAbJFoM0HgWwtelSNT82JO.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Stage 4 cancer patient defeats Covid-19, discharged from Sassoon||A 65-year old woman suffering from end-stage cervical cancer defeated Covid-19 and has now been discharged from the Sassoon General Hospital. The doctors who treated the woman praised her grit and positive attitude which is why despite being in the fourth stage of cancer the woman never required a ventilator or an intensive care unit (ICU). With the help of a good diet and medicines, the woman fought the infection and has now been discharged after a month of successful treatment.The woman was admitted on May 24, 2020, and discharged on June 25. The 65-year old was mentally stressed when her neighbours decided to bring her into Sassoon hospital, knowing she did not have any relatives to help her.She was given good diet, medicines and two blood transfusions. With utmost care and treatment given by doctors and assisted by staff nurses who bathe her daily and fed her food, there was a dramatic improvement in the patient.The patient was initially admitted for cancer treatment and on further inquiry, it was found that she was a resident of a containment zone. A swab test was taken for Covid-19, for which she, unfortunately, tested positive.The 65-year old was then shifted to the Covid building where she was given excellent care by a team of doctors.A doctor that treated her praised her for a positive attitude that did not budge even when her weekly reports tested positive three more times for the virus until she finally tested negative for Covid-19.In addition to the Covid-19 treatment, the hospital staff had to convince the initially untraceable relatives of the woman. The hospital staff along with social worker Nandbothi Pagare finally traced her relatives who had to be guided to continue further cancer treatment of the woman. She is now receiving palliative treatment as she is now in the fourth stage of cancer.Dr Ramesh Bhosale, head of the department of obstetrics and gynaecology said, “She was earlier brought to the hospital for cancer treatment as she was referred from some other hospital. During the treatment process she started showing some symptoms of Covid-19 and when we found that she had come from Patil Estate, Shivajinagar, a containment zone we got her tested for Covid-19. It is a rare case that despite her age and cancer, the woman fought the virus which is why she never required a ventilator. She was only given blood transfusions and oxygen therapy which is an inspiring story. As she did not have any other comorbidity, it helped her fight the virus.”A team of doctors who treated the woman and counselled the woman’s relatives included superintendent of the hospital Dr Ajay Taware, Dr Uma Wankhede, Dr Arun Ambadkar, Dr Shashikala Sangle, Dr Rohidas Borse and Dr Chakor Vora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/stage-4-cancer-patient-defeats-covid-19-discharged-from-sassoon/story-t7RhsVOEIv3xiDAUPUo9jO.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Covid-19 victim’s body cremated after 72 hours, relatives untraceable||The story of a 46-year-old man who died due to the Covid-19 infection and had to await cremation for 72 hours pending tracking of relatives was the first of its kind in the city, according to the Sassoon General Hospital staff.The reasons for the failure of his relatives to show up or turning incommunicado are not known. While the phone number provided by the relative who had come to admit the patient on June 9 was unreachable, the contact address was given by him also led to a dead-end, according to officials of two police stations.The officials of Faraskhana police station and officials of Khadak police station tried to trace the relative, but with no success. The body, meanwhile, awaited cremation in the hospital morgue.While the personal details of the person are not known, one of the reasons for which the relatives could have failed to show up could be the fear of Covid-19.The rules of burial and the precautions should be explained to the relatives of the victims of Covid-19 by the administration as well as local politicians, according to Dr Avinash Bhondawe, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Maharashtra.“This is tragic and sad. This is the fault of the administration. But it cannot be denied that all government officials are overloaded with work. The management of ambulances and funeral services should also be made online just like bed availability. Maybe an application can be built for this purpose. If the relatives of the patients are not ready to come forward, it is because they are scared. When relatives are scared of taking care of the dead, the hospitals are in trouble in such cases. The procedure is explained without the law; it should be done without high-handedness. I think these public leaders, corporators, MPs should take bold steps regarding raising awareness about these things. There are guidelines but they should be more practical. The rules should be more human,” said Dr Bhondawe.The body was finally taken by a team of PMC officials from Sassoon General Hospital around 7pm on Tuesday and cremated. The relatives continue to remain untraceable.“If the body is kept wrapped using proper precaution as per ICMR guidelines and in a body bag, I do not see why this should be an issue. Nobody should be in contact with the body, is the point. The face, hands or any part should not be touched. I do not see why that should be an issue,” said Dr Abhijit More, co-convenor of the Jan Arogya Abhiyaan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-victim-s-body-cremated-after-72-hours-relatives-untraceable/story-P89hXDhx6q3lM87S9MiiTN.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Month after Unlock: Spike in Covid cases, deaths an inevitability Pune unable to escape||As Unlock 1.0 completed one month on Wednesday, Pune has seen a massive rise in the number of Covid positive cases along with deaths, an indication that increased movement of people resulted in the spike.The city has started opening up as a part of the unlocking process amidst the Covid-19 pandemic with an increase in commercial activity and relaxations coming in. Along with the containment zone, as the people have started mingling in, the city is seeing a rise in the number of cases coming from non-containment zones.Although Centre and the state government announced Unlock 1.0 from June 1, major relaxations such as reopening of private offices, auto-rickshaws and cab were allowed to operate a week later.According to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the Covid progressive positive cases have surged from 6,529 on June 1 to 17,228 cases on June 30, a rise of 37 per cent in the number of patients. At the same time, the number of deaths reported in June stood at 330 compared to 228 in May and 85 in April.Dr Raman Gaikwad, infectious disease specialist working in a private hospital said, “The increase in the number of cases is not as explosive as it was expected. Until now all predictions about the number of cases estimated have been wrong. Fortunately, the city hospitals have been able to manage patients and there is no shortfall in the number of beds too. However, the government must focus on the use of masks which is most essential when it is planning to unlock the city. As of now, it looks like the virus will only die its natural death eventually and people can only avoid coming in contact with anyone even when they are in public places by using masks and avoiding touching their face.”With increasing cases, the civic body has also increased its testing capacity from 1,000 tests at the beginning of June to around 3,500 tests currently. The active to positive cases proportion rose from 30 per cent at the beginning of June to 38 per cent by June end as the number of positives reported rose drastically.PMC officials said after some of the curbs were relaxed, more cases are now being reported from outside the containment zones than from inside the zones.“We have observed that cases are coming up from housing societies where the infection had not reached till recently. During contact tracing, we found that the spread was because of allowing outsiders into the society or residents stepping out for work,” said PMC Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad.After the civic body started observing a spike in cases, the PMC has decided to review the containment zones twice every week to ensure that the movement of the people is restricted sooner rather than wait for 14 days. As the number of cases is rising, the civic body revised its projection which was earlier estimated to be around 40 thousand by July end to now estimated 47 thousand by the same time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/spike-in-covid-cases-deaths-an-inevitability-city-unable-to-escape/story-byvYKWFsPVQd4aGWOxxXrK.html
02-07-2020||Gurugram||Malls reopen in Gurugram, shoppers still missing||Malls in the city sputtered back to life on Wednesday, after a three month pause owing to the raging Covid-19 pandemic, which has so far infected 5463 people in Gurugram and killed 92. On Day One of their reopening, however, most malls experienced a thin footfall.The district administration had directed a shutdown of all malls in the city on March 18 after the city started reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases. On Wednesday, safety was the first priority for all the malls that reopened its gates, with visitors being made to follow norms of social distancing, wearing masks, undergoing thermal scanning and sanitizing hands outside every store. Guards and other mall staff were deployed in PPE kits, face shields, masks, and hand gloves. Cinema halls and play area for children inside these malls continue to remain shut.Malls located on Golf Course Road, MG Road, and Sohna Road, reported around 20% of the usual footfall on Wednesday, according to their managements, with a significant number of shops opting to wait and watch for now and voluntarily remaining shut. At Ambience Mall, however, the footfall was marginally higher and most shops were open in the building. Most visitors cited ongoing discount offers, especially in clothing and shoe stores, as the main reason for people flocking to the mall . Last Friday, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh had said that malls would reopen in Gurugram without citing a timeline. Subsequently, on Sunday, the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Haryana government permitted malls to reopen from July 1 onwards.Mall associations on MG Road and Golf Course Road said they expect the footfall to be significantly low in the first month of operations, as many people will be initially sceptical about stepping out amid the coronavirus outbreak. They, however, hoped that the situation starts to improve afterwards.“We weren’t expecting any footfall at all in the first few weeks as we got no time to advertise and inform residents that the malls had reopened. We ourselves didn’t know how many stores would reopen on Wednesday and the entire day was largely spent in disinfecting and sanitising establishments that opened up. It will take some time for us to regain the trust of visitors and for them also to get accustomed to the habit of venturing outdoors once again,” said Aman Bajaj, a member of MGF Metropolitan Mall Association. The mall is located at Mall Mile on MG Road.Bajaj said that in July they are expecting to do 40% of the total business that they used to do before the pandemic set in. From August onwards,when the festival season commences, they expect to do more than 60% business . He further said that around 15% stores in the mall were closed on Wednesday and those that had opened reported shortage in staff.At South Point Mall on Golf Course Road, barring two supermarkets which had remained open throughout the lockdown period, the building appeared to be deserted. Association members said that though around 100 out of the 180 stores opened to the public on Wednesday, footfall was less than 15% of what it used to be before the lockdown.“Besides the two supermarkets, we experienced extremely low turnout on the first day. We had anticipated this to be the situation. We ensured that those who did visit the mall felt safe and secure with the sanitising and disinfecting operations. We want visitors to feel confident to return again and also bring their family and friends along the next time. A large number of our regular visitors just enquired about which stores have reopened and said they will be coming in the next few days. We are anticipating a much higher footfall over the weekend,” said Shobha Sengupta, president of South Point Condominium Association. Rakesh Kapoor, a resident of DLF5, who was among the few who visited the mall on Wednesday said the visible precautions taken at the establishment served as a reassurance for him. “I actually needed to get my spectacles fixed from the regular store that I go to located in this mall. So this was an unavoidable outing for me. I was concerned about venturing out like this because Gurugram is still reporting a high number of coronavirus cases daily. However, having witnessed the measures being taken at the mall , i came back reassured to some extent,” said Kapoor. He said that the staff was wearing protective gear, such as face shields and masks, and he was asked to sanitise his hands using the automatic sanitizer dispenser at the entrance and then again before entering the shop. “The staff was roaming around sanitising every nook and corner of the mall. I guess this is something we have to get used to, at least for the next few months,” he said. Sengupta further said that as almost all the shops in the mall were unable to do business for more than three months, around 10 shops had to permanently shut down owing to financial constraints. She, however, said that the remaining are expected to open within the next two weeks. In contrast, at Ambience Mall, officials of Ambience Private Limited said that more than 70% of the stores were open and they had a much higher turnout than anticipated. Ambience Mall officials said that around 5,000-7,000 people visited the mall on Wednesday, which is around. 20-25% of the footfall they used to receive before the Covid-19 pandemic. The footfall figures for other malls was not immediately available.“More than 70% of the stores were open today and we are expecting around 90% of our stores to open by the end of this week. Throughout the day, especially between 2 pm-4 pm, the footfall remained strong despite it being a weekday,” an official representative of Ambience Private Limited said. Visitors to the mall said that sale offers in major clothing and shoe stores were among top reasons why they ventured to the mall.“I buy all my clothes from a particular multinational apparel company that has a store in Ambience Mall. They had a 60-70% sale in their clothing range today. I thought it will be a good time to buy clothes as they will be cheaper. Plus I expected very few people to be present, because of which more options would be available for me,” said Sahil Sharma, a resident of sector 4.On Tuesday, MCG had directed its enforcement wing to visit malls to ensure all visitors and mall staff were abiding by the SOPs laid out by the state government . Violators were to be fined. Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCG said that, despite random and surprise visits of all malls, not a single challan was issued on the first day.“The footfall across all malls in the city was extremely low. Hence, there was little to no scope for people to flout norms. Even I visited some malls at random and found everything to be in order. We had held regular meetings with mall associations in the last few days and had cautioned them about the repercussions if rules were flouted,” said Attri||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/malls-reopen-in-gurugram-shoppers-still-missing/story-0EtsRUwhkTLnpayYjXcjhN.html
02-07-2020||Noida||Curbs on Delhi’s borders with Noida, Ghaziabad to continue||The restrictions in place at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border will continue in the two NCR districts of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar till further orders, the administrations of both districts stated on Wednesday. The district administration of both the districts had put restrictions on movement of commuters to Delhi and back in April to contain the spread of Covid-19 cases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageUnder the restrictions in place, only those involved in providing essential services are at present allowed to freely cross the border into Delhi. Everyone else need to obtain and produce valid passes issued by district administration , authorisation letters from their offices or in cases of certain individuals show valid identification cards in order to cross. Uttar Pradesh chief secretary, RK Tiwari, late on Tuesday night had rolled out Unlock 2.0 directions for the state. Under the new guidelines, no intra-state or inter-state restriction on movement of persons or goods/commodities was to be permitted between Noida/ Ghaziabad and Delhi. The new guidelines also clarified that activities outside containment zones can be restricted on the basis of evaluation at the local level.The rules also authorised officials of the NCR districts of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad to review the border situation at a later date and take a call accordingly.“As per the directions, we have asked police and health department officials to submit their views and they have been requested to submit a fresh assessment report. We have their previous recommendation and the status quo will continue till we get fresh data from them,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar.“The last assessment had said that cross-border infection was continuing. The status quo will be maintained if the current assessment reports too state the same things,” he warned.Gautam Budh Nagar shares its borders with Delhi at DND flyway, Mayur Vihar, Kalindi Kunj, Jhundpura and Kondli areas.“The border restrictions are in place and we take up regular checks,” said Ranvijay Singh, Noida’s additional DCP.The district administration officials of Ghaziabad too said that the ongoing restriction will continue under Unlock 2.0 till July 31.“We will continue with the present border curbs till July 31 or till further orders. The restriction at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border will continue and no relaxation is to be provided as of now,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate Ghaziabad.The Ghaziabad authorities too had in two orders — issued on April 20 and May 25 — issued directions for strict sealing and checking at borders with Delhi in the wake of rising number of Covid-19 cases resulting from cross-border travel. Ghaziabad shares several border crossings with Delhi at UP-Gate, Anand Vihar-Kaushambi, Seemapuri and in areas of Loni.“During the initial days when restriction were put in place, there were routine jams at the border as regular checking was taken up during peak hours. But for the last fortnight, the traffic flow has been smooth as cops resort to random checks. Even the broken patch of Delhi-Meerut Expressway near UP-Gate has been repaired. So, commuting is smooth nowadays,” said Kuldeep Saxena, a resident of Shakti Khand in Indirapuram and a daily commuter to Delhi.The Ghaziabad police said that they are continuing with checks with restrictions in place at Delhi-UP border.“Random checking is in place and barricades are also put up . Nowadays, there is no issue of traffic jam at border,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city), Ghaziabad.Earlier in June, while hearing a petition, a three judge bench of the Supreme Court had asked the Centre to convene a meeting of officials from the three states of NCR within a week and come up with a common portal to facilitate interstate travel between Delhi and Noida or Delhi and Gurugram.The court was hearing a petition filed by a Gurugram resident who had challenged sealing of borders with Delhi by the Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments.Later, the Uttar Pradesh government on June 12 had told the Apex court that restrictions between Uttar Pradesh and Delhi will continue to remain in place considering the spike in Covid-19 infection.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on June 16 had suggested a uniform policy for NCR to effectively check the spread of Covid-19. He had also favoured sealing Uttar Pradesh’s borders with Delhi to regulate the movement of traffic. The CM had made these suggestions during PM Modi’s video-conferencing meet with chief ministers of different states.Later on June 18, Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a video-conferencing meeting with senior officials of Delhi-NCR for a review of Covid-19 situation in region and told officials that entire NCR should be considered as a unit in the fight against Coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-2-restrictions-to-continue-at-delhi-up-borders-till-further-orders/story-4KrgWnzyQK30yKixcoFRiN.html
02-07-2020||Delhi||Covid test not mandatory to admit pregnant women in hospitals: Delhi govt to HC||The Delhi government on Wednesday told the Delhi High Court that a prior Covid-19 test was not mandatory for admitting pregnant women in hospitals for in-patient intervention, including surgery and deliveries, and in emergency situations, treatment would not be denied for want of test results.It told a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan that the test can be conducted simultaneously with the treatment and if the result is positive, the pregnant woman would ideally be transferred to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital for further management.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe government said it had “expanded” the use of rapid antigen testing at hospitals to ensure the availability of results in a short time and this will address difficulties being faced by people/patients, including pregnant women.“….prior Covid-19 test is not mandatory and in emergent situations, treatment must not be denied for want of Covid-19 test results. However, a pregnant woman if found positive on testing is ideally to be transferred to dedicated Covid-19 hospitals for further management,” the Delhi government told the court while hearing a plea by lawyer who said test results of pregnant women should be given priority.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in its response filed through central government’s standing counsel Vivek Goyal, said it had issued guidelines for the management of pregnant women during the pandemic and there were no restrictions for testing pregnant women for Covid-l9 symptoms.Goyal, during the hearing, said ICMR cannot decide which category of patients should be given priority in testing.The Delhi government, in its response, said it was trying its best to make available Covid-19 testing across all sections of the population with possible and justified prioritisation.The lawyer representing the Delhi government sought more time to file an affidavit on giving priority to tests of pregnant women. The bench listed the matter for further hearing on July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-test-not-mandatory-to-admit-pregnant-women-in-hospitals-delhi-govt-to-hc/story-7vvmbG1WhmQqIJDLYS78EM.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Class 11 admission process for Pune division to start from July 2||The centralised admission process for Class 11 admissions in the Pune division which includes Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune rural area will start from July 2. Part 1 of the form will be available online to students from Thursday. According to the information given by the state education department, in the first part of the online form, the students have to fill personal details like name, address, application status (fresher or repeater) among other details. The deadline to fill up part 1 of the form is July 15. In part 2 of the form, the students have to submit their top 10 college preferences from the list of colleges available. Part 2 of the form will be available to students only after the Class 10 results of the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) board is declared. The results are likely to be declared by July 15.Once the results are declared, then, there will be an initial round, called zero round, for admissions of students from bifocal and higher secondary vocational courses. Then, there will be three regular rounds for centralised admissions for the Arts, Science and Commerce students.LinkLink for 11th standard online admission process (Part 1) https://pune.11thadmission.org.in/||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/class-11-admission-process-for-pune-division-to-start-from-july-2/story-LvLE897oDgxrmT6tpdrtHM.html
02-07-2020||Pune||Rapid antigen testing begins in Pune after 1 lakh kits made available||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Wednesday began rapid antigen detection tests in the city for the diagnosis of Covid-19 infection. On the first day, the tests were conducted on 25 people of whom four tested positive .The tests, according to civic officials, have been carried out at the Naidu hospital and results were made available within 30 minutes. The quick results will help isolate first contacts of the patient sooner, thereby, stopping the spread of the virus within the community. The use of antigen kits will also reduce the burden on the National Institute of Virology and other laboratories currently testing swabs for Covid-19 infection.The first batch of the one lakh kits, arrived in city earlier this week and have now been given to Naidu hospital. Authorities will start using them from Thursday in mobile ambulances, flu clinics and door-to-door surveys to identify positive patients immediately, PMC officials said. According to state health department officials, rapid antigen detection tests are faster as they offer results within 30 minutes as compared to a minimum of 24 hours required for RT-PCR test results and are non-confirmatory. Therefore, those who test negative will have to be tested again using the RT-PCR test for re-confirmation while positive patients are considered “positive” and do not require further test. According to PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, the civic body received kits from a private firm, which has already offered training online to the municipal staff.“The PMC plans to use one lakh kits in various areas on symptomatic persons. Since the tests results will be available within 30 minutes, we will be able to restrict movement of first contacts. We are also providing hands-on training to our staff posted in swab collection centres in the city,” said Gaikwad. According to the PMC commissioner, accuracy rate of the rapid antigen test is 90 per cent. The kits use nasal or saliva samples from the suspects and within 20-30 minutes, the results are made available. The kit indicators are very similar to a pregnancy kit. It helps detect the antigens that are found in the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection. The kits were ordered by the civic body after the India Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approved its use on June 18. The antigen test kits are not only fast as compared to RT-PCR kits, but are also cheaper as it costs about Rs 450 per test, according to officials. PCMC to also use rapid antigen testsThe Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will soon start using the tests as the industrial township sees a spike in number of cases daily. The civic body has ordered 4,000 such kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rapid-antigen-testing-begins-in-pune-after-1-lakh-kits-made-available/story-d0doNxjokQq3Sz69WfkctJ.html
02-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra FYJC pre-admission process to start today||The state education department will commence the pre-admission process for first-year junior colleges (FYJC) starting July 1. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the pre-admission and the admission process will be conducted online this year.From Tuesday, junior colleges will be allowed to make changes to details such as intake capacity and subjects offered on the online portal for FYJC admissions.“Colleges which have registered last year will get messages with their usernames and passwords which can be used for logging in to the portal and changes if any, can be made,” said a circular released by the department on Monday.This year, training for the admission processes will be given to junior colleges through video conference. While the training in Mumbai will be held on Tuesday, for Thane and Navi Mumbai it will be held on July 2.The government has simplified the admission for FYJC this year by scrapping the first come first served rounds and the zero round for bifocal admissions. The education department is now working on solutions to ensure the equivalence of scores across boards. This year, while the state board cancelled the last paper for Class 10 exams and decided to give average marks to students, the ICSE board will now allow students in the state to be scored on their previous scores. All papers of CBSE have been conducted in the state and students will be marked accordingly. “Talks are on at the government level to ensure that all students are at the same level for admissions,” said a senior official at the department.Results of SSC (Class 10) exams are expected to be out by the end of July and the admission process will begin in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-pre-admission-process-to-start-today/story-cYtQJF8R2zu51v0xNviYMO.html
02-07-2020||Delhi||With hotels shut, hospital linen keeping Dhobi Ghats busy — but workers wary of infections||The clothesline at dhobi ghat number 28, on central Delhi’s Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg, wears a drab uniformity these days -- the sterile the green and white hospital linen have gradually inched out the colourful sarees, shirts and dresses that once adorned these lines.Manish Kumar, one of the laundry men at this dhobi ghat, says ever since the government announced a nationwide lockdown to control the Covid-19 outbreak, laundry services in the area stopped receiving clothes from restaurants, salons and government quarters in the vicinity. That was when a new kind of clientele appeared; nearby hospitals and their never-ending supply of laundry helped keep businesses afloat, says Kumar.“We get clothes from GB Pant (GB Pant Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research), a few labs in the hospital complex and from some sections of the Maulana Azad Medical College. Bedsheets, pillow covers, towels, bibs, lab coats and uniforms -- we have to wash them all,” says Kumar. A normal day here starts at the break of dawn, when the delivery person drops off the laundry from hospitals. “Earlier, hospital laundry got piled up and was delivered once a week, but now the piles keep coming every day,” says Kumar.Around 4.30am, the laundry men go about separating the whites from the coloured clothes, after which they spray sanitizer on all the pieces and leave them for about an hour before washing them.“We dip the clothes and linen in sodium hypochlorite mixed with caustic soda, which helps disinfect and whiten the clothes, and then put them in washing machines with regular detergent and warm water. Around five machines are set aside for washing hospital linen and the surfaces of these machines are separately disinfected with 70% ethanol liquid,” explains Kumar.Once washed and dried, the clothes and linen are ironed and sprayed with a sanitizer once again before they are packed and sealed in separate plastic bags. The entire process takes about seven to eight hours, explains Kumar. “We used to receive clothes from these hospitals earlier as well, but then the process was not so detailed -- we would simply put the linen in the machines for washing and after drying, send them back in bundles. The hospitals are now requesting that each piece is sanitised and packed separately,” says Kumar.Sukhi Ram, another laundry man at the dhobi ghat near east Delhi’s Akshardham Metro station, says while they never received laundry from hospitals before the start of the pandemic, they have started doing so from Dr Hedgewar Arogya Sansthan, a designated Covid-19 hospital, as well as a few Delhi government dispensaries in the area and a few private hospitals in Ghaziabad and Noida.“We try to wear a mask and gloves while laundering the linen, but the gloves are too inconvenient. Water seeps in anyway and the soap makes the gloves slippery. That said, we do not compromise on safety. So, all the pieces are thoroughly cleaned,” Ram said.Although most of these hospitals have their in-house laundry services, the huge influx of patients and the high demand for bed linen meant that hospitals needed the dhobis and the dhobi ghats to keep their linens clean.A senior administrative officer at Lok Nayak Hospital, Delhi’s largest Covid-19 designated facility, says the hospital is washing and disinfecting all bed linen from corona wards and centres internally. Only a few items -- such as uniforms or linen from low-risk parts of the campus -- are sent to laundry services.“We have washing machines in the hospital where we disinfect, wash and then dry the linen. As far as I am aware, we are sending some piles of clothes, which are from the no-risk areas of the complex and medical college, to the laundry services. We do not want anyone to even inadvertently get exposed to any kind of infection,” he says, requesting anonymity.Dr PK Sharma, an epidemiologist and former municipal health officer at the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), explains that there is a possibility of infection spreading through bed linen, and precaution must be taken while handling such items.“First of all, the linen should be handled only with gloves. They should be collected and stored in air and water-resistant containers and after they reach the laundry, they should be dipped in disinfectant and compulsorily sun dried. The person handing over the linen and the person washing them must ensure that they have gloves and masks on,” Sharma said. The World Health Organization recommends that to prevent the spread of Covid-19, laundry items should first be dipped in a solution containing quaternary ammonia, and then washed in water of a temperature between 60 and 90 degrees Celsius. The detergent should ideally contain bleach and after wash, laundry baskets must be disinfected.These washermen say while the pandemic has come as a major blow to their livelihood, they are ready to provide their services in the fight against the virus. “Times are tough but that’s not just for us; the entire country is going through this. It is time for everyone to step up and contribute. We have our entire life ahead to make up for this loss. Our contribution is small but it will be significant when we look at the larger fight,” avers Dhani Ram, a 65-year-old washerman from dhobi ghat number-11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-hotels-shut-hospital-linen-keeping-dhobi-ghats-busy-but-workers-wary-of-infections/story-D0MR54wbZaWqvlh5f3f0MO.html
02-07-2020||World||US Supreme Court tosses rulings blocking Indiana abortion curbs||The US Supreme Court on Thursday gave Indiana a second chance to revive two restrictive abortion laws - one imposing an ultrasound requirement and the other expanding parental notification when minors seek abortions - by throwing out a lower court’s rulings blocking them.The justices directed the Chicago-based 7th US Circuit Court of Appeals to reconsider both cases in light of the Supreme Court’s 5-4 ruling on Monday invalidating a Louisiana law that imposed restrictions on doctors who perform abortions.Indiana will now get another shot at arguing for the legality of its two Republican-backed laws that the 7th Circuit had prevented from going into effect.The ultrasound measure would require women to undergo an ultrasound procedure at least 18 hours before terminating a pregnancy. The second law would require that parents be notified when a girl under 18 is seeking an abortion even in situations in which she has asked a court to provide consent instead of her parents, as was allowed under existing law.The ultrasound measure was passed by the state legislature in 2016 and signed by Vice President Mike Pence when he was Indiana’s governor before Donald Trump selected him as his running mate.Abortion rights proponents have said that for most women seeking an abortion, an ultrasound is not medically necessary, and that the requirement is an attempt by anti-abortion politicians to make obtaining an abortion more difficult.Republicans at the state level have pursued a variety of abortion restrictions.In a third Indiana case on Thursday, the court left in place a ruling in favor of an abortion clinic seeking a license to open a clinic in South Bend. The state appealed when the 7th Circuit ruled in 2019 that abortion provider Whole Woman’s Health could get a provisional license while the litigation over the matter continued.The Supreme Court on Thursday in two other abortion-related cases left in place policies in Chicago and Pennsylvania’s capital Harrisburg that place limits on anti-abortion activists gathered outside clinics.The Chicago policy bars activists from coming within eight feet (2.4 meters) of someone within 50 feet (15 meters) of any healthcare facility without their consent if they intend to protest, offer counseling or hand out leaflets. The Harrisburg measure bars people from congregating or demonstrating within 20 feet (6 meters) of a healthcare facility’s entrance or exit. In Monday’s ruling on Louisiana’s law, conservative Chief Justice John Roberts sided with the four liberal justices in the majority on the basis that the law was almost identical to a measure from Texas that the court struck down in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-tosses-rulings-blocking-indiana-abortion-curbs/story-WXuyCpyOcPipdkeUGZdKIJ.html
02-07-2020||World||Priest sues to stop federal execution over coronavirus risk||A Zen Buddhist priest, who is a spiritual adviser to one of three federal death row inmates scheduled to be executed this month, filed a lawsuit Thursday arguing the Bureau of Prisons is putting him at risk for the coronavirus by moving forward with executions during a nationwide pandemic.Dale Hartkemeyer, who goes by the religious name Seigen, argues that he would be putting his life at risk if the federal government proceeds to execute Wesley Ira Purkey, as scheduled on July 15, because of his prior medical conditions including respiratory issues.The 68-year-old is asking a federal judge to delay Purkey’s execution until a coronavirus vaccine is available or there’s a widespread effective treatment.Hartkemeyer said in court papers he has visited Purkey monthly as his priest since January 2009 to provide him with spiritual guidance and counseling.“I’m being asked to make an impossible decision — violate my religious beliefs or risk my health and life by attending an execution that could become a ‘super-spreader’ event for Covid-19,” Hartkemeyer wrote in a blog post.Purkey, a devout Buddhist, is one of four federal inmates scheduled to be put to death in July and August. Attorney General William Barr directed the federal Bureau of Prisons to schedule the executions, ending an informal moratorium on federal capital punishment as the issue receded from the public domain.Barr had initially scheduled five executions set to begin in December, but some of the inmates challenged the new procedures in court, arguing that the government was circumventing proper methods to wrongly execute inmates quickly. The executions were rescheduled last month after an appeals court threw out a lower court ruling that put the executions on hold. This week, the Supreme Court refused to block the executions.The executions are scheduled to resume as the country is still battling a major coronavirus pandemic and the number of inmates infected at jails and prisons across the U.S. is approaching 50,000 nationwide, according to data by The Associated Press and the Marshall Project. But federal officials have insisted that precautions will be put in place — including temperature checks and a requirement to wear masks — and that they are obligated to carry forward sentences imposed in the court system.The federal prison system has struggled to combat the coronavirus pandemic behind bars. As of Wednesday, there were five confirmed coronavirus cases at USP Terre Haute, the prison where the executions are scheduled to take place. One inmate there has died.Hartkemeyer argues that he must be present at the execution to be a spiritual guide for Purkey and to provide “spiritual consolation and compassion to him during this time, helping him attain peace of mind as he leaves this life.”“It’s vital that I be there, as Wes’s priest, to ensure this peaceful transition from life to death during his most dire moment of distress — his ultimate crisis — as he sits at the threshold of death,” he wrote. “I will chant from behind a plexiglass barrier to ensure his peace of mind while passing and, through my physical presence, serve as a spiritual reminder to Wes of all the religious lessons I have taught him as he passes on from this life. This is my sacred duty.”But he argues that means risking his own life. If he couldn’t be there, it would “constitute a troubling violation of my religious tenets and priestly obligations,” the lawsuit says.“He’s in this position where he has to decide between fulfilling his spiritual duty and trying to attend the execution and between protecting his own life and health and safety,” said Cassandra Stubbs, the director of the Capital Punishment Project at the American Civil Liberties Union, which is representing Hartkemeyer.“There’s absolutely no reason to do it now in the pandemic. It’s really morally abhorrent,” Stubbs said.Purkey’s lawyers are separately asking a federal judge to halt his execution, arguing that he isn’t mentally fit to be executed because he suffers from “advancing Alzheimer’s disease and deteriorating cognitive functioning.”Purkey, of Lansing, Kansas, was sentenced to death for the 1998 killing of 16-year-old Jennifer Long after picking her up in Kansas City, Missouri. Purkey raped Long, stabbed her repeatedly and used a chainsaw to cut her body into pieces. He burned her remains in a fireplace and then dumped her ashes 200 miles (322 kilometers) away in a septic pond in Clearwater, southwest of Wichita. He was also convicted of using a claw hammer to kill an 80-year-old Kansas woman, Mary Ruth Bales, who suffered from polio.Purkey had a long history of childhood trauma, was sexually abused by family members and a Catholic priest and was beaten by other family members, said Liz Vartkessian, a mitigation specialist who has worked with Purkey’s legal team and has visited him dozens of times in the last five years.“His case is replete with instances where he has expressed a deep remorse,” she saidBut recently, Purkey’s mental health has seriously deteriorated to the point where he doesn’t have the stamina for long visits with his legal team and often forgets key facts and dates, she said. Correction officers have to help him write down a schedule to remember his visits with his lawyers, she said.He has also had a long history of paranoia and delusions and believes the Justice Department is moving forward with his execution because of many complaints and lawsuits he’s brought in prison, even though most have failed, Vartkessian said.“It’s hard to find any rational explanation for trying to set those executions so quickly,” Stubbs said, “especially when we haven’t had an execution in 17 years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/priest-sues-to-stop-federal-execution-over-coronavirus-risk/story-dc0isevLcSZN2dtZcLoFVN.html
02-07-2020||World||Smoking linked to higher risk of coronavirus, says WHO||The World Health Organisation says smoking is linked to a higher risk of severe illness and death from the coronavirus in hospitalised patients, although it was unable to specify exactly how much greater those risks might be.In a scientific brief published this week, the U.N. health agency reviewed 34 published studies on the association between smoking and Covid-19, including the probability of infection, hospitalisation, severity of disease and death.WHO noted that smokers represent up to 18% of hospitalised coronavirus patients and that there appeared to be a significant link between whether or not patients smoked and the severity of disease they suffered, the type of hospital interventions required and patients’ risk of dying.In April, French researchers released a small study suggesting smokers were at less risk of catching Covid-19 and planned to test nicotine patches on patients and health workers — but their findings were questioned by many scientists at the time who cited the lack of definitive data.WHO says “the available evidence suggests that smoking is associated with increased severity of disease and death in hospitalized Covid-19 patients. It recommends that smokers quit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/smoking-linked-to-higher-risk-of-coronavirus-says-who/story-RaqUoqBaDPfFdwKGS6gmBL.html
02-07-2020||World||Joe Biden vows to accord ‘high priority’ to ties with India if elected||Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, has said the United States and India were “natural partners” and if elected the relationship will be a “high priority” for his administration. The former vice-president also said he will end the temporary suspension of H-1B visas ordered by President Donald Trump last week ostensibly to ensure American had the first crack at jobs becoming available as the US reopens from Covid-19 lockdown. But the visa programme, of which Indians are the largest beneficiaries, has been in the crosshairs of immigration hawks in his administration.India and the US are “natural partners”, Biden said at a virtual fundraiser Wednesday, using a phrase for describing the relationship that has evolved from “natural allies”, as first used by late Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee. Former US president George W Bush switched in “partners” for “allies”.“That partnership, a strategic partnership, is necessary and important in our security,” Biden said and proceeded to give a more expansive account of his role in promoting the relationship, such as securing the civil nuclear deal that ended India’s isolation from the community of nuclear states.“I was proud to play a role more than a decade ago in securing congressional approval for the US India Civil Nuclear Agreement,” he said, adding, “which is a big deal.” It was indeed, and has remained so, setting a high bar for everything that has followed in the relationship.“Helping open the door to great progress in our relationship and strengthening our strategic partnership with India was a high priority in the Obama-Biden administration and will be a high priority if I’m elected president,” the former vice-president said, and added, “India needs to be a partner in the region for our safety(’s) sake and quite frankly for theirs.”Biden visited India as vice-president in July 2013, with his wife Jill Biden.At a virtual town-hall with Asian American and Pacific Islanders, the former vice-president came out clearly agains Trump’s suspension of H-1Bs. “He (Trump) just ended H-1B visas the rest of this year. That will not be in my administration,” he said in response to a questions.People on this visa “have built this country”, Biden said.This will come as a huge relief for the Indians hoping to work in the United States and US and Indian companies that hire them on H-1B. The United States issues 85,000 of these temporary non-immigrant visas for high-skill jobs every year, and more than 70% go to Indians.Critics of the programme have argued H-1B visas are being used to bring cheaper labor from abroad and displace Americans. The Trump administration stepped up scrutiny of the programme soon after Trump came into offie in January 2017 and issued an executive order titled “Buy American, Hire American”.A larger reform of the programme was announced along with the suspension last week. It would include doing away with the electronic lottery system to pick successful H-1B petitions from among the hundred and thousands that are filed. Selection will be based on those getting the highest salary. Other changes are also in the offing, but there is no timeline for it yet.The vice-president went on to speak of other immigration issues as the plight of undocumented immigrants brought as children, called Dreamers. Many of them are of Indian origin. “On day one (of his presidency), I’m going to send a legislative immigration reform bill to congress to provide a roadmap to citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants who contribute so much to this country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-vows-to-accord-high-priority-to-ties-with-india-if-elected/story-LvoFIaLIFXtpSoFrNL50zO.html
02-07-2020||World||US Cong passes bill for sanctions on Chinese officials over Hong Kong security law||The US Senate gave final approval to legislation that would impose sanctions on Chinese officials cracking down on dissent in Hong Kong. The bill heads to President Donald Trump for his signature or veto.The House and Senate moved quickly to enact the legislation after the Chinese government imposed a new national security law in the territory that critics say is aimed at squashing protests against the government and could lead to, in some cases, life imprisonment.The legislation has been a top priority for some of the highest profile members of Congress, with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi giving it her full endorsement Wednesday and praising its swift passage.Pelosi, in a statement Wednesday, called the legislation “an urgently needed response to the cowardly Chinese government’s passage of its so-called ‘national security’ law, which threatens the end of the ‘one country, two systems’ promised exactly 23 years ago today.”The legislation was originally introduced in the Senate by Senator Pat Toomey, a Pennsylvania Republican, and Chris Van Hollen, a Maryland Democrat. After the Senate passed it by voice vote last week, the bill was modified slightly in the House and had to be passed again by the Senate.It provides for sanctions against financial institutions that are determined by the U.S. to be interfering in Hong Kong affairs. It requires the State Department to report to Congress every year about officials who seek to undermine the “one country, two systems” model that applies to Hong Kong. It gives the president the power to seize the assets of those individuals and block their entry to the U.S.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-congress-passes-bill-for-sanctions-on-chinese-officials-over-hong-kong-security-law/story-4QIBcnNsEJYDSjw6j6kqVJ.html
02-07-2020||World||US added 4.8 million jobs in June; Donald Trump says ‘historic’||US recovery from the economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 epidemic received a major boost Thursday with the labor department reporting 4.8 million Americans got back to work in June, a record single-month gain. This was also much more than the expected 2.9 million.Lay-offs and job losses have also continued and another 1.4 million claims were filed last week for unemployment benefits.President Donald Trump focused on the June job numbers, calling them “historic”. He went on to say at a news briefing, “Today’s announcement proves that our economy is roaring back. It’s coming back extremely strong.”The US economy is indeed opening but not equally. Some states in the south has slapping back restrictions as they witness a surge in daily infections. And economists have warned that June numbers do no reflect the impact of the second round of shutdowns forced by the new infections, which, public health officials fear, could spread to other parts of the country.The June jump comes on the back of the stunning turnaround first seen in the situation in the May numbers, which had shown 2.7 million new jobs had been added instead of the steady losses that had come to be expected every Thursday, when the labor leased its weekly jobs report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-added-4-8-million-jobs-in-june-donald-trump-says-historic/story-t2lsHI61t9aJzKdmVWgLAK.html
02-07-2020||World||EU seeks immediate humanitarian ceasefire in Afghanistan, condemns violence||Calling for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire, ambassadors of the European Union in Kabul said they were deeply concerned about the marked escalation of violence throughout Afghanistan. The EU Delegation in agreement with EU Heads of Mission based in Kabul said in a statement on Tuesday that the situation has further deteriorated since May 29 when the EU Council of Foreign Affairs Ministers declared the level of violence as “unacceptable”.“The attacks by the Taliban against Afghan National Defence and Security Forces are undermining the prospect for intra-Afghan Negotiations; this must end and a full-fledged ceasefire enter into force. Violence against civilians has also continued. It is a violation of international humanitarian law, which profoundly undermines the confidence and trust necessary for peace negotiations,” read the statement posted on the official twitter page of EU in Afghanistan on June 30.The European mission heads said the targeted killings against clergy, journalists, human rights defenders, among others, have increased in the recent weeks. “It appears to be a deliberate attempt to stifle debate in advance of peace negotiations. These crimes need to be investigated and the responsible brought to justice,” said the statement.One such attack is the cowardly assassination of two staff members of the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission on June 27.“The violence must stop now and an immediate humanitarian ceasefire put in place. A permanent and comprehensive ceasefire is a subsequent step that needs to accompany the Intra-Afghan Negotiations,” the statement added.US special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad is in Asia these days, travelling over to Islamabad, Tashkent and Doha to garner support to meet the remaining commitments ahead of intra-Afghan negotiations which were initially set to commence on March 10, under the US-Taliban peace deal, but were pushed back due to disagreements over the mutual release of prisoners.Last week, Khalilzad said that intra-Afghan talks are closer than ever, praising Kabul for freeing over 3,000 Taliban prisoners and the Taliban for releasing more than 500 government prisoners.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-seeks-immediate-humanitarian-ceasefire-in-afghanistan-condemns-violence/story-c2mLcd93HlbHZCY5sF5H7K.html
02-07-2020||World||Putin thanks Russians for ‘support and trust’ after vote||President Vladimir Putin on Thursday thanked Russians after a nationwide vote approved controversial constitutional reforms that allow him to extend his rule until 2036.“Thank you very much for your support and trust,” Putin said in televised remarks after an announcement from Russia’s election commission that nearly 78 percent of voters had supported the amendments to the basic law.Putin reiterated that the amendments were necessary as they “improve the political system and fortify social guarantees” as well as “strengthen sovereignty.”He made no mention of the fact that the changes also reset his constitutional term limit, allowing him to stay in the Kremlin for 12 more years after his current term expires in 2024.“Very little time has passed since the break-up of the Soviet Union,” Putin said.“We are still very vulnerable in many respects. As people say, a lot of things have just been tacked together,” he added. “We need internal stability and time to strengthen the country and its institutions.”Putin said he understood those who voted against the amendments, pointing to “many unsolved problems.”But the results of the vote “show that an overwhelming majority of Russian citizens believe that we can work better” and the government “must do everything to justify this trust,” Putin said.ma/as/bmm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-thanks-russians-for-support-and-trust-after-vote/story-Lam8CitKwAwo1IcBXRM8dK.html
02-07-2020||World||UK cops resume probe into Indian man’s murder in 2003||Scotland Yard officials on Thursday resumed investigation into the murder of an Indian-origin man in 2003, Rajesh Verma, who was attacked by individuals suspected to be of east African origin in the London borough of Ealing. Verma, who was 42 at the time, was assaulted in Acton Park by eight men on August 31, 2003, resulting in severe brain damage. He died on May 27, 2018. A special post mortem in June 2018 concluded there was a causal link between the 2003 assault and his death.A verdict of unlawful killing was recorded at an inquest held at West London Coroners Court in November 2019. The case was classified as a murder investigation in March this year, with inquiries by homicide detectives from the Yard’s Specialist Crime Command.A £20,000 reward is being offered for any information that leads to the arrest and conviction of Verma’s killer. Officials distributed leaflets in Action high street in the borough as part of the resumed investigation, besides re-issuing appeals for information.Detective chief inspector Vicky Tunstall said on Thursday: “The attack on Raj involved ferocious violence by a group of men, one of whom, stabbed him in the head with a set of garden shears found near the crime scene”.“We believe Raj was attacked after he intervened in a dispute between one of his friends and another individual. The suspects are believed to be local to the Acton area and are likely to still be living there or have links to the area. All were described as being of East African appearance”.“This is a shocking crime and I’m in no doubt that people will have chatted and boasted about it. I need your call to identify Raj’s killer and that’s why we are offering a reward of £20,000 for information leading to the arrest and prosecution of those responsible”, she added.After the 2003 attack, Verma was treated at hospital before being discharged. However, he was left with a number of ongoing health issues due to the damage caused to his brain by the stab wound to his head.In 2015, he had a major heart attack, which resulted in a lack of oxygen to his brain that further complicated the existing damage. This rendered him unresponsive and unable to move or speak for the last 18 months of his life.Verma’s wife, Roma Verma, said the aftermath of the attack had a huge impact on the family: “Our children were 11 and 13 when their lives were turned upside down. We chose to care for him at home in the way that he had cared for all of us”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-cops-resume-probe-into-indian-man-s-murder-in-2003/story-xHrIqK20FiaxzC9V5rFzXP.html
02-07-2020||World||With 4,339 new cases, Pakistan’s Covid tally reaches 217,809; death toll at 4,473||Pakistan’s Covid-19 tally reached 2,17,809 on Thursday after the country recorded fresh 4,339 cases in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said. With 78 new deaths due to coronavirus, Pakistan’s death toll stands at 4,473. A total of 1,04,694 patients that amount to nearly half of the total cases in the country recovered from the infection, the ministry added.The Sindh Province continues to remain the worst hit from Covid-19 with total infections nearing 87,000. This is followed by Punjab with 77,740 cases, whereas the capital city of Islamabad registered 13,082 infections. Pakistan has so far tested 1,327,638 of its citizens with 22,128 tests conducted in the last 24 hours. In the recent weeks, Pakistan was one of the countries worst hit by the pandemic. In view of this, the government decided to impose ‘smart lockdown’ in hot spots across the country in order to curb the spread of Covid-19 and revive the economy.As per the smart lockdown, offices, business are allowed to operate five days a week. Medical stores are allowed to operate throughout. However, educational institutions, restaurants, movie theatres will remain closed and social, religious gatherings will not be permitted.Special Assistant on Health Dr Zafar Mirza said the numbers of infections were decreasing due to ‘smart lockdown’ and the monsoon season would further reduce the number of cases.Mirza added that 28 laboratories were conducting tests for the virus across the country.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-4-339-new-cases-pakistan-s-covid-tally-reaches-217-809-death-toll-at-4-473/story-p5Ip6MzXAdpcpbjHJOtxIM.html
02-07-2020||World||Covid-19 isn’t killing cash. people are hoarding more of it||People appear to be bunkering cash amid the coronavirus outbreak, according to a study that seeks to debunk the notion that the pandemic was hastening the demise of paper money due to e-commerce or fears of infection.Anecdotal evidence across advanced economies suggests a decisive move away from cash, with lockdowns boosting online sales and more stores only accepting card payments. But data cited by former Bank of England policy maker Charles Goodhart and co-author Jonathan Ashworth show a marked increase of bills in circulation in the US, Canada, Italy, Spain, Germany, France, Australia, Brazil and Russia.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here While some analysts argue that going completely cashless would help the global economy become more efficient, an abrupt end would hurt people with no access to the banking system. It would also pose a challenge to small businesses that find the costs of going completely digital too expensive.“While the economic shutdowns and increased use of online retailing are currently diminishing cash’s traditional function as a medium of exchange, it seems that this is being more than offset by panic driven hoarding of banknotes,” Goodhart and Ashworth wrote in a paper for the Centre for Economic Policy Research.“Cash in circulation has actually been growing strongly,” they wrote.The findings jar with the view expressed by US President Donald Trump’s former economic adviser Gary Cohn, who argued recently that the virus was speeding up the disappearance of cash.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage It’s easy to see why such a prediction could be appealing. The use of paper money has been on the decline in some countries for years, due to the spread of credit cards and the technological developments that led to the rise of mobile-phone wallets. A research report by HSBC Holdings Plc in April said that the shift away from cash an “acceleration of an already ongoing trend.”Michele Bullock, an assistant governor at Australia’s central bank, said in a speech last month that while cash remains important, Covid-19 might be the “ultimate disrupter” of the payment system. ATM withdrawals in Australia were down 30% in April compared with the previous month, she said.But data cited by the Bank of International Settlements supported the findings of Goodhart and Ashworth, showing that the rise in digital transaction during the pandemic wasn’t necessarily at the expense of the old stuff.“Precautionary holdings of cash have risen in some economies – even as its use in daily transactions has fallen,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-isn-t-killing-cash-people-are-hoarding-more-of-it/story-jo9hr6cW2Yc8ertPmJQa2N.html
02-07-2020||World||At least 113 killed as Myanmar jade mine collapse buries workers||A landslide at a jade mine in northern Myanmar killed at least 113 people, with more feared dead, authorities said on Thursday, after a heap of mining waste collapsed into a lake, triggering a wave of mud and water that buried many workers.The miners were collecting stones in the jade-rich Hpakant area of Kachin state when the “muddy wave” crashed onto them, after heavy rain, the fire service department said in a Facebook post.Rescue workers recovered 113 bodies, the department said, but more were missing.“Other bodies are in the mud,” Tar Lin Maung, a local official with the information ministry, told Reuters by phone, “The numbers are going to rise.”Deadly landslides and other accidents are common in the poorly regulated mines of Hpakant, which draw impoverished workers from across Myanmar, but this is the worst in more than five years. About 100 people were killed in a collapse in 2015, which strengthened calls to regulate the industry.Media have reported scores of people killed in the area in recent years, many of them freelance “jade pickers” who scour tailings - the residue from mining - for stones that have been missed by larger operators.Video footage on social media showed frantic miners racing uphill to escape as a towering pile of black waste cascaded into a turquoise lake, churning up a tsunami-like wave of mud.Photos showed rows of dead bodies laid out on a hill, covered by tarpaulin.Maung Khaing, a 38-year-old miner from the area who witnessed the accident, said he was about to take a picture of the precarious waste mound that looked set to collapse when people began shouting “run, run!”.“Within a minute, all the people at the bottom (of the hill) just disappeared,” he told Reuters by phone. “I feel empty in my heart. I still have goose bumps ... There were people stuck in the mud shouting for help but no one could help them.”Than Hlaing, a member of a local civil society group helping in the aftermath of the disaster, said those killed on Thursday were freelancers scavenging the waste left by a larger mining company. She said about 100 people were still missing and 30 had been hospitalized.The government of Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi pledged to clean up the industry when it took power in 2016, but activists say little has changed.Official sales of jade in Myanmar were worth 671 million euros ($750 million) in 2016-17, according to data published by the government as part of an Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative.But experts believe the true value of the industry, which mainly exports to China, is much larger.Than Hlaing said a local official had warned people not to go to the mine on Thursday because of the bad weather.“There’s no hope for the families to get compensation as they were freelance miners,” she said, “I don’t see any route to escape this kind of cycle. People take risks, go into landfills, as they have no choice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-113-killed-as-myanmar-jade-mine-collapse-buries-workers/story-rOmvKZEghqLnOrpHSQ9YxH.html
02-07-2020||World||How Chinese firm CanSino jumped to the front of the coronavirus vaccine race||When a group of Chinese scientists gathered over barbecue and beer in a Toronto backyard a decade ago, talk drifted to their homeland’s vaccines, which had long lagged the developed world on quality and safety. Four of them decided to act.They left top positions at global pharmaceutical companies in Canada to set up a biotechnology firm half a world away in Tianjin, China, hoping to produce vaccines on par with Western countries. Now, that company, CanSino Biologics Inc., is vaulting into the global spotlight as connections on both sides of the Pacific make it one of the front-runners in the race for a coronavirus vaccine.CanSino’s Chinese-born chief executive officer, Yu Xuefeng, formerly a senior executive at drugmaker Sanofi’s Canadian vaccine operations, has maintained relationships in Canada and China even as geopolitical disagreements polarize both countries. Yu has boosted his firm’s scientific prowess by tying up with the Canadian government’s largest research organization. At home, he’s worked with a prominent Chinese military scientist, first on an Ebola vaccine and now on CanSino’s experimental coronavirus shot.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here In May, CanSino became the first globally to publish a full scientific study on its early human trials, an important step because it allows researchers worldwide to assess a vaccine’s potential.The company -- which is yet to generate revenue and logged a $22 million loss last year -- has so far kept up with, and occasionally even outpaced, Western pharmaceutical giants with the speed of its initial coronavirus vaccine trials. The research is still too nascent to know if the shot from CanSino, or indeed any company, will provide the magic bullet countries are seeking to open up while the pandemic rages. But CanSino’s inroads show China’s young biotechnology industry is becoming a global contender, and a powerful tool for President Xi Jinping.CanSino “deserves credit for the speed with which they pushed the vaccine through pre-clinical studies and human testing,” said Wang Ruizhe, a pharmaceutical industry analyst at Capital Securities Corp. in Shanghai. “It tells you something about their ability to mobilize and leverage the resources that it takes to get all these done. The resources required here are substantial.”A spokesperson for the Chinese company, citing media reports in May, said Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is supportive of the Canadian researchers working on clinical trials for a coronavirus vaccine with CanSino.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage China’s pharmaceutical industry has been dogged by safety incidents and quality scandals. But in recent years, parts of it have grown more advanced as hundreds of Chinese scientists trained in the West have come home.Called hai gui, or “sea turtles,” these returnees have capitalized on relationships and expertise gained in countries like the US and Canada, and created new companies. CanSino’s CEO Yu -- 57, who has a doctorate from Canada’s McGill University in microbiology and was the head of vaccine development and production at Sanofi Pasteur in Canada -- belongs to this new breed of executives.In the prospectus for CanSino’s 2019 public offering in Hong Kong, Yu described the difficult choices he and his colleagues made in forging their new path back home in China.“Most of our families stayed in Canada, and we could only see them a few times a year,” he wrote. “When you think about your young kids and teenagers growing up without dads, when you know your wife had to shovel out of 10 inches of deep snow early morning in -20°C wind chill all by herself – those were the tough moments.”Both SidesThe name CanSino represents the Chinese characters for health, hope and promises, while in English it’s a combination of Canada and China. Besides Yu, other top officials at the firm have Canadian connections. Chief Scientific Officer Zhu Tao was also a senior scientist at Sanofi Pasteur in Canada. The company’s success has relied on threading the needle between both nations.In February 2014, about five years after returning to China, Yu licensed a technology from the National Research Council of Canada called HEK 293 cell lines, which is required to produce large quantities of a vaccine reliably. That science went on to partly underpin CanSino’s viral vector technology.An advanced way to make a vaccine, a viral vector is a genetically modified virus that is no longer harmful to humans, but can serve as a vehicle to carry the genes of another germ to prepare the immune system for attack. Few Chinese companies had that technology in 2014, when a Chinese army researcher called Chen Wei began looking for viral vector expertise to produce a vaccine amid Africa’s Ebola outbreak.Ebola VaccineA major general in China’s People’s Liberation Army, Chen headed the Institute of Biotechnology at the country’s Academy of Military Medical Sciences. She went on to work with CanSino to develop an Ebola vaccine that in 2017 was approved in China for emergency use and national stockpiling.Chen has star status in China. In a nationalistic movie called Wolf Warrior II, the character of a scientist who develops a vaccine against a deadly African virus is believed to be modeled on her. She developed a therapy used by Chinese health workers during the SARS outbreak of 2003.Chen is also known for a singular dedication to her work. In a 2004 interview with state-run CCTV, she said she presented her findings on the SARS therapy to Beijing’s municipal authorities after dosing her four-year-old son with it for two months because she was so sure about her research.CanSino’s long-running relationship with Chen paid off again this year. CanSino and her team raced through pre-clinical studies on the coronavirus vaccine -- called Ad5-nCoV. They secured Beijing’s help on everything from isolating virus strains to animal testing. Chen and the institute couldn’t be reached for comment.Mixed ResultsThe team started human clinical trials in Wuhan, the Chinese city where the coronavirus first emerged, on March 16. Massachusetts-based Moderna Inc., seen as one of the best contenders to produce an American vaccine, started its tests in the US the same day. Less than a month later, CanSino began the second phase of wide-scale human trials. On May 22, when it published a study in the medical journal the Lancet, the results were mixed: The shot appeared to be safe and generated some immune response, but there were shortcomings.Viral vector technology can have limitations when some people already have pre-existing immunity to the vector virus used to create the vaccine. This was the case for the adenovirus -- a genetically-altered cold-causing virus -- which CanSino used for its vaccine. Many of those with pre-existing adenovirus immunity showed diminished response to its coronavirus shot in the Lancet study.‘In the Game’For upcoming trials in Canada, CanSino has added a booster shot for some participants to attempt to address the lackluster response from those with pre-existing immunity to the adenovirus vector, according to a person with knowledge of its trial design who didn’t want to be named discussing information that’s not public.“CanSino is in the game and it’s about where the other so-called leaders are,” said William Haseltine, a former Harvard University HIV researcher. “Whether anybody will cross the finish line where we ever can see safety data that we would like to see is unknown.”Final-stage trials could yet stymie CanSino’s outsized ambitions. Its Ebola vaccine was approved on an emergency basis after two stages of human testing, but the company never completed the final phase as the epidemic petered out in Africa. CanSino doesn’t generate much revenue because most of its products, including two late-stage meningitis vaccines, are still in development.The company has received some funding from Beijing for the coronavirus vaccine, although the amount isn’t large, the person familiar with its trials said.Phase IIICanSino’s founders’ ties with Canada are once again proving fortuitous as it looks to conduct Phase III tests on its vaccine. Still, there could be challenges in conducting the sizable studies required in the final stages if new coronavirus infections continue to taper in Canada. China has largely stamped out its outbreak.Researchers at Dalhousie University’s Canadian Center for Vaccinology, who are leading the clinical trials, have said they hope to start Phase III studies of the CanSino shot as early as this fall. Canada’s National Research Council said if the vaccine candidate is approved by authorities there, it has the option to produce doses of the vaccine for emergency pandemic use in Canada. (CanSino is responsible for funding its own trials, Health Canada, the government’s health agency, said in an email.)Meanwhile, China’s reputation in Canada -- already damaged by Beijing’s reaction to the arrest of Huawei Technologies Co.’s chief financial officer in Vancouver -- has been dealt a further blow by the pandemic and perceptions China hid the virus initially. That could fuel more scrutiny of CanSino and its vaccine in Canada.Other companies are also racing ahead. Moderna is set to test its vaccine among 30,000 people in the US in July, while an early-stage trial of a Pfizer Inc. and BioNtech SE shot showed it’s safe and prompted patients to produce antibodies against the coronavirus. A vaccine co-developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Plc also started the final stage of human testing in Brazil in June.At home, state-run vaccine developer China National Biotec Group Co. has secured approval from health authorities in the UAE to conduct Phase III testing for the two shots it developed against the coronavirus. Beijing-based Sinovac Biotech Ltd. has inked a deal to do final tests in Brazil, too. The outcome for all of these companies -- and CanSino -- will only be known once this ultimate stage of scientific studies is complete.“The viral vector CanSino is using is a relatively safe approach compared to other techniques but it’s hard to make a call on efficacy for now,” said Wang, the Shanghai-based analyst. “There’s no shortage of histories where promising efforts made it to the last stage of testing only to see things fall apart.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-chinese-firm-cansino-jumped-to-the-front-of-the-coronavirus-vaccine-race/story-tlVBubnfCBcQ8ygsapebgJ.html
02-07-2020||World||Donald Trump grateful to health workers for Covid-19 fight: White House||US president Donald Trump is tremendously grateful to all the doctors, nurses and healthcare professionals, including Indian-Americans, who have selflessly risen to the occasion to combat the coronavirus pandemic, the White House has said. More than 100,000 Indian-American doctors have contributed to the fight against the coronavirus and the president thanks them for their tireless, life-saving work, White House Assistant Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt told PTI on Wednesday. Many Indian-Americans have laid down their lives in the fight against the Covid-19. This is the first time that the White House has recognised the selfless contribution of the Indian-American doctors, nurses and healthcare professionals. “President Trump is tremendously grateful for all of the doctors, nurses and healthcare professionals who have selflessly risen to the occasion to combat the coronavirus pandemic on the frontline,” Leavitt said. According to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, the contagion has infected over 10 million people and killed more than 516,000 across the world. The US is the worst affected country with over 2.6 million cases and more than 1,28,000 deaths. The Covid-19, which originated in China’s Wuhan city in December last year, has also battered the world economy with the International Monetary Fund saying that the global economy is bound to suffer a “severe recession”. Scientists are racing against time to find a vaccine or medicine for its treatment. Eminent Indian-American doctors from across the country thanked Trump for recognising their efforts. “We are going through one of the most unprecedented crises of our lifetime. The leadership of President Trump has helped to reduce the economic damage to the country,” Dr Raj Bhayani, president of New York chapter of American Association of Physicians of India-origin (AAPI), said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his recent first-ever address to an AAPI summit through video conferencing, said that he was proud of the achievements and contribution of the Indian-origin physicians in the battle against the Covid-19. “Hundreds of Indian physicians in the US have fought this global war as frontline physicians/soldiers,” said AAPI president Dr Suresh Reddy, adding that the organisation has honored more than 10,000 nurses in over 100 hospitals in over 40 states. Welcoming Trump’s praise for the doctors, nurses and healthcare professionals, Dr Naresh Parikh, former AAPI president from Atlanta, said that as compared to other countries, American citizens have done better due to the brilliant economic stimulus for businesses, physicians and direct payment to taxpayers who are in employment. “We believe that under the leadership of Trump, America will come out even stronger once this crisis is over,” Dr Parikh said. Responding to a question, Dr Bhayani said that he and a group of eminent Indian-American doctors are planning to campaign for Trump in the key battleground states of Texas, Florida, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan and Virginia. They are working with Al Mason, co-chair of the Trump Victory Indian American Finance Committee. “There is tremendous enthusiasm among Indians in the US to support Trump as Democrats are lining up against Modi and India as well as the Kashmir issue,” he said, adding that one should not get surprised if people of Indian-origin play a major role in the 2020 elections. Dr Humberto Nunez, a physician from Texas, said that healthcare professionals have been hit hard. “Our hospitals are almost in full capacity, fortunately we have the PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) and resources to treat those patients properly in our hospitals, and my business got the financial support from the government through the care programme,” he said. Noting that the COVID-19 has taken a tremendous toll; mentally, physically and financially, not only on his patients but also on him and his family, neurologist Dr Vithalbhai D Dhaduk said that Trump has done an outstanding job to help people with PPP and loans, assisting healthcare workers with special federal funding and stabilising the financial and job market. “We as an Indian community and US citizens are very proud of President Trump,” said Dr Dhaduk, who is also the chairman of the Saurastra Patel Cultural Samaj. Over the weekend, addressing the virtual AAPI summit, India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu described Indian-American doctors as real heroes’ warriors in this fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-grateful-to-health-workers-for-covid-19-fight-white-house/story-ZdI60Ui7oB2rUp3EZnjF4M.html
02-07-2020||World||78% of voters back extending Russian Prez Putin’s rule till 2036: Report||Almost 78% of voters in Russia have approved amendments to the country’s constitution that will allow President Vladimir Putin to stay in power until 2036, Russian election officials said on Thursday after all the votes were counted. Kremlin critics said the vote was rigged.In the week-long balloting that concluded on Wednesday, 77.9% voted for the changes, and 21.3% voted against, with 100% of the precincts counted by Thursday morning, Russia’s Central Election Commission said. The turnout exceeded 64%, according to officials.The reported numbers reflect the highest level of voter support for Putin in 10 years. In the 2018 presidential election, 76.7% of voters supported his candidacy, while in the 2012 election only 63.6% did.But Kremlin critics say the numbers alone show they are false, with an unrealistic approval rating for the Russian leader amid wide frustration in the country over declining living standards.“A record in falsifying votes has been set in Russia,” opposition politician Alexei Navalny said in a Facebook post on Thursday. “The announced result has nothing whatsoever to do with the people’s opinion.” Putin’s approval rating was at 59% in May, according to the Levada Center, Russia’s top independent pollster. That was the lowest in two decades.The week-long plebiscite was tarnished by widespread reports of pressure on voters and other irregularities, with independent election observers criticising the voting procedure as having a complete lack of transparency and independent control.For the first time in Russia, polls were kept open for an entire week to bolster turnout and avoid election-day crowds amid the coronavirus pandemic -- a provision that Kremlin critics denounced as an extra tool to manipulate the outcome, as ballot boxes remained unattended for days at night.Observers also pointed to the relentless pressure that state and private employers put on their staff to vote, monitoring that was hindered by bureaucratic hurdles and virus-related restrictions, and the dubious legal standing of the early voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/78-of-voters-back-extending-russian-prez-putin-s-rule-till-2036-report/story-TcpiGZCYeVQ4cdXUvgcr0K.html
02-07-2020||World||Microsoft to help 25 million people acquire digital skills amid Covid-19 crisis||Microsoft Corporation has announced a new global skills initiative aimed at bringing more digital skills to 25 million people worldwide by the end of the year.This comes in response to the global economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Expanded access to digital skills is an important step in accelerating economic recovery, especially for the people hardest hit by job losses.The initiative includes immediate steps to help those looking to reskill and pursue an in-demand job and brings together every part of the company, combining existing and new resources from LinkedIn, GitHub and Microsoft. This includes the use of data to identify in-demand jobs and the skills needed to fill them, free access to learning paths and content to help people develop the skills these positions require, low-cost certifications and free job-seeking tools to help people who develop these skills pursue new jobs.In addition, Microsoft is backing the effort with 20 million dollars in cash grants to help non-profit organisations worldwide assist the people who need it most.“Covid-19 has created both public health and an economic crisis, and as the world recovers, we need to ensure no one is left behind,” said Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella.“We are bringing together resources from Microsoft inclusive of LinkedIn and GitHub to reimagine how people learn and apply new skills -- and help 25 million people facing unemployment due to Covid-19 prepare for the jobs of the future.”Microsoft President Brad Smith said the biggest brunt of the current downturn is being borne by those who can afford it the least.“Unemployment rates are spiking for people of colour and women as well as younger workers, people with disabilities and individuals who have less formal education. Our goal is to combine the best in technology with stronger partnerships with governments and nonprofits to help people develop the skills needed to secure a new job.”Microsoft said it will also use its voice to advocate for public policy innovations that will advance skilling opportunities needed in the changing economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/microsoft-to-help-25-million-people-acquire-digital-skills-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-23W89ckoo8crVpFy8wkSwK.html
02-07-2020||World||V-shaped recovery not guaranteed, IMF chief economist Gita Gopinath warns UK||Britain may not get the V-shaped recovery that some Bank of England policy makers are hoping for.Asked by a panel of UK lawmakers on Wednesday whether the country could see a smooth rebound, IMF chief economist Gita Gopinath said “many things are possible.”“My fear is that the beginning of the recovery” will show “a spike initially, and then going forward, I think we could end up with something much more flat,” Gopinath told the House of Commons Treasury Committee. “It’s a little too early at this point to project what the rest of that path would look like.”Globally, this will likely be a prolonged recovery, with activity levels below pre-crisis levels even by the end of 2021. There are still upside risks, she said.Her comments follow a speech from BOE policy maker Jonathan Haskel, who said that the economy is seeing a “glimmer of hope.” BOE Chief Economist Andy Haldane said earlier this week that the recovery looks V-shaped so far in Britain.Laurence Boone, chief economist at the OECD, told the Treasury Committee that while the economic impact on Britain is comparable to France, Spain and Italy, it will be particularly hit because of its reliance on services.The OECD sees the UK economy shrinking 11.5% this year, while the IMF predicts a contraction of just over 10%. Gopinath reminded lawmakers that the impact of the pandemic in poor countries is much worse.‘Really Sad’“The U.K. having negative growth of 10% is very different to a low-income country having a negative growth rate of 10%,” she said. The projections for poverty in such countries are “really sad.”The sectors worst affected by the pandemic are job intensive, and low-skilled workers, the young, women and minorities have taken a disproportionate hit, Gopinath said. Unemployment will come down “only gradually.”Asked whether the 5 billion pounds of accelerated investment announced by U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson will be sufficient tor revive the economy, Gopinath said the multiplier effect -- the output generated for every pound of new investment -- would be “quite substantial” at a time of low employment.Still, measures to help specific firms can only go so far. While credit guarantees made sense during the initial part of the crisis, Gopinath said, “the more prolonged it gets, and depending upon which sector the firm is operating in, you could see that this becomes very quickly a solvency problem for many firms.”Company FailuresDebt restructuring and equity finance could help, though the best possible policy for countries to pursue now is to improve their bankruptcy procedures, according to Gopinath. “As the longevity of this crisis increases, that’s going to be important,” she said.The risk of runaway inflation is “pretty muted at this point,” she said, when asked about the massive policy loosening deployed by global authorities to tackle the crisis. Demand is expected to remain subdued for some time, and low employment will limit wage growth.The deficits created by the crisis cannot be left unchecked indefinitely, however. While now is not the time to be cutting spending or raising taxes, countries need to be planning for medium-term fiscal term consolidation, Gopinath said.A return to growth in 2021 will stabilize debt, but “more will need to be done to bring down debt to pre-crisis levels,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/v-shaped-recovery-not-guaranteed-imf-chief-economist-gita-gopinath-warns-uk/story-LgH1DGMLolJcO7OdQu0UeK.html
02-07-2020||World||Museum or mosque? Top Turkey court to rule on Hagia Sophia||Turkey’s top court will deliver a critical verdict Thursday on whether Istanbul’s emblematic landmark and former church Hagia Sophia can be redesignated as a mosque, a ruling which could inflame tensions with the West.The sixth-century edifice -- a magnet for tourists worldwide with its stunning architecture -- has been a museum since 1935, open to believers of all faiths. Despite occasional protests by Islamic groups, often shouting, “Let the chains break and open Hagia Sophia” for Muslim prayers outside the UNESCO world heritage site, authorities have so far kept the building a museum.The Hagia Sophia was first constructed as a church in the Christian Byzantine Empire in the sixth century but was converted into a mosque after the Ottoman conquest of Constantinople in 1453. Transforming the Hagia Sophia into a museum was a key reform of the post-Ottoman Turkish authorities under the modern republic’s founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.But calls for it to serve again as a mosque have raised anger among Christians and tensions between historic foes and uneasy NATO allies Turkey and Greece.Turkey’s Council of State will deliver a ruling on its status either on the same day or within two weeks, the official Anadolu news agency reported.ALSO SEE : Photos | Mosque or museum: Turkey’s disputed Hagia Sophia- ‘High-profile symbol’ -President Recep Tayyip Erdogan last month said the decision was for the court -- known as the Danistay -- adding: “The necessary steps will be taken following the verdict.”But Erdogan previously indicated it was time to rename the Hagia Sophia as a mosque, saying it had been a “very big mistake” to convert it into a museum, in comments before municipal elections last year.“The Danistay decision will likely be a political one. Whatever the outcome, it will be a result of the government’s deliberation,” said Asli Aydintasbas, fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations.But she added the government will be weighing a number of issues, including relations with Greece, Europe and with the US where “religion is an important matter”.Anthony Skinner of the risk assessment firm Verisk Maplecroft said converting the Hagia Sophia into a mosque would “kill at least two birds with one stone” for Erdogan: he could cater to his Islamic and nationalist base, and sustain if not exacerbate tensions with Greece, all while seeking to cast Turkey as a formidable power.“Erdogan could not find a more high-profile and potent symbol than Hagia Sophia to achieve all these goals at once,” he told AFP.The Turkish leader has in recent years placed ever greater emphasis on the battles which resulted in the defeat of Byzantium by the Ottomans, with lavish celebrations held every year to mark the conquest.In May, Muslim clerics recited prayers in the museum to celebrate the anniversary after the first Koran recital in 85 years inside the Hagia Sophia in 2015.In 2016, the state religious channel broadcast a Koran recitation by a different senior Turkish cleric inside the museum on each day of the holy month of Ramadan.- Turks divided -Greece closely follows the future of Byzantine heritage in Turkey and is sensitive to the issue as it sees itself as the modern succession to Orthodox Christian Byzantium. Greek Culture Minister Lina Mendoni, who sent a letter of protest to UNESCO last week, said the move “rekindles national and religious fanaticism” and is an attempt to “diminish the monument’s global radiance”.She accused the government of using the monument “to serve internal political interests,” arguing that only UNESCO had the authority to change Hagia Sophia’s status. The issue is also followed closely in Washington. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday urged Turkey to keep the Hagia Sophia as a museum, and to ensure it remains accessible to all.“The United States views a change in the status of the Hagia Sophia as diminishing the legacy of this remarkable building and its unsurpassed ability... to serve humanity as a much-needed bridge between those of differing faith traditions and cultures.”But Turks are divided over its future status.Mahmut Karagoz, an Istanbul shoemaker, 55, dreams he can one day pray under the dome of Hagia Sophia.“It is a legacy by our Ottoman ancestors. I hope our prayers will be heard, this nostalgia must come to an end,” he told AFP.However Sena Yildiz, an economics student, believes the Hagia Sophia should retain its museum status.“It is an important place for Muslims, but also for Christians and for all those who love history,” she said.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text.)Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/museum-or-mosque-top-turkey-court-to-rule-on-hagia-sophia/story-1NvZWSzW7ddygfpvfWatNM.html
02-07-2020||World||Weak evidence for accuracy of Covid-19 antibody tests: Study||A review of studies has found major weaknesses in the evidence base for diagnostic accuracy of Covid-19 antibody tests, particularly for point-of-care tests performed directly with a patient, outside a laboratory, and does not support their continued use. Serological tests to detect antibodies against Covid-19 could improve diagnosis and may be useful tools for monitoring levels of infection in a population, but it is important to formally evaluate whether there is sufficient evidence that they are accurate, the researchers said. The study, published ín The BMJ, set out to determine the diagnostic accuracy of antibody tests for Covid-19. The researchers, including those from Harvard Medical School in the US and University of British Columbia, Canada, searched medical databases and preprint servers from January 1 to April 30, for studies measuring sensitivity and specificity of a Covid-19 antibody test compared with a control test. Sensitivity measures the percentage of people who are correctly identified as having a disease, while specificity measures the percentage of people who are correctly identified as not having a disease, they said. Of 40 eligible studies, most (70 per cent) were from China and the rest were from the UK, US, Denmark, Spain, Sweden, Japan and Germany. The researchers noted that half of the studies were not peer reviewed and most were found to have a high or unclear risk of bias -- problems in study design that can influence results. Only four studies included outpatients and only two evaluated tests at the point of care, they said. When sensitivity results for each study were pooled together, they ranged from 66 per cent to 97.8 per cent depending on the type of test method used, meaning that between 2.2 per cent and 34 per cent of patients with Covid-19 would be missed, according to the researchers. Pooled specificities ranged from 96.6 to 99.7 per cent, depending on the test method used, meaning that between 3.4 per cent and 0.3 per cent of patients would be wrongly identified as having Covid-19, they said. The study found that pooled sensitivities were consistently lower for the lateral flow immunoassay (LFIA) test compared with other test methods. The LFIA test is the potential point-of-care method that is being considered for ‘immunity passports.’ The researchers explained that, if an LFIA test is applied to a population with a Covid-19 prevalence of 10 per cent, for every 1,000 people tested, 31 who never had Covid-19 will be incorrectly told they are immune, and 34 people who had the disease will be incorrectly told that they were never infected. Pooled sensitivities were also lower with commercial test kits (65 per cent) compared with non-commercial kits (88.2 per cent) and in the first and second week after symptom onset compared with after the second week, they said. The researchers point to some limitations, such as differences in study populations and the potential for missing studies. However, study strengths include thorough search strategies and assessment of bias, they said. “These observations indicate important weaknesses in the evidence on Covid-19 serological tests, particularly those being marketed as point-of-care tests,” the researchers said. “While the scientific community should be lauded for the pace at which novel serological tests have been developed, this review underscores the need for high quality clinical studies to evaluate these tools,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/weak-evidence-for-accuracy-of-covid-19-antibody-tests-study/story-rqUfeFhkllLdVR4qzdekvL.html
02-07-2020||World||US senator seeks to strengthen strategic partnership with India||An influential US senator has sought to strengthen America’s strategic partnership with India and promote regional stability.Senator Tammy Duckworth’s remarks came after he spoke to India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu on Wednesday.Duckworth, a member of the powerful Senate Armed Services Committee, said that he discussed the partnership between the two countries and opportunities to cooperate in the Indo-Pacific region as the world recovers from the Covid-19 pandemic.“Ambassador Sandhu and I had a positive discussion today about the relationship between our two nations and opportunities to work together in the future,” Duckworth said.“I look forward to working with Ambassador Sandhu to strengthen our strategic partnership and promote regional stability,” he said in response to a question.The Indo-Pacific is a key priority area for the US armed forces falling under the authority of the United States Indo-Pacific Command (INDOPACOM), unified combatant command responsible for enhancing stability in the Asia-Pacific region.Duckworth discussed the national security value of diplomacy and American alliances in this region at a Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing in February, according to a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-senator-seeks-to-strengthen-strategic-partnership-with-india/story-l1XZMRcYnOHZEjrrC1SfxN.html
02-07-2020||World||How UN Security Council condemned Karachi attack, and Pakistan||The UN Security Council on Wednesday condemned the terrorist attack on the Karachi Stock Exchange in a move initiated by China, but it is understood to have slow-walked the process enough to also deliver Pakistan its quiet but clear disapproval of its continued support for terrorism.“The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the heinous and cowardly terrorist attack that took place in Karachi, Pakistan, on 29 June 2020, which resulted in several people killed,” it said in a statement, more than 24 hours after the first draft was circulated on Tuesday.Written by China, an all-weather friend and benefactor of Pakistan, the statement was expected to be timed for release with Pakistan government’s efforts to blame the attack on India, without explicitly saying so in the statement, which would have never passed the “crazy test” of the full council.“Our security forces fought and thwarted a huge tragedy which was planned by our neighbouring country India,” Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan told the country’s National Assembly. He offered no evidence, because he did not have any and he, probably, believed he did not need any to just smear India.Shortly after or before in New York city, where the UN is headquartered, China circulated a draft of a press statement for the UN Security Council to issue condemning the terrorist attack in Karachi. Any member of the Security Council can start this process and in case of China it was for all the obvious reasons.UN secretary general Antonio Gueterres had already condemned the attack the same day on Monday. UN diplomats closely associated with the process said the purpose of the Chinese draft statement could have been, one, to provide Pakistan an opportunity to portray itself as a victim of terrorism and not the leading state-sponsor of terrorism it was. And, two, to allow it the perverse opportunity to slur India, timed with claims made in Islamabad.But it did not quite work out that way. Germany, which holds the rotational presidency of the council for July, put up the first obstacle. It used the period until 4:00 pm (US eastern time, 1:30 am in India), set aside as a part of the practice and tradition at the UN body for member countries to read the draft, consider their position and dissent, it they wanted, “breaking the silence”.Germany asked for, and got, an extension until 10:00 am Wednesday (US eastern, 7:30 pm India), saying it needed to “consult the capital”, for consultations with the home government in UN parlance. It can be genuinely a consultation or a ruse to slow down the process. It was the latter in this instance, according to UN diplomats who followed the process closely, because Germany did not return with objections.Germany simply passed on the baton of disapproval to the United States, which sought an extension, and got one till 1:00 pm (US eastern, 10:30 pm India).America’s reasons could not be ascertained immediately but UN diplomats wondered if it was a subtle way for the Americans to convey their displeasure with the Pakistani prime minister for his remarks recently that the US “martyred” Osama bin Laden, the al-Qaeda leader who was killed by US navy SEALs in Abbottabad in Pakistan in 2011.Khan’s gratuitous remarks on bin Laden could not have been more badly timed. “I won’t be surprised if that was indeed a consideration for the Americans,” said a diplomat, pointing to the fact that New York was Ground Zero of the 9/11 attacks masterminded by bin Laden.The US mission just let the 1:00 pm deadline lapse.The UNSC statement was released shortly, condemning the Karachi attack. But it was perfunctory, styled to fit a template.“It did not even specify the number of victims,” said the UN diplomat cited above. Eight people died in the attack, including all the four terrorists. But the UNSC report said, perhaps suspicious of Pakistan’s account of the attack, “several people killed”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-un-security-council-condemned-karachi-attack-and-pakistan/story-ZgF9IndGSOqtr7Gi6K1nMK.html
02-07-2020||World||At least 50 dead in landslide at jade mine in Northen Myanmar: Report||At least 50 people died on Thursday after a landslide at a jade mine in northern Myanmar trapped workers under a mound of refuse, the country’s fire service department and an information ministry official said.The miners were collecting stones in the jade-rich Hpakant area of Kachin state when a “muddy wave” caused by heavy rain buried them, the fire service said in a Facebook post.“Now in total 50 dead bodies,” the post said. “We are still working on the rescue process.”Deadly landslides and other accidents are common in the poorly regulated mines of Hpakant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-50-dead-in-landslide-at-jade-mine-in-northen-myanmar-report/story-hxsQKbPWvummYPbQccbLNK.html
02-07-2020||World||LAPD’s funding slashed by $150M, reducing number of officers||City leaders voted Wednesday to slash the Los Angeles Police Department budget by $150 million, reducing the number of officers to a level not seen for more than a decade amid nationwide demands to shift money away from law enforcement agencies during America’s reckoning over police brutality and racial injustice.About two-thirds of the funding was earmarked for police overtime and will be used to provide services and programs for communities of color, including a youth summer jobs program. The City Council’s 12-2 vote will drop the number of officers from 9,988 as of last month to 9,757 by next summer, abandoning a goal of 10,000 officers touted by political leaders and only reached in 2013.“This is a step forward, supporting minority communities in ways in which they deserve — with respect, dignity and an even playing field,” Councilman Curren Price said.It’s a big change in the nation’s second largest city, where the 1992 acquittal of white officers in the beating of black driver Rodney King set off violent unrest that has been compared to the chaos during some protests over the death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police.Other cities around the country also have cut police budgets or are moving to do so, including an effort in Minneapolis to disband the city’s force. New York City lawmakers approved an austere budget Wednesday that will shift $1 billion from policing to education and social services in the coming year. In California, liberal Berkeley passed a budget Wednesday that cuts $9.2 million from police, while Oakland leaders last week slashed $14.6 million from law enforcement and they are considering steeper reductions.The Los Angeles vote reduces the LAPD’s nearly $2 billion budget. Democratic Mayor Eric Garcetti had proposed increasing it in April to help preserve the staffing level of 10,000 officers before facing intense pushback after Floyd’s death invigorated a nationwide campaign to “defund” police.There was no immediate comment from the LAPD. However, Police Chief Michel Moore tweeted Wednesday night that “we remain as resolved as ever to the conversation around reform, and continuing to walk forward together.”“The success of the city’s future is grounded in bridging the divide, and we will never stop working to do just that,” he wrote.In a statement last month, Moore had said the cut would require “a top-to-bottom assessment, including how we go about our most basic operations” and said the department already had begun to identify potential cost savings and service reductions.The move comes a day after the board of the Los Angeles Unified School District voted to immediately cut its school police budget by a third. The $70 million budget for the force of more than 470 officers will be reduced by about $25 million and the money dedicated to “support African American student achievement to the extent of the law,” according to the resolution.Some 65 officers will be laid off and nearly 40 vacant positions won’t be filled, Police Chief Todd Chamberlain told the school board. He resigned Wednesday.The school board also called for officers to give up their uniforms and patrol off campus . Board President Richard Vladovic opposed the move on safety grounds, urging a delay.“We’re walking right into this without knowing where we’re going, and how we’re going to get there,” Vladovic said.Mass protests nationwide have demanded shrinking or eliminating police departments, with activists saying police disproportionately arrest Black people and are seen as repressive figures rather than protectors in communities of colour.“We need to rethink what it is that makes people safer and makes communities stronger,” the City Council resolution said. “We cannot just look at the police in isolation. There is no doubt that communities of color suffer disproportionately from negative interactions with the police.”The LAPD cut was part of a budget modification measure for the fiscal year beginning July 1 that comes amid the coronavirus pandemic. Months of social distancing measures, including closing many businesses, have left the city with a drastically reduced tax revenue and a potential shortfall of $45 million to $409 million, according to finance department estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lapd-s-funding-slashed-by-150m-reducing-number-of-officers/story-dlDKisVpeHv2CdTzWzM0xM.html
02-07-2020||World||UN experts appalled by enforced disappearance of Pakistani human rights activist Idris Khattak, call for impartial probe||UN human rights experts have condemned the enforced disappearance of Idris Khattak, a Pakistani human rights defender, calling it an “intolerable attack” on his legitimate work against a range of human rights and minority violations in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the former Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) in Pakistan.In a joint statement on Tuesday, nine UN human rights experts called for a prompt and impartial investigation into the abduction and incommunicado detention of Khattak and said that they are extremely concerned by the authorities’ continued practice of enforced disappearances, leaving thousands of cases unresolved in the country.Khattak was last seen on November 13 last year after security agents stopped his car near the Swabi interchange in the northernmost province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. On June 16, the Pakistani authorities acknowledged for the first time that he has been in the custody of law enforcement authorities and detained incommunicado since then.“The enforced disappearance of Khattak, which began over seven months ago, is an intolerable attack on his legitimate work of monitoring, documenting and advocating against a range of human rights and minority violations in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the former Federally Administered Tribal Areas in Pakistan,” the independent experts said.The experts are Nils Melzer, Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; Luciano Hazan (Chair-Rapporteur), Tae-Ung Baik (Vice-Chair), Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders Bernard Duhaime, Houria Es-Slami, and Henrikas Mickevicius; Mary Lawlor; Agnes Callamard, Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions; Fernand de Varennes RP, Special Rapporteur on minority issues.“We are extremely concerned by the authorities’ continued practice of enforced disappearance, leaving thousands of cases unresolved in the country. We call for a prompt and impartial investigation into the abduction and incommunicado detention of Khattak, and for the prosecution of those responsible,” the experts said.They condemned the widespread silencing of human rights defenders through intimidation, secret detention, torture and enforced disappearance, whether with the direct involvement of the Pakistani government or with its complicity or complacency.“Even today, Khattak remains deprived of the most basic protections of the law and his enforced disappearance subjected him and his family to severe and prolonged suffering, that could amount to torture,” the experts said.“Given the arbitrariness of Khattak’s arrest and detention and the very serious violations of his integrity and procedural rights, we call on the Government of Pakistan to immediately release Khattak and to provide him and his family with adequate redress and rehabilitation,” they added.Pakistan has a long history of enforced disappearances, many of which have targetted human rights and minority defenders critical of the government and the military, as well as persons suspected or accused of involvement in the opposition.While successive governments have promised to criminalise enforced disappearance, none has taken concrete steps and the practice continues with impunity.The experts stressed that there can be no justification for the Pakistan government’s failure to end enforced disappearances and that any such violation must be investigated, prosecuted and punished.“Truth and justice must be served, both in the case of Idris Khattak and for countless other victims and their families in Pakistan. State-sponsored disappearances and related impunity may amount to a crime against humanity and must end now,” they said.The experts have taken note that Pakistan’s Commission on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances has been seized of the case and called on the commission to ensure accountability.The experts will continue to engage with the Pakistani authorities to assist them in eradicating the “horrendous practice” and to closely monitor the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-experts-appalled-by-enforced-disappearance-of-pakistani-human-rights-activist-idris-khattak-call-for-impartial-probe/story-Z71H114tQZqJW9GEzPcmtI.html
02-07-2020||World||‘Ties with India will be high on priority’: Here’s what Biden promises India if elected US president||Democratic presidential candidate and former US vice-president Joe Biden will have India on a high priority for his administration if he wins the November elections. Biden said that his administration will work toward strengthening ties with New Delhi which is a “natural partner” of the United States. Biden’s comments came during a virtual fundraiser event hosted by Chairman and CEO of Beacon Capital Partners Alan Leventhal. During the event, Biden described the strengthening of US-India ties as a “necessary and important” move for US security. Here are Biden’s top comments:1) India needs to be a partner in the region for our safety’s sake, and quite frankly for theirs.2) That partnership, a strategic partnership, is necessary and important in our security.3) In our administration, I was proud to play a role more than a decade ago in securing Congressional approval for the US-India Civil Nuclear Agreement, which is a big deal.4) Helping open the door to great progress in our relationship and strengthening our strategic partnership with India was a high priority in the Obama-Biden administration.5) Strengthening our strategic ties with India will be a high priority if I’m elected president.Biden also slammed US President Donald Trump for the handling of the Covid-19 crisis in the country and stated that Trump had ignored many warnings. He said that more than an apt leadership, the country is need of healing. “He refused to prepare and failed to protect the country. Not just now but throughout his presidency, undermining the very core pillars of our, what I would argue, moral and economic strength,” Biden said. US President Donald Trump recently ordered to extend the suspension of immigration and expand it to cover H-1B, most sought-after visa programme among the Indians. Trump described the move as a step toward bolstering job opportunities and employment for Americans amid the Covid-19 crisis. The move has a souring effect on the Indians workforce in the US. As a result, some 3,75,000 temporary visaholders and green card applicants will now be banned from entering the US until next year, Julia Gelatt, a senior policy analyst with the Migration Policy Institute, told Bloomberg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ties-with-india-will-be-high-on-priority-here-s-what-biden-promises-india-if-elected-us-president/story-e9NNuiqHV4vDZ1QR4giuAJ.html
02-07-2020||World||‘Pattern of aggression’: White House’s sharpest remark yet against China on Ladakh face-off||The Trump White House on Wednesday blamed Chinese “aggression” unequivocally in the sharpest remarks yet over the ongoing border confrontation with India.President Donald Trump has said that “China’s aggressive stance along the India-China border fits with a larger a pattern of Chinese aggression in other parts of the world and these action only confirm the true nature of the Chinese Communist Party”, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said quoting the president from her notes at the daily briefing.This was much further than the studied neutral tone the White House had maintained thus far on the dispute, according to close observers of India-US relations in Washington.It was “closely monitoring” the situation, the White House had said after the deadly clashes of June 15. And the press secretary and then “noted” and “condoled” the death of Indian soldiers, and had gone on to say, deploying standard diplomatese, the US hoped for a “peaceful resolution” of the situation.The Trump White House had not given up on all of that still. “We’re closely monitoring the situation; he is as well. Both India and China have expressed a desire to deescalate, and we support a peaceful resolution of the current situation,” McEnany said before rolling out the new and more aggressive White House line.It reflected a shaper position that had been evolving around the White house, and outside, specially as laid out by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. It puts the India-China border issue in the larger context of Chinese aggressive behavior in the South China Sea and elsewhere in the world, the internment of its own Uighur muslims at home and changing its relationship with Hong Kong in violation of its international commitments.On Wednesday, Pompeo offered full-throated support for the Indian ban on Chinese apps, which, he said “can serve as appendages of the CCP’s surveillance state. India’s Clean App approach will boost India’s sovereignty.”There is bipartisan purchase in US Congress of China’s responsibility in triggering the border clashes. Tom Cotton, a Republican senator and close ally of the president, has said that “China has essentially invaded India, an ally of ours”. Marco Rubio, another Republican senator, has called Chinese actions at the border “unwarranted & lawless armed aggression”.Brad Sherman, a senior Democratic member of the House of Representatives, has slammed “Chinese aggression” for the June 15 clashes. Sherman is also the co-chair of House India caucus.The growing chorus of US support for India in this confrontation with China is unlikely to lead to any tangible action on the ground; both parties have already turned down a mediation offer from President Trump, which he made on May 27 and has not mentioned it again since.But Beijing, which, observers said, has made no secret of its mounting worries about India getting closer to the United States, will feel “pressured” to consider if it had, in fact, succeeded in pushing India further towards the US with the Galwan Valley over-reach. And that, for the moment, is all that the New Delhi in understood to be seeking as part of its larger effort to resolve the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pattern-of-aggression-white-house-s-sharpest-remark-yet-against-china-on-ladakh-face-off/story-t0eNlSat46Uyr1oa88TbhJ.html
02-07-2020||World||Aggressive stance against India, other countries confirms true nature of Chinese Communist Party: White House||White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany said that according to President Donald Trump the aggressive stance of Beijing against India and other countries in the region confirms the “true nature” of the Chinese Communist Party.Against the backdrop of the standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh, she said the US was closely monitoring the current situation and supports its peaceful resolution.The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks, and the tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details.“With regard to India and China, we are closely monitoring the situation. The president is doing so as well. And he said that China’s aggressive stance along the India-China border fits the larger pattern of Chinese aggression and other parts of the world.“These actions only confirmed the true nature of the Chinese Communist Party,” McEnany said in response to a question during a news conference.Earlier, during a Congressional hearing, US lawmakers expressed concern over the aggressive Chinese actions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “This past month, China engaged in deadly clashes along the Line of Actual Control, resulting in the tragic deaths of a dozen Indian soldiers and an unknown Chinese death toll as well,” said Congressman Adam Schiff, the chairman of the House Select Intelligence Committee, during a hearing on coronavirus and US-China relations.Senior fellow at Brookings Institute Tanvi Madan told members of the House Select Intelligence Committee that since early May there has been attempts by the People’s Liberation Army of China to “unilaterally change the status quo” along the LAC, the de facto boundary between the two countries.This, along with the coronavirus pandemic have had and will continue to have an impact on Indian views and approaches towards China, the United States, and the international order, she said.Madan said that when Chinese leader Xi Jinping and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi met in October 2019, they sought to stress on Sino-Indian cooperation.However, the pandemic and the boundary crisis have demonstrated that despite Delhi and Beijing’s efforts over the last few decades to engage, India-China ties remains a fundamental and increasingly competitive relationship that can even spill over into conflict, she said.Observing that the boundary crisis and the pandemic have reinforced and accelerated concerns in India about China’s lack of transparency, Madan said it sends uncertain commitment to the rules-based order. “The Indian government has signalled that the boundary crisis will have a serious impact on the broader relationship, particularly if the status quo ante is not restored speedily,” she noted.Informing the lawmakers that public perception about China have “deteriorated considerably”, the Brookings Institute senior fellow said during the pandemic and the boundary crisis, Delhi has already imposed restrictions or additional scrutiny on Chinese economic and technology interests within the broader strategic community.“In India, there is near consensus that ties with Beijing need to be reassessed and reset.” The boundary crisis and the pandemic have led to calls for India to maintain and even deepen its partnership with the US and for Washington to play a more sustained and robust role in ensuring that a rules-based order prevails in the region and globally, she said.Madan told the lawmakers that the boundary crisis remains serious and requires careful watching.“Washington will be considering different scenarios. It should also assess what New Delhi might ask of it in each case, whether or not the US is willing to be responsive, and if it is, prepare for those contingencies,” she said.“If the US wants to be responsive or to show support to India, it should convey this willingness while taking care not to escalate the situation. Such support will facilitate a closer Indian alignment with the US in the future.” However, Washington should not try to push India into decisions or choices or let Delhi think it is taking advantage of the boundary crisis. That would be unhelpful if not counterproductive, Madan cautioned.“How India deals with these health and national security crises as well as the choices and tradeoffs it makes will affect the US. It will offer opportunities, but potentially also challenges,” she said.The willingness of partners like India to cooperate with the US in the region and globally will depend not just on Chinese mis-steps but on Washington’s’ willingness and ability to respond, Madan said.During the hearing, Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi asked that without taking steps that would escalate the crisis, what can the US do to assist India to productively respond to this situation and get China to comply with a rules-based order.Madan said that the ability for the US to be helpful to India has been enhanced by a number of agreements and dialogue mechanisms that have been set up over the last decade.“The structure is in place. It’s helpful often because there’s a concern that this doesn’t become a geopolitical football between the US and China, that the administration has taken the stance to let India set the base of asking for that support. That is a good idea,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aggressive-stance-against-india-other-countries-confirms-true-nature-of-chinese-communist-party-white-house/story-DGgrlqwbEAL863RXliVdLL.html
02-07-2020||World||Twitter removes image tweet by Donald Trump over New York Times copyright complaint||Twitter Inc has taken down an image tweeted by the US President Donald Trump from its platform, after receiving a copyright complaint from the New York Times.The original tweet by Trump issued on June 30, showed a meme that read “In reality they’re not after me they’re after you I’m just in the way” with Trump’s picture in the background. The background picture was taken by a New York Times photographer, to accompany a feature article on then presidential candidate Trump in September 2015.Twitter now displays the message “This image has been removed in response to a report from the copyright holder,” in place of the tweet.The move by the social media site is the latest instance of content posted by Trump being flagged or removed, due to what Twitter says are copyright complaints, violation of its policy on threatening violence, among others.Twitter removed the image after it received a Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) complaint from the New York Times, which owns the rights to the photo, according to a notice posted on the Lumen Database.The database collects and analyzes legal complaints and requests for removal of online materials.Twitter began challenging Trump’s tweets in May and has repeatedly clashed with him since then. The president has threatened to change laws on social media after Twitter labeled one of his tweets about postal voting inaccurate and hid a tweet about looting, which Twitter said fomented violence.A campaign tribute video to George Floyd, a Black man who died in Minneapolis police custody, was also disabled by Twitter, Facebook and Instagram on their platforms last month, due to copyright complaints.Twitter and NYT did not respond when reached by Reuters for further comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-removes-image-tweet-by-donald-trump-over-new-york-times-copyright-complaint/story-XI0zNDGqENlHZdKRNH2YZI.html
02-07-2020||World||24 dead, 7 injured in attack on drug rehabilitation centre in Mexico, say police||Gunmen burst into an unregistered drug rehabilitation centre in Mexico and opened fire Wednesday, killing 24 people and wounding seven.Police in the north-central state of Guanajuato said the attack occurred Wednesday in the city of Irapuato. Three of the seven wounded were in serious condition.Apparently the attackers shot everyone at the rehab center; state police said nobody was abducted.Guanajuato is the scene of a bloody turf battle between the Jalisco cartel and a local gang, and the state has become the most violent in Mexico.No motive was given in the attack, but Gov. Diego Sinhue said drug gangs appear to have been involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/24-dead-7-injured-in-attack-on-drug-rehabilitation-centre-in-mexico-say-police/story-VbSZTvRVRovNqa039PCU1M.html
02-07-2020||World||If elected in 2020 US polls, Joe Biden has a promise for ‘natural partner’ India||Democratic presidential candidate and former vice-president Joe Biden said that if he wins the November elections, strengthening relationship with India which is the US’ “natural partner”, will be a high priority for his administration.“India needs to be a partner in the region for our safety’s sake, and quite frankly for theirs,” he said in response to a question on India-US relationship during a virtual fund raiser event.At the fund raiser hosted by Chairman and CEO of Beacon Capital Partners Alan Leventhal, the former vice president said that India and the United States were natural partners.“That partnership, a strategic partnership, is necessary and important in our security,” Biden said when asked by an attendee whether India is critical to US’ national security.Referring to his eight years as the vice president, he said, “In our administration I was proud to play a role more than a decade ago in securing Congressional approval for the US-India Civil Nuclear Agreement, which is a big deal.”.“Helping open the door to great progress in our relationship and strengthening our strategic partnership with India was a high priority in the Obama-Biden administration and will be a high priority if I’m elected president,” Biden said.Both as the vice president and a senator from Delaware, he was a big supporter of India-US relationship.About the November polls, Biden said that the character of the country is on the ballot. The upcoming election is the most important poll of a lifetime and that the country is currently engaged in a battle for its soul, he claimed.Biden also slammed President Donald Trump and his administration over the handling of the coronavirus pandemic.“Trump ignored warnings from the very beginning, refused to prepare and failed to protect the country. Not just now but throughout his presidency, undermining the very core pillars of our, what I would argue, moral and economic strength,” the Democratic presidential candidate said.“I really do believe that our country is crying out for leadership and maybe even more important, some healing. Today, we have an enormous opportunity not only to rebuild but to build back better than before. To build a better future. That’s what America does,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/if-elected-in-2020-us-polls-joe-biden-has-a-promise-for-natural-partner-india/story-oI6KugxpUfx9KlhiOREYUL.html
02-07-2020||World||Bars, restaurants in California pay price for surge in Covid-19 cases||California took a big step back in reopening its economy on Wednesday as Gov. Gavin Newsom shut down bars, wineries, museums, movie theaters and inside restaurant dining across most of the state for three weeks amid troubling increases in coronavirus cases and hospitalizations.The order affects Los Angeles and 18 other counties where nearly three-quarters of the state’s roughly 40 million people live. The impacted counties are those seeing the most serious uptick in infections, and include almost all of Southern California, though not San Diego, which is faring better.“The bottom line is the spread of this virus continues at a rate that is particularly concerning,” Newsom said.To encourage greater adherence to health rules, Newsom also said the state is creating “strike teams” of state regulators to more aggressively go after non-compliant businesses. He also is limiting beach access and imposed statewide changes for religious services — no more singing or chanting — and at gyms, where people now must wear masks while working out.For the two weeks ended Monday, California’s confirmed coronavirus cases increased 45% to nearly a quarter-million and hospitalizations increased 52% to 5,077. About 500 more patients were sick enough for intensive care treatment, bringing the state total to 1,528 in ICUs.The state’s worst outbreak is in Imperial County, an agricultural center along the border with Mexico. Infection rates are 20% -- more than double the state average -- and hospitals are overwhelmed.Last week the state took the unprecedented step of ordering Imperial officials to come up with a new health order and on Wednesday the most restrictive plan in California was approved -- it bars non-essential gatherings of any size, shopping in stores and indoor religious ceremonies.Other states, including Texas and Florida, have also paused their reopenings after seeing similar spikes in coronavirus cases. In Arizona, Gov. Doug Ducey has ordered bars, gyms and movie theaters to close for 30 days and banned large gatherings.California authorities have said many things contributed to the increase in the state, including people not following the mandate to wear masks and gathering socially with friends and relatives.Jot Condi, who heads the California Restaurant Association, said the order is devastating for restaurants that have worked to put in place safety measures and reduced seating to meet the state’s requirements for inside dining. The changes have left many with no room to spare on revenue.“This will be the last straw for a lot of restaurants,” Condi said, adding the state hasn’t provided evidence to specifically show dining in restaurants is helping fuel the increase in virus cases.Newsom imposed the nation’s first statewide stay-at-home order in March, earning praise from public health officials as virus cases were kept relatively low in the nation’s most populous state for more than two months. But the order devastated the economy, forcing most businesses to close and prompting more than 6.7 million people to file for unemployment benefits.As the spread of the virus slowed in May, Newsom moved quickly to begin allowing businesses to reopen across the state. Bars got the green light on June 12 and quickly images emerged showing throngs packed tightly together, many not wearing masks as required by the state.Dr. Jeffrey Klausner, an epidemiology professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, said the new restrictions could be an “over response.” He said the state should consider other strategies designed to keep young people away from older people, who are more at risk for the virus.“It appears we’re playing a game of whack-a-mole. Every time there is an increase in cases we have to take a step backwards,” he said.However, Klausner said when restrictions are imposed they “can tell people (that) health officials are very serious and therefore people are more likely to adopt personal behavior change.”Dr. Mark Ghaly, secretary of the California Health and Human Services Agency, said the new order is targeted at places where people can’t wear face coverings the whole time, like restaurants where they are removed to eat and drink, or where people are likely to mix with others outside their household.Businesses not on the list, like hair salons, are able to “do things in a lower-risk way,” he said.For most people, the coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough that clear up in two to three weeks. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia and death.Ghaly defended the state’s process for reopening, saying officials carefully developed guidance that businesses should follow. But he noted the state has seen a “sufficient number” of places not following the guidance.“We have always prepared for something like this, we have always been ready,” he said.At Crepeville in Sacramento, owner Derar Zawaydeh cussed when informed of the new mandate for restaurants. He has a few tables outside but most are inside and will be lost.“It definitely presents a challenge,” he said. “But on the flip side if that is what we need to do to ... reduce the risk of infection, then we really don’t have much of a choice,.”Ahead of the busy Fourth of July weekend, Newsom also closed state beaches in Los Angeles and Ventura counties to mirror local public health orders. Other state beaches will stay open, but parking lots will close this weekend to limit overcrowding in Marin, Monterey, Orange, San Diego, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Barbara, Santa Cruz and Sonoma counties.For people planning gatherings of family and friends this weekend, Newsom urged them to reconsider. In Los Angeles County, Public Health Director Barbara Ferrer says many outbreaks in the past three weeks are linked to parties and gatherings of family and friends, adding “there are very real risks to celebrating this holiday with people who are not in our households.”Newsom’s order applies to 19 counties that have been on the state’s watch list for increasing coronavirus cases for at least three consecutive days: Besides, Los Angeles, they include: Contra Costa, Fresno, Glenn, Imperial, Kern, Kings, Merced, Orange, Riverside, Sacramento, San Bernardino, San Joaquin, Santa Barbara, Santa Clara, Solano, Stanislaus, Tulare and Ventura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bars-restaurants-in-california-pay-price-for-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-D2660g3upREMIShygpB6WP.html
02-07-2020||World||India continuing to show it won’t back down from China’s aggression: Nikki Haley on app ban||A couple of days after New Delhi banned apps with Chinese links, Republican leader and Indian American Nikki Haley said that India was continuing to show that it won’t back down from a Chinese aggression.India on Monday banned 59 apps with Chinese links, including the hugely popular TikTok and UC Browser, for engaging in “activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.The ban came against the backdrop of the current stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual control in eastern Ladakh. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details.“Good to see India ban 59 popular apps owned by Chinese firms, including TikTok, which counts India as one of its largest markets,” Haley tweeted on Wednesday.“India is continuing to show it won’t back down from China’s aggression,” the former US Ambassador to the UN said in a tweet hours after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo welcomed India’s decision in this regard.Pompeo on Wednesday welcomed New Delhi’s decision to ban dozens of apps with Chinese links, saying it will “boost India’s integrity and national security.” “We welcome India’s ban on certain mobile apps that serves as an appendage of the CCP’s (Chinese Communist Party) surveillance State,” Pompeo told reporters at a news conference held at the Foggy Bottom headquarters of the State Department.“India’s clean app approach will boost India’s sovereignty. It will also boost India’s integrity and national security,” he said.In an interview to Fox News, Republican Senator Marco Rubio supported India’s move to ban Chinese apps.“Yes, they’re not only appropriate, they’re long overdue,” he said when asked about steps like banning Chinese apps by India and the US taking action against Huawei and ZTE.According to MIT Technology Review India has a huge smartphone user base and English-speaking population, which make it the world’s largest social media market. India is also TikTok’s biggest market, with nearly 191 million downloads at the end of 2019; the US is at a distant second with nearly 41 million, it stated.“India’s Chinese app ban is a new diplomatic maneuver. India and China have opened a new front in their ongoing skirmish. Both countries are nuclear powers and economic giants, but India’s ban is notable for using social media as a tool to exert political pressure on its rival,” MIT Technology Review said.Forbes magazine said that the ban on TikTok has left many influencers and influencer managers bereft of work and in shock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-continuing-to-show-it-won-t-back-down-from-china-s-aggression-nikki-haley-on-app-ban/story-VXEPXG9qmxcK87ytNB9HyM.html
02-07-2020||World||US regulator, Boeing complete 737 MAX certification test flights||The Federal Aviation Administration and Boeing Co have completed certification test flights on the 737 MAX, a key milestone toward the plane’s return to service, the U.S. regulator said on Wednesday.The MAX has been grounded since March 2019 after two fatal crashes in five months killed 346 people.The FAA said it must still evaluate data from the three days of testing and has other tasks to complete.“The agency is following a deliberate process and will take the time it needs to thoroughly review Boeing’s work,” the FAA said. “We will lift the grounding order only after FAA safety experts are satisfied that the aircraft meets certification standards.”Boeing declined to comment, saying it would defer to the FAA statement.The tests of Boeing’s proposed changes to the automated flight control system on the aircraft are a pivotal moment in the company’s worst-ever corporate crisis. The FAA must complete the data review, approve new pilot training procedures, among other steps, and is unlikely to approve the plane’s ungrounding until mid-September, Reuters reported this week.If that happens, the jet is on a path to resume U.S. service before year-end, in a process plagued by delays.The crisis has cost Boeing more than $18 billion, slashed production and hobbled its supply chain, with criminal and congressional investigations still ongoing. In December, Boeing fired Chief Executive Dennis Muilenburg after scrutiny into the jet’s design and development tarnished its reputation with airlines and regulators.A Transportation Department inspector general report first reported by Reuters on Tuesday faulted Boeing for not disclosing information to the FAA about a key safety system known as MCAS tied to both fatal crashes.Boeing agreed to add significant safeguards to MCAS, make other software updates and move wiring bundles that the FAA said posed a safety hazard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-regulator-boeing-complete-737-max-certification-test-flights/story-ZZgLInfVxWFzZpiXeBcw8J.html
02-07-2020||World||China demands information from 4 media companies in response to US||China has demanded staff and business information from four U.S. media companies including The Associated Press in what it called a necessary response to similar demands by Washington on Chinese state-controlled news outlets.Foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian announced Wednesday that the AP, United Press International, CBS and National Public Radio had seven days to file declarations regarding their staff, financial operations, real estate ownership and other matters.“It should be pointed out that the above-mentioned measures by China are completely necessary countermeasures and are completely legitimate defenses compelled by unreasonable suppression of the U.S. side on Chinese media agencies in the United States,” Zhao said at a daily briefing.The Trump administration last month added four Chinese media outlets to a list of organizations that should be considered “foreign missions” because of their ties to the government and the ruling Communist Party. That move could force them to cut staff in the U.S. and adds to a long list of frictions in economic and political relations between the two countries.Zhao said recent U.S. policies damage the reputation and image of Chinese media, impact their operations and “seriously interfere with the normal people-to-people exchanges between China and the U.S.”The Trump administration’s moves are rooted in “Cold War thinking” and go against the freedom of the press long espoused by Washington, he said.“China urges the U.S. to immediately change its course and correct its mistakes and stop the political suppression and unreasonable restrictions of the Chinese media,” Zhao said.State Department officials said at the time that the four organizations, including state-run CCTV, would be required to submit a list of everyone who works for them in the U.S. and any real estate holdings, the same as is required of foreign embassies or consulates.None is being ordered to leave the U.S. and no limits on their activities were announced. But a visa cap was put on five other Chinese media organizations in March, forcing them to reduce their Chinese staff two weeks after they were designated as foreign missions.Chinese media including the official Xinhua News Agency and the international arm of state broadcaster CCTV are now restricted to a total of 100 visas. Collectively, they employed about 160 Chinese in the U.S., meaning about 60 had to leave.China retaliated by ordering more than a dozen reporters from The Washington Post, The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal to hand in their press credentials, forcing them to leave the country because their visas were tied to their work status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-demands-info-from-4-media-companies-in-response-to-us/story-vexXv89Cy7laAEe3LbCNTN.html
02-07-2020||World||US records highest one-day jump of nearly 50,000 Covid-19 cases||New US Covid-19 cases rose by nearly 50,000 on Wednesday, according to a Reuters tally, marking the biggest one-day spike since the start of the pandemic.The record follows a warning by the government’s top infectious diseases expert that the number could soon double to 100,000 cases a day if Americans do not come together to take steps necessary to halt the virus’ resurgent spread, such as wearing masks when unable to practice social distancing. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here In the first week of June, the United States added about 22,000 new coronavirus cases each day. But as the month progressed, hotspots began to emerge across the Sun Belt. In the last seven days of June, daily new infections almost doubled to 42,000 nationally.Brazil is the only other country to report more than 50,000 new cases in one day. The United States reported at least 49,286 cases on Tuesday. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayMore than half of new US cases each day come from Arizona, California, Florida and Texas, home to 30% of the country’s population. All four states plus 10 others saw new cases more than double in June.The daily increase in new cases could reach 100,000 unless a nationwide push was made to tamp down the fast-spreading virus, Dr. Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told a US Senate committee on Tuesday.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “We can’t just focus on those areas that are having the surge. It puts the entire country at risk,” Fauci said.The rise in cases is not just the result of more testing. Hospitalizations are also skyrocketing.Nationally, 7% of coronavirus diagnostic tests came back positive last week, up from 5% the prior week, according to a Reuters analysis. Arizona’s positivity test rate was 24% last week, Florida’s was 16%. Nevada, South Carolina and Texas were all 15%, according to the analysis.Also read: Ayush ministry clears Patanjali drug for sale as immunity boosterSome of the recent increase traces back to Memorial Day holiday celebrations in late May. Health experts are worried about Independence Day celebrations this weekend, when Americans traditionally flock to beaches and campgrounds to watch fireworks displays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-records-highest-one-day-jump-of-nearly-50-000-covid-19-cases/story-K37d1VRKaUIvqLlHWDYTHJ.html
02-07-2020||World||Canadians go virtual to celebrate national day amid coronavirus lockdown||While the fireworks displays in cities and communities across the nation took place, the 2020 edition of Canada Day was celebrated without the large gatherings due to restrictions related to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Government organized a slew of virtual events to keep Canadians engaged with the anniversary of the formation of the dominion in 1867.In a message issued to mark the Day, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau invited Canadians to join the virtual celebrations and join the conversation online. ““The last few months have been difficult for all Canadians, but throughout this pandemic, we have been there for one another. We are neighbours helping neighbours, small businesses being there for their communities and their staff, Armed Forces answering the call to help protect our most vulnerable, and doctors and nurses keeping our families healthy,” his statement said.The department responsible for the festivities, Canadian Heritage, streamed shows featuring artists along with virtual fireworks that could be accessed on devices.Canada’s Minister of Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Marco Mendicino held a virtual citizenship ceremony for 18 healthcare workers, including one with roots in Goa. “The pandemic has changed the way that we celebrate today, and this includes being able to physically join in citizenship ceremonies to welcome our newest Canadians,” Mendocino said in a statement.The country’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam also thanked citizens for their “hard work” to keep the coronavirus infection “curve down.”“Our data show that your efforts are making a difference and that is reason to celebrate.Right now, it is our actions, and our actions only, that will reduce the spread. While COVID-19 is still active in our communities, I want to remind Canadians to celebrate Canada Day safely,” she said, with a series of instructions to keep it virtual.But the day was also marked with a series of protests across major Canadian cities, including by Black Lives Matter, by those protesting lockdown norms and by Indigenous groups who also used the hashtag #CancelCanadaDay as a reminder of how the confederation came into being through exploitation of the natives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadians-go-virtual-to-celebrate-national-day-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-nM0URLrJGlR5m9bQ4ANLMN.html
02-07-2020||World||Movement for Black Lives Matter plans virtual national convention||Spurred by broad public support for the Black Lives Matter movement, thousands of Black activists from across the U.S. will hold a virtual convention in August to produce a new political agenda that seeks to build on the success of the protests that followed George Floyd’s death.The 2020 Black National Convention will take place Aug. 28 via a live broadcast. It will feature conversations, performances and other events designed to develop a set of demands ahead of the November general election, according to a Wednesday announcement shared first with The Associated Press.The convention is being organized by the Electoral Justice Project of the Movement for Black Lives, a coalition of more than 150 organizations. In 2016, the coalition released its “Vision for Black Lives” platform, which called for public divestment from mass incarceration and for adoption of policies that can improve conditions in Black America.“What this convention will do is create a Black liberation agenda that is not a duplication of the Vision for Black Lives, but really is rooted as a set of demands for progress,” said Jessica Byrd, who leads the Electoral Justice Project.At the end of the convention, participants will ratify a revised platform that will serve as a set of demands for the first 100 days of a new presidential administration, Byrd said. Participants also will have access to model state and local legislation.“What we have the opportunity to do now, as this 50-state rebellion has provided the conditions for change, is to say, ‘You need to take action right this minute,’” Byrd said. “We’re going to set the benchmarks for what we believe progress is and make those known locally and federally.”Wednesday’s announcement comes at a pivotal moment for the BLM movement. A surge in public support, an influx in donations and congressional action to reform policing have drawn some backlash.President Donald Trump lashed out again Wednesday on Twitter over plans to paint “Black Lives Matter” in yellow across New York City’s famed Fifth Avenue, calling the words a “symbol of hate.” White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said Trump “agrees that all Black lives matter” but disagrees with an organization that would make derogatory statements about police officers. McEnany was referring to an oft-cited chant of individual protesters from five years ago.The Black National Convention was originally planned to happen in person, in Detroit, the nation’s Blackest major city. But as the coronavirus pandemic exploded in March, organizers quickly shifted to a virtual event, Byrd said. The first-ever Black Lives Matter convention was held in Cleveland in 2015.The most recent AP analysis of Covid-19 data shows Black people have made up more than a quarter of reported virus deaths in which the race of the victim is known.Initial work to shape the new platform will take place Aug. 6 and 7, during a smaller so-called People’s Convention that will virtually convene hundreds of delegates from Black-led advocacy groups. The process will be similar to one that produced the first platform, which included early iterations of the demand to defund police that now drives many demonstrations.Other platform demands, such as ending cash bail, reducing pretrial detention and scrapping discriminatory risk-assessment tools used in criminal courts, have become official policy in a handful of local criminal justice systems around the U.S.Cliff Albright, co-founder of Black Voters Matter, which organizes in 15 states, said the 2020 Black National Convention will deepen the solutions to systemic racism and create more alignment within the movement.“We’re in this stage now where we’re getting more specific about how all of this is connected to our local organizing,” Albright said. “The hope is that, when people leave the convention, they leave with greater clarity, more resources, connectivity and energy.”The coalition behind the convention includes Color of Change, BYP100, Dream Defenders and the Black Lives Matter Global Network, which has 16 official chapters nationwide.Convention organizers said this year’s event will pay tribute to the historic 1972 National Black Political Convention in Gary, Indiana, which concluded with the introduction of a national Black agenda. The Gary gathering included prominent Black leaders such as the Rev. Jesse Jackson, the Rev. Al Sharpton, Rep. Shirley Chisolm, who ran for president, as well as Black Panther Party co-founder Bobby Seale, Coretta Scott King and Betty Shabazz.That convention came after several tumultuous years that included the assassinations of Malcolm X and the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and outbreaks of civil unrest, all of which were seen as blows to the civil rights movement.The upcoming convention builds on more than a century of Black political organizing.In 1905, civil rights activist and scholar W.E.B. Du Bois formed the Niagara Movement after a national conference of Black leaders near Buffalo, New York. In a written address to the country, Du Bois and others decried the rise of institutionalized racial inequality in voting, criminal justice systems and public education.In the 1950s, William Patterson, founder of the now-defunct Civil Rights Congress, led the effort to charge the U.S. with genocide of African Americans using legal standards set by the United Nation. The resulting petition, “We Charge Genocide,” is an oft-cited document in conversations about fatal shootings of Black people by police in the U.S.And in 1998, organizers of the Black Radical Congress in Chicago met to strategize ways to beat back attacks on affirmative action policies that helped to diversify higher education and other facets of American life.Like any large political gathering, consensus is not guaranteed. The National Black Political Convention caused divisions between participating organizations over the Black agenda’s position on busing to integrate public schools and statements on global affairs that some viewed as anti-Israel. Ultimately, the agenda prompted a leader of the NAACP, the nation’s oldest civil rights organization, to sever ties with the convention.Somewhat similarly, the Vision for Black Lives platform and its characterization of Israel as an “apartheid state” committing mass murder against Palestinian people drew allegations of anti-Semitism from a handful of Jewish groups, which had otherwise been supportive of the Black Lives Matter movement.The Black Lives Matter movement’s coalition has more than doubled in size in the years since the first platform, largely because of organizers’ laser focus on issues central to Black freedom, Byrd said.“That actually is the Black self determination that our politics require,” Byrd said, “that we don’t just respond to the Democratic Party. That we don’t just respond to the Republican Party. We don’t just say ‘Black lives matter’ and beg people to care. We build an alternative container for all of us to connect, outside of the white gaze, to say this is what we want for our communities.”The August convention will happen on the same day as a commemorative, in-person march on Washington that is being organized by Sharpton, who announced the march during a memorial service for Floyd, a Black man who died May 25 after a white Minneapolis police officer held a knee to his neck.The Black National Convention will broadcast after the march, Byrd said.August “is going to be a huge month of Black engagement,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/movement-for-black-lives-matter-plans-virtual-national-convention/story-Rdycp38rJttlh5JgeKugUP.html
02-07-2020||World||Mexico passes Spain to have sixth deadliest coronavirus outbreak||Mexico’s Covid-19 deaths rose by 741 to reach 28,510, leading the country to overtake Spain and have the world’s sixth deadliest outbreak, according to data released by the Health Ministry Wednesday night.Confirmed cases rose by 5,681 to 231,770. Deaths and cases in Mexico have increased steadily in recent weeks as Latin America has emerged as a hot spot for the pandemic. The country is also likely to soon overtake France, which has 29,864 deaths, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.Mexico, like other Latin American countries has vulnerable populations living in tight quarters where work is essential to meet daily basic needs. That makes social distancing to slow the pandemic nearly impossible while President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has been criticized by some health experts for downplaying the virus’s risks.Lopez Obrador has focused largely on reopening the economy, rather than enforcing strict lockdowns. He continued to travel through the country amid record rises in cases. Mexico City began reopening businesses and restarting economic activity this week based on government data showing a decrease of hospital occupancy.At his nightly press conferences Deputy Health Minister Hugo Lopez-Gatell has repeatedly implored people to stay home, while Lopez Obrador has said the worst is likely past. In a recent morning press conference, the president thanked the Mexican people for helping avoid an even more troubling outcome.“Despite the terrible nature of this pandemic, we have avoided more suffering,” Lopez Obrador said.The numbers from Mexico’s Health Ministry don’t reflect data from only the previous 24 hours, as it takes longer for it to gather information from hospitals on coronavirus patients. Experts have questioned the government’s tracking of the virus, as even the ministry has acknowledged actual cases are much higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-passes-spain-to-have-sixth-deadliest-coronavirus-outbreak/story-P29TvM7hwIDsG2qPPP9gUJ.html
02-07-2020||World||China reports three new coronavirus cases in mainland on July 1||China on Thursday reported three new coronavirus cases in the mainland for July 1, compared with three cases a day earlier, the health authority said.Two of the new infections were imported cases, the National Health Commission said in a statement, while the capital city of Beijing reported one new case. There were no new deaths.China also reported two new asymptomatic patients, down from three a day earlier.As of July 1, mainland China had a total of 83,537 confirmed coronavirus cases, it said.China’s death toll from the coronavirus remained at 4,634.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-reports-three-new-coronavirus-cases-in-mainland-on-july-1/story-xNi8xp9qJqgEIf6jJMoPRI.html
02-07-2020||World||Brazil surpasses 60,000 coronavirus deaths: Official||Brazil topped 60,000 deaths from the novel coronavirus after recording more than 1,000 fatalities over the last 24 hours, the health ministry said on Wednesday.The South American country has suffered the largest number of daily deaths globally for the last week, and is the second worst affected nation in the world for both cases and fatalities after the United States.Brazil is showing no signs of reducing either its number of daily cases or deaths.With more than 46,000 new cases, the country of 212 million now has 1.44 million people infected, although analysts believe the true figure is much higher.The largest number of deaths have been in the most populous state, Sao Paulo, with 14,700, followed by Rio de Janeiro, with more than 10,000.Rio’s death rate of 584 per million inhabitants is more than twice the national average of 284.The northeastern state Ceara has been even worse hit with 673 deaths per million, putting it on a par with the hardest hit countries in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-surpasses-60-000-coronavirus-deaths-official/story-ZF6ZeLJAujnF5YnXT67k9N.html
02-07-2020||World||I’m all for masks: Donald Trump says he would wear it in close quarters||US President Donald Trump, who has avoided being seen in public wearing a face covering, said on Wednesday he would wear a mask if he were in close quarters with other people in an effort to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.“I’m all for masks,” Trump told Fox Business Network. “If I were in a tight situation with people I would absolutely” wear a mask, he added.Trump said, however, he did not think mask-wearing needed to be made mandatory nationwide “because you have many places in the country where people stay very long distance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-m-all-for-masks-donald-trump-says-he-would-wear-it-in-close-quarters/story-v574pJjWhkIPNGM8dO8QMM.html
02-07-2020||World||More than 100 Colombian soldiers implicated in sex abuse of minors, army says||At least 118 members of the Colombian army have been investigated since 2016 for alleged involvement in sexual abuse against minors, the head of the army said on Wednesday, amid accusations of sexual violence by soldiers against young girls.Of the 118 soldiers and army officials, 45 were fired, while the remaining 73 are facing criminal and disciplinary investigations by the attorney general and procurator’s offices, General Eduardo Zapateiro told a virtual news conference.The army has “zero tolerance” for sexual abuse by those within its ranks Zapateiro said, referencing figures from an army review going back four years.Seven soldiers were arrested last week for alleged sexual abuse of an indigenous girl in Risaralda province. All seven men and three of their superiors have been fired, while two higher-up officials have been re-assigned.Another case - that of a young girl allegedly sexually abused by various soldiers while being held at an army site in jungle Guaviare province for several days without food or water - emerged over the weekend.Zapateiro denied a systematic effort to protect army members implicated in acts of sexual violence against minors and said all soldiers receive human rights training.“No Colombian soldier is trained within the institution to attack the human rights of boys, girls or adolescents,” he said.“I will not tolerate any type of conduct distant from ethical principles, moral values and good customs,” Zapateiro said. “There are no second chances.”The general did not specify how many cases the 118 officials are involved in or discuss allegations of sexual harassment made by women soldiers in recent months.The Colombian army has 240,000 members and leads the country’s fight against leftist guerrillas and crime gangs founded by former members of right-wing paramilitary groups.The army has long been accused by sexual violence survivors and human rights groups of rights violations during Colombia’s more than five decades of internal conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-than-100-colombian-soldiers-implicated-in-sex-abuse-of-minors-army-says/story-HpzPTty0gKnGfO7XLfBUrO.html
02-07-2020||World||US Army quarantines 90 soldiers with coronavirus at Fort Bragg||The US Army has quarantined 90 soldiers and instructors who tested positive for the coronavirus during a survival course at Fort Bragg.A total of 110 people participated in the course, which was cut short after a single soldier tested positive. Subsequent tests then showed that 82 students and 8 instructors had Covid-19, Army spokeswoman Janice Burton told The Associated Press on Wednesday.Now all 110 are quarantined, although the 20 people who did not test positive were separated from the rest, she said.Their course, called Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape, is naturally isolated from Fort Bragg’s other special warfare courses, the Army said.Guidelines were implemented at Fort Bragg to prevent the spread of coronavirus, and some classes were shifted online. Portions of classes that could not be taught online were closely monitored. Students taking the survival course were tested prior to training and received daily welfare checks.“The health and wellness of our students and staff is our top priority,” said Maj. Gen. Patrick Roberson. “We will do everything we can to protect our students and their families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-army-quarantines-90-soldiers-with-coronavirus-at-fort-bragg/story-NI7Ok53c6QL0j4V2NK1b5H.html
02-07-2020||World||Coronavirus may infect heart cells of infected patients, says report||Researchers, including those of Indian-origin, have shown that the novel coronavirus can infect lab-grown cardiac muscle cells, indicating it may be possible for the virus to directly cause heart infection in Covid-19 patients. The study, published in the journal Cell Reports Medicine, was based on experiments conducted in lab-grown heart muscle cells which were produced from unspecialised human stem cells. “We not only uncovered that these stem cell-derived heart cells are susceptible to infection by novel coronavirus, but that the virus can also quickly divide within the heart muscle cells,” said study co-author Arun Sharma from the Cedars-Sinai Board of Governors Regenerative Medicine Institute in the US. “Even more significant, the infected heart cells showed changes in their ability to beat after 72 hours of infection,” Sharma said. Although many Covid-19 patients experience heart problems, the scientists said the reasons for these symptoms are not entirely clear. They said pre-existing cardiac conditions, or inflammation and oxygen deprivation that result from the infection have all been implicated. According to the scientists, there is only limited evidence available that the novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, directly infects individual muscle cells of the heart. The current study showed that SARS-CoV-2 can infect heart cells derived from human stem-cells and change how the genes in these cells helped make proteins. Based on this observation, the scientists confirmed that human heart cells can be actively infected by the virus, activating innate cellular “defense mechanisms” in an effort to help clear out the virus. Citing the limitations of the study, they said these findings are not a perfect replicate of what is happening in the human body since the research was carried out in lab-grown heart cells. However, this knowledge may help investigators use stem cell-derived heart cells as a screening platform to identify new antiviral compounds that could alleviate viral infection of the heart, believes study co-author Clive Svendsen. “This viral pandemic is predominately defined by respiratory symptoms, but there are also cardiac complications, including arrhythmias, heart failure and viral myocarditis,” said Svendsen, director of the Regenerative Medicine Institute. “While this could be the result of massive inflammation in response to the virus, our data suggest that the heart could also be directly affected by the virus in Covid-19,” Svendsen said. The scientists also found that treatment with an antibody protein could lock onto the human cell surface receptor ACE2 -- a known SARS-CoV-2 ‘gateway’ into cells. According to the researchers, the antibody treatment was able to blunt viral replication on the lab-grown heart cells, suggesting that the ACE2 receptor could be used by the virus to enter human heart muscle cells. “By blocking the ACE2 protein with an antibody, the virus is not as easily able to bind to the ACE2 protein, and thus cannot easily enter the cell,” Sharma said. “This not only helps us understand the mechanisms of how this virus functions, but also suggests therapeutic approaches that could be used as a potential treatment for SARS-CoV-2 infection,” he added. In the study, the researchers also used human induced pluripotent stem cells, or iPSCs, which are a type of undifferentiated cells grown in the lab from a person’s blood or skin cells. They said iPSCs can make any cell type found in the body, each one carrying the genetic material of the individual. According to the scientists, tissue-specific cells created in this way are used for research, and for creating and testing potential disease treatments. “It is plausible that direct infection of cardiac muscle cells may contribute to COVID-related heart disease,” said Eduardo Marban, executive director of the Smidt Heart Institute in the US, and study co-author.“This key experimental system could be useful to understand the differences in disease processes of related coronaviral pathogens, SARS and MERS,” said Vaithilingaraja Arumugaswami, another co-author of the study from the University of California Los Angeles in the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-may-infect-heart-cells-of-infected-patients-says-report/story-gQoU7Rmzkj4XIpZJBRB0SN.html
02-07-2020||India||28 ministerstake oath as Chouhan expands cabinet||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan inducted 28 new ministers in his cabinet on Thursday, including 12 former Congress leaders, three months after he assumed office for a fourth term. Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, who was sworn in as the acting governor on Wednesday afternoon due to the hospitalisation of governor Lalji Tandon in Lucknow, administered the oath of office and secrecy to the new ministers in a simple function organised at the Raj Bhavan premises. The 28 ministers include 20 cabinet ministers and eight ministers of state. The council of ministers now has 34 members, with only one ministerial berth lying vacant. Twelve of the 28 new ministers are considered loyal to Rajya Sabha member and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Jyotiraditya Scindia. In the previous cabinet expansion on April 21, two other leaders close to Scindia were inducted into the council of ministers. Congratulating the new ministers, Chouhan said, “We all have to make concerted efforts for progress and development of the state. Service to public should be the goal of our life.”Scindia said, “I hope, all the ministers will work shoulder to shoulder with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda for progress and development of the state.”Chouhan came to power in March when the previous Congress-led administration lost its majority after 22 legislators resigned from the state assembly. These 22 seats, along with two others, are set for bypolls soon. Fifteen new faces were inducted on Thursday. The former MLAs will have to get elected within six months to retain their ministerial berth.This is the second cabinet expansion by Chouhan this term. On April 21, five ministers were sworn in. Twelve of the ministers come from the Gwalior-Chambal region and 10 from Malwa-Nimad. Bundelkhand has four ministers. Vindya and central regions have three ministers each, and Mahakoshal is represented by one minister.There are four ministers each from scheduled tribes and scheduled castes. There are at least 10 ministers from Rajput clan and eight from the other backward classes. There are four women in the council of ministers. “Whether it was my respected father or it’s me, the Scindia family has always trodden on the path of truth and justice with our resolve to serve people. In 15 months of Congress rule earlier there was rampant corruption and there were attempts to do harm to the state. I am confident that the government under the leadership of Shivraj Singh Chouhan will fulfil the aspirations of people,” Scindia said. The new cabinet ministers are Gopal Bhargava, Vijay Shah, Jagdish Devda, Bisahulal Singh, Yashodhra Raje Scindia, Bhupendra Singh, Brijendra Pratap Singh, Vishwas Sarang, Imrati Devi, Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Pradyumn Singh Tomar, Prem Singh Patel, Omprakash Saklecha, Aindal Singh Kansana, Usha Thakur, Arvind Bhadoria, Mohan Yadav, Hardeep Singh Dang, and Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon, the last eight becoming ministers first time.The ministers of state include Bharat Singh Kushwaha, Inder Singh Parmar, Ramkhelawan Patel, Ram Kishor Kanware, Brijendra Singh Yadav, Girraj Dandotia, Suresh Dhakad, and OPS Bhadoria. All of them have become ministers for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-ministerstake-oath-as-chouhan-expands-cabinet/story-lWfm2u0ZI8PUGKdCDtsFkJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Need to further enhance our operational capabilities: IAF chief||The Indian Air Force needs to further enhance its operational capabilities and improve serviceability of its mission critical systems, Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria said on Thursday, at a time when the force is on high alert due to escalating tension with China. In his inaugural speech at the two-day conference of Senior Air Staff Officers (SASOs), the chief highlighted the “need for sustenance of existing fleets and optimum operational exploitation of new inductions in order to make the Indian Air Force (IAF) a formidable combat force”. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter stand-off in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. “The CAS (Chief of the Air Staff) while addressing the SASOs emphasised the need for further enhancing our operational capabilities as well as improving serviceability of mission critical systems,” a press release by the IAF said. He also appreciated the operational readiness of IAF Commands and subordinate formations, it said. Moreover, Bhadauria commended the effort put in towards “integrated training of air warriors of all streams” to meet the present and future operational requirements. “The bi-annual conference of Senior Air Staff Officers is being held on Thursday and Friday, wherein pointed discussions would take place towards operational capability enhancements, focused training to tackle contemporary challenges with available assets and automation efforts in the IAF,” the release stated.The conference was conducted through video conferencing, in a first-of-its-kind effort, in the backdrop of the prevailing security environment and Covid-19 pandemic, the IAF said. Meanwhile, the defence ministry on Thursday approved procurement of 33 frontline fighter jets, a number of missile systems and other military hardware at a cost of Rs 38,900 crore to bolster the combat capability of the armed forces, officials said. They said 21 MiG-29 fighter jets will be procured from Russia, while 12 Su-30 MKI aircraft will be bought from state-run aerospace behemoth Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL). A separate proposal to upgrade existing 59 MiG-29 aircraft has also been approved. The ministry has also approved procurement of 248 ASTRA beyond visual range (BVR) air-to-air missile systems. The missile is designed to engage and destroy highly maneuvering supersonic aircraft and has all weather day and night capability, the officials said. Following the Galwan Valley clashes, the Army has sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border besides moving in heavy weapons. The IAF has also moved air defence systems as well as a sizeable number of its frontline combat jets and attack helicopters to several key air bases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-further-enhance-our-operational-capabilities-iaf-chief/story-oQyUYd3JMFrtO08zSc6pSN.html
02-07-2020||India||Tripura man ends life after failing to buy smartphone for daughter’s online classes||A 50-year-old farmer allegedly died by suicide following an argument with his daughter over his failure to buy a smartphone at a village in Sepahijala District of Tripura.The incident came to notice on Wednesday, police said.Police said that the deceased’s daughter, a Class 10 student, demanded a smartphone for herself so that she could continue her online classes. But her father managed to buy an ordinary phone on Tuesday which she didn’t like and smashed the phone. This led to an argument between them after which he was last seen moving to his room. The next day, he was found dead in his room.“ We inquired some locals and his family about the matter. During our investigation, we got to know that there was an argument in his house over his failure to buy a smartphone for his daughter. We conducted post mortem and handed over the body to them. We took an unnatural death case,” said officer in-charge of Madhupur police station Tapas Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-man-ends-life-after-failing-to-buy-smartphone-for-daughter-s-online-classes/story-DdXexxwrxS104pWmicMI1O.html
02-07-2020||India||Indian Army Brigadier, who tested positive for Covid-19, dies in Kolkata||A brigadier of the Indian Army died in Kolkata on Thursday after testing positive for Covid-19, a few days ago. A senior official said that the brigadier was posted at the Eastern Command headquarters in Kolkata.After he tested positive for Covid-19, he was initially shifted to the military hospital in Barrackpore, the designated Covid-hospital for defence personnel. As his health deteriorated due to complications, he was shifted to the Command Hospital in Kolkata.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHe, however, succumbed due to acute respiratory problems arising due to pneumonia and Covid-19 complications.He is survived by his wife and two daughters. They had also tested positive but have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-brigadier-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19-dies-in-kolkata/story-6xWsk2bsoXiSGdNkEE9BAP.html
02-07-2020||India||CRPF personnel killed, terrorist shot down in encounter in Srinagar’s Malabagh||A CRPF trooper and a terrorist were killed in an encounter at Srinagar’s Malabagh locality that began late Thursday evening, police said.Two to three terrorists are believed to be trapped in the congested locality.A a cordon and search operation was launched in the area, near Habak Crossing, after a tip-off about presence of militants there, a police official said. The operation turned into an encounter after terrorists opened fire towards the security personnel, the official added.More details are awaited.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-at-srinagar-s-malabagh/story-6l6jFEMVzoxw7bEtC46UJI.html
02-07-2020||India||Manhunt launched for Odisha villagers who killed crocodile, ate its meat||Wildlife officials in Odisha’s Malkangiri district have launched a manhunt to arrest villagers who killed a 10-feet long freshwater crocodile, hung it from a tree and later ate the animal’s meat.Malkangiri divisional forest officer Pradeep Devidas Mirase said a case has been filed against unknown persons and three teams have been formed to arrest unknown villagers in Kaladapalli under Podia block of the district, after photos of the crocodile being hung from a tree emerged on social media. The villagers reportedly caught the crocodile from the Saveri river on Tuesday and tied it to a tamarind tree before taking selfies with it. Afterwards, they cut it into pieces and distributed the meat among themselves.“I was shocked when I first heard about it. This was never heard of earlier in Malkangiri,” Mirase told the Hindustan Times. “Our teams have so far been unlucky in recovering any of the parts of the crocodile. We are trying to locate the people who are seen posing alongside the crocodile carcass.” Sources said the villagers reportedly caught the crocodile after several domestic animals like cows and goats went missing near the river. The villagers suspected that a crocodile was behind the killings.The freshwater crocodile, one of the three varieties of crocodiles that includes esturine crocodiles and gharials found in India, is protected under Schedule I of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 as their skins are traded heavily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manhunt-launched-for-odisha-villagers-who-killed-crocodile-ate-its-meat/story-UqGNey7ulW274jGhVX4hjP.html
02-07-2020||India||Woman, her two daughters found dead near railway tracks, cops suspect suicide||A 30-year-old woman and her two daughters, aged 5 and 6, were found dead at the railway tracks in east Delhi’s Mandawali early on Thursday morning. Police suspect that the woman and her daughters might have come under the wheels of a train. Their mutilated bodies were spotted by passersby, who also saw the woman’s one-year-old son sitting beside the bodies, with minor injuries. Investigators suspect that it might be a case of suicide as the woman and her husband had had a fight last night.According to the police, a call was received around 3.40am on Thursday, which reported that the bodies of a woman and two children were lying near the railway track close to Mandawali Railway Station. A police team immediately reached the spot and found the three bodies to be mutilated..“A boy, around one year old, was found sitting next to the bodies with minor injuries. All the three dead bodies were removed, as per Covid-19 guidelines, and shifted to GTB Hospital for post mortem examination. The child was shifted to Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital for treatment. His condition is said to be stable, “ said a senior officer. The officer said, with the help of locals and passersby, the woman was identified and her husband alerted about the incident.Deputy commissioner of police (railways) Harendra Kumar said a preliminary probe has revealed that the couple often used to fight. “On Wednesday night also, the woman had left her house after a similar altercation with her husband. She had taken her children along. Prima facie, it looks like a case of suicide. CCTV footages from the area is also being checked to establish the sequence of events. Further investigation is in progress and we are contacting the couple’s family members to get more details,” the DCP said. Contacted, clinical psychologist Rajat Mitra said, it is important for the society to understand that woman facing marital trauma and other emotional disturbances needs immediate help. The society must create institutions if we have to prevent unfortunate incidents like this. “Suicidal feelings are not permanent and go away once we get help and discuss it with someone close to us. Several professionals and NGOs offer free help. Our society must do everything to provide support to women in distress, for example through education in schools and workshops. Men should be more sensitive and societal institutions must be upgraded to handle such poignant issues without delay,” he said.Mitra further said in such cases mothers usually kill themselves along with their children because they worry about their child’s future after she is gone.“But trauma of such incidents scar the child for life. In case of older children who survive, he or she maybe left with survival guilt. In many cases such trauma manifests itself permanently,” Mitra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-her-two-daughters-found-dead-near-railway-tracks-cops-suspect-suicide/story-p350jozlwzhy0DQjWXjzpL.html
02-07-2020||India||After row over ordinance for industries, Assam govt says it’s only for MSMEs||Amid a row over an ordinance allowing conversion of land without clearances for setting up industries, the Assam government said on Thursday that it was meant only for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and would benefit local entrepreneurs.“MSME ordinance approved by Assam cabinet is only for micro, small and medium enterprises, not for large industries. This will largely help local entrepreneurs,” industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary tweeted on Thursday.“This ordinance will not be applicable for hazardous industries and no industries will be allowed in eco-sensitive zones,” it added.But the minister’s clarification, which came after opposition parties, student bodies and environmental NGOs raised concerns on the ordinance, hasn’t cleared doubts on conversion of agricultural land to set up industries.“Waiting for clarification on proposed deemed conversion of agricultural land to non-agricultural purposes without any approval from revenue authorities,” senior advocate Nilay Dutta tweeted.On Thursday, All Assam Students Union (AASU) burnt copies of the cabinet decision and demanded immediate withdrawal of the ordinance.“Assam cabinet’s decision is totally anti-indigenous. Peoples’ land rights will be lost. Government must withdraw the decision. Land rights must be at the hands of indigenous people,” chief advisor of AASU Samujjal Bhattacharya tweeted.The Assam cabinet had approved the ordinance on Monday allowing anyone to set up industries by just submitting a self declaration without the need to take “any clearance, permission or license for three years”.The move termed “bold” and “historic” by the government, allowed “deemed conversion” of land for industrial purposes. The ordinance is yet to be approved by Governor Jagdish Mukhi.The decision had led to apprehension that it will lead to rapid conversion of agricultural land as well as those in tribal belts for industrial purposes without any checks.It is also feared “outsiders” will benefit from it at the cost of land rights of the state’s indigenous population and could lead to environmental degradation.“This ordinance will severely hurt Assam’s rural economy and farmers. Not many Assamese have means to procure land and set up industries and the benefit of this ordinance will be reaped by those from outside,” said Congress legislator and leader of opposition in assembly Debabrata Saikia on Wednesday.“Unscientific ways of converting agricultural land for industries definitely need re-look. If an industrialist wants to set up an industry in a key wilderness area won’t the ordinance compromise conservation of forests, wildlife and environment?” questioned Bibhab Talukdar, founder of wildlife NGO, Aaranyak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-row-over-ordinance-for-industries-assam-govt-says-it-s-only-for-msmes/story-pYhRDuQr7hudUrtiOl05RM.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid-19 latest: Revised home isolation guidelines released, specify conditions||The central government on Thursday issued fresh guidelines governing home isolation for Coved 19 patients barring those suffering from immune-compromised status as seen in HIV infected individuals, transplant recipients or patients undergoing cancer therapy, from home isolation. The revised order also states that elderly patients above 60 years along with those suffering from comorbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/liver/ kidney disease, cerebro-vascular disease etc, shall only be allowed home isolation after proper evaluation by the treating medical officer.The order also specifically adds that the home isolation has to be prescribed by the treating doctor after he or she has satisfied himself or herself that the patient doesn’t need hospital care.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe new guidelines supersede the guidelines issued on 10th May, 2020 and have been extended to include asymptomatic positive cases also besides very mild and pre-symptomatic cases in order to widen the net of monitoring and medical care in the view of a large number of asymptomatic cases being detected, says the revised guideline.The revised guideline also lists the condition when a patient under home isolation will be considered to have recovered.“Patient under home isolation will stand discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for 3 days. Thereafter, the patient will be advised to isolate at home and self-monitor their health for further 7 days. There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over,” says the revised guideline. It adds that every discharged person must receive a fitness certificate by the field team.The new guidelines have also put out a detailed protocol for monitoring of cases under home isolation. It says that all such cases have to be monitored on a daily level by the state apparatus including either through personal visit or follow up by a dedicated call centre.“The clinical status of each case shall be recorded by the field staff/call center (body temperature, pulse rate and oxygen saturation). The field staff will guide the patient on measuring these parameters and provide the instructions (for patients and their caregivers), as detailed in Annexure II. This mechanism to daily monitor those under home isolation shall be strictly adhered to,” the guidelines state.Tea, Haritaki extracts may have therapeutic properties, help fight Covid-19: IIT Delhi studyIt also directs authorities to update records of patients under home isolation on COVID-19 portal and facility app and makes senior state and district officials responsible for monitoring of the process.It adds that the state/UT authorities must develop a mechanism to shift patients in case of violations or need for treatment. It also makes it mandatory to monitor and test all family members and close contacts of a positive patient under home isolation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-revised-home-isolation-guidelines-released-specify-conditions/story-GPyEyzrZ4zW2kab57d5XfL.html
02-07-2020||India||NIA arrests “transportation module” member of Jaish in Pulwama attack||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday arrested a member of Jaish-e-Mohammad’s “transportation module” in connection with the Pulwama terror attack of February 2109 that killed 40 CRPF troopers, an official said.The accused, Mohammad Iqbal Rather (25), a resident of Budgam, allegedly ferried a terrorist who helped in making bomb that was used by a suicide car bomber to attack the CRPF convoy.NIA Spokesperson Sonia Narang said in a statement that Rather had facilitated the movement of Muhammad Umar Farooq, a JeM terrorist and a key conspirator in the case, to south Kashmir after he infiltrated into the Indian territory in Jammu region in April, 2018, from the national highway near international border.“Farooq, along with others, had assembled the bomb used in the February 14, 2019 attack (in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed). Rather had been undergoing judicial custody since September, 2018 in another Jaish-e-Mohammed related case investigated by NIA,” Narang said.“As such, he was produced by the jail authorities before the NIA Special Court, Jammu on Thursday and was taken into seven days’ custody for his interrogation. Initial examination has revealed that Rather was in constant touch with Pakistan-based leadership of Jaish-e-Mohammed and was in communication with them over secure messaging applications. He was part of the ‘transportation module’ of Jaish-e-Mohammed,” Narang added.The NIA had earlier arrested five persons in the course of the probe into the bombing in Pulwama. Shakir Bashir Magrey, Mohammad Abbas Rather, Waiz-ul-Islam, a young girl – Insha Jan and her father Tariq Ahmad Shah were nabbed in last week of February and first week of March this year, over a year after the terror strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-transportation-module-member-of-jaish-in-pulwama-attack/story-ZYP2VhJaUOdpHQfFLMm9XJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Odisha to start plasma therapy in 4 hospitals as Covid-19 cases soar past 7,500||The Odisha government on Thursday decided to launch plasma therapy in the state soon in four of its hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients as the number of coronavirus cases surged past 7,500.Health and family welfare minister Naba Kishore Das who chaired a high-level meeting said plasma therapy will be started in the SCB Medical College and Hospital and Ashwini Hospital in Cuttack and SUM Hospital and KIIMS Hospital in Bhubaneswar. Das said a technical committee would be formed to outline the treatment plan for plasma therapy and prepare a blueprint for its successful introduction in the state. The committee will also create awareness among people regarding plasma therapy and submit a detailed report to the government. Convalescent plasma therapy involves the use of antibodies from the blood of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 to treat other infected people.Das said Odisha has already received its first batch of Remdesivir drug for use in case of critically ill Covid-19 patients. Besides, Fabiflu has also reached the state to be used for patients with mild to moderate symptoms.Meanwhile, 3 more districts - Kendrapara, Bolangir and Dhenkanal - today announced weekend shutdowns for the month of July in addition to 10 districts as 229 new coronavirus cases were identified today. Among the new cases are 17 people including four members of a deputy superintendent of police-rank officer in Cuttack district. The DSP had tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. The number of deaths due to Covid-19 has risen to 27 in the district. In the Covid-19 epicentre of Ganjam district, a worried administration on Thursday prohibited all non-essential vehicular movement in the region till July 31 as a precautionary measure to stop the surge of cases. Ganjam collector Vijay Amrita Kulange took to Twitter and urged people of the district not to travel in vehicles without an emergency situation. He, however, said agricultural activities, essential goods transportation and movement of health services would be allowed.The curbs came as market places in Berhampur town of the district witnessed unprecedented crowds with people resorting to panic buying violating social distancing guidelines on Wednesday. The district administration on Saturday had imposed a complete shutdown in the city for four days.In Bhubaneswar, the state government announced that all its offices in Lok Seva Bhawan, Krishni Bhawan, Rajiv Bhawan and Kharavela Bhawan would be out of bounds for people till July 31. In Jajpur district, another Covid-19 hotspot, the administration has made all government offices out of bounds for people till the midnight of July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-start-plasma-therapy-in-4-hospitals-as-covid-19-cases-soar-past-7-500/story-VxNVlLpbuGPWNEkN5i06wL.html
02-07-2020||India||Karnataka hikes contractual doctors’ pay, state sees highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Thursday hiked the pay of MBBS doctors working under contract from Rs 45,000 to Rs 60,000 per month according to a release by the health department. The move came amid demands by contractual doctors that their services be made permanent. Health and family welfare department minister B Sriramulu appealed to the contractual doctors not to go on strike and said that some of their demands, including a hike in remuneration have been considered.On Thursday, Karnataka also registered its biggest single- day spike in Covid-19 cases with 1,502 new cases being recorded taking the total to 18,016 cases, which includes 272 deaths and 8,334 recoveries. Bangalore Urban contributed 889 of those new cases and with 5,505 active cases accounts for more than half of the statewide tally of 9,406 active cases. Bharath Shetty, the BJP party MLA representing Mangalore - North constituency has also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hikes-contractual-doctors-pay-state-sees-highest-single-day-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-FdlaEnavHkqWahEm5epENN.html
02-07-2020||India||Dry spell continues in Delhi; rains likely on weekend||The national capital sweltered under the stifling heat on Thursday as rains continued to play truant.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted dry weather for the next two days and rains on the weekend.  The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 39.7 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.Most places in the city recorded the maximum temperatures between 39 degrees and 42 degrees Celsius.Humidity levels oscillated between 55 and 80 per cent.Though the IMD has predicted a normal monsoon for Delhi, rains have remained subdued since the wind system reached the national capital on June 25.  Since June 1, the city has recorded 30.5 mm rainfall as against the average precipitation of 65.8 mm – a deficiency of 54 per cent, according to IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dry-spell-continues-in-delhi-rains-likely-on-weekend/story-9soyBJ8EuMvNpqQaOj3IsN.html
02-07-2020||India||Punjab Police books banned outfit SFJ’s Pannun, another member for sedition||The Punjab Police on Thursday registered two separate cases against Gurpatwant Singh Pannun of the banned outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) and his associates on charges of sedition and secessionism. The two cases were registered at Amritsar and Kapurthala.An active Sikhs for Justice member, Joginder Singh Gujjar, was also booked on similar charges.US-based Pannun was among nine wanted men who were designated as terrorists under the provisions of the anti-terror law, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) by the Centre on Wednesday.ALSO READ | 9 wanted men designated as terrorists under anti-terror law, includes Pannun, Khalistani forcesThe Ministry of Home Affairs designated Pannun a terrorist for actively running a secessionist campaign against India and motivating Sikh young men from his home state Punjab to revive militancy in the state.The others designated as individual terrorists under UAPA include - Paramjit Singh of Babbar Khalsa International, Hardeep Singh Nijjar of Khalistan Tiger Force, Gurmit Singh Bagga of Khalistan Zindabad Force and Ranjeet Singh from the same outfit, among others.The Dalit Suraksha Sena (DSS) had filed a complaint against Pannun and his associates, and a case was registered against him at a police station in Amritsar for allegedly burning the Indian Constitution and the National Flag besides instigating others to do something similar.In its complaint, the Dalit Suraksha Sena said Pannun, the self-styled legal advisor of the US-based the Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), and his accomplices were seen dishonouring the Indian Constitution and the National Flag in a video. They were seen setting a copy of the Constitution and the flag on fire, while shouting slogans of Khalistan Zindabad, they said. Pannun was also seen inciting the entire Sikh community against the Indian Constitution and in favour of the Referendum 2020, according to the complaint.The second FIR registered at Bhulath in Kapurthala is based on inputs of the entry of Joginder Singh Gujjar, alias Goga, into the country in February 2020, a police spokesperson said, adding that Pannun and his associates had been charged with seditious and secessionist activities in the case.The spokesperson said that Joginder Singh is a prominent and active member of the banned SFJ.Joginder Singh in collaboration with Pannun, with whom he is in regular contact for promoting the activities of the SFJ, was reportedly providing financial help to the organization and to members based in Punjab and abroad, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-police-books-banned-outfit-sfj-s-pannun-another-member-for-sedition/story-vcEz4SsjyJIEry1sCkzY6I.html
02-07-2020||India||Over 1.6 mn affected by flood in Assam, 80% of Kaziranga National Park inundated||Flood caused by heavy rains continued to wreak havoc in Assam on Thursday affecting not just people in 22 of the state’s 33 districts but also the animals at the world-famous Kaziranga National Park.Nearly 80% of the sanctuary, world’s biggest habitat of one-horned rhinos spread over 430 sq km, is inundated by flood waters. Twenty five animals have been killed due to various causes including drowning and vehicle-hit while trying to cross roads during floods.According to park authorities, 73 of the 223 camps used by forest personnel to patrol the park have been inundated and six of them have been vacated. Carcass of a rhino, which died due to natural causes, was recovered on June 26.Meanwhile, 1.6 million people in 2,053 villages in 60 revenue circles of the flood-hit districts were affected by floods, according to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA). On Thursday, one person died due to drowning in Goalpara district taking the total deaths this season to 34.Authorities rescued 2,852 persons stranded due to flooding during Thursday. Several instances of damage to embankments, roads, bridges and erosion were reported from many parts of the state.A total of 12,597 people uprooted by flooding are taking shelter in 163 relief camps set up in 16 of the affected districts. Over 72,000 hectares of crop area have been inundated by flood waters.According to Central Water Commission (CWC), Brahmaputra continued to flow over the danger mark at Nematighat, Goalpara and Dhubri, Dhansiri breached the danger mark at Numaligarh, Jia Bharali at Sonitpur and Kopili at Dharamtul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-6-mn-affected-by-flood-in-assam-80-of-kaziranga-national-park-inundated/story-s4xq0391wQUNy3ulZVnFXI.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid 19: Maharashtra creates another daily record with 6,330 new cases, tally at 1,86,626||The state of Maharashtra created yet another daily record for coronavirus cases with 6,330 new infections registered on Thursday taking the total number of positive cases registered so far to 1,86,626. Thursday’s health bulletin also attributed 125 deaths to the disease taking the state death toll to 8,178. Maharashtra’s previous highest single-day spike in Covid cases was registered on Wednesday, when 5,537 new infections were added to the tally.Out of the 125 deaths, 110 took place in the last 48 hours, while the remaining have been reconciled as Covid-19 fatalities after audit of deaths, taken place previously, by the state authorities.However, in a good news, a record 8,018 Covid patients were declared to have been cured from the disease taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 1,01,172.Mumbai has contributed little less than half of all Maharashtra cases with its tally rising to 80,262 after the addition of 1,554 new cases on Thursday. It also recorded 57 new deaths in the last 24 hours to take the death toll to 4,686.Mumbai’s Covid tally past 80,000 mark with 1.5k new cases, Dharavi added only 19A total of 10,20,368 samples have been tested so far in the entire state of Maharashtra.Maharashtra is nearing 2 lakh cases, which would be little less than a third of India’s tally of 6,04,641cases as on Thursday. 19,148 new coronavirus infections were reported in the last 24 hours nationally taking the count beyond 6 lakh mark.With 434 deaths reported, the national death toll due to the disease has gone up to 17,834.Maharashtra, however, is also among the top 15 states in terms of absolute numbers of recoveries so far. Maharashtra tops the chart with 93,154 recoveries followed by Delhi’s 59,992 and Tamil Nadu’s 52,926.Gujarat with 24,030, Uttar Pradesh with 16,629 and Rajasthan with 14,574, are the following three states on the list.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesWith the Covid situation in Maharashtra remaining grim, many district and civic administrations have re-imposed a hard lockdown for the next 8 to 10 days.Apart from Thane, Mira-Bhayandar, Kalyan-Dombivali corporations, districts such as Nashik, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg have hardened the norms of the lockdown, while others like Jalgaon are planning to follow suit to contain the spread of the virus.In Mumbai, people are being prevented from stepping out of the house unnecessarily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-maharashtra-creates-another-daily-record-with-6-330-new-cases-tally-at-1-86-626/story-k66vT4g1drGOHNkJt0KDvI.html
02-07-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally goes over 92K, casualties rise to 2,864||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally reached 92,175 on Thursday with the addition of 2,373 new cases while the death toll climbed to 2,864, the state health department said. A total of 3,016 patients were discharged during the day taking the number of recoveries to 63,007. The national capital now has 26,304 active cases.There were 61 casualties on Thursday that took the death toll to 2,864.A total of 20, 822 tests were conducted including 10,978 RT-PCR tests and 9,844 rapid antigen tests. Shortly before the Delhi health department released Thursday’s figures, Union Home Minister Amit Shah reviewed the Covid-19 pandemic in the National Capital Region (NCR) in a high-level meeting that chief ministers of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana besides the Union Health minister attended.Shah emphasised on carrying out more Covid-19 tests using rapid antigen kits and suggested that focus should be on reducing mortality rate by ensuring early hospitalisation of patients.Earlier in the day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated the capital’s first plasma bank at the at state-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) for treatment of Covid-19 patients.Kejriwal said Covid-19 patients can donate their plasma 14 days after recovery and hoped that plasma therapy will help in reducing Covid-19 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-goes-over-92k-casualties-rise-to-2-864/story-r1HnwQoWwEIFCUZjNHhnCM.html
02-07-2020||India||Mumbai’s Covid tally past 80,000 mark with 1.5k new cases, Dharavi added only 19||Mumbai’s coronavirus tally has risen to 80,262 cases on Thursday with the addition of 1,554 new cases. The Maximum City also recorded 57 deaths in the last 24 hours to take the toll to 4,686, according to data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said PTI.The municipal body also said that the disease hotspot of Dharavi, Mumbai’s biggest slum, reported just 19 more Covid-19 cases to take the total of infected patients in the area to 2,301. Dharavi has only 551 active Covid-19 cases since 1,664 people have been cured of the disease, PTI said quoting a BMC official.Earlier today, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope ruled out that the disease could have entered the community transmission phase in India’s worst-affected state.In order to stem the rising graph of the disease, a 10-day long hard lockdown has been enforced in Thane and two other civic administration limits adjoining Mumbai city beginning today. Additionally, curfew has been clamped for eight days in Beed, Aurangabad to contain Covid 19 spread, officials quoted by PTI said.Stricter lockdown derails Maharashtra’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ campaignIn another related development, the BMC registered an FIR against the well-known Nanavati Hospital located in suburban Santacruz for allegedly over- charging a coronavirus patient. The FIR was registered under IPC section 188 --disobeying the order duly promulgated by a public servant. The hospital is alleged to have promised to scrutinize the complaint of overcharging.In an important direction, the Bombay High Court asked the Maharashtra government to follow the guidelines of ICMR and other agencies to safeguard jail inmates from coronavirus infection and said that screening, hygiene and social distancing in prisons must be done and family members of inmates must get regular updates about the health status of infected prisoners.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe HC also added that the right to life enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution included the right to live with human dignity and that the convicted inmates do not lose all fundamental rights.In another case, the Railways told the Bombay High Court that it was not feasible to convert train coaches into intensive care units for treatment of Covid-19 patients due to extensive structural changes required for such up gradation.The Railways had informed the court that it had converted 482 non-air-conditioned coaches on 24 rakes into makeshift isolation centres along with other 410 non- AC coaches into quarantine facilities for use in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-s-covid-tally-past-80-000-mark-with-1-5k-new-cases-dharavi-added-only-19/story-SFAj6OhgIO2OtcP6ndlWFL.html
02-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Telangana coal mine workers on strike against Centre’s move to privatise and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Telangana coal mine workers on strike against Centre’s move to privatiseThe Telangana Boggu Gani Karmika Sangham (TBGKS), affiliated to ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the state, also lent support to the strike, but announced that it would take part in the agitation only for one day. Read moreIndia entitled to compensation, but can’t prosecute Italian marines: UN CourtA UN court ruled on Thursday that India is entitled to compensation in connection with the 2012 killing of two crew members of a fishing boat off the coast of Kerala by Italian marines guarding an oil tanker, an incident that had taken bilateral ties to an all-time low. Read moreTrump spotted a pattern in China’s standoff with India. Here are 21 reasonsPresident Donald Trump on Thursday waded right in the middle of India’s dispute with China, asserting that Beijing’s aggressive stance in Ladakh fits with the larger pattern of Chinese aggression in other parts of the world. Read moreChina holds out WTO threat over ban on 59 mobile apps. India bursts the bubbleIndia has shown caution so far even as it has a long list of Beijing indulging in restrictive trade and investment practices such as the imposition of internet censorship through ‘Great Firewall’, restrictions on long-term visa and non-tariff barriers on investments. Read moreNovak Djokovic and his wife test negative for coronavirusThe top-ranked player tested positive for the virus after playing in an exhibition series he organized in Serbia and Croatia amid the pandemic. No social distancing was observed at the matches in Belgrade and Zadar, Croatia. Read moreChinese apps ban brings back focus on Indian ecosystem, privacyShould India also discuss privacy and data regulations as the focus shifts to the homegrown Indian internet companies? What will it take for the local alternatives to make it big? Read moreDressed in Dreams: Freida Pinto, Gabrielle Union team up for adaptation of Tanisha C Ford’s critically acclaimed bookThe duo are coming together for a series based on the criticially-acclaimed book “Dressed in Dreams: A Black Girl’s Love Letter to the Power of Fashion” by author and culture critic, Tanisha C Ford. Read more‘Learning with a human feel’: Manish Sisodia’s plan to bridge digital divideDelhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia spoke on a new plan to bridge to the ‘digital divide’ due to online classes. Sisodia, while speaking about online classes in school, said there is a fear of the digital divide. The deputy CM said students should ‘learn with a human feel’. Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-telangana-coal-mine-workers-on-strike-against-centre-s-move-to-privatise-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9aN7mVJ0H3nm8r91W7fYzK.html
02-07-2020||India||Spike in locally-transmitted Covid-19 cases new cause for concern in Kerala||With local transmission of Covid-19 continuing to rise in the state, Kerala has tightened its virus control measures and enforced lockdown in many areas of the state capital Thiruvananthapuram and commercial hub Kochi.With 160 new cases on Thursday, the total number of cases since the outbreak began in January went up to 4752. Out of this, 2678 people have recovered and active cases are 2088, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office. The state has reported 25 deaths so far and 1,78,099 people are under observation now. Among the new cases, 146 are imported, either came from abroad or other states and 14 were infected locally.In locally- transmitted cases, health authorities are finding it difficult to pinpoint the source of infection in many cases. The state’s proven track, trace and treat strategy is under deep stress due to this, admit health officials. The Covid-19 cluster among Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) in Kannur remained a worrying point and health officials later found that poor facilities at the camp triggered the mass infection-- at least 60 personnel have been infected so far.State health minister K K Shailaja said vigil on home quarantine facilities will be monitored and services of Covid volunteers will be used. The government had earlier formed a volunteer service comprising mainly youth to help grassroot units of the virus management teams. They will keep an eye on those flouting quarantine norms and check possible super spreaders.In May first week, the state was on the verge of flattening the curve but cases increased after expatriates and people stranded in other parts of the country flocked to the state. At least 1.50 lakh expatriates and 2.50 lakh people from other state arrived in Kerala since lockdown norms were relaxed. At least, 2.50 lakh expatriates are expected from Gulf countries this month and on an average 40-50 flights are coming to four international airports of the state.As cases increased health workers have started house-to-house surveys in many areas. Since institutional quarantine is leaving a big hole on the state exchequer the government is giving more emphasis on home quarantine these days. It has also tweaked its treatment strategy-- now patients can be discharged after they turn negative for the first time. Earlier the state used to insist for three consecutive negative results for discharge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-locally-transmitted-covid-19-cases-new-cause-for-concern-in-kerala/story-r43Ng6pcyTF21ROE8fvcfO.html
02-07-2020||India||India entitled to compensation, but can’t prosecute Italian marines:UN Court||A UN court ruled on Thursday that India is entitled to compensation in connection with the 2012 killing of two crew members of a fishing boat off the coast of Kerala by Italian marines guarding an oil tanker, an incident that had taken bilateral ties to an all-time low.The five-member arbitral tribunal under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), however, decided by three votes to two that the marines are entitled to immunity in relation to their acts during the incident and that “India is precluded from exercising its jurisdiction” over them.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly media briefing: “India has taken note of the [tribunal’s] award and will be in touch with relevant entities on the matter.”The tribunal began hearing the case after Italy contended in December 2015 that India had violated the rights and immunity of the marines – Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone – by detaining them. Italy also argued that India had violated its exclusive right to institute penal proceedings against the marines under UNCLOS.The two marines, accused of killing fishermen Ajesh Binki and Valentine Jalastine, crew members of the fishing boat St Anthony, were granted conditional bail by India’s Supreme Court and allowed to return to Italy in 2014 and 2016.The tribunal upheld the conduct of Indian authorities during the incident under the provisions of UNCLOS and held that the actions of the Italian marines breached India’s freedom of navigation under the convention.The tribunal unanimously ruled that India is “entitled to payment of compensation in connection with loss of life, physical harm, material damage to property...and moral harm suffered by the captain and other crew members of the ‘St. Antony’, which by its nature cannot be made good through restitution”.It said the two sides should hold consultations to reach agreement on the amount of compensation. It added the tribunal would retain jurisdiction if either side or both sides wished to apply for a ruling from the court regarding the quantum of compensation. However, if no application is received within a year after the date of the ruling, the proceedings will be closed.The tribunal unanimously ruled set aside Italy’s contention that India had breached provisions of UNCLOS, but decided by three votes to two that the Italian marines were “entitled to immunity in relation to the acts that they committed during the incident of 15 February 2012, and that India is precluded from exercising its jurisdiction” over them.The tribunal also decided by three votes to two that India must take “necessary steps to cease to exercise its criminal jurisdiction over the Marines” in view of Italy’s commitment to “resume its criminal investigation into the events of 15 February 2012”.Italy’s foreign ministry contended in a statement the tribunal had agreed on its position that the marines, being members of the Italian armed forces engaged in the official exercise of their duties, “cannot be tried by Indian courts”. It also said Rome’s public prosecutor had already opened an investigation into the incident.“The ministry wishes to emphasise that the award of the tribunal does not make any determination of criminal responsibility in connection with the incident, which it will now be for the Italian judicial authorities alone to ascertain,” it added.The tribunal rejected Italy’s claim for compensation for the detention of the marines , who were part of an anti-piracy deployment on board the Italian tanker.The row over the killing of the fishermen had disrupted bilateral ties for several years, though people familiar with developments said the two sides have now decided to move on from the incident in view of their growing convergence on both bilateral and multilateral issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-entitled-to-compensation-but-can-t-prosecute-italian-marines-un-court/story-Qc8XyN1hfH9x6iqe6WMfNK.html
02-07-2020||India||I am lucky to be in industry at this point of time: Gagan Arora||Acting was never on actor-model Gagan Arora’s mind. In fact, he was fascinated with the process of film making. Last seen the film ‘Ujda Chaman,’ series ‘College Romance’ and ‘Girls Hostel’, he said, “Acting was the last thing on my list. During my graduation in Delhi, I got associated with college dramatics group where we used to do street and stage plays. I got completely involved in the process of acting and direction. And, by the end of third year, I knew I wanted to take up film making.”He left for Mumbai to study filmmaking for a year. “Before taking up different jobs I got a chance to assist in feature film ‘Stree’,” said the fun-loving actor over the phone.Talking about the turning point of his career, as an actor, he said, “Series ‘Collage Romance’ where I played the role of a Punjabi teenager Bagga became an instant hit. It was an iconic character and even today it’s difficult for me to break that image. I remember how overnight after the series went on air that I received thousands of followers on social media accounts. Many projects are happening and I am lucky to be in the industry at this point of time.”Gagan feels job of an assisting director is very excruciating and has long working hours. “Yes, there is just no fixed pattern and you finish up running around for almost 18 hours a day and the schedule can go on for 20-25 days. By the end of it, we were like zombies and that is when I took a break. It was then I got a call from one of my juniors from theatre who was then working with a lifestyle channel. They were looking for actors and suggested me to audition. I auditioned and then I got back to acting.”His first Bollywood break was completely unexpected. “When I was working AD, I was taking a walk with casting director-actor Abhishek Banerjee, who was also one of the characters in ‘Stree’. He just looked at me and randomly asked ‘Tujhe actor banna hai na!’ I was all clueless. Then I got busy with my series and after two months I got a call from his office to meet him. I gave three rounds of auditions and got the part in ‘Ujda Chaman’,” said Gagan who was part of a webinar held in Lucknow , recently.As the shoots have resumed Gagan too wants to restart all his stuck projects like OTT series ‘Actress’ with Bollywood diva Madhuri Dixit, second season of ‘College Romance’ and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-am-lucky-to-be-in-industry-at-this-point-of-time-gagan-arora/story-MaGK7uD3SYdVnWk3ZXMqEL.html
02-07-2020||India||Telangana coal mine workers on strike against Centre’s move to privatise||Coal production in 18 open cast and 27 underground mines of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) in northern Telangana came to a halt on Thursday with nearly 48,000-odd coal mine workers commencing their 72-hour strike in protest against the Centre’s decision to auction 41 coal blocks for commercial mining.The strike was called by six coal mine workers’ unions affiliated to national unions: All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), Hindustan Mazdoor Sangh (HMS), Confederation of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) and Indian Federation of Trade Unions (IFTU).The Telangana Boggu Gani Karmika Sangham (TBGKS), affiliated to ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the state, also lent support to the strike, but announced that it would take part in the agitation only for one day.The coal mine workers belonging to the Singareni Collieries in four erstwhile combined districts of Adilabad, Karimnagar, Warangal and Khammam, along Godavari river belt, abstained from work and raised slogans against the Central government’s decision.The police made elaborate security arrangements at all mines to ensure that the workers would not resort to violent agitations. However, the strike went off peacefully as the workers did not assemble in huge gatherings due to Covid-19 restrictions.AITUC leader of Singareni Collieries Vasireddy Seetharamaiah told reporters at Kothagudem that the Centre was trying to weaken the coal industry by permitting discriminative outsourcing in the Coal India Limited and SCCL.He also demanded increased wages for all contract workers and immediate payment of 50 per cent wages to employees as per National Coal Wage Agreement, which was deferred in March.Former Nizamabad MP and former honorary president of TBGKS Kalvakuntla Kavitha demanded that the Centre roll back its decision to privatise coal mines. “Today, across the Nation, thousands of coal mine workers are on strike demanding that the central government roll back the decision to auction coal blocks to private companies. We demand that this privatization move be rolled back,” she tweeted.TBGKS general secretary Miriyal Raji Reddy said the workers were worried about their future as the public undertaking company might not face the competition from private companies. “It will adversely impact Singareni coal mines in Telangana. How can it create an atmanirbhar Bharat?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-coal-mine-workers-on-strike-against-centre-s-move-to-privatise/story-ileqvvyRy8G0eJexecjJQM.html
02-07-2020||India||Amit Shah reviews Covid-19 situation in NCR, stresses on use of Rapid Antigen Test Kits||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday stressed on the extensive use of Aarogya Setu and Itihaas App to help map Covid-19 in the National Capital Region (NCR) during a meeting to review the management of the pandemic in NCR and discuss a unified strategy to tackle it.The high-level meeting chaired by Shah was attended by the chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi -- Yogi Adityanath, Manohar Lal Khattar and Arvind Kejriwal and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, besides others.Shah favoured the use of Rapid Antigen Test kits to help reduce Covid-19 transmission rate, the MHA said.“Adoption of more testing using Rapid Antigen Test Kits to help reduce infection transmission rate. These kits can be provided by GoI to UP and Haryana,” the MHA spokesperson said in a tweet.Shah also underlined early hospitalisation to reduce mortality rate.“Focus on early hospitalization to reduce mortality rates. Extensive use of Aarogya Setu & Itihaas App to help mapping of COVID in NCR,” the spokesperson said in another tweet.In the NCR which contains parts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, Delhi’s Covid-19 tally is the highest at over 92,000. Haryana’s overall tally is almost 15,000 while Uttar Pradesh has over 24,000 cases of the infection.At the review meeting, Shah also underlined that UP and Haryana can bank on the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in the battle against Covid-19.“UP & Haryana can avail AIIMS-Telemedicine consultation through which patients will get advice from experts. Small hospitals in both states can take guidance from AIIMS thru Tele-videography,” the spokesperson said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-reviews-covid-19-situation-in-ncr-stresses-on-use-of-rapid-antigen-test-kits/story-i7FmEIzu0o1bNsmy95ORKN.html
02-07-2020||India||India rejects Pakistan’s allegation on Karachi attack, rubs it in with reminder to Khan’s ‘martyr’ remark||India on Thursday rejected Pakistan’s allegation that the June 29 terrorist attack on Karachi stock exchange was New Delhi’s response to 2008 Mumbai terror attacks as “absurd” and chided Islamabad for attempting to shift the blame for its own domestic problems.The external affairs ministry added that Pakistan needed to reflect on its government’s attitude towards terrorism in the light of their Prime Minister Imran Khan’s recent comments describing slain al-Qaeda leader and global terrorist Osama Bin Laden as a “martyr”.A day after the terror attack on Karachi stock exchange, Imran Khan had claimed in Pakistan’s national assembly that the attacks had been “planned by our neighbouring country India”. Soon after, China circulated a draft of a press statement for the UN Security Council to issue, condemning the Karachi attacks. However, interventions by countries friendly to India such as Germany and the United States led to more than 24-hours delay in its release on Wednesday.“India rejects these absurd comments on terrorist attacks in Karachi. Pakistan cannot shift the blame on India for its domestic problems,” Anurag Srivastava, the official spokesperson for the ministry of external affairs was quoted by news agency ANI as having said.The delay in passing the statement at the UN security council is being seen as a message disapproving Pakistan’s continued support for terrorism in the south Asia region.How UN Security Council condemned Karachi attack, and PakistanThe UN statement had been written by China on Pakistan’s behalf and it was expected to be timed for release with Pakistan government’s efforts to blame the attack on India, without explicitly saying so in the statement. It was also noted by UN diplomats closely associated with the process, that the statement could have also been an attempt by Pakistan to portray itself as a victim of terrorism instead of being the leading sponsor of terrorism in the region.On Thursday, the Indian government added that Pakistan needed to revisit its position towards terrorists following Imran Khan’s description of Osama bin Laden as a martyr, during an address in the parliament on June 25.“We would ask Pakistan that they may wish to reflect on this and on their own government’s position including their PM’s description of a global terrorist as a martyr,” Anurag Srivastava was quoted as saying by ANI.Imran Khan’s gratuitous reference to the former chief of Al-Qaeda, the global terrorist organization behind 26/11 attacks on the US soil, was widely criticized even in his own country.“They came into our country and killed Osama Bin Laden, martyred him, all the world criticised us instead.” Imran Khan had said while claiming that despite Pakistan’s cooperation US held it responsible for abetting terrorism.UN experts appalled by enforced disappearance of Pakistani human rights activist Idris Khattak, call for impartial probeLaden was killed in a military operation by US Navy Seals in 2011 in Abbottabad in Pakistan.The last US state department’s annual report on terrorism has accused Pakistan of continuing to be a “safe haven” for terrorist groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Muhammad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-pakistan-s-allegation-on-karachi-attack-rubs-it-in-with-reminder-to-khan-s-martyr-remark/story-CrTFwcBA7lSGCydgjhIElJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Private trains to begin plying by 2023, will have competitive pricing: Railways||The operation of private trains along 109 routes is scheduled to begin by 2023, Chairman Railway Board VK Yadav said on Thursday adding that the fares will be decided by the private players based on competitive pricing.Fares will be based on competition with other modes of transport in the same segment, including airfares and fares of air-conditioned buses, he said.“We need to note that this is the era of competition, IRCTC had also run a few private trains. The fares that private train operators decide will weigh in factors including airfares that come in the same segment and also AC bus fares and we will fix the fares after comparing with them. I do not think that the fares fixed by private train operators will be too high ultimately if they want to keep financial viability,” Yadav said at a virtual press interaction on Thursday.Railways is currently operating in losses in the passenger segment, Yadav said and it aims to meet its expenditure through a minimum guaranteed cost that the private train operator will have to pay to the national carrier.“Bids have been designed in such a way that Railways will be able to recover cost i.e. the minimum guaranteed cost that the private train operator will have to pay to us….Right now we are making a loss in the passenger segment operation and basically we cross subsidise with the freight segment. In this particular project, what we have devised is that railways is not going to lose anything and ultimately the minimum cost which the private operator is going to pay will be able to meet the expenditure of the Railways and whatever revenue we get over and above will be profit for the Railways,” he said. The Railway ministry on Wednesday began the formal process to allow a private company to run trains on 109 routes -- a process that aims to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises that has in recent decades been outpaced by the demands of a rapidly growing economy.The ministry issued what is known as a request for qualification (RFQ) for a private company to run 151 trains spread over these routes, laying down specific conditions that will need to be met in a move that is meant to “introduce modern technologies and world class services” for one of India’s most popular modes of transport.“Our target is that the first set of trains will start running by April 2023, and the bidding process which we have initiated the timeline is such that we should be able to open the tender sometime in February-March and finalize sometime in April and then we will then invite the Request For Proposal,” he said.The bidding and procurement of trains and coaches will be done under the government’s ‘Make in India’ policy.“Train sets have to be bought by private operators and maintained by them. We are expecting that the private train operations will begin by April 2023. All the train sets and coaches will be procured under this project and will be at par with the Make in India policy…We have had a few meetings with the stake holders and will hold a pre-bid conference also after 15-20 days,” he said.The ministry said the planned investment will come to around Rs 30,000 crore, the rakes will need to be manufactured in India, and the private entity shall be responsible for financing, procuring, operation and maintenance of the trains.On whether Chinese firms will be allowed to bid, Yadav said, “As far as the question on Chinese companies arises, there are guidelines under the Make in India Policy by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) and we will follow them.”Hindustan Times reported in September that the national carrier is considering the idea of handing over operations of more trains to private players on several important routes with improved services and amenities for passengers.Yadav said the ongoing situation of Covid-19 and restrictive measures in place to avoid the spread of coronavirus will impact the Railways’ privatisation plan.“As far as the ongoing Covid-19 situation is concerned, yes there is an issue, it’s a global pandemic and that is the reason we delayed our RFQ for some time but now we have realised that economic activities are gradually opening up and that is why we decided we should go for the bids. Since we are expecting the first trains to run in April 2023, we have enough time and our estimation is that by that time the Covid-19 situation will stabilize,” he said. Opposition leaders on Thursday criticised the move. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the government has snatched the lifeline of the poor. “Rail is the only lifeline of the poor and the government is taking it away from them,” he tweeted.Yadav said that the fares of 95% trains that will be operated by the national carrier will be fixed by the Railways and the fares will not be increased. “The poor will get a huge advantage with this, on the same price they will get better facilities as technology and safety will improve,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-trains-to-begin-plying-by-2023-will-have-competitive-pricing-railways/story-vcC4nowTyq1R9c2DKjKi5J.html
02-07-2020||India||Conduct random testing of inmates, deploy additional forces for prisons: HC to state||Mumbai: The Bombay high court (HC) has directed Maharashtra government and state prison authorities to conduct random coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests of inmates and also scrupulously comply with the guidelines issued by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) while disposing of a clutch of public interest litigations (PILs)The PILs were filed expressing concerns about the health condition of prison inmates after four undertrials had tested Covid-19 positive after their death a few weeks ago.The HC on Thursday directed the prison authorities to deploy additional forces at jails and 36 makeshift jails in 27 districts in Maharashtra, where inmates have been kept under quarantine and also undergoing treatment for the viral infection.The court also directed the Maharashtra government to implement all the measures that it had earlier formulated in the modified draft guidelines based on the suggestions of the petitioner, People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), for containing the pandemic in prisons and other correctional homes.It stressed on the need to share regular health updates of inmates with their family members while adhering to ICMR guidelines and other standard operating procedures (SOPs), which are being issued periodically.A two-member division bench, comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice MS Karnik, pronounced its judgement on the PILs filed by PUCL, through senior counsel Mihir Desai along with advocates Isha Khandelwal and Kritika Agarwal; Geeta Bharat Jain, a politician represented by advocate Sunny Punamiya; Archana Rupawate also represented by senior counsel Mihir Desai and advocate Afreen Khan; and Devmani Shukla represented by advocate Bhavesh Parmar.The bench read out the operative part of the judgement and accepted the assurances given by the state government regarding the precautionary measures that have been taken for the well-being of the inmates and prison staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conduct-random-testing-of-inmates-deploy-additional-forces-for-prisons-hc-to-state/story-4EG9pNipQJ6PmCkrikOH9L.html
02-07-2020||India||Denied cremation over Covid-19 scare, siblings in Odisha bury man’s body||The stigma attached to Covid-19 patients forced the siblings of a man in Odisha who died after showing symptoms of the disease to bury him by the roadside after villagers refused to let them cremate the body.The incident which took place on Monday came to light after the photos and video of the incident were widely shared.Somnath Patra, a travelling salesman in Kabisuryanagar block in Ganjam district was suffering from fever and cough for the past 10 days. When his condition deteriorated on Monday, his brother and sister took him to a Covid-19 hospital at Sitalapalli in an ambulance.However, Somnath died on the way to the hospital. When his brother Kedar and sister Sanjukta returned to the village with the body in the ambulance, villagers did not allow them to enter the village suspecting that Somnath had died of Covid-19 though no test had been conducted.The siblings then requested the villagers to help them to take the body to the cremation ground but no one came forward over fears that the young man died of Covid-19.“Though we had some relatives, no one came fearing that my brother died due to Covid-19,” said Sanjukta. “Our neighbours also looked the other way when we asked for help.”After waiting for a few hours, the ambulance driver asked the brother-sister duo to take out the body from the ambulance and cremate it.Left with no choice, the siblings wrapped the body in a plastic sheet and dragged it to a marshy land by a road where to bury it.Seeing the plight of the siblings, some people informed the local administration following which an excavator was sent for digging a pit to bury the body. Kabisuryanagar tehsildar Prakash Mishra said the way the locals refused to help in the cremation of the body was shameful. “The dead deserve respect and dignity. Stigmatising a person on the suspicion that he died of Covid-19 is very unfortunate,” he said.There have been several cases of stigma attached to Covid-19 in Odisha over the last few months. In May, a videographer in Ganjam district had to stay in his car for a few days after villagers refused to let him in over fears of Covid infection. In another incident, a migrant worker of Ganjam district was forced to stay in a forest for few days after villagers refused to let him in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/denied-cremation-over-covid-19-scare-siblings-in-odisha-bury-man-s-body/story-BSSocAfwrMPegCvkEwoHEJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Trump spotted a pattern in China’s standoff with India. Here are 21 reasons||President Donald Trump on Thursday waded right in the middle of India’s dispute with China, asserting that Beijing’s aggressive stance in Ladakh fits with the larger pattern of Chinese aggression in other parts of the world. President Trump’s office did not elaborate on China’s aggression elsewhere but is seen as a clear reference to Beijing’s efforts to enlarge its position on border disputes. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo had recently called it China’s “rogue attitude” as he announced the movement of US supercarriers in the Indo Pacific region to counter China’s aggressive posture.According to Beijing watchers, China has traditionally suffered from xenophobia against foreigners. The Middle Kingdom’s fears were exacerbated in the past two centuries as a result of which China believes that it is the only civilizational power in the world and the rest are either tributary states or barbarians.China has had territorial disputes with 21 neighbours including India over its claims on land and sea. Here is a complete list of its disputes.BruneiChina claims the southern part of the Spratly Islands chain. Brunei, on the other hand, claims part of South China Sea nearest to it as part of its continental shelf and Exclusive Economic ZonePhilippinesChina and Philippines disagree over parts of the South China Sea including the Spratly Islands. Philippines took the dispute to the International Court of Justice where they won the case but the Chinese side did not abide by the order of the ICJ. Tensions have continued between the two countries despite economic incentives offered by China.IndonesiaChina’s nine-dash line overlaps the Natuna Sea/Exclusive Economic Zone of Indonesia leading to disputes. China claims fishing rights in waters near the islands. Indonesia government argues that China’s claims are not recognised under the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Indonesia irked China in July 2017 when it renamed parts of the South China Sea as North Natuna Sea to underscore its claim.MalaysiaChina’s dispute with Malaysia also revolves around parts of the South China Sea, particularly the Spratly Islands. Its claims cover only islands included in its Exclusive Economic Zone of 200 miles as defined by the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. Malaysia has a military presence on three such islands that it considers to be part of the continental shelf.SingaporeSingapore is not a claimant state in the South China Sea disputes but is closely aligned to the United States and allows the presence of US naval forces in Singaporean waters. It does not want to antagonise China by openly taking sides though it does advocate freedom of navigation and resolution of all disputes in line with the UN Convention of Law of the Seas.LaosChina claims large areas of Laos on historical precedent of China’s Yuan Dynasty during 1271-1368CambodiaChina has, on occasions, claimed part of the country on historical precedent (China’s Ming dynasty 1368-1644)ThailandThailand opposes China’s dredging on the Mekong River since 2001 for large ships to carry goods from its landlocked Yunnan province to ports in Thailand, Laos and remaining southeast Asia. China has also built hydropower dams on the main stream of the Mekong River, altering the natural flood-drought cycle, affecting ecosystems as well as economies of countries on the lower Mekong River.The Thai Cabinet scrapped a Chinese-led dredging project in February 2020 to blast rapids on the Mekong river. This had already led to fall in water levels and fers that it would lead to drought and affect 6 million people in Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia and VietnamJapanJapan’s dispute with China centers around South China Sea, particularly Senkaku Islands, Ryukyu Islands and the overlapping Air Defence Identification Zone and Exclusive Economic Zone in the East China SeaVietnamVietnam, which fought a bloody war with China in 1979 when Beijing tried to teach its former ally a lesson, has stood its ground on its territorial claims over parts of the South China Sea, and the Macclesfield Bank, Paracel Islands and the Spratly Islands. Last month, a Chinese ship rammed a Vietnamese fishing boat operating in the Paracel Islands that was seen as an effort by Beijing to flex muscles to enforce a unilateral fishing ban in parts of the South China Sea against vessels from another nation.IndiaChina occupies 38,000 sq km Indian territory in the Aksai Chin region apart from staking claim on Arunachal Pradesh and Ladakh. It was this expansionist policy that led to the ongoing standoff between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA that escalated into a violent scrap in Ladakh’s Galwan valley. Another 5,163 sq km of Shaksgam valley was illegally ceded by Pakistan to China in 1963. Hence, the total Indian territory occupied by China is over 43 ,000 sq km.NepalNepal and China have pending border issues over three boundary pillars in Dolakha and two in the vicinity of Mt Everest. There have, however, been reports that China has illegally occupied strategic land at 12 places across Nepal. China has also claimed part of Nepal dating back to the Sino-Nepalese war in 1788-1792, claiming that some parts of Nepal are part of Tibet and therefore, part of China.TaiwanChina claims all of Taiwan but particular disputes are Macclesfield Bank, Paracel Islands Scarborough Shoal, part of South China Sea and the Spratly Islands. The Paracel Islands, also called Xisha Islands in zvietnamese, is a group of islands in the South China Sea whose sovereignty is disputed.North KoreaThe two countries have a continuing dispute over Mount Paektu and Yalu and Tuman rivers. China has also claimed Baekhu Mountain and Jiandao. Beijing has, on occasions, claimed all of North Korea on historical grounds (Yuan Dynasty 1271-1368)South KoreaSouth Korea and China have an overlapping Air Defence Identification Zone and a continuing Exclusive Economic Zone dispute over Leodo (Socotra Rock) in the East China Sea. China has also, on occasions, claimed entire South Korea on historical grounds (Yuan Dynasty 1271-1368)MongoliaChina and Mongolia have settled their boundary dispute but China has claimed all of Mongolia on historical precedent (Yuan Dynasty 1271-1368).BhutanBhutanese enclaves in Tibet, namely Cherkip, Gompa, Dho, Dungmar, Gesur, Gezon, Itse Gompa, Khochar, Nyanri, Ringung, Sanmar, Tarchen and Zuthulphuk. Bhutan has lost a substantial chunk of area under dispute including the Kula Kangri peak to slow encroachments by China. Beijing claims Kula Kangri and mountainous areas to the west of this peak in addition to the western Haa district of Bhutan.TajikistanThe two sides have a bilateral dispute dating back to 1884 when a border demarcation agreement between the Qing Dynasty and Tsarist Russia left large segments of the frontier in the sparsely-populated eastern Pamirs without a clear definition.The Chinese claims are based on historical precedent (Qing Dynasty 1644-1912).In 1991, Tajikistan inherited from the Soviet Union three disputed border segments constituting about 28,000 sq km which China and the Soviet Union had been unable to resolve.In 1999, Tajikistan and China signed a border demarcation agreement defining the border in two of the three segments. Under this deal, Tajikistan ceded about 200 sw km lands to China. In 2002, Tajikistan agreed to cede 1,122 sq km or about four percent of the territory that Beijing had claimed. China has, in all, settled for 3.5 per cent of the claimed territory.KazakhstanChina has laid claim to a territory in Kazakhstan stretching from Semirechie to Lake Balkhash covering 34,000 sq km. In May 2020, a Chinese website ‘Sohu.com’ published an article claiming that Kazakhstan is located on territories that historically belong to China.China has settled for 22 per cent of its claim over Kazakh territory. Despite a border demarcation treaty with China in 1994 and claim by Kazakh state media that the Kazakhstan government had succeeded in retaining 56.9 percent of the disputed territory, critics had opined that the remaining 43.1 per cent of the land also belonged to Kazakhstan for which a new deal should be signed.KyrgyzstanChina lays claim to the whole of Kyrgyz territory. In May 2020, Chinese website tutiao.com published an article on such a claim and argued that under the Han Dynasty, the entire Kyrgyz territory was part of the Chinese mainland before the Russian empire captured it.Chia has settled for 32 percent of its claim over Kyrgyz territory. Under the 1999 agreement, Kyrgyzstan handed over 1,250 sq km to China.RussiaDespite signing bilateral agreements in 1991 and 1994 to delimit the estern and wester section of the Russia-China border, a few sectors remain unresolved. There are 160,000 sq km still unilaterally claimed by China despite signing several agreements.In October 2004, the 4,300 sq border was finally demarcated in its entirety, thus resolving a 300-year-old territorial dispute. In 2005, the Russian Parliament ratified the agreement in 2008, a part of the Abagaitu Islet, the entire Tarabarov Bolshoi Ussuriysk Island and some adjacent river islets were handed over to China.dusta||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/donald-trump-spotted-a-pattern-in-china-s-standoff-with-india-here-are-21-reasons/story-nJS76GTlHlssm1tB9q5NAN.html
02-07-2020||India||India in talks with US, Canada, others on establishing air travel bubbles: AAI||India is in talks with the US and Canada and the countries in European and Gulf regions on establishing individual bilateral bubbles which will allow airlines of each country in the pact to operate international flights, said Arvind Singh, Chairman, Airports Authority of India (AAI), on Thursday. The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MOCA) had on June 23 said India is considering establishing “individual bilateral bubbles” with the US, the UK, Germany and France. Singh said, “This morning, I took a brief from the key point person (from the MOCA) who is negotiating with the countries, and he said that we are in constant touch. We are working on a consensus to restart the international flights. This is going to be through air bubbles.” “Talks are mainly going on between India and the US, India and Canada, India and Europe and India and the Gulf countries to start flights in these bubbles,” he said at a webinar called “Reposing the faith in flying” organised by the GMR group. Scheduled international passenger flights remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Singh said the MOCA official has informed him that the discussion with the countries is at a “very advanced” level and the effort is to restart international flights at the earliest. “I am sure there would be a positive outcome of the talks with the US, Canada and with the Gulf countries and the negotiations are going on,” he noted. The EU has presently banned the flights from India as the number of coronavirus cases are rising in the country, Singh said. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had on June 20 said the government will start thinking on the resumption of scheduled international passenger flights in mid-July, when it expects the domestic air traffic to reach 50-55 per cent of the levels before the coronavirus. After nearly two months of suspension to combat the coronavirus outbreak, the government resumed scheduled domestic passenger flights on May 25. However, it had then allowed the airlines to operate the maximum 33 per cent of their pre-COVID flights. The MOCA increased the limits on June 26 from 33 per cent to 45 per cent. The MOCA on June 23 had said, “As we contemplate further opening up in response to demands, we are looking at the prospect of establishing individual bilateral bubbles, India-US, India-France, India-Germany, India-UK. These are all destinations where demand for travel has not diminished. Final decisions pursuant to negotiations are expected to be taken soon.” “We have received requests from authorities in several countries including the US, France, Germany among others requesting that their air carriers be allowed to participate in the transportation of passengers along the line being conducted by Air India under Vande Bharat Mission. These requests are being examined,” it added. Air India started international chartered flights under the Vande Bharat Mission from May 6 to help people stranded due to the pandemic reach their destinations. The MOCA’s June 23 statement had come after the US Department of Transport (DOT) said on June 22 that it appears that Air India may be using its passenger repatriation charter flights as a way of circumventing the government of India-imposed prohibition of all scheduled international services.   “We are taking this action (of allowing only those Air India flights from July 22 that have DOT’s approval) because the Government of India has impaired the operating rights of the US carriers and has engaged in discriminatory and restrictive practices with respect to the US carrier services to and from India,” the DOT had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-in-talks-with-us-canada-others-on-establishing-air-travel-bubbles-aai/story-8A1kUj2CFFGEkhyRRz6TTI.html
02-07-2020||India||China holds out WTO threat over ban on 59 mobile apps. India bursts the bubble||The Chinese propaganda that India’s ban on Chinese apps is “selective and discriminatory” is completely misplaced, on the contrary, New Delhi has a long list of Chinese discrimination against trade and investments with certain countries, including India, officials with direct knowledge of the matter said requesting anonymity.India has shown caution so far even as it has a long list of Beijing indulging in restrictive trade and investment practices such as the imposition of internet censorship through ‘Great Firewall’, restrictions on long-term visa and non-tariff barriers on investments, two officials working in two different ministries said requesting anonymity.According to a PTI report on Thursday, the Indian Newspaper Society (INS) has slammed China’s action of restricting access to Indian newspapers and media websites and urged the Indian government to expeditiously take steps to ban access to Chinese media in the country.Chinese mouthpiece Global Times on Thursday tweeted quoting China’s commerce ministry spokesperson Gao Feng, “To date, China has not adopted any restrictive or discriminatory measures targeting India’s products and services.”The officials brushed aside Beijing’s contentions and its veiled threat to drag India to the World Trade Organization (WTO) over New Delhi’s Monday’s (June 29) decision to ban 59 mostly Chinese mobile applications such as TikTok, UC Browser and WeChat, citing concerns that these are “prejudicial to sovereignty of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.One of the officials, who is the government’s legal expert on strategic matters said, “Beijing has no basis to challenge New Delhi’s June 29 decision. Is there any agreement on this matter with China? No, not to my knowledge. India can defend [it] easily under the clause of national security interest and sovereignty of the country.”“Therefore, the official Chinese reaction on June 30 was subdued and did not mention any bilateral or multilateral [WTO] agreement,” he added.Sino-Indian tensions have shot up after a violent brawl between Chinese and Indian soldiers on June 15 along the Line of Actual Control in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in which 20 Indian army personnel were killed.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said on June 30 said, “The Indian government has the responsibility to protect the legitimate rights and interests of international investors in India, including Chinese businesses, in accordance with market principles. Practical cooperation between China and India is mutually beneficial. Deliberate interference in such cooperation will not serve the interests of the Indian side.”TS Vishwanath, principal advisor at law firm APJ-SLG Law offices said, “This decision is taken based on national security concerns, therefore, India is very much within its right in the WTO agreement to take any action to protect its national security interest.”The second official, who works in the economic ministry, said China is indulging in illegal and unfair trade practices as such routing its goods through a third country with which India has preferential trade arrangements to avoid paying higher duty, and dumping of cheaper Chinese products in India to harm Indian industries.“The government is aware and agencies have been told to take action against such violations,” the official said. HT reported it on July 1.Data suggests significant indirect inflow of Chinese goods and investments through locations with which India has free trade agreements (FTAs), preferential trade agreements (PTAs) or other bilateral commercial arrangements. It shows that total foreign direct investment (FDI) from China is minuscule, but many Indian firms have received Chinese investments. Similarly, imports from China have registered a minor decline recently, but at the same time imports from Hong Kong and Singapore have surged, officials said.The latest official data shows foreign direct investment from China between April 2000 and March 2020 was $2.378.71 billion, which is 0.51% of the total FDI inflow into the country in the two decades.According to the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), while India’s trade deficit with China narrowed by $6.05 billion to $51.25 billion in 2019, the gap with Hong Kong widened sharply by $5.8 billion in 2019, nullifying almost all the gains. Similarly, India trade deficit with Singapore was $5.82 billion in the previous financial year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-propaganda-that-india-s-ban-on-59-apps-is-selective-is-misplaced-officials/story-7SygfVodaNjNX4sExWXXxK.html
02-07-2020||India||PM Modi, President Putin vow to strengthen Indo-Russia ties, discuss Covid-19 crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin discussed the coronavirus crisis on Thursday and resolved to strengthen the Indo-Russia ties for jointly addressing the challenges of the post-Covid world.During a telephonic conversation, the two leaders agreed to maintain the momentum of bilateral contacts and consultations, leading to the annual bilateral summit to be held in India later this year.  The prime minister conveyed his keenness to welcome Putin in India for the bilateral summit.The leaders took note of the effective measures undertaken by the two countries to address the negative consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic and agreed on the importance of closer India-Russia ties for jointly addressing the challenges of the post-Covid world, a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office said.Putin thanked Modi for the phone call and reiterated his commitment to further strengthening the special and privileged strategic partnership between the two countries in all spheres.During their conversation, Modi congratulated Putin on the success of the celebrations marking the 75th anniversary of the victory of the Allied Forces in the World War 2, and also for the successful completion of the vote on constitutional amendments in Russia, the statement said.The prime minister noted the participation of an Indian contingent in the military parade held in Moscow on June 24 as a symbol of the abiding friendship between the people of India and Russia.An official statement issued by the Russian side said the two leaders discussed topical issues on the Russian-Indian agenda and confirmed their mutual commitment to further strengthening the privileged bilateral strategic partnership and close cooperation both in the bilateral format and within international organisations and associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-president-putin-vow-to-strengthen-indo-russia-ties-discuss-covid-19-crisis/story-8wlIYZvgWWymPp5N1KeGNP.html
02-07-2020||India||All monuments can be opened from July 4, says Union Tourism Minister||All monuments that have been closed amid the Covid-19 pandemic can now be opened from July 4, Centre said Thursday. “@ASIGoI It has been decided that all the monuments can be opened with full security from 4th of July,” Union Tourism Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said in a tweet.Under Unlock 2 which got underway on July 1, the government is trying to open up more activities outside containment zones. But the surge in the Covid-19 pandemic in many parts of the country has meant that people have largely kept away from monuments.Many monuments that draw a large volume of tourists have been closed even before the lockdown began on March 25. The Taj Mahal has been closed since March 17. The Agra fort has also remained closed. Under Unlock 1 that began on June 8, the Union culture ministry had announced that 820 centrally-protected monuments with places of worship on their premises would be thrown open to the public. But Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Odisha had said the ASI monuments under their jurisdiction will not be opened in light of the coronavirus threat.In Delhi, the monuments that were allowed to open include the Afsah-wala-ki-Masjid situated outside the west gate of Humayun’s Tomb, the Qutub Minar and Nizamuddin Dargah.Rajasthan started allowing visitors into monuments under Unlock 1 without tickets for 15 days. It later halved ticket prices to the monuments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-monuments-can-be-opened-from-july-4-says-union-tourism-minister/story-b1XdouPIXVXg6jChtKfyYO.html
02-07-2020||India||Delhi announces learning with ‘human feel’ to bridge ‘digital divide’ during Covid crisis||Delhi government on Thursday announced a plan to bridge the possible “digital divide” resulting from the continuation of online classes after the summer vacation in state-run schools due to restrictions imposed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic outbreak.The plan stresses on “learning with human feel” through teachers’ interaction with individual students, both with and without the facility to attend online classes. A broad outline of the concept was announced by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who said the new programme was an attempt to minimise the loss to education and the experience of classroom learning, tough to replicate in an online learning environment.Watch | ‘Learning with a human feel’: Manish Sisodia’s plan to bridge digital divide For Coronavirus Live Updates“We are stressing on learning with human feel, as simply conducting online classes doesn’t constitute proper learning. Our attempt is to retain the human feel which generally goes missing in online classes,” Sisodia said.He added that the biggest fear with online classes related to a possible digital divide between the haves and the have nots—those with means to attend digital classes and those without it—which could lead to a learning divide, creating a social and learning gap, which will be hard to bridge. While Delhi schools have been ordered to remain shut till July 31, the education through implementation of this scheme will from July 3 onwards, said Sisodia.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The new programme focuses on reaching out to students without digital facilities and also on connecting with every student on an individual level even while conducting online classes.“It is imperative for every teacher to connect with every student,” said Sisodia and added that online classes often follow a detached routine of delivering lectures to a mass of students and just playing audio video modules were taking away from the experience of learning. “The experience of going to the school, peer learning, practical classes, visiting the library, learning together and the one to one connect with the teacher can not be substituted through digital learning,” he added elaborating on the need for the new programme that aims to address some of these issues.According to the broad outlines provided by the deputy CM. Teachers of classes between KG and standard VIII will stay connected with students and assign work on WhatsApp groups and individually interact with every individual.He added that according to the assessment done by the Delhi government, around 20% students may not have WhatsApp facility and parents of such children will be contacted by teachers for sharing teaching material and such they will also maintain a connection with the children over the phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-announces-learning-with-human-feel-to-bridge-digital-divide-during-covid-crisis/story-4IYzaGARzFD7lbl7Pf2eGM.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid-19 patients, elderly can vote in elections via postal ballot: All you need to know||The Ministry of Law and Justice on Thursday issued a notification for the Conduct of Elections (Amendment) Rules 2020 for extending the postal ballot facility for voters  above the age of 65 years as well as Covid-19 patients under home or institutional quarantine.Elderly people over the age of 65 are vulnerable to the infection, along with pregnant women and those suffering from chronic health parameters like diabetes, hypertension and renal ailments. The Union health ministry has been continuously discouraging vulnerable people from venturing out when the country is recording a surge in coronavirus infections. The postal ballot facility had so far been reserved only for people over the age of 80 and those voters involved in essential services who are not posted in their home state.Here’s all you need to know about the change in voting rules:* In the new notification issued by the Ministry of Law and Justice, people over the age of 65 years will now be able to vote by postal ballot in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic in the country.* This facility will also be extended to people infected with coronavirus or those who are suspected of having caught the infection and are in institutional quarantine. Those people who have mild symptoms and are not in any medical facility, but in home quarantine can also vote through postal ballot.* The notification was issued ahead of the Bihar assembly polls which is scheduled to take place somewhere between October and November. West Bengal’s assembly elections are also due to be held in early 2021.* According to the law ministry notification, the Centre after consulting the Election Commission of India (ECI) framed new rules to further amend the Conduction of Election Rules, 1961.* The notification said that in the rule 27A, clause (aa) of the Conduct of Election Rules 1961, after the words “or persons with disability” occurring at the end, the words, “or the Covid-19 suspect or affected persons” shall be inserted.* In clause (e), for the figures and word “80 years”, the figures and word “65 years” shall be substituted.* In an attempt to ensure that social distancing norms are followed amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission has decided that Bihar will have more polling stations to avoid crowding. * Auxiliary polling stations will be set up in the same building or premises of the original polling station to spread out voters for the upcoming Bihar assembly elections. If the auxiliary polling stations cannot be set up in the same building or premises, it would be set up at a nearby place.* After the outbreak of the coronavirus in India, Bihar will be the first state to have assembly polls. The state has nearly 7.20 crore voters and the term of the 243-member assembly ends on November 29 this year. The new assembly has to be formed before November 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patients-elderly-can-vote-in-elections-via-postal-ballot-all-you-need-to-know/story-1TkE1L2boVNVKEcdHvFnPL.html
02-07-2020||India||Private Doctors can now prescribe Covid 19 tests as Centre widens net||The Central government, in a decision to remove a major bottleneck for ramping up Covid 19 testing, has allowed all registered doctors to prescribe coronavirus testing while following the ICMR guidelines laid out in this respect. The move announced on Thursday is expected to bring in more people into the testing ambit while increasing the utilization of testing capacity and reducing the pressure on government doctors and institutions, who were earlier alone saddled with the responsibility to prescribe the tests.“COVID-19 testing can now be done on the prescription of any registered practitioner, and not exclusively a Government doctor. The Centre has strongly advised States/UTs to take immediate steps to facilitate testing at the earliest by enabling all qualified medical practitioners, including private practitioners, to prescribe COVID test to any individual fulfilling the criteria for testing as per ICMR guideline,” the health ministry order released on Thursday afternoon stated.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe government has been following the three-pronged strategy of ‘Test-Track-Treat’ for early detection and containment of the coronavirus outbreak. The decision to allow even private medical practioners to recommend test is aimed to help in this direction. The government order also asks states and Union Territories to ensure full utilization of their Covid-19 testing capacity, especially, those in the private sector.The government has also made it clear that private laboratories should be free to test any individual in accordance to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines and that states must not restrict an individual from getting tested, since early testing has been identified as one of the containment tools for saving lives.In another measure to increase testing, the Central government has asked states to use Rapid Antigen tests in addition to RT-PCR, since it is quick, simple, safe and offers ease of conduct.In other suggestions given to states for casting the testing net wider, the Central government has suggested testing campaigns by organizing testing camps and use of mobile testing vans etc.Covid 19 latest: India’s top 15 states with highest recovery rate and numbers“This shall effectively take Covid-19 tests to the people’s doorsteps in high incidence areas to collect samples of all symptomatic individuals as well as their contacts, and get those samples tested by using rapid antigen tests,” the health ministry release states.The government also noted that Covid-19 testing in India was likely to soon cross one crore mark, which will be a significant achievement and take up country’s tests per million figures a notch higher. As on date, 90,56,173 tests have been conducted with the assistance of 1,065 testing labs including 768 in the public sector and 297 in the private sector. The per day testing capacity has also grown to cover as many as 2,29,588 sample testing on Wednesday, according to the government data||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-doctors-can-now-prescribe-covid-19-tests-as-centre-widens-net/story-0Q9raoSv8buqry7lSQvmzI.html
02-07-2020||India||Kolkata’s iconic Coffee House, hub of literatti reopens after 3 months with limited seats||The iconic Coffee House in Kolkata’s College Street reopened after more than three months with less than half the seating capacity, sans porcelain cups and dishes and limited items on the menu.Entry has been banned without masks and at the entrance a poster has been displayed which says ‘No mask. No entry’. Each customer was being checked by a waiter, donning the usual white uniform and the headgear, with thermal scanners.“We have reopened after more than three months. One may find many old items such as the white porcelain cups and dishes and the glasses missing. We are starting with a limited number of food items and beverages. One may not find the cutlet for now,” said Tapan Kumar Pahari, secretary of the Indian Coffee House.Even though there are seating arrangements both on the ground floor and on the first floor, as of now only 25 tables instead of the usual 50 have been arranged on the first floor. The first floor hasn’t been reopened yet.The Coffee House became integrated with the city’s heritage and culture - a meeting place for poets, artistes, literatti and people from the world of art and culture.“I came here after almost 16 years. I had come to College Street for some work and just stepped in to have a cup of tea. It is giving me a nostalgic feeling,” said Subhashish Ghosh, one of the first customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-s-iconic-coffee-house-hub-of-literatti-reopens-after-3-months-with-limited-seats/story-5xkXOhYBMha5RzhoSGITSP.html
02-07-2020||India||ICAI cites ‘operational problems’ to conduct CA exams||New Delhi: The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) is having second thoughts on conducting the May cycle of chartered accountants (CA) examinations in 500 centres across the country, beginning July 29, owing to a spike in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in several states.In June, ICAI had allowed an “opt-out” scheme enabling candidates, who are unable to sit for the examinations, to appear in the November examination cycle.The scheme was challenged before the Supreme Court (SC), which had asked ICAI to be flexible in a bid to accommodate “opt-out” requests until a week before commencement of examinations.Last week, the apex court had permitted ICAI to come out with a draft notification spelling out that if a student is unable to appear for the complete set of examinations, then the candidate would be entitled to a second chance in November, irrespective of whether the candidate chose the “opt-out” scheme.On Thursday, ICAI informed the SC that it was reassessing the feasibility of holding examinations in the wake of a spike of Covid-19 cases across many states.Senior advocate Ramji Srinivas, who represented ICAI, said: “There are some operational problems at certain centres, where examinations are scheduled to be held. We need time to contact examination centres in a bid to assess the ground situation.”The three-member Vacation Bench, comprising Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, accepted the plea and adjourned the matter for July 10.Nearly 3.46 lakh students have registered to take the CA examinations.ICAI informed the SC that less than 60,000 students had applied for the “opt-out” scheme and also opposed the petition filed by Anubha Shrivastava Sahai, who had challenged the option.ICAI was also not agreeable to petitioner’s demand for increasing the examination centres.Earlier the bench had observed, “The present situation is dynamic. You have to be flexible to change according to the requirement of each area and concerns of students in that area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icai-cites-operational-problems-to-conduct-ca-exams/story-4utO5lDGG6zynKUtPXY0MJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Govt extends postal ballot facility to those over 65 and Covid-19 patients in big change in voting rules||Those over the age of 65 years and people infected with coronavirus or suspected of having contracted the infection will be allowed to vote by postal ballot after the government amended the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961. Those people who have mild symptoms and are not in any medical facility, but in home quarantine can also vote through postal ballotIn several health advisories, people over the age of 65 have been asked not to venture out as they are particularly vulnerable to catching the highly contagious virus.The move comes ahead of the Bihar elections. The coronavirus pandemic has brought political activities to a juddering halt. Earlier, casting votes through postal ballots was available only to armed forces and officials assigned poll duties.In February, Delhi became the first state to experiment with postal ballots, extending the facilities to those with severe disabilities or above the age of 80 years.The elections to fill 19 vacancies in the Rajya Sabha in nine states were originally to take place in March but were deferred after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. They were then held in June and arrangements were made to allow members who are unwell to vote through postal ballot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-extends-postal-ballot-facility-to-those-over-65-and-covid-19-patients-under-home-quarantine/story-JRQjGe3ZZJ50jaCvM9qIeI.html
02-07-2020||India||Defence Ministry approves purchase of 33 new fighter jets including 21 MiG-29s from Russia||The Defence Ministry on Thursday approved a proposal to acquire 33 new fighter aircraft including 12 Su-30MKIs and 21 MiG-29s along with upgradation of 59 MiG-29s at a cost of Rs 18,148 crore.“Addressing the long felt need of the Indian Air Force to increase its fighter squadrons, the DAC also approved the proposal for procurement of 21 MiG-29 along with upgradation of existing 59 MiG-29 aircraft and procurement of 12 Su-30 MKI aircraft,” the defence ministry said in a statement on Thursday after a meeting of the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) under the chairmanship of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh .While the MiG 29 procurement and upgradation from Russia is estimated to cost Rs 7418 cr, the Su-30 MKI will be procured from HAL at an estimated cost of Rs 10,730 cr. The decision comes in the wake of high tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops have been in a standoff position for several weeks now.The DAC also approved acquisitions of various platforms and equipment required by the Indian Armed Forces for an approximate cost of Rs 38,900 cr.It also cleared the acquisition of 248 Astra Beyond Visual Range air-to-air missiles for the Indian Air Force and the Navy. Design and development of a new 1,000 kilometres strike range Land Attack Cruise Missile by the DRDO has also been cleared.“Acquisition of new/additional missile systems will add to the fire power of three Services. While acquisition of Pinaka missile systems will enable raising additional regiments over and above the ones already inducted, addition of Long Range Land Attack Missile Systems having a firing range of 1000 Km to the existing arsenal will bolster the attack capabilities of the Navy and the Air Force. Similarly induction of Astra Missiles having Beyond Visual Range capability will serve as a force multiplier and immensely add to the strike capability of Navy and Air Force,” the statement said.The IAF has raised its guard to deal with any military provocation by the Chinese forces and forward bases have been ordered to be on their highest state of alert. Apart from Sukhoi-30s and upgraded MiG-29 fighter jets, teh IAF is operating Apache AH-64E attack helicopters and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters.The IAF and the Indian Army have deployed their air defence systems in eastern Ladakh even as the People Liberation Army-Air Force has activated several of its bases in both Xinjiang and the Tibet Autonomous Region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-acquire-33-new-fighter-jets-from-russia-as-defence-ministry-approves-project-worth-rs-18-148-cr/story-kqQeDYwVnBUSDHVA7JqFXK.html
02-07-2020||India||YES Bank fraud: Rana Kapoor given interim protection from arrest till July 11||Mumbai: The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Mumbai on Thursday granted protection to Rana Kapoor, YES Bank’s co-founder, former managing director (MD) and chief executive officer (CEO), from arrest by CBI until July 11 in two cases registered against him in connection with the bank’s fraud case.Earlier in March, CBI had registered two cases against Kapoor.One first information report (FIR) had alleged that the bankrupt YES Bank had invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL) between April and June, 2018.In lieu, Kapoor was allegedly paid “kickbacks” to the tune of Rs 600 crore by DHFL promoter, Kapil Wadhawan.DHFL had sanctioned a loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises in which Kapoor’s wife Bindu is a director and 100% shareholder, the CBI had stated in its FIR.Kapoor’s three daughters -- Rakhee Kapoor Tandon, Roshni Kapoor and Radha Kapoor -- are also 100% shareholders in DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd.It is on the basis of the CBI case that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) began its probe into allegations of money laundering by Kapoor and subsequently arrested him in early March.In the second case, CBI alleged that Kapoor and his wife bought a bungalow from Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar at a much lower price than it’s market valuation.In the past, Thapar had mortgaged the bungalow for a corporate loan of Rs 600 crore, but he sold it for Rs 380 crore to Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd, when Kapoor’s wife was a director of the company.On March 20, CBI had obtained production warrant to arrest Kapoor after he was remanded to judicial custody by the Prevention of the Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court.The agency, however, had not executed the warrant.Kapoor had moved special CBI court last month for anticipatory bail.The special CBI court had directed the agency to file a reply on Kapoor’s plea.On Thursday, when the plea came up for hearing, Kapoor’s lawyers, Abad Ponda and Subhash Jadhav, sought for interim protection against the arrest. The central agency is yet to submit its reply on the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-fraud-rana-kapoor-given-interim-protection-from-arrest-till-july-11/story-G7Sz7RzkXy0WH8BuPWVHdN.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: India’s top 15 states with highest recovery rate and numbers||While India’s coronavirus cases crossed the 6 lakh mark on Thursday to reach 604,641 cases, a total of 3,59,859 patients have also been declared to have recovered from the disease so far. The government has released data listing the top 15 states/UTs with the highest recovery rate from the infection disease.Chandigarh tops the list with 82.3% recovery rate, followed by Meghalaya at 80.8% and Rajasthan at 79.6% against the national recovery rate of 59.52%.Here’s the list of 15 states with the highest recovery rate as a percentage of the total Covid 19 patients registered in the respective territories.1. Chandigarh – 82.3%2. Meghalaya- 80.8%3. Rajasthan- 79.6%4. Uttarakhand- 78.6%5. Chhattisgarh- 78.3%6. Tripura- 78.3%7. Bihar – 77.5%8. Mizoram – 76.9%9. Madhya Pradesh- 76.9%10. Jharkhand – 76.6 %11. Odisha – 73.2%12. Gujarat – 72.3 %13. Haryana 70.3%14. Ladakh – 70.1 %15. Uttar Pradesh - 69.1 %Also Read: Rajasthan reports 5 more Covid-19 deaths, 115 fresh cases Gujarat with 24,030 recoveries so far, has registered most in terms of absolute numbers among these 15 states mentioned above, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 16, 629 recoveries, Rajasthan’s 14,574 and Madhya Pradesh’s 10,655 recoveries.Also Read: Stricter lockdown derails Maharashtra’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ campaign In terms of absolute numbers, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat not only contribute the most Covid 19 positive patients to the national tally, they have also recorded the most number of recoveries in terms of absolute numbers. Here’s the list of top 15 states with most number of recoveries.1. Maharashtra – 93,1542. Delhi- 59,9923. Tamil Nadu- 52,9264. Gujarat – 24,0305. Uttar Pradesh - 16,6296. Rajasthan-- 14,574 7. West Bengal- 12,5288. Madhya Pradesh -- 10,6559. Haryana- 10, 49910. Telangana- 8,08211. Karnataka- 8,06312. Bihar – 7,94613. Andhra Pradesh- 6,98814. Assam- 5,85115. Odisha- 5,353According to the health ministry, presently, there are 2,26,947 active cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-india-s-top-15-states-with-highest-recovery-rate-and-numbers/story-Y06lSApdPpXr7ZNYNKdvpL.html
02-07-2020||India||Near-stampede as villagers queue to submit documents to get Amphan relief||It was a near-stampede situation as thousands of villagers, without face masks and physical distancing, lined up since 6 am to submit documents for Amphan relief near a government office in south Bengal on Thursday. Few people were injured in the melee.The Villagers had started gathering outside the Block Development Officer’s office at Kultali in South 24 Parganas, one of the worst cyclone-hit areas, since early morning. Around 10 am, when the gates opened, there was complete chaos as people made a dash for the counters.While the Trinamool Congress said that it was propaganda spread by the opposition that led to the chaos, the BJP said that villagers lost faith in the ruling party because of corruption and hence rushed to the BDO’s office to get their names enrolled for relief.“We had gathered at 6 am to submit our documents. The crowd was swelling every minute. Around 9:30 am there was a huge rush and several women, including me, fell down. Some people walked over me to reach the counter,” said Sandhya Mondol, who was dragged out by a man and escaped unhurt.Such was the rush that at least three women had to be rushed to a local hospital, where they were treated and later discharged.Locals said that most of the people who had gathered at the spot were not wearing masks and there was no social distancing.“There were hardly any police personnel to maintain the queue. People were fighting for their turn. Hardly anyone was wearing a mask,” said Manas Halder, a resident of Kultali.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had asked the district magistrates that BDOs should prepare a list of villagers who have been affected by the Cyclone after a wave of protests erupted over allegations of corruption in the distribution of relief work and compensation.“The process was going on smoothly. But some political parties spread a word that July 2 was the last date of submission of documents to get relief. People gathered in large numbers. It is true that there was no social distancing and many were not wearing masks,” said Manturam Pakhira, Sunderbans affairs minister.He however said that only one woman was injured and had to be rushed to the hospital. Later, a large police contingent was deployed to bring the situation under control. More counters were also opened. “The people are confused and have lost faith in the government. One day they are hearing they need to submit papers with the panchayat. Then their names are omitted because of corruption. The day after they get to know that they need to submit the documents with the BDO. This is what happens when there is no system,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of BJP’s West Bengal unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/near-stampede-situation-as-villagers-line-up-for-amphan-relief-in-bengal/story-DyKrgE3AaV5xman6z00b0L.html
02-07-2020||India||Shiv Sena mocks Centre’s move of banning Chinese apps, calls it ‘digital revenge’||The Shiv Sena mocked at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance government (NDA) on Thursday, a few days after the Centre banned 59 Chinese applications (apps), citing threat to national security, and called the move a “digital revenge” for the violent hand-to-hand combat between Indian and Chinese troops along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) on June 15.The clash that had occurred in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley along the LAC had left 20 Indian soldiers dead. The Sena in a scathing editorial in the party’s Marathi mouthpiece, Saamana, questioned the timing of the ban and asked the reason for the Centre’s delay if the intelligence agencies knew the apps posed a threat to national security.It also contrasted the decision to ban Chinese apps with the surgical strike at Balakot in Pakistan after terror attacks in Uri and Pulwama in September 2016 and February 2019, respectively. On Monday, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had banned 59 Chinese apps, including TikTok and SHAREit.The Centre stated that it has received many complaints from various sources, including several reports about the misuse of these apps for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner to servers, which are based out of India.The ban is being projected as a bid to protect the sovereignty of Indian cyberspace and to ensure the interests of crores of Indian mobile phone users and also a major blow to China’s Digital Silk Route ambitions.The editorial said that banning apps would not impact the Chinese economy, as the Asian powerhouse’s businesses and investments in India are huge. It cited the permission given to Chinese telecom giant Huawei to start fifth-generation (5G) trials in India, which is akin to handing over the “keys of India’s future economy” to Beijing. It also reminded the government to persist with its “digital awakening” programme.The Centre, according to the editorial, claimed that users’ data was used by the Chinese intelligence agencies and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). “If there was a threat to national security, then why were these apps allowed to function and their businesses thrive for all these years?” it asked.The editorial said there has been no change in the ground realities, despite the ban on these applications.“The Chinese troops are still in Galwan Valley and are refusing to withdraw from there.”In a sarcastic remark, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party alleged that apps such as TikTok encouraged vulgarity and took a dig at some “TikTok stars”, who have recently joined the BJP.The Sena asked rival BJP to answer about the future of these “Tik Tok” stars-turned-saffron party leaders amid the ban on the Chinese app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-mocks-centre-s-move-of-banning-chinese-apps-calls-it-digital-revenge/story-g8Y5V0PlLqdwEz3T4XAT9N.html
02-07-2020||India||Delhi gets its first plasma bank for Covid-19 treatment||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday inaugurated the national capital’s first plasma bank at state-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) for treatment of Covid-19 patients.Kejriwal said Covid-19 patients can donate their plasma 14 days after recovery. He expressed hope that plasma therapy will help in reducing Covid-19 casualties. “The plasma bank has begun operations at Delhi govt’s ILBS Hospital and will provide plasma to Delhi’s Covid hospitals,” the CM tweeted.He said those aged between 18 and 60 and weighing not less than 50 kg can donate their plasma for COVID-19 patients, according to PTI.Delhi’s Covid-19 tally stands at close to 90,000 and over 2,000 people have died of the disease.Under plasma therapy, antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 are taken and transfused into a coronavirus infected patient to boost the immune system to fight the infection. Plasma is the almost-clear liquid left behind after red and white blood cells and platelets are removed from the blood.Earlier this week, the Delhi government had announced that it will set up a plasma bank to help Covid-19 patients in the city.The services of the plasma bank can be availed by patients admitted in both government and private hospitals, but it has to be recommended by a doctor, Kejriwal had said.Last week, the chief minister had said that plasma therapy in Lok Nayak Hospital has helped reduce death rate by around 50%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-gets-its-first-plasma-bank-for-covid-19-treatment/story-h2UwM7KGhWm4OUBuplk2jK.html
02-07-2020||India||India logs a Covid-19 recovery rate of 59.52%, with 3.6 lakh cured patients||India’s recovery rate from the coronavirus infection has climbed a notch higher and currently stands at 59.52%, with 11,881 Covid-19 patients having recovered in the last 24 hours. The fresh batch of recoveries has taken the total figure of patients who have recovered from the viral infection to 3,59,859, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.The country now has 2,26,947 active coronavirus cases and all the patients are under proper medical supervision, according to the ministry.Maharashtra apart from being the state which accounts for almost one-third of the total coronavirus cases in the country and the worst-hit by the pandemic, also leads the nation in the number of recoveries it has logged till date. National capital Delhi follows a close second with a high recovery rate from the infection.ALSO READ | Covid-19: India crosses 6 lakh mark with over 19,000 cases; 434 fatalities in last 24 hoursThe top 15 states in terms of absolute numbers of patients who have recovered from the infectious coronavirus disease are Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, West Bengal, MP, Haryana, Telangana, Karnataka, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Assam and Odisha, the health ministry’s data indicated.Thursday is the sixth consecutive day when coronavirus infections increased by more than 18,000 in India. There has been a surge of 4,14,106 Covid-19 cases from June 1 till date. According to the ICMR, the number of tests for detection of the disease crossed the nine million mark on Thursday.India’s Covid-19 tally soared past the six lakh mark on Thursday with a single-day spike of 19,148 cases, barely five days after it crossed the five-lakh mark. The death toll rose to 17,834, according to Union Health Ministry data.ALSO READ | ‘Most of us won’t need Covid-19 vaccine’: Oxford expert explains how the pandemic is likely to end It took 110 days for coronavirus infections in the country to reach the first one lakh mark, while just 44 days more to go past the six-lakh mark. The country’s Covid-19 caseload increased to 6,04,641 on Thursday, while 434 people have succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours, the data showed.With a steady rise, the number of recoveries stands at 3,59, 859 while one patient has migrated. There are 2,26,947 active cases of the coronavirus infection presently in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-a-covid-19-recovery-rate-of-59-52-with-3-6-lakh-cured-patients/story-40EQnKfcEK1lz4sIs6jd1O.html
02-07-2020||India||4 killed as container truck rams into car in Andhra’s Guntur district||Four persons, who were travelling by car, were killed when a container truck had a head-on collision with their vehicle near Thimmapuram village in Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district on National Highway (NH) 16 on Thursday early morning, the police said.While two of them died on the spot, the two others passed away at Guntur General Hospital. The deceased were identified as Athuluri Balaram (26), a resident of Inumetla village of Rajupalem block in Guntur district, and Sheik Feroz Ahmed (35), Vinjamoori Harikrishna (27) and Medasani Venkata Sri Chandu (25) of Narsaraopet town.The police said the accident victims were travelling from Narasaraopet to Vijayawada late on Wednesday night. “The car had a head-on collision with a Guntur-bound truck near Thimmapuram village on NH-16 on Thursday early morning,” the police said.Two persons on the front seat were crushed to death, as the car was smashed by the impact of the collision, and the two on the rear seat suffered grievous injuries.“Local villagers came to the accident victims’ rescue. Though the injured were shifted to Guntur General Hospital, they succumbed to their injuries later on Thursday morning,” the police said.Preliminary investigations revealed that the driver of the container truck lost control over the steering wheel, which led to the accident.“The driver has been taken to custody for questioning. An investigation is on,” the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-killed-as-container-truck-rams-into-a-car-in-andhra-s-guntur-district/story-MU7EkD3YnXEuNcjzobwqfI.html
02-07-2020||India||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan expands Cabinet: Complete list of 28 new ministers||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expanded his Cabinet of Thursday, inducting 28 new ministers. The ministers were sworn in by acting governor Anandiben Patel at the Raj Bhavan. Of the new ministers, 20 ministers are of Cabinet rank and the rest are ministers of state rank.Here is a list of the newly-inducted ministers: Cabinet ministers: Gopal Bhargava, Vijay Shah, Jagdish Devda, Bisahulal Singh, Yashodhra Raje Scindia, Bhupendra Singh, Brijendra Pratap Singh, Vishwas Sarang, Imrati Devi, Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Pradyumn Singh Tomar, Prem Singh Patel, Omprakash Saklecha, Aindal Singh Kansana, Usha Thakur, Arvind Bhadoria, Mohan Yadav, Hardeep Singh Dang, and Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon.Ministers of State: Bharat Singh Kushwaha, Inder Singh Parmar, Ramkhelawan Patel, Ram Kishor Kanware, Brijendra Singh Yadav, Girraj Dandotia, Suresh Dhakad, and OPS Bhadoria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-expands-cabinet-complete-list-of-28-new-ministers/story-EKqh06h001eIoHumz9DtlI.html
02-07-2020||India||Centre’s notice over bungalow revives Priyanka Gandhi’s Lucknow plan||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra planned to move to Lucknow in February, said an aide of hers, to provide more ballast to the Congress unit in Uttar Pradesh. The notice yesterday to vacate her Lutyens’ Bungalow may work as a catalyst for the Congress general secretary to decide on her future course of action.According to sources, a house too has been identified for the Congress leader.“She has readied a home (late Congress leader Sheila Kaul’s house) there, and if it wasn’t for the pandemic, she would have moved there already. Now, we don’t know whether she will move there, but it was the plan before coronavirus struck,” a party aide said on the condition of anonymity.The ministry of housing and urban affairs on Wednesday cancelled the government accommodation provided to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at Lodhi Estate, on the grounds that she is no longer protected by the Special Protection Group (SPG) and so was not eligible for living in the bungalow in the elite Lutyens’ Delhi . The Congress leader was also asked to clear her dues, which she did immediately online.Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala termed the move to evict her “frustrated decisions of the authoritarian government”.Priyanka Gandhi has been active on the ground in Uttar Pradesh. Just recently, she had a run-in with the local administration over organising buses to transport migrant workers stranded in other states back to Uttar Pradesh. She is a general secretary of the party in charge of the state.If the shift does come about, it will see Priyanka Gandhi, Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, Bahujan Samaj Party’s Mayawati, and the state chief minister Yogi Adityanath all in the same city. Firebrand Dalit leader Chandrashekhar Azad, who launched his Azad Samaj Party in March, adds to the mix.The Congress general secretary, who is yet to contest an election, has been regularly highlighting the state of affairs in Uttar Pradesh: from Coronavirus to job losses, teacher scam to migrant crisis to even wishing state students on their board results. The Congress leader’s last visit to Lucknow was in December 2019, in the aftermath of violent protests over the anti-Citizenship Act. She alleged that the police caught her by the neck and pushed to the ground as they tried to stop her from meeting a retired IPS officer who was arrested for opposing the citizenship law.Just recently, Priyanka Gandhi took a swipe at Mayawati, who said she stands by the BJP on China, saying some opposition leaders were the “undeclared spokespersons” of the BJP.In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Gandhi campaigned for her brother Rahul and mother Sonia, but the results were nothing to talk about. Rahul Gandhi lost her seat to BJP’s Smirti Irani. Congress has just one MP from Uttar Pradesh: Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-notice-over-bungalow-revives-priyanka-gandhi-s-lucknow-plan/story-fYocA6XINEL1Hr0KYs9LtM.html
02-07-2020||India||With 845 fresh Covid-19 cases, Andhra Pradesh logs a tally of 16,097||Andhra Pradesh detected 845 new Covid-19 cases and 5 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the Telugu state’s total number of coronavirus cases to 16,097, the state health department said on Thursday.At present, there are 8,586 active cases in Andhra Pradesh. With the five fatalities, the death toll due to the coronavirus has now risen to 198 in the state. The coronavirus curve in the southern state has been rising steeply for the past one week, recording a surge in positive patients. A day earlier, on Wednesday, an addition of 657 fresh cases pushed the Covid-19 tally in Andhra Pradesh to 15,252.ALSO READ | Covid-19: India crosses 6 lakh mark with over 19,000 cases; 434 fatalities in last 24 hoursSix coronavirus deaths were reported on the preceding day.Kurnool and Krishna districts reported three deaths each, taking the individual tally to 68 and 66 respectively, the highest in the state.On Wednesday, the state also crossed the nine-lakh mark in the number of coronavirus sample tests, totalling 9.18 lakh till date.India’s Covid-19 tally soared past the six lakh mark on Thursday with a single-day increase of 19,148 cases, just five days after it crossed the five-lakh mark, while the death toll rose to 17,834, according to Union Health Ministry data. It took 110 days for coronavirus infections in the country to reach one lakh, while just 44 days more to go past the six-lakh mark. The country’s Covid-19 caseload increased to 6,04,641 on Thursday, while 434 people have succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours, the data showed.With a steady rise, the number of recoveries stands at 3,59, 859 while one patient has migrated. There are 2,26,947 active cases of coronavirus infection presently in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-845-fresh-covid-19-cases-andhra-pradesh-logs-a-tally-of-16-097/story-Uio8kMkPoXsc2jEZi2jJ1M.html
02-07-2020||India||‘Covid-19 tests in India to soon touch 1 crore-mark’: Government||Many steps have been taken to enhance coronavirus testing in the country and remove bottlenecks as a result of which, the total number of Covid-19 tests in India will soon touch the one crore-mark, the government said on Thursday. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said that six lakhs people have contracted coronavirus in a country which has over 135 crore people. “Out of these 6 lakh people, 3 lakh 60 thousand people have recovered and gone home. Most of the patients are in a position to recover and go home. The death rate is the lowest in the world at 2.94 percent. There is nothing to panic,” he said on Thursday.India’s Covid-19 recovery rate has reached almost 60 percent and the doubling rate has reached 21-22 days, the minister added.The government announced a significant step on Wednesday through which Covid-19 testing can now be done on the prescription of any registered practitioner and not exclusively by a government doctor. The move will ensure more testing of people for coronavirus. Also read: ‘Most of us won’t need Covid-19 vaccine’ - Oxford expertThe total no. of people being tested for #COVID19 tests in the country will soon touch one crore. This has been possible due to removal of all bottlenecks by GoI. Various steps taken by Central Government have paved the way for enhanced testing for COVID-19: Government of IndiaAccording to the government data, 90,56,173 tests have been conducted through diagnostic testing network so far across India. There are 1,065 testing labs across the country - 768 in the public sector and 297 in private labs. As many as 2,29,588 people got tested for Covid-19 on Wednesday, the government said. The officials of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that the daily testing capacity is also growing rapidly across the country, adding that it was around 1.5 lakh per day on May 25 and has gone up to more than three lakh per day now. The Centre has strongly advised states and Union Territories to take immediate steps to facilitate testing at the earliest by enabling all qualified medical practitioners, including private ones, to prescribe Covid-19 test to any individual fulfilling the criteria for testing as per the ICMR guidelines. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tests-in-india-to-soon-touch-1-crore-mark-government/story-IgGG66DdXRAoN23VTxazaI.html
02-07-2020||India||Four drown in Telangana’s Godavari river in two incidents||In two separate incidents, four persons drowned to death in Godavari river on Wednesday in Telangana’s Jayashankar Bhupalpally district, the police said.The accident victims had gone to the river for taking a holy dip on Wednesday on the auspicious occasion of “Tholi Ekadasi”, a Hindu ritual.The police recovered two bodies at two different places on Wednesday night and two more on Thursday morning.Panthangi Pradeep (20), Akula Karthik (22), and Thota Ravinder (13), who lived in Lenkalgadda village under Palimela Mandal, went for a holy dip in the river on Wednesday afternoon.“However, all three were washed away by the river’s strong water current,” said an official from Bhupalpally police station.Expert swimmers were pressed into the rescue operation.“Pradeep’s body was fished out late at night on Wednesday and the other two were recovered on Thursday morning,” the police said.On Wednesday night, the body of Tungala Srisailam (21) of Pothavada in Mahadevapur was also recovered.“We have sent the bodies for post-mortem examination and registered a case of accidental death. Investigations are on,” the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-four-drown-to-death-in-godavari-river-in-two-separate-incidents/story-Mshvrb79Sk7ikBhnvoO0LP.html
02-07-2020||India||Smriti Irani video thanking TikTok for donating 4 lakh PPE suits gives ammo to TMC||Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha member Mahua Moitra late on Wednesday night tweeted a video showing Union minister Smriti Irani thanking the Indian arm of Tik ok for donating 4,00,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) suits for frontline health workers in the fight against Covid-19. Earlier this week, the Centre banned TikTok, a Chinese app for short-form mobile videos along with 58 others citing threat to India’s sovereignty, defence, security and public order. Moitra said the video was taken weeks before the ban and questioned the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) claim that PPE kits were provided by the PM Cares Fund. In the video, Irani can be heard thanking Nikhil Gandhi, CEO of TikTok India and his team for collaborating with the two Union ministries of health and textiles and donating 4,00,000 PPE suits. She also says the suits met the technical specifications advised by the World Health Organisation and ministry of health. “Thank you TikTok India for putting India first,” Irani said in the video. “Watch a Cabinet Minister boldly advertising a Chinese company weeks before it was banned for “activities prejudicial to sovereignity of India” Are we that hungry for PPE kits? Didn’t @BJP say PMCARES was paying for them?” Moitra wrote in the tweet that went viral. Watch a Cabinet Minister boldly advertising a Chinese company weeks before it was banned for "activities prejudicial to sovereignity of India"Are we that hungry for PPE kits? Didn’t @BJP say PMCARES was paying for them ? pic.twitter.com/axEupDDkWDThe Bengal BJP reacted by saying that not just PPE kits but even ventilators are now being made in India and these are no longer imported from China.“TMC has faith in corruption but not in the Prime Minister. TMC is talking about the 59 banned Chinese apps such as TikTok. There was a time when PPE, testing kits, ventilators et al were imported from China. But not anymore. These are made in India now,” said BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha.The Congress on June 28 had hit back at the BJP for raising the issue of funding of Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF), alleging that the PM Cares Fund was accepting donations from Chinese firms when the armies of the two countries were engaged in a border standoff in Ladakh.Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his “18 meetings” with Chinese President Xi Jinping in the last six years and asked why he has not yet called China “an aggressor.”“What is most worrying and alarming for national security is the fact of donations received by Prime Minister Modi from the Chinese companies in his (seemingly personal) PM CARES Fund,” Singhvi added.Over the past few days, the BJP has released details of contributions made to RGF by various state-owned companies, government departments and the Chinese embassy.RGF is a private trust while the PM CARES Fund was set up in March this year to deal with any emergency arising due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It has already funded the purchase of around 50,000 ventilators by government hospitals across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smriti-irani-video-thanking-tik-tok-for-donating-4-lakh-ppe-suits-gives-ammo-to-tmc/story-FaN2BqxeabtMYn79Grz2gO.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Delhi inches toward grim milestone, cases near 90,000; death toll over 2,800||Coronavirus cases in the country have crossed the 6 lakh mark. On Thursday, the Ministry of Health updated the national Covid-19 tally to 604,641. With nearly 60 percent of recovery rate, as many as 359,859 patients have recovered from coronavirus across the country while the death toll stands at 17,834. The national capital and Tamil Nadu are two states that are rapidly racing toward one lakh-mark with respect to coronavirus cases. Maharashtra, which leads the state tally, has a total of 180,298 cases. Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Telangana, Karnataka are also witnessing a rapid surge in Covid-19 numbers. Also read: ‘Most of us won’t need Covid-19 vaccine’ - Oxford expertHere’s taking a look at the statewise situation of Covid-19 infections across the country. MaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 180,298 on Thursday. Over 93,154 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 8,053 have died.Tamil NaduWith 94,049 coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu is the state with second-highest coronavirus cases in the country and has witnessed 1,264 coronavirus fatalities. The number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the state stands at 52,926.DelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 89,802 on Thursday. As many as 59,992 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi while 2,803 have succumbed to the infection.GujaratThe state has seen Covid-19 cases reach 33,232 on Thursday. The state has seen 24,030 people recover from coronavirus while 1,867 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 24,056 while the number of recoveries has touched 16,629. The state death toll stands at 718.RajasthanThe state has reported 19,170 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 413 while 14,220 patients have recovered.West BengalAs many as 18,559 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 12,528 recover from coronavirus while 683 people have been killed.TelanganaThe state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 17,357 coronavirus cases. While 8,082 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 267 in the state.Karnataka The South Indian state has witnessed 16,514 coronavirus cases till date while two hundred and fifty-three people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion in the state. Nearly 8,063 patients have recovered from the disease in Karnataka. HaryanaThe coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 14,941 while the death toll stands at 240. Over 10,000 people have recovered from the contagion in Haryana.Other statesOver 13,800 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. Andhra Pradesh has 15,252 Covid-19 patients. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar crossed the 10,000-mark on Wednesday, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir stands at 7,695. In Odisha, cases have jumped to 7,316 while Assam has reported 8,582 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 5,668, and the number of cases in Kerala is 4,593.States with less than 3,000 casesUttarakhand, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases.Mizoram, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-delhi-inches-toward-grim-milestone-cases-near-90-000-death-toll-over-2-800/story-itKubjn3iieWAhX9j5hIPP.html
02-07-2020||India||Need a law for proper regulation of data: KN Govindacharya||An overarching law to protect the country’s data and a detailed investigation into all Chinese investments in the country, particularly in start-ups, are some of the demands being made by the Rashtriya Swayamseval Sangh (RSS) and its affiliates such as the Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) amid a growing strain in India-China ties.KN Govindacharya, the former general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and an ideologue of the RSS, wants the government to bring a law to secure the country’s data and sovereignty.Govindacharya, who has been seeking regulation of social media platforms and has filed a petition in the Delhi high court (HC) for rules to make companies such as Facebook and Google establish their servers in India, has also been urging the government to refrain from using social media platforms and Google mail for official purposes.He welcomed the Union government’s decision to ban 59 Chinese applications. “This is the first step. What we need is a proper law, which needs to cover an entire gamut of aspects. This needs to be well thought out,” he said.This week, the Centre has banned Chinese applications, including popular platforms such as Tik Tok and Camscanner, citing “emergent threats” to the country’s sovereignty and national security. The ban comes on the back of violent hand-to-hand combat between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15 that had left 20 Indian soldiers dead.However, the opposition has questioned the government, asking the reasons for not banning these Chinese applications, if they were perceived to be a threat to national security.China has said India’s decision could be in contravention of the legitimate rights of international investors.Govindacharya, however, said the country’s national interests override trade obligations.“There are many aspects that need to be examined such as tax evasion and other security-related details. While taking steps to protect the national security if that means withdrawing from trade obligations that can be done. What is important is to first state intent and determination,” he said.SJM, which has been vocal about a blanket ban on Chinese goods and applications, has also welcomed the government’s move but wants a scan of all Chinese investments in India.Ashwani Mahajan, national co-convenor, SJM, said, the government is free to rethink trade agreements. “The WTO (World Trade Organisation) is clear that when it a matter of national security or in the case of a pandemic, a country’s interests prevail. The government is rightly concerned about the security and the onus is on the applications to prove they did not share data with the Chinese government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-a-law-for-proper-regulation-of-data-govindacharya/story-KPXPosrggfTIXrKw5J3FjM.html
02-07-2020||India||Housing for govt officials gets costlier with hike in licence fee||Government accommodation allotted to officials under the General Pool Residential Accommodation (GPRA) category is set to get costlier starting in July. The Centre has issued an order to increase the flat rate of license fee recoverable for the accommodation throughout the country.The ministry of housing and urban affairs has issued an order, a copy of which has been reviewed by Hindustan Times, increasing the license fee rates for all types of government accommodations -- from type I to type VIII-- based on the level of pay matrix under the 7th Pay Commission.A vast majority of government officials live in accommodation allowed by the Central government.To be clear, license fee is deducted monthly from the salaries of officials who are allotted government accommodation. “it is deducted from the gross salary of central government employees. Nearly 80-90% of officers and staff occupy government quarters. A nominal rent is fixed for the sake of upkeep and that will increase,” an official said, requesting anonymity.“In terms of the provisions of the Rule 74 of the “central Government General pool Residential Accommodation Rules. 2017”, the Government has decided to revise the flat rates of licence fee recoverable for the residential accommodation available in General Pool and also in Departmental Pools of Ministries/Departments of the Government of India throughout the-country,” the order said.“The revised rates of licence fee would be effective from 1st July, 2020. Al ministries/departments are requested to take action to recover the revised license fee in accordance with these orders in respect of accommodation under their control all over the country,” it added.To be clear, the order exempts accommodations provided to serving personnel of the ministry of defence and accommodation under the control of ministry of railways.According to the order, the revised flat rates of license applicable for GPRA from July 1 for type VIII accommodation, allotted to officials from level 17 and 18 of the pay matrix of the 7th Pay Commission has been increased from Rs 3,890 to Rs 4,610. Type I accommodations for level 1 of the pay matrix under the 7th Pay Commission have been revised from Rs 150 to Rs 180.Charges for servant quarters and garages has also been nominally increased from Rs 70 to Rs 80 and Rs 40 to Rs 50, respectively. The Centre has also increased the cost of hostel accommodation.To put things in perspective, for a government official to get government accommodation, House rent allowance (HRA) of the basic salary has to be forgone and upon that a nominal rent (license fee) is deducted from the gross salary. “The HRA accounts for nearly 27% of the salary and one also has to pay the nominal rent amount,” another official said. At present, a secretary level officer residing in a type VII accommodation in New Moti Bagh in New Delhi pays Rs 70,000 as HRA plus the license fee (Rs 2180) for the accommodation. A joint secretary level officer living in a type VI A flat at East Kidwai Nagar pays around Rs 50,000 HRA and Rs 1550 license fee.The allotment of central government bungalows is done through the GPRA Act under the administrative control of the directorate of estates.There is a shortage of accommodation provided to government officials in the country, especially in Delhi and Chandigarh, union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Puri informed Parliament in February. There is a total shortfall of 20,054 houses in Delhi with only 61,291 available against demand for 81,345 houses. In Chandigarh the shortfall is of 207 houses with 2,521 available against a demand for 2,728 houses, he said.Puri said the shortage of General Pool Residential Accommodation (GPRA) is “due to non-availability of land at central locations in Metropolitan Cities and the fact that House Rent Allowance (HRA) admissible at the Metropolitan Cities is not commensurate with the actual rent in these cities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/housing-for-govt-officials-gets-costlier-with-hike-in-licence-fee/story-1gXNxrZH8TR0oj5fQ223VJ.html
02-07-2020||India||UP man dies by suicide after his eatery shuts down due to lockdown: Police||A 48-year-old dhaba owner allegedly died by suicide by jumping in front of a train near Mansurpur railway station in the district, police said on Thursday.The family of the deceased, Shyam Kumar, who identified his body said he was worried due to the shutting down of his dhaba during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. He allegedly jumped in front of a goods train on Wednesday, police said.In another incident, a body was found near Rajbaha canal near Pinna village under Kotwali police station in the district on Wednesday.Police said the body has not yet been identified and has been sent for postmortem examination. Further investigation is on, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-man-dies-by-suicide-after-his-eatery-shuts-down-due-to-lockdown-police/story-ZXpQSaOiiX3Zr45Ln1XL2L.html
02-07-2020||India||Stricter lockdown derails Maharashtra’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ campaign||Mumbai: Maharashtra government’s Mission Begin Again campaign, which had started from June 8 in a bid to revive economic activities amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, has been derailed because of the local administrations’ enforcement of stricter lockdown restrictions that are creating confusion among the public.On Sunday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had stated during his interaction with the public via a social media platform that though the prevailing lockdown restrictions were extended till July 31, the efforts were on to give more relaxations in a calibrated manner.Many district administrations and civic authorities have announced the reimposition of a stricter lockdown because of a spike in the Covid-19 positive cases.Besides Thane, Mira-Bhayander, Kalyan-Dombivili corporations, stricter lockdown norms have also been announced in Nashik, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg districts.The densely populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which comprises the urban agglomeration around the city, has reported a spike of Covid-19 positive cases within a week from 1,014,96 to 1,29,088 that works out to 71% of the total viral load of Maharashtra.On Wednesday, a state government official, while requesting anonymity, told HT: “There were plans of allowing more people to operate in red zones and inter-district transport services to function in non-red zones, as per the Mission Begin Again campaign. However, the sudden surge in Covid-19 positive cases has put a spanner in the works. Local authorities have reinforced stricter lockdowns to contain the spread of the disease.” Earlier, many experts had warned of a spike, if relaxations were not carried out in a calibrated manner.Dr. Peehu Pardeshi from the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) had said, “There have been new spurts because of the relaxations. It has been observed in many other countries. Phase-wise relaxation should be accompanied by stricter monitoring and ensuring social distancing norms. The public also needs to take adequate precautions.”On Wednesday, Maharashtra recorded its sharpest single-day jump in Covid-19 positive cases, as it reported 5,537 fresh infections and the overall tally stands at 180,298.In Mumbai, 1,487 new Covid-19 positive cases were recorded, and the city’s total viral load is 79,145.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stricter-lockdown-derails-maharashtra-s-mission-begin-again-campaign/story-U0zNyFBzV6KnKfRgZDqIcM.html
02-07-2020||India||UP cop arrested, dismissed from service for masturbating before woman||A police officer in Uttar Pradesh’s Deoria district who was caught on camera masturbating before a woman complainant has been arrested and also dismissed from service, the state police said on Thursday. Condemning the officer’s behaviour, the state police underlined its zero tolerance policy towards crimes against women. “We condemn the disgraceful & unpardonable conduct of Inspector Bhishmpal, Ex. S.H.O. Police Station Bhatni, Deoria. He has been arrested & also dismissed from service. U.P. Police affirms it’s zero tolerance policy to Crime against Women, Insensitivity & Corruption,” tweeted the Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh. We condemn the disgraceful & unpardonable conduct of Inspector Bhishmpal, Ex. S.H.O. Police Station Bhatni, Deoria. He has been arrested & also dismissed from service.U.P. Police affirms it's zero tolerance policy to Crime against Women, Insensitivity & Corruption.@CMOfficeUPAn FIR under sections 166 (public servant disobeying law), 354-A (sexual harassment) and 509 (act with intent to insult the modesty of woman) of the IPC has already been registered against inspector Bhishmpal Singh, who was absconding after the incident came to light.A police official of Deoria said the initial investigation had revealed that the offending video was recorded on June 22 when the inspector was posted as in-charge of Bhatni police station. Narrating the sequence of events, the official said the inspector was seen masturbating on his chair while the two women, seated opposite him, were talking about a land dispute with their relatives.The complainant said she, along with her mother, visited Bhatni police station at least thrice but their complaint was never heard. She said the inspector in-charge Bhismhmpal Singh was touching himself in front of the two when they visited him.“I ignored him at least twice before deciding to record his act on camera and expose him in front of his seniors and public,” she emphasised.She said she secretly shot the video when the inspector repeated the act on June 22 and later shared it with some senior officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cop-arrested-dismissed-from-service-for-masturbating-before-complainant/story-9rmwNPMfddSdCepos1CiaO.html
02-07-2020||India||Maoists kill policeman in Bijapur district of Bastar division||The outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) rebels killed an assistant constable of Chhattisgarh Police and also grievously injured his parents in Bastar division’s Bijapur district late at night on Wednesday.The parents are undergoing treatment at a district hospital.“The deceased assistant constable, Somaru Poyam, was posted at Farsegarh police station. He was on medical leave for the past 20 days because he was suffering from some abdomen-related ailment,” said Sunderaj P, Inspector-general of police (IGP), Bastar range, Chhattisgarh.The incident occurred at Maatwada village under the jurisdiction of Jangla police station limits late at night on Wednesday night when about a dozen Maoists killed the assistant constable with sharp-edged weapons in front of his parents, the IGP said.“His parents sustained serious injuries while trying to save their son. They have been admitted to a district hospital and are stated to be out of danger,” he added.Police have launched a combing operation in the area after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-kill-policeman-in-bijapur-district-of-bastar-division/story-apKylbDOaM1D16ODzGfEaN.html
02-07-2020||India||Bihar: Four, including a senior section engineer of rail factory, injured in blast at Bela rail factory||Four employees, including a senior section engineer, were injured in a blast at Bela rail factory in Bihar’s Saran district on Wednesday evening. Harkishore Rai, superintendent of police (SP), Saran, said preliminary investigation has revealed that the blast occurred after a hot chemical liquid fell from a crane on a spot that was waterlogged.The powerful blast damaged the factory shed and the glass front of the crane.Locals said two women from nearby villages fainted because of the deafening blast and window panes of some houses in the vicinity were also shattered.Uttam Kumar, chief administrative officer of the factory, said four persons have sustained burn injuries due to the blast. Senior section engineer Pramod Kumar and crane operator Amit Kumar’s injuries are critical and they have been shifted to a private hospital in Patna.The other two injured persons have been admitted to a hospital in Saran, Kumar said.An investigation is underway to ascertain the cause of the explosion, said DK Mishra, assistant security commissioner of the factory.The Bela rail factory manufactures rail wheels and was established when Lalu Prasad was the railway minister. The foundation stone of this factory was laid on July 29, 2008, and the construction work was completed three years later at an estimated cost of Rs 1,450 crore.Production started in 2013 and the factory has an annual target of manufacturing one lakh rail wheels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-four-including-a-senior-section-engineer-of-rail-factory-injured-in-blast-at-bela-rail-factory/story-Mclnq0Y60oQimEvIgTh4pJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand to reconsider tourism projects with China amid boycott call in country||The Uttarakhand tourism department has decided to reconsider all its contracts with Chinese companies, if any, across tourism development projects amid calls to boycott China. This comes in the backdrop of the brutal Ladakh face-off with China wherein 20 Indian soldiers were killed last month. The development came after state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj on Tuesday evening asked the tourism secretary to ‘make a list of all the projects in which China is involved in any manner.’Maharaj, while informing about the move said, “After what happened in Galwan Valley and amid the efforts of our country to decrease our dependency on China, I have directed the tourism secretary to make a list of all the projects in which China is involved. Once it is done, we will reconsider all contracts or agreements with them.”Also read: ‘Banning Chinese apps a digital strike’ - Union minister Ravi Shankar PrasadMaharaj said that the projects “may include the ropeway development ones, developing any tourist destination or any other project where the raw material is to be bought from China.”The minister, however, refused to say whether the department will cancel all such agreements with the Chinese companies.“We will reconsider all of them and take necessary action after discussing the move with other officials of the government,” said Maharaj. The tourism minister said that gradually the state would move towards disengaging all projects with China to lessen dependency on it. He also hailed Centre’s recent move of banning 59 Chinese mobile applications. “Recently, PM Narendra Modi banned one of the popular apps called TikTok which is a significant move considering the fact that it was spying upon the data of its user. This cannot be ruled out for the Chinese companies involved in tourism projects also,” said Maharaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-reconsider-tourism-projects-with-china-amid-boycott-call-in-country/story-MiIXWGepNLC4jpYqurjVuK.html
02-07-2020||India||Thunderstorm kills two in Barmer, causes massive damage||Two children died and three other persons were injured at a village in Rajasthan’s Barmer district late at night on Wednesday following heavy rains and an accompanying thunderstorm.Tin sheds were blown away by the thunderstorm and walls collapsed at a house in Balasar village under Sheo police station area in Barmer district. Two children, Lalit Kumar (10) and Kavita (8), died on the spot because of the wall collapse.While Meera Devi (26), Kheta Ram (6) and Ramesh Kumar (5) sustained injuries and are undergoing treatment at a nearby primary health centre.Many parts of the district were reeling under oppressive heat for the past two weeks. However, the weather pattern changed suddenly late Wednesday evening, as it received heavy rains accompanied by the thunderstorm. Intense rains damaged many makeshift structures. At least 87 electricity poles were uprooted and snapped power supply in several villages, said Pradeep Dawani, assistant engineer, Rajasthan State Electricity Board (RSEB).It could take up to four days for the power supply to be restored in the affected villages, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thunderstorm-kills-two-in-barmer-causes-massive-damage/story-qHnLHgVBo5fdofYhrRifgI.html
02-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 28 ministers inducted in Madhya Pradesh cabinet and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.28 ministers inducted in Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh cabinetMadhya Pradesh (MP) chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made a major cabinet expansion on Thursday around three months after unseating the Congress’s Kamal Nath government, as 28 ministers were sworn in. Read moreFirst time ever: Indian Railways achieves 100% punctuality of trainsThe Indian Railways on Thursday achieved 100 per cent punctuality of trains - the first time that this milestone has been achieved. News agency ANI quoted the railways ministry to say that all the trains were on time. Read moreLeft leaders visit Bengal Congress HQ, pay homage to Dr Bidhan Chandra RoyIn a bid to cement ties with the Congress and bolster the joint movement against the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Bengal’s Left leaders on Wednesday visited the state Congress headquarters and paid homage to Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy. Read moreAt least 50 dead in landslide at jade mine in Northen Myanmar: ReportAt least 50 people died on Thursday after a landslide at a jade mine in northern Myanmar trapped workers under a mound of refuse, the country’s fire service department and an information ministry official said. Read moreGoogle Play Store blocks all 59 Chinese apps banned by Indian governmentGoogle has said that it has temporarily blocked access to the banned 59 China-linked apps on its India Play Store. The company said it is reviewing the interim orders from the government and has already notified the affected developers. Read moreKhatron Ke Khiladi 10 participant Rani Chatterjee alleges harassment: ‘Might die by suicide as I am in depression’An actor named Rani Chatterjee who participated in Khatron Ke Khiladi 10 has written a detailed note addressing Mumbai Police, asking for help. She has claimed harassment at the hands of a person she names as Dhananjay Singh. Read moreMumbai Police’s post on ‘Dark’ habits is something to abide byMumbai Police has done it again. They have used a reference from a popular web series to put forth an essential advisory message. It is such a note of caution that everyone should follow to stay safe in these perilous times. Read more#DobaraPoocho: Deepika Padukone launches powerful mental health awareness campaignDeepika Padukone has always been a strong advocate of mental health awareness, and has done extensive work towards the same with The Live Love Laugh foundation, the mental health organisation she has founded. Read moreWatch| ‘Closely monitoring the developments in Hong Kong’: Indian Envoy to UN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-28-ministers-inducted-in-madhya-pradesh-cabinet-and-all-the-latest-news/story-JJ2Kd9X5Jn2G5FccCnULwI.html
02-07-2020||India||‘Deadline for 2019-20 tax-saving investments extended till July 31’: Income tax dept||The Income Tax department has extended the deadline for tax saving investments/payments for the financial year 2019-20 up to July 31. The move comes in a bid to provide relief to taxpayers amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.In a tweet, the I-T department on Thursday said that, “tax Saving Investments/Payments for FY 2019-20 can be made upto 31st July, 2020”. Understanding & keeping in mind the times that we are in, we have further extended deadlines. Now, Tax Saving Investments/Payments for FY 2019-20 can be made upto 31st July, 2020. We do hope this helps you plan things better.#ITDateExtension#FacilitationDuringCovid#WeCare pic.twitter.com/HZZJSmN8g7The department said that the move has been taken “understanding and keeping in mind the times that we are in”“Filing of original as well as revised ITRs for FY 2018-19 is extended to 31st July, 2020,” the tweet read.Understanding & keeping in mind the times that we are in, we have further extended deadlines. Now, filing of original as well as revised ITRs for FY 2018-19 is extended to 31st July, 2020.#IncomeTaxDateExtension#FacilitationDuringCovid#WeCare #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/MBQUzmh2pgThe department hoped the move will help citizens “plan things better” amid the crisis.As a result, taxpayers will now be able to make investments for claiming deductions under the Income Tax Act for the financial year 2019-20 up to July 31. Deductions can be claimed under various sections such as 80C (for life insurance (LIC), public provident fund (PPF), national savings certificate (NSC) equity-linked saving scheme (ELSS), among others. Last week, the Centre announced that the deadline for filing of original as well as revised income-tax returns for the FY 2018-19 (AY 2019-20) has been extended to July 31, 2020.In a statement, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said that the due date for the income tax return for the FY 2019-20 (AY 2020-21) has been extended to November 30, 2020. ”Hence, the returns of income which are required to be filed by July 31, 2020 and October 31, 2020 can be filed by November 30, 2020. Consequently, the date for furnishing tax audit report has also been extended to October 31, 2020,” it stated.The government had also allowed individuals to claim I-T exemption on conveyance allowance received from employers under the new lower tax regime .The CBDT amended Income Tax rules to prescribe certain exemptions which can be availed by the employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-for-2019-20-tax-saving-investments-extended-till-july-31-income-tax-department/story-Icwg0uDvsRODw8L5AhgpbK.html
02-07-2020||India||MHA seeks CAPFs views on recruiting ‘transgender’ assistant commandants||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has broken the glass ceiling in the 10-lakh-strong central paramilitary forces and asked the authorities concerned to share their views for recruiting transgender people in the rank of the assistant commandants (ACs).In a letter to Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), the MHA on Wednesday asked the forces to send their comments for incorporating the issues on transgender as ‘third gender’ along with male/female in the rules of CAPF (central armed police forces) AC Examination, 2020.The annual examination for recruiting ACs, who are Grade A officers, for this year, is scheduled to be held in December and if the MHA gets a positive response from the paramilitary forces, their comments will be shared with the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), which will then incorporate transgender people as the third gender in the application forms.MHA data showed 7,859 ACs are currently employed with all the paramilitary forces. The CRPF has maximum ACs in its ranks at 3,054, followed by BSF (1,888), ITBP (716) ITBP, CISF (725) and SSB (542).The paramilitary forces, which have a combined strength of around 10 lakh, are deployed in securing the country’s borders with Pakistan, China, Bangladesh, and Nepal, anti-Naxal operations, counter-insurgency operations in Jammu & Kashmir as well as law and order duties in various states.Officials familiar with the development said the government first wants to start with the officers’ rank through the Staff Service Commission (SSC).At present, there is no provision of hiring transgender people in the central paramilitary forces or even in the Indian Army.The development comes after Parliament passed the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Bill, 2019 last December.The law states that no establishment shall discriminate against transgender persons in matters relating to employment, recruitment, promotion, and other related issues. It also provides for grievance redressal mechanism in each establishment and the establishment of a National Council for Transgender Persons.Based on the new Act, on April 20, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) had asked all central government departments to include “transgender” as a separate category of gender for recruitment in civil services and other posts.The DoPT order said that the matter regarding the inclusion of “Third Gender/any Other Category” in the application forms in recruitment to various posts under the central government was under consideration of the government for quite some time.The Civil services examination rules, 2020, have already been notified on February 5, providing for inclusion of ‘Transgender’ as a separate category of gender for the said examination.“All ministries/departments of the government of India are requested to modify the relevant examination rules providing for inclusion of ‘Transgender’ as a separate category of gender, so as to make the said Rules in conformity with the provisions of The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Bill, 2019,” DoPT order had said.K Durga Prasad, former director-general (D-G), CRPF, said: “This is the time of giving equal opportunities. We have to take care of is setting different parameters like training, job profile, etc”.Chayanika Shah, a queer rights activist, asked: “We are creating a category and you remain in that category forever. But, the big question is: how do you deal with the situation? Why recruit only for the post of ACs and not other categories?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-asks-authorities-to-share-views-on-recruiting-transgenders-as-assistant-commandants/story-M4Rwr2q77OhpTHjpAOZvpM.html
02-07-2020||India||Under pressure to resign, PM Oli cabinet prorogues parliament’s budget session||Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, who has been under intense pressure from rival factions within the communist party, on Thursday decided to prorogue the ongoing Budget session of parliament, according to news agency ANI. PM Oli’s cabinet cleared the formal recommendation at a meeting convened shortly after the prime minister called on President Bidhya Devi Bhandari, sparking off buzz about the fast-moving developments in the Himalayan nation.This was PM Oli’s second meeting with the President in two days.PM Oli has been under pressure from PM Oli’s meeting with the President followed several rounds of discussions in the Nepal Communist Party’s standing committee meeting over the last week that saw PM Oli clashing with co-chair Pushpa Kamal Dahal, Madhav Nepal, Jhalanath Khanal and Bamdev Gautam. Dahal, also known as Prachanda, had stepped up his attacks in recent days to demand that PM Oli step down from the twin posts that he holds, the party’s co-chair and the prime minister.PM Oli doesn’t have a majority in the communist party’s standing committee but a senior leader insisted that support within the standing committee wasn’t the only barometer. But it is clear that the prime minister is in trouble.Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa, who supported PM Oli at previous meetings, also appeared to switch sides, according to a report in the Kathmandu Post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-pressure-to-resign-pm-oli-meets-president-convenes-cabinet-meet/story-hWiHgXSp2WrkxCEYgpEjMM.html
02-07-2020||India||Pakistan army resorts to firing along LoC in two sectors in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch||Pakistani troops resorted to firing in various forward areas in twin sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Thursday, prompting the Indian Army to give a befitting reply, officials said.“At around 0930 hours today, Pakistani Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms along the LoC in Kirni and Shahpur sectors of Poonch district,” a defence spokesperson said.“The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly,” he said.Firing and shelling between the two sides were continuing when the last report came in, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-army-resorts-to-firing-along-loc-in-two-sectors-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-poonch/story-FvsvhgiKsA5XINL2RWvvgN.html
02-07-2020||India||‘Banning Chinese apps a digital strike’: Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said New Delhi’s decision to ban 59 China-linked apps days after violent brawl between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley was a “digital strike”. “We banned Chinese apps to protect data of countrymen; it was a digital strike,” the telecom and IT minister was quoted as saying by news agency Press Trust of India. This is the first time a minister has described the ban as a “strike” against China. On social media, many drew a comparison with India’s air strike, carried out in response to the Uri attack, against Jaish-e-Mohammed terror camps in Pakistan’s Balakot.The minister also underlined, much like PM Modi did, that India is for peace but if “somebody casts an evil eye we will give a befitting reply”.Some of the banned apps are TikTok, UC Browser, CamScanner, WeChat, Weibo, Baidu Map, Xender, among others.Indian intelligence agencies had been pushing for restrictions on the mobile applications on grounds that the apps were designed to extract data and park them outside the country where they could be used to intrude into the privacy of citizens.Chinese companies have long been suspected of building backdoors in their hardware and software, one reason why many governments across the world have been uneasy at the prospect of deploying Chinese-made 5G networking equipment.On Wednesday, Prasad said the ban on Chinese mobile apps is a great opportunity to help Indians come up with good apps of their own and end foreign dependence for such things.“In the wake of the ban which we have imposed...I think it is a great opportunity. Can we come up with good apps made by Indians? Let the dependence on foreign apps, with their own agenda for a variety of reasons, stop,” the minister said yesterday.A statement from the information technology ministry said the decision was taken as these applications were “engaged in activities prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.Beijing on Tuesday said it was “strongly concerned” about New Delhi’s decision to ban Chinese mobile applications. It stressed on cooperation between the two countries and underlined that the ban would go against “India’s interests”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banning-chinese-apps-a-digital-strike-union-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-XQQbTVt4bauqeBHfXC75iM.html
02-07-2020||India||Left leaders visit Bengal Congress HQ, pay homage to Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy||In a bid to cement ties with the Congress and bolster the joint movement against the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Bengal’s Left leaders on Wednesday visited the state Congress headquarters and paid homage to Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy. Dr BC Roy was the state’s second chief minister and a Congress stalwart.In the 1950s and early 60s, the Marxists were a bitter critic of Roy despite him being revered as the ‘architect of West Bengal’ and for his industrial, education and administrative policies between 1948 and 1962. Roy was also a legendary doctor and every year his birth anniversary, July 1, is observed as the National Doctor’s Day. He was awarded Bharat Ratna in 1961, a year before he died. Dr Roy’s death anniversary also falls on July 1.Also read: Mamata Banerjee remembers former Bengal CM Bidhan Chandra Roy on National Doctors’ Day Communist Party of India (Marxist) legislator Sujan Chakraborty, Revolutionary Socialist Party state secretary Manoj Bhattacharya, Forward Bloc state secretary Naren Chatterjee and other Left leaders went to Bidhan Bhawan, the state Congress headquarters named after Roy, and placed a wreath before his statue.“It is a fact that once we politically opposed him but there is no denying the fact that he was a legendary person,” said Chakraborty.Incidentally his party, the CPI(M), once accused Roy of rigging elections and of being instrumental in banning the undivided Communist Party of India. “It was our leader Jyoti Basu who named Salt Lake township Bidhan Nagar. We showed respect to Roy in several ways,” he added.“This is the new way forward. The Congress, Left parties and other like-minded forces will move as one force against the Centre’s policies and atrocities by the TMC,” said state Congress president Somen Mitra.BJP state president Dilip Ghosh too paid his homage to Roy. “On the birthday of Bidhan Chandra Roy, the second CM of Paschim Banga, I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to Dr B C Roy as well as to all the doctors, frontline warriors and those who are tirelessly serving the society,” Ghosh tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/left-leaders-visit-bengal-congress-hq-pay-homage-to-dr-bidhan-chandra-roy/story-md14rjZFW1hCptlh1KMYWN.html
02-07-2020||India||Sandesara scam: ED officials at Ahmed Patel’s house for third round of questioning||A team of Enforcement Directorate reached the residence of Congress leader Ahmed Patel to question him in connection with bank fraud and money laundering cases.Patel is being questioned for his purported links with the Sandesara brothers of the Sterling Biotech group, who fled the country in 2017 after allegedly swindling several banks of several thousand crore rupeesThe Sandesaras are being probed by multiple agencies including the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the income tax department as well.This is Patel’s third round of questioning. The first round of questioning had lasted for eight hours on June 27. He was again questioned on June 30.He was allowed questioning at home by the agency after the Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat refused to visit the ED office citing prevailing Covid-19 guidelines that discourage senior citizens from going out.Officials said that Patel’s statement is being recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).Patel, also the Congress party treasurer, has earlier served as the political secretary to UPA chairperson and Congress president Sonia Gandhi and was considered one of the most powerful persons in the party.The money laundering case is connected to an alleged Rs 14,500 crore bank loan fraud that is said to have been perpetrated by the Vadodara-based pharma firm Sterling Biotech and its main promoters and directors - Nitin Jayantilal Sandesara, Chetankumar Jayantilal Sandesara and Deepti Sandesara - all of whom are absconding. Nitin and Chetankumar are brothers.They are said to be hiding in Nigeria. An Interpol red corner notice request is pending against the Sandesara brothers and efforts to extradite them are on.In June 2019, the ED attached moveable and immovable properties worth Rs 9,778 crores belonging to the Sandesaras including four oil rigs and oil fields in Nigeria and several ships apart from a Gulfstream aircraft and flat in London.Ahmed Patel’s son Faisal Patel and son-in-law Irfan Siddiqui were questioned by ED in this case last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sandesara-scam-ed-officials-at-ahmed-patel-s-house-for-third-round-of-questioning/story-zNhdhZu1b5z4uiTCJDYAMO.html
02-07-2020||India||28 new ministers inducted in Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh cabinet||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh (MP) chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made a major Cabinet expansion on Thursday around three months after unseating the Congress’s Kamal Nath government, as 28 ministers were sworn in.Acting MP Governor Anandiben Patel administered the oath of office and secretary at the Raj Bhavan.Of the 28 new ministers, 20 and eight are of Cabinet and ministers of state rank, respectively.Rajya Sabha member and new entrant to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Jyotiraditya Scindia’s imprint was evident in the Cabinet expansion, as 12 of 22 former lawmakers, who are considered to be his loyalists, found ministerial berths. Earlier in March, 22 lawmakers had rebelled against Kamal Nath and later joined the BJP.All these 12 ministers will have to be elected to the state assembly in the next six months to retain their position as ministers as per the constitutional provision. Eight of these ministers are from the Gwalior-Chambal region, where 16 assembly by-polls will be held in the coming months.The cabinet ministers are Gopal Bhargava, Vijay Shah, Jagdish Devda, Bisahulal Singh, Yashodhra Raje Scindia, Bhupendra Singh, Brijendra Pratap Singh, Vishwas Sarang, Imrati Devi, Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Pradyumn Singh Tomar.While Prem Singh Patel, Omprakash Saklecha, Aindal Singh Kansana, Usha Thakur, Arvind Bhadoria, Mohan Yadav, Hardeep Singh Dang, and Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon have become cabinet ministers for the first time.Four of them --- Imrati Devi, Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, and Pradyumn Singh Tomar -- were ministers in the then Kamal Nath cabinet as well.The ministers of state include Bharat Singh Kushwaha, Inder Singh Parmar, Ramkhelawan Patel, Ram Kishor Kanware, Brijendra Singh Yadav, Girraj Dandotia, Suresh Dhakad, and OPS Bhadoria. All of them have become ministers for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cabinet-expansion-28-new-ministers-take-oath/story-8C2AKPmfFpzkZFXhN0d9xM.html
02-07-2020||India||First time ever: Indian Railways achieves 100% punctuality of trains||The Indian Railways on Thursday achieved 100 per cent punctuality of trains - the first time that this milestone has been achieved.News agency ANI quoted the railways ministry to say that all the trains were on time. “The previous best was 99.54 per cent on June 23 with one train getting delayed,” the railways further said.Last month, the railways had sent a missive to its zones to ensure 100 per cent punctuality in the running of 230 special trains, which is less than two per cent of the 13,000 trains that normally run on the entire network.According to news agency PTI, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav told all general managers and divisional railway managers to ensure that the 15 pairs of Rajdhani special trains and 100 pairs of passenger trains maintain their schedule without any delays.He said that since the number of trains being run on the network is currently small, the punctuality has to be 100 per cent, PTI further reported.The milestone was achieved a day after the railways formally kickstarted its plans to allow private entities to operate passenger trains on its network. On Wednesday, it invited request for qualifications (RFQ) for participation on 109 pairs of routes through 151 modern trains.The project would entail a private sector investment of about Rs 30,000 crore, it said. This is the first initiative for private investment for running passenger trains on the Indian Railways network. It began last year with the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) introducing the Lucknow-Delhi Tejas Express.Currently, the IRCTC operates three trains - the Kashi Mahakal Express on the Varanasi-Indore route, the Lucknow-New Delhi Tejas and the Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas.According to Wednesday’s statement, the “private entity shall pay to Indian Railways fixed haulage charges, energy charges as per actual consumption and a share in gross revenue determined through a transparent bidding process”.The operation will have to conform to key performance indicators like punctuality, reliability, upkeep of trains etc, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-time-ever-indian-railways-achieves-100-punctuality-of-trains/story-dE6nE35tlqIYs7VWRgWQlO.html
02-07-2020||India||‘Most of us won’t need Covid-19 vaccine’: Oxford expert explains how the pandemic is likely to end||Oxford University professor Sunetra Gupta, an epidemiologist, has been tagged ‘Professor Reopen’ for her argument against lockdowns as a countermeasure against the Covid-19 pandemic. In a conversation with Hindustan Times, professor Gupta explained why most people won’t need a Covid-19 vaccine and how lockdowns are not a long-term solution to contain the spread of coronavirus.“What we’ve seen is that in normal, healthy people, who are not elderly or frail or don’t have comorbidities, this virus is not something to worry about no more than how we worry about flu,”  professor Gupta told HT. Watch | Why most of us won’t need Covid vaccine: Oxford prof explains | On The Record She said that the vaccine, when it will come into existence, will be used to support the vulnerable, “most of us don’t need to worry about coronavirus,” she said.Also read: Lockdown a drastic strategy to eliminate coronavirus, says Oxford University donGupta said that she thinks the coronavirus pandemic will end naturally and will become part of our lives just like influenza.“Hopefully with a lower death toll than influenza. I think it is fairly easy to make a vaccine for coronavirus. By the end of this summer, we should have proof that the vaccine works,” she added. The professor described the lockdown as a sensible measure but not enough to keep the virus out for long.  “A lockdown is a noble and a sensible idea to keep the virus out but is very difficult to put in place without non-pharmaceutical interventions,” she stated. Also watch: Why most of us won’t need Covid-19 vaccine: Oxford prof explains | On The Record Gupta said what has been described as the second wave of the virus outbreak is essentially the first wave reaching a different geographical region. “However, there have been countries that have successfully managed to implement the lockdown and are now facing a resurgence of the virus,” she noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-of-us-won-t-need-covid-19-vaccine-oxford-expert-explains-how-the-pandemic-is-likely-to-end/story-WfEpXIWK3HuHlQiS9zFMmM.html
02-07-2020||India||Separate rules for Noida and Ghaziabad under ‘Unlock 2’: All you need to know||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday came out with a set of guidelines for Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad for the second phase of ‘Unlock’, billed as ‘Unlock-2’ amid the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the guidelines, the district magistrates have been directed to take a call on restrictions on commute and traffic. However, the situation regarding the Delhi border has not been clarified.While the ban has been removed from the borders across all states, as per the guidelines, the district magistrates of Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad can consult district authorities, the police and the health department and take a call on imposing a separate ban on the border areas.Also read: India crosses 6 lakh mark with over 19,000 cases; 434 fatalities in last 24 hoursThe guidelines, issued by the state chief secretary on behalf of the Uttar Pradesh government, stated that night curfew will be in place from 10 pm to 5 am across the state except for the Meerut division and Gautam Buddh Nagar.Movement of people and vehicles, except for essential services, has been banned from 8 pm to 6 am till July 10 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, an official order stated.For the districts falling in the Meerut division, the night curfew will be from 8 pm to 6 am till July 10. Night curfews are not applicable to those working in multiple shifts in industrial units. Section 144 in Gautam Buddh NagarIn the view of Covid-19 crisis, Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code - which bans unlawful assembly of people - was extended in Gautam Buddh Nagar district till July 31 on Wednesday.Fifty-eight more people tested positive for coronavirus here on Wednesday, pushing the tally of cases to 2,362, the highest for any district in Uttar Pradesh, official data showed on Wednesday.“Restrictions under CrPC section 144 will remain in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar till July 31,” Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, Ashutosh Dwivedi said.Political, social, sporting or religious congregations, protest rallies or processions will remain banned across Noida and Greater Noida during the period, the Gautam Nagar district police said, adding that nobody would be allowed to move in or out of containment zones in Gautam Buddh Nagar except for medical personnel and essential service providers. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/separate-rules-for-noida-and-ghaziabad-under-unlock-2-all-you-need-to-know/story-4KlHp8TZP19p3Djymg4nqJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Indian Railways to allow private players to operate passenger trains||The Railways on Wednesday formally kick started its plans to allow private entities to operate passenger trains on its network by inviting request for qualifications (RFQ) for participation on 109 pairs of routes through 151 modern trains, the national transporter said.The project would entail a private sector investment of about Rs 30,000 crore, it said. This is the first initiative for private investment for running passenger trains on the Indian Railways network. It began last year with the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) introducing the Lucknow-Delhi Tejas Express.Currently, the IRCTC operates three trains -- the Kashi Mahakal Express on the Varanasi-Indore route, the Lucknow-New Delhi Tejas and the Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas.“The objective of this initiative is to introduce modern technology rolling stock with reduced maintenance, reduced transit time, boost job creation, provide enhanced safety, provide world-class travel experience to passengers,” the Railways said. The 109 origin-destination routes have been formed into 12 clusters across the Indian Railway network. Each train shall have a minimum of 16 coaches, it said.The Railways also said that majority of these modern trains are to be manufactured in India as ‘Make in India’ and the private entity shall be responsible for financing, procuring, operating and maintaining the trains. “Trains shall be designed for a maximum speed of 160 kmph. There would be a substantial reduction in journey time. The running time taken by a train shall be comparable to or faster than the fastest train of the Indian Railways operating in the respective route,” it said.The concession period for the project shall be 35 years and the private entity shall pay the Indian Railways fixed haulage charges, energy charges as per actual consumption and a share in gross revenue determined through a transparent bidding process, the transporter said.“These trains shall be operated by the driver and guard of Indian Railways. The operation of the trains by the private entity shall conform to the key performance indicators like punctuality, reliability, upkeep of trains etc,” the Railways said. Operation and maintenance of the passenger trains would be governed by standards and specifications, and requirements specified by Indian Railways, it said. The entire process of handing over certain routes to private players will be completed in two parts. The first started on Wednesday with invite for RFQs wherein private bidders will qualify. The second step will be Request for Proposal (RFP). The details of revenue generation and routes will be decided during the latter process. In the pre-COVID times, companies such as R K Catering, Adani Ports and MakeMyTrip and airlines, including Indigo, Vistara and SpiceJet, had shown interest in participating in operating private trains, sources said. Other players whose attention has been attracted by this are global majors like Alstom Transport, Bombardier, Siemens AG and Macquarie, they said.Aimed at offering airline-like services to train passengers, the national transporter has said that the private players, apart from fixing fares, have to also provide facilities like catering, cleaning and supply of beddings to passengers. Earlier this year, the Niti Aayog and the Indian Railways came out with a discussion paper for running 150 trains on 100 routes by private operators, envisaging an investment of Rs 22,500 crore.The discussion paper titled ‘Private Participation: Passenger Trains’ has identified 100 routes, including Mumbai Central-New Delhi, New Delhi- Patna, Allahabad-Pune and Dadar-Vadodara.Other prominent routes include Howrah-Chennai, Howrah-Patna, Indore-Okhla, Lucknow-Jammu-Tawi, Chennai-Okhla, Anand Vihar-Bhagalpur, Secunderabad-Guwahati and Howrah-Anand Vihar.Each bidder would eligible for award of maximum three clusters, according to the paper.The Railway Board had in October last year formed an empowered group of secretaries, headed by Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, to chalk out the modalities of the bidding process and take other decisions to fast-track awarding of bids to private players.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-allow-private-players-to-operate-passenger-trains/story-HSlfnmIzFtWXR6BSJOLZCO.html
02-07-2020||India||CBI files case against GVK group over alleged Rs 705 cr scam in development of Mumbai airport||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against the GVK Group - the company that runs the Mumbai airport - its chairman Dr GVK Reddy, his son GV Sanjay Reddy and several other companies for alleged irregularities worth over Rs 705 crore in the development of Mumbai airport, officials familiar with the developments said.The agency has named 13 persons including GVK Reddy and his son GV Sanjay Reddy who is the managing director of joint venture company – MIAL (Mumbai International Airport Limited). The agency has registered a case against them for criminal conspiracy, cheating under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.Officials familiar with the development said the CBI even carried out searches after registering the FIR.The MIAL is a PPP (public-private partnership) between the AAI (Airports Authority of India), the GVK and foreign entities in the name of MIAL. The GVK has a shareholding of 50.5%, the AAI holds 26% while the remaining shareholding rests with foreign companies.The AAI entered an OMDA (operation, management and development agreement) in April 2006 for the modernization and up-gradation, operation and maintenance of the Mumbai airport as part of the joint venture called the MIAL. As per the agreement, it was decided that the MIAL will share 38.7% of their revenue as annual fee with the AAI and that the government authority will have the first right on the revenue.“The essence of agreement was to create a world-class facility and at the same time protecting the interests of the government of India, promoters and passengers,” the CBI stated in its FIR.“Despite there being a clear cut understanding in the OMDA, the promoters of the GVK group in the MIAL, in connivance with their executives and the unknown officials of the AAI, resorted to siphoning of funds fraudulently adopting various modus operandi,” the CBI said.For the project, around 200 acres of an undeveloped parcel of land was given to the MIAL around the airport so that it can develop the area and generate revenues.“The MIAL entered into fake work contracts during 2017-18 with at least nine companies on the pretext of real estate development. the MIAL transferred the funds to them but these projects have never been executed on the ground and the transactions were only on papers. Using this modus operandi, Rs 310 crore have been fraudulently siphoned off which resulted in a wrongful loss to the AAI and corresponding gain to themselves,” the FIR stated.These nine companies, CBI added, have also availed fake credit Input Tax Credit (ITC) and cause further revenue loss to the government exchequer based on these fake invoices.“Source information has also revealed that there are many more such fake contracts which the MIAL has fraudulently entered into with non-existing/non-functional entities and have embezzled the funds of the MIAL,” the CBI added. In another modus operandi, from 2012 onwards, the GVK used the surplus of the MIAL to the tune of Rs 395 crore to finance their other group companies. “They fraudulently created forged Board Meeting Resolutions of the MIAL, authorizing to keep the reserve/surplus funds of the MIAL as FDRs with public sector banks at Hyderabad,” the CBI stated.Interestingly, the MIAL is a Mumbai based company but they chose to deposit the FDRs in Hyderabad branch of Bank of Baroda, the agency added.“The GVK Group raised loans/overdraft facilities against these FDRs and used these funds for the benefit of their Hyderabad-based company at the expense of the MIAL,” it added.It said that surplus funds have been deposited to other bank branches as well in Hyderabad.The CBI said that the promoters of the GVK also embezzled funds by resorting to inflating the expenditure of the MIAL. For example, “they shifted the staff of their head office in Hyderabad and the employees of their group companies on the payrolls of the MIAL. So, in contravention of the agreement, employees who were not part of the MIAL were being paid for all these years,” the CBI stated.Subsequently, the CBI FIR alleges that the GVK group connived with their family members, relatives and employees. They assigned the premium retail areas of Mumbai airport to their family members at exorbitantly low rates thereby reducing the revenue of the MIAL on account of rentals and sales. The GVK group even used funds of the MIAL by entering into agreements with a company owned by family members, relatives, employees to book train, air travel tickets and hotel booking for personal interest as well as for group employees of the GVK who were not connected to the MIAL, it added.The CBI further said that the AAI officials were aware of all the irregularities but turned a blind eye and let these practices of siphoning, diverting and misusing of funds of the MIAL to continue.For now, the agency has estimated the loss to be around Rs 705 crore but officials - who didn’t wish to be named - said the figure could be much higher and may go over a few more hundred crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-case-against-gvk-group-over-alleged-rs-705-cr-scam-in-development-of-mumbai-airport/story-k0jTOcFcsmngv7c703vxFP.html
02-07-2020||India||Behind Hurriyat boss SAS Geelani’s exit, a bitter power struggle and greed||Syed Ali Shah Geelani, one of the most well-known faces of the Kashmiri separatist movement, announced his exit from the Hurriyat Conference faction that he headed for 17 years this week after an intense power struggle within the Pakistan-backed group including its chapter in occupied Kashmir.As he stepped down from the leadership role of the group that he had once aspired to lead for the rest of his life, 90-year-old Geelani and his aides also appeared to out some of the problems within the separatist movement and the grouping of around two-dozen separatist outfits.Like the cross-border narcotics trade, also sponsored by Inter Services Intelligence, that the Pakistani establishment had been running via terrorist groups in Kashmir. This wasn’t the first time that he had flagged the issue. Geelani has been known to occasionally refer to the involvement of Pakistan, or land of the pure, in Kashmir’s drug trade.Geelani, however, had been most upset about his weakening grip over his grouping’s faction in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Also Read: A reset in Kashmir policy | HT EditorialThe ISI had been promoting lesser known younger leaders in the Pakistan-occupied Kashmir chapter and encouraged differences within this chapter. Geelani did fight back and nominated Abdullah Gilani to the top post. Abdullah is the brother of Delhi University professor SAR Gilani who was acquitted in the Jaish-e-Mohammad-led 2001 Parliament attack case that killed eight security personnel and a gardener.Also Watch l SAS Geelani quits Hurriyat Conference, lashes out at cadre in his letter But the ISI had Geelani’s directive rescinded and engineered the election of Mohammad Hussain Khateeb as the PoK chapter’s convenor to embarrass the leading face of the Kashmiri separatist movement.A red-faced Geelani listed a litany of complaints. Geelani had been sore that representatives of the PoK chapter had been sending their relatives to the PoK assembly over the last two years, were indisciplined, engaged in rampant corruption; essentially out of his control.“The leaders there were trying to be part of government and ministries. There was internal bickering, fear of losing posts, financial irregularities, and many other issues. Recently after investigations, some people were expelled and as the investigations were going on against other people, the representatives of your parties started calling separate so-called meetings which led to the dissolution of the chapter till further orders,’’ Geelani said in a letter announcing his decision to step down from the hurriyat conference.Back in Srinagar, the ISI wanted to push out the old guard and bring in younger members of the PoK chapter to assume a leadership role so that they are more aggressive in challenging India.The ISI has been disappointed with the Kashmiri separatist leaders for their inability to provoke people to hit the streets after the Centre last August scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in the Constitution. Geelani pinned the blame for this lapse on other hurriyat leaders in Kashmir, pointing that he had nudged leaders to take a lead role but didn’t get a response.The Kashmiri diaspora in the UK and Europe has reacted sharply to Geelani’s exit, blaming the emerging leadership in PoK for conspiring with the Pakistan government to create the circumstances that led to Geelani’s resignation. There has also been speculation that some other Hurriyat leaders such as Shabir Shah of the Democratic Freedom Party were also looking at their continuation under the banner of the hurriyat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/behind-hurriyat-boss-sas-geelani-s-exit-a-bitter-power-struggle-and-greed/story-qRYxtRQpzvidszpd3ekjNL.html
02-07-2020||India||Tamil Nadu custodial deaths case: 4 more cops held, people celebrate arrests by bursting crackers||The Crime Branch-CID (CB-CID) on Thursday arrested four people in connection with the deaths of two people in police custody in Tamil Nadu’s Tuticorin. Those arrested include Inspector Sridhar, who reportedly asked other policemen to thrash the father-son duo after their arrest.Sub-inspector Raghu Ganesh was arrested on Wednesday. Total five policemen - one inspector, one sub-inspector and three constables - have so far been arrested in the case.People came out in large numbers and burst crackers to celebrate the arrests in Sathankulam, where the incident took place.P Jayaraj (59) and his son J Bennicks (31) were arrested on June 19 and lodged in Kovilpatti sub-jail for keeping their mobile phone shop in the main market of Sathankulam town open during a curfew imposed during coronavirus lockdown.Jayaraju and Benicks were allegedly tortured during the police custody after which they were admitted to the Kovilpatti government hospital on June 22. While the son died on the same night, the father breathed his last on the morning of June 23.A policewoman is the only eyewitness in the case, and she told Judicial magistrate M S Barathidasan, who investigated the incident, that both Jayaraj and Bennicks were beaten through the night on June 19.“There were blood stains on the lathis and a table,” she said and asked the magistrate to obtain them immediately.The state government has decided to give full protection to the woman head constable.On Tuesday, the Madras High Court directed the CB-CID’s Tirunelveli Deputy Superintendent of Police Anil Kumar to probe the death of the two traders. Though the Tamil Nadu government has already handed over the cases to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the court directed a CB-CID probe into the matter saying it feared that evidence could disappear by the time CBI took over the probe.The probe team conducted enquiries with the family members of the deceased and also in the market where the two men ran their mobile phone shop.Investigators also visited the Sathankulam police station which has since been brought under the Revenue department under the high court’s direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-custodial-deaths-case-4-more-cops-held-people-celebrate-arrests-by-bursting-crackers/story-BQvFruyCDTGTxkf6lNuLcN.html
02-07-2020||India||Indian Railways to upgrade speed of trains on two long routes||Indian Railways is preparing to upgrade the speed of trains up to 130 kilometers per hour on two routes, from Delhi to Mumbai and from Delhi to Howrah, allowing the faster passenger movement in a shorter time period.Speaking on the issue, Member (Signal & Telecom), Railway Board Pradeep Kumar said, “The Delhi-Howrah and Delhi-Mumbai routes are almost ready for fitness and signalling consideration. The trains on this route can run at a speed of 130 km per hour. In this financial year, trains are expected to run at this speed on these two routes.”Adding to this, Kumar said, “As announced earlier, we will be running the trains at the speed of 160 km per hour on these routes in the future. For this, work is going on on all the projects.”“For the last few years, there has been a continuous effort by the railways to improve the speed of the trains. We have been technically upgrading all the tracks, signals, coaches, etc,” he added.Kumar further added, “Our efforts are to introduce new Linke-Hofmann-Busch (LHB) coaches for most of the trains which will improve travel comfort and to increase the speed at 120-130 km per hour, provided that the track fitness, signals and other technical things are in favorable conditions.”It is worth noting that the speed of Rajdhani and Shatabdi Express trains has been increased on many routes. Also, the semi-high speed trains like Vande Bharat are also being operated by the Railways. In such a situation, it can be expected that the number of semi-high speed trains will increase in the coming time and some new routes will also be ready to operate with these trains, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-upgrade-speed-of-trains-on-two-long-routes/story-bSSaMKjETKOphKSZ8URaNM.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid-19: India crosses 6 lakh mark with over 19,000 cases; 434 fatalities in last 24 hours||The number of coronavirus disease cases in India reached 6,04,641 on Thursday after 19,148 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Four hundred thirty four people died in the last 24 hours, pushing the death toll up to 17,834, the Union health ministry data showed at 8 am.The number of active cases in the country are 2,26,947, while 3,59,859 patients have been cured or discharged, the health ministry data showed.This comes a day after the country recorded its biggest single-day spike of 18,653 new infections. It also registered the highest single-day Covid-19 deaths at 507 on Wednesday.Also Read: What you need to know todayThe recovery rate from the coronavirus disease in India, the fourth worst-hit country in the world, has improved to 59.43 per cent. There are 347,978 people who have been discharged from hospitals across the country.Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the country with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and senior officials of their ministries, officials said.Apart from Vardhan, others who attended the meeting included top officials of the health and home ministries.India has added nearly two lakh cases to its Covid-19 tally in the last 12 days. Maharashtra and Delhi have been the worst-hit, though Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday that the Covid-19 situation in the national capital was on a worrying trajectory until a few weeks ago but a concerted effort helped turn the situation around.He, however, cautioned people that the outbreak could spike again if they become complacent.India reported its first case of Covid-19 on January 30 from Kerala when a student who had returned from Wuhan, China tested positive.In a bid to halt the rapid surge in new infections, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Manipur and Nagaland are among the states which have extended the lockdown beyond June 30 for varying periods up to July 31 without any more relaxations.The second phase of ‘Unlock ‘ also came into force from Wednesday after the month-long ‘Unlock 1’, a graded exit from the national lockdown imposed on March 25, ended on Tuesday. Though there will be “phased re-opening” of activities that had been barred to contain the spread of coronavirus, educational institutions, Metro rail services, cinema halls and gyms will continue to remain shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-crosses-6-lakh-mark-with-over-19-000-cases-434-fatalities-in-last-24-hours/story-jX0CFtD0mlMpgBy6opXeEK.html
02-07-2020||India||8 army personnel test positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand, Char Dham shrines open for pilgrims||With 66 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the state on Wednesday, the Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand jumped to 2,947. The recovery rate also crossed 78 percent with 86 fresh recoveries reported on Wednesday.The 66 fresh cases were reported from districts like Almora (5), Haridwar (2), Champawat (2), Dehradun (20), Nainital (22), Tehri Garhwal (4), Udham Singh Nagar (2) and Uttarkashi (9).Of the 66 patients, one case was a healthcare worker from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), eight cases were of army personnel with travel history to Chennai, Haryana, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Jabalpur and West Bengal. Nine were those with no travel history, 18 cases were of people who were found as contacts of earlier detected Covid-19 positive patients.The others had returned to the state from places like Afghanistan, Maharashtra, Delhi-NCR, Chennai, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab.Also read: Nearly 2 lakh new cases in past 12 days in IndiaA total of 86 patients were discharged from hospitals in the state on Wednesday. The patients recovered from districts like Almora (5), Bageshwar (1), Dehradun (4), Haridwar (5), Nainital (5), Pauri Garhwal (2), Pithoragarh (8), Uttarkashi (13) and Udham Singh Nagar (43)The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days stands at 46.72 days in the state with a recovery rate of 78.62 percent.Districts like Dehradun with 712 cases, Nainital with 496 cases, Tehri Garhwal with 420 cases and Haridwar (315 cases), have the highest number of cases in the state. Champawat district with 57 cases has the lowest number of Covid-19 cases in the state.Uttarakhand has so far tested over 70,000 samples of which results of over 5,100 are awaited. The state has 93 containment zones reported from five districts with 68 such zones from Haridwar district, 15 from Dehradun, two from Udham Singh Nagar, five in Tehri Garhwal district and three in Uttarkashi district.Meanwhile, as Char Dham shrines opened for pilgrims from Uttarakhand on Wednesday, 422 online registrations were made on the first day.Pilgrims can register themselves on the website www.badrinath-kedarnath.gov.in for obtaining the e-pass required for visiting the shrines. For Kedarnath shrine, 165 bookings were made - 154 for Badrinath, 55 for Gangotri and 48 for Yamunotri.Ravinathan Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said that arrangements for thermal screening, sanitization, masks have been made at Badrinath and Kedarnath shrines.“Touching of idols in the temple, distribution of offerings is prohibited and the bells are also covered. Passenger rest houses at Guptkashi and Sonprayag on Badrinath and Kedarnath yatra route have been opened for the pilgrims,” said Raman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-army-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttarakhand-char-dham-shrines-open-for-pilgrims/story-QA8iodCIuss8hq0F2khhuJ.html
02-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: Madhya Pradesh cabinet expansion today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh cabinet expansion today, over 20 ministers likely to be inductedThe Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh cabinet will be expanded on Thursday with some of the former Congress MLAs who joined the BJP in March expected to get ministerial berths. Read moreAnother spike in Covid-19 numbers in Karnataka, active cases now more than curedKarnataka on Wednesday witnessed yet another spike in Covid-19 cases with 1,272 new infections being recorded in the last 24 hours. More worryingly for the state, the number of active cases at 8,194 was higher than the 8,063 cured ones bringing the recovery rate to less than 50 per cent. Read moreIf elected in 2020 US polls, Joe Biden has a promise for ‘natural partner’ IndiaDemocratic presidential candidate and former vice-president Joe Biden said that if he wins the November elections, strengthening relationship with India which is the US’ “natural partner”, will be a high priority for his administration. Read moreSTik with this STok, WeChat over tea: Amul dedicates new doodle to India’s ban on Chinese appsIndia’s most well-known dairy brand, Amul, is also very well-known for one other thing: it’s timely doodles that are well-known for their ‘pun’ny captions while also making a comment on the current situation.  Read moreHarsh Goenka tweets about ‘restaurant visit’ after 3 months. But there’s a catchIf you’re missing the good old days of going to your favourite restaurant or checking out a new café or simply going out for lunch or dinner, this tweet by business tycoon Harsh Goenka may offer an idea. All you need is a little creativity and some effort. Read moreSara Ali Khan takes fans inside her colourful home, shows her ‘happy place’. See picsSara Ali Khan gave her Insta-fam a glimpse of her home, where she is currently staying with her mother Amrita Singh, brother Ibrahim Ali Khan and their dog Fuffy. On her Instagram stories, she shared a picture of a cosy corner of her apartment, where she likes to read. Read moreThe greatest Test XI never to feature on the Lord’s Honours BoardThe Lord’s honours board includes names of some of the all-time best, but at the same time, eludes a list of equally glittering cricketers. Some of the best Test cricketers, despite their chequered careers, have missed out getting their names etched on the historic Lord’s boards, which celebrates players who have scored a century, taken five wickets in a single innings, or taken 10 wickets in a match in either a Test or One Day International (ODI) at the iconic venue. Read moreWhy most of us won’t need Covid vaccine: Oxford prof explains | On The RecordOxford university’s Professor Sunetra Gupta, an epidemiologist, has been tagged ‘Professor Reopen’ for her argument against lockdowns as a countermeasure against the Covid-19 pandemic. In this conversation with Hindustan Times’ national political editor, Sunetra Choudhury, Professor Gupta explains why most of us won’t need Covid vaccine. She also explains why lockdowns are not a long term solution to contain the spread of the virus. Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-madhya-pradesh-cabinet-expansion-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZPX5IViRP9iVD4U9il0keK.html
02-07-2020||India||‘We had ensured we would shoot first’: Remembering the Entebbe Raid||Forty-four years ago, Israeli commandos carried out what is rated as the most incredible military operations in history: the Entebbe Raid. On the anniversary of the raid, two of its participants, Mossad agent Avner Avraham and special forces officer Rami Sherman, spoke about what they experienced.A nurse from Manchester began the intelligence process. As the hijacked Air France flight was en route to Entebbe in Uganda, a British-Israeli nurse Patricia Martel deliberately cut herself and, bleeding profusely, claimed she was having a miscarriage. The four hijackers, two German and two Arab, let her off when the plane stopped in Benghazi in Libya to refuel.Said Rami Sherman, a member of the crack Israeli Sayeret Matkal and veteran of the Entebbe raid, “She flew back to London from Benghazi and was immediately met by agents of MI6 and Mossad. They gave her thousands of photographs. She identified the terrorists, told how many there were and what kind of weapons they had.”In theory, there had been advance information. One old lady passenger, when the four hijackers boarded the flight in Athens with large bags, had called out, “They’re terrorists!”Sherman said, “Of course, no one paid attention.” Hijacking in those days was common. In 1972 there was a hijack every month. It was Sunday, June 27, 1976.The plane flew to Entebbe. There the passengers were separated, Israelis and other Jews on one side, everyone else on the other. Said Sherman, himself a concentration camp survivor, “This news: Germans with guns selecting Jews from a captive group. It evoked the Holocaust.” But the Israeli government still this as something best left to France to handle.Over a hundred non-Jewish passengers were released and sent to Paris. Mossad agents met them and interrogated them.Avner Abraham, a former Mossad agent who served on the operations room, describes how information was collected. Uganda’s brutal ruler, Idi Amin, had received Israeli military training when he was a soldier. One of his former trainers got on the line and “spoke with him on the telephone five times” to glean what was on his mind. An Israeli engineer showed up with blueprints of the airport terminal where the hostages were being held. His company had won the tender to construct the building. Another enterprising Israeli, using a small Cessna propeller plane, flew repeatedly over the airport taking photographs and flew back home to deliver the photographs to the then prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin.The Israeli government was divided over the raid. The army chief of staff felt the raid was too risky, an operation from a “James Bond movie.” Israel had no intelligence assets in Uganda, though they had plenty in neighbouring Kenya. Even while this was going on, says Sherman, “Defence minister Shimon Peres insisted we should go ahead, prepare and plan.”The terrorists announced that after Thursday noon they said would shoot two hostages every hour. Playing for time and in violation of Israeli policy, Rabin announced his government would concede to the terrorists’ demand to release over 50 Arab prisoners. But the Israeli government now accepted that this was now their responsibility.“From morning until 6 pm on Friday the plan was finalised,” said Sherman. “The intelligence operations were over and it was now left to us to rehearse.” The commando debated what they would do on the ground. “We concluded there was one important question. How do we ensure we surprise the terrorists? How do we ensure we are the ones to shoot first? This was a key question.”As is well-known, Mossad procured a Mercedes Benz limousine of the variety used by Idi Amin. Avraham says, “When we brought the Benz, it was grey. It had to be black. It was Saturday and the shops were closed but we tracked down the owner of one shop in a synagogue and got black spray paint from him.” In total, four C-130 Hercules and two Boeing 707s would go on the 4000 km trip, carrying a total of 180 soldiers, 40 aircrew and 21 doctors and other staff. The single Hercules that would land at Entebbe would carry the Benz, a jeep and 33 soldiers.Sherman says that even as they were rehearsing the attack and learning to land the C-130 on runways without lights, “We all though the government wouldn’t make the decision to let us go. It was simply too risky.”On Saturday 230 pm, he was in the main C-130 among the assault team lead by Yoni Netanyahu, brother of the present Israeli prime minister, as it left Sharm el Sheikh. Even then, the government had yet to give a green light. “We flew for three hours, most of the time at 30 meters above the ground. There was so much turbulence some of us were throwing up.”At 6:30 pm, when the plane was over Ethiopia, they received the go ahead. Operation Thunderbolt was on. “We flew three more hours, part of it through a terrible thunderstorm, before we found ourselves approaching the airport. We arrived at 23:01 hours, just one minute behind our scheduled time.”The plane landed, 33 soldiers disembarked with a Benz and a Landrover jeep. “It was a beautiful night, sky was full of stars. What I remember the most was the quietness, especially after a very noisy flight,” says Sherman. The soldiers, dressed in Ugandan uniforms but wearing white hats to avoid friendly fire, headed to the terminal building. Two Ugandan soldiers waved them down. “We had too little time to talk our way through. Yoni Netanyahu and another soldier shot them.”The element of surprise, however, was now lost. The Israelis began exchanging fire with the terrorists and Ugandan soldiers in the control tower. Netanyahu was hit and died soon afterwards, the only Israeli soldier to die. “I fought with the people in the control tower,” says Sherman. The battle was over in seven minutes. Other soldiers ran into the terminal to the hostages. “My last duty was to lead the hostages from the terminal building to the waiting airplane,” says Sherman. “They had been awoken from sleep by the shooting, some had no shoes while others had babies, they were in shock.”Another commando detachment raided a nearby Ugandan airbase and destroyed 11 MiG fighters parked there to they would not be scrambled in pursuit. “It was also a favour to the Kenyans who were helping us,” says Sherman.Between the C-130 landing with the commandos and then taking off with the hostages, 52 minutes had elapsed. The plane flew to Nairobi for refuelling. Says Avraham, “The local Mossad cell head was waiting at the airport with some local Israeli businessmen.” The businessmen took the injured to local hospitals, others were taken to the Boeing 707 field hospital.Sherman said his heroes in the operation were the Israeli pilots who “stretched everything to the limit,” Air France captain Michel Bacos who refused to leave his passengers even when given an opportunity, and Prime Minister Rabin for taking the decision. Rabin had dictated a resignation letter to his secretary in the eventuality of the mission failing. The prime minister, himself a former chief of staff, had decided that “over 30 casualties” would constitute failure.It was a mission that ended up defining modern Israel. Benjamin Netanyahu, then a businessman in the United States, would receive a phone call informing him of his brother’s death and decide to enter Israeli politics. Operation Thunderbolt was renamed Operation Yonatan in his brother’s honour. One of the military intelligence officers handling the operation, Ehud Barak, was to become a future prime minister. And Israel’s present foreign minister, Gabi Ashkenazi, was among those on the C-130s that flew to Entebbe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-had-ensured-we-would-shoot-first-remembering-the-entebbe-raid/story-nlAjymYVrg976XIzE0J5OJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Tripura to distribute pineapple and lemon juice to boost people’s immunity||The Tripura government would distribute free Vitamin C enriched fruits, mainly pineapple and lemon, to people of urban areas from July 4 in order to boost their immunity in fight against coronavirus disease Covid-19.Both pineapple and lemon, grown in the state extensively, are known to be rich in Vitamin C and act as anti-oxidants to prevent any virus attack.The distribution programme would be a part of the state government’s month-long ‘Mukhya Mantri Corona Pratirodhak Abhiyan (Chief Minister Public Immunity Campaign against Corona)’.The Vitamin C enriched fruits would be distributed every Saturday from 12 pm to 4 pm at 25 local urban bodies and sub-divisional offices. “We are going to start distributing lemon and pineapple juice among people in the urban areas to increase their immunity power from coming Saturday (July 4). We bought these fruits directly from the farmers so that they could also earn benefits,” chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb wrote on social media. The National Urban Livelihood Mission would monitor the scheme at the grassroots level, he added. On the issue, law minister Ratan Lal Nath said that the government would spend Rs one crore for the scheme. An official from horticulture department said that the project is implemented by urban development department as nodal authority.“The horticulture department was requested earlier to share list of places where pineapple and lemons are growing including the farmers involved in growing these fruits. We have provided the list to the urban development department. We are unaware of the rest of the proceedings,” the official said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tripura-to-distribute-pineapple-and-lemon-juice-to-boost-people-s-immunity/story-tafaggDCppUuSP3DLodknL.html
02-07-2020||India||Tripura intern doctors protest over non-payment of stipends||While Tripura was observing World Doctors’ Day on Wednesday, nearly 90 intern doctors of Agartala Government Medical College (AGMC) protested over non-payment of their stipends for the past two months.The protest ended in the evening after medical superintendent Dr Debasish Roy, including other medical officials, assured to solve the issue within a week. The interns are given a stipend of nearly Rs. 18,000 as per the regulations. Also read: Nearly 2 lakh new cases in past 12 days in India“This is unfortunate that we were not paid our stipend even after working for 16 hours or beyond in the hospital. After we protested, we have been assured redressal to our problem,” said a medical intern.Dr Roy said, “ It takes time to process the first stipends and they have joined as interns recently. We have talked to them and assured that their stipends would be credited to their bank accounts within a week. The health services are also normal now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-intern-doctors-protest-over-non-payment-of-stipends/story-eFZvfhTpXDWt78g9h9JBDO.html
02-07-2020||India||Another spike in Covid-19 numbers in Karnataka, active cases now more than cured||Karnataka on Wednesday witnessed yet another spike in Covid-19 cases with 1,272 new infections being recorded in the last 24 hours. More worryingly for the state, the number of active cases at 8,194 was higher than the 8,063 cured ones bringing the recovery rate to less than 50 per cent. Bangalore Urban with 4,649 active cases account now for more than half of all the active cases across the other 29 districts in the state. In just the last week, Bangalore Urban has seen its active cases quadrauple.To address the continued spurt in cases, the state government has announced a slew of measures over the past few days including complete lockdown on Sundays starting July 5. It also has advanced curfew by one hour with no movement of traffic - except for essential services - permitted between 8 pm to 5 am.The government had drawn considerable flak after numerous videos appeared on social media of the cavalier manner in which the Covid-19 dead patients were seen unceremoniously being dumped by sanitation workers in mass graves - in some instances using earthmovers.While initially such acts were reported from Ballari, it has now emerged that similar incidents have been recorded in Davangare and Yadgir too. Addressing a press conference in Bangalore, chief minister B S Yediyurappa condemned the manner in which the dead bodies of Covid-19 victims were handled by authorities and said the government would ensure that such acts would not be repeated.Health and family welfare minister B Sriramulu too condemned handling of the bodies of Covid-19 patients. “I have ordered the suspension of eight workers involved in this act (in Ballari). I have sought a detailed enquiry into the whole incident and we will take action against those responsible,” he said on Wednesday. The DC of Ballari on Tuesday had expressed his regrets and apologised for the manner in which the bodies were handled.Meanwhile, the Karnataka commissioner of health and family welfare services Pankaj Kumar Pandey on Wednesday issued a notice to nine leading private hospitals seeking their explanation after a Covid-19 positive patient named Bhawarlal Sujani was turned away by them without providing any medical assistance. Sujani later died due to lack of medical attention.The hospitals have been asked to reply to the show-cause notice within 24 hours as to why action should not be initiated against them under provisions of Karnataka Private Medical Establishments act as well as State Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-spike-in-covid-19-numbers-in-karnataka-active-cases-now-more-than-cured/story-jzQRP2sDf8ocQXgYCwJ6dJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Maoist with Rs 29 lakh bounty nabbed in Chhattisgarh’s Rajnandgaon||The police in Chhattisgarh’s Rajnandgaon nabbed a Maoist commander on Wednesday after an encounter in which he was injured. The encounter took place in the forest of Rajnandgaon on Tuesday night.Police said that David alias Umesh, a native of Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra, was one of most wanted Maoists of newly formed MMC (Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh) of CPI (Maoist).“We detained him on Wednesday morning and admitted to a hospital. His arrest will be made after his recovery,” Rajnandgaon Superintendent of Police (SP) Jitendra Shukla told Hindustan Times.An AK-47 rifle, three magazines, 54 live cartridges, one pistol, one walkie-talkie set, medical items and other stuffs of daily use and Rs 772 cash was also recovered from David’s procession.Shukla further said that encounter took place when a police team was out of an anti-Maoist operation.“The team laid an ambush on Katenga-Pendridih road and sensing presence of security personnel the Maoists opened fire. The encounter lasted for about 30 minutes after which the Maoists fled from the spot. A search operation started after the encounter and we nabbed David in the Khobha village,” the SP said.The total reward on his head is of Rs 29 lakh in three states including Maharashatra, MP and Chhattisgarh.“David was one core member of Maoists team engaged in the expansion of new zone MMC in three states. His arrest is very important development for the police,” said a senior police officer posted in Raipur.It is worth mentioning that the Maoists have built a new red corridor in the tri-junction of three states - Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh - in 2016-17. Many documents recovered suggest they are continuously moving in that area to strengthen the new zone and recruit some cadres.Senior police officers of Chhattisgarh believe that that now there about 200 armed Maoists in the Vistaar Dalam of the MMC zone, who are trying to established their grip. The new zone is said to be a refuge of hardcore Maoists of Bastar and other regions. Most of the cadres in this region were recruited from South Bastar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-with-rs-29-lakh-bounty-nabbed-in-chhattisgarh-s-rajnandgaon/story-zrQdd9NznRPzh3YGE7p8eM.html
02-07-2020||India||Nearly 2 lakh new cases in past 12 days in India, death toll crosses 60k in Brazil: Covid-19 wrap||Coronavirus cases across the globe have crossed the 10 million mark and are rising unabated. The viral disease has claimed over 5 lakh lives across the world till date. Amid the pandemic, many countries are have been trying to lift the lockdown restrictions in a staggered manner, including India. Although the number of coronavirus cases in the country inch toward a grim milestone and has already crossed the 6 lakh mark, the Ministry of Health says that a low death rate and an improving rate of recovery, presently nearly 60 percent, are positive indicators.Here’s a list of Covid-19 developments from India and across the globe:• With 604,993 cases, India’s Covid-19 tally has crossed the 6-lakh mark while the death toll stands at 17,847.• Delhi chief minister said that the Covid-19 outbreak in the national capital is now under control but there is a need to stave-off complacency as the virus is unpredictable.• Patanjali Ayurved’s ‘Coronil’ drug is an immunity booster and not a cure for coronavirus, says AYUSH ministry. The company has been allowed to market and sell the drug for Covid-19 management and immunity-boosting but not as a cure.• Decorated Delhi police inspector dies of Covid-19, 2,000 police personnel have been infected so far.• The Centre has asked state governments to step up rapid antigen tests in fight against Covid-19.• Bengaluru continues to battles a surge in Covid-19 cases, ICUs in government hospitals are full of patients. Of Karnataka’s 16,000 Covid-19 patients, nearly 5,300 come from Bengaluru. • India added nearly 2 lakh cases to its Covid-19 tally in the last 12 days.• As the number of coronavirus cases rise to 10,653,987 across the globe, Greece witnesses a wave of first tourists. Global Covid-19 death toll stands at 515,504.• In Brazil, the number of coronavirus deaths have crossed the 60,000-mark.• California in the United States has rolled back reopening of bars, restaurants amid a surge in cases.• A high number of cases are being reported in US’ meat processing units.•US President Donald Trump has said that the “he is all for masks” but believes that the virus will disappear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-2-lakh-new-cases-in-past-12-days-in-india-death-toll-crosses-60k-in-brazil-covid-19-wrap/story-mtpG3NyhFU98RTqwKxEMtO.html
02-07-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh cabinet expansion today, over 20 ministers likely to be inducted||The Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh cabinet will be expanded on Thursday with some of the former Congress MLAs who joined the BJP in March expected to get ministerial berths.While the names were yet to be announced, BJP sources claimed that about two dozen new ministers will be inducted.The oath of office will be administered by Governor Anandiben Patel at Raj Bhawan at 11 am, officials said.Patel, who is Uttar Pradesh governor, has been given additional charge as Madhya Pradesh governor in view of incumbent Lalji Tandon’s hospitalisation. Patel took oath as MP governor earlier in the day. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan confirmed that the cabinet expansion will take place on Thursday.Asked about the delay in cabinet expansion, Chouhan avoided a direct reply and turned to mythology.“Only ‘amrit’ (elixir) comes out of ‘manthan’ (churning), vish (poison) is consumed by (Lord) Shiva,” the 61-year-old BJP leader said without elaborating but indicating the difficult task before him. BJP national vice president Vinay Sahastrabuddhe arrived here on Wednesday afternoon to discuss the expansion, BJP sources said. A BJP leader said that Sahastrabuddhe, Chouhan and state BJP chief V D Sharma were holding meetings on Wednesday night with party legislators at the CM’s house to give final touches to the list of new ministers.They were also trying to mollify some senior BJP legislators who would not get a cabinet berth, he said.Former Union minister and BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia will arrive on Thursday morning to participate in the oath-taking ceremony. Around two dozen new ministers including some former Congress MLAs (who joined the BJP in March alongwith their leader Scindia) are likely to be inducted into the cabinet, BJP sources said.The initial “mini” expansion of the Chouhan cabinet took place on April 21 with the induction of five ministers, including two former Congress MLAs close to Scindia -- Tulsi Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput. Chouhan took oath as chief minister for a record fourth term on March 23 this year, after Kamal Nath resigned from the post following rebellion by 22 MLAs of the Congress. Sources close to Scindia said that besides the remainingfour ministers who had quit the Kamal Nath government, six others from his camp are likely to be inducted into the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-led-madhya-pradesh-cabinet-expansion-today-over-20-ministers-likely-to-be-inducted/story-Qk8nheMH0iY87vEZrsU0CJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Former chief minister Harish Rawat shakes Uttarakhand politics with his spate of protests||Former chief minister of Uttarakhand and senior Congress leader Harish Rawat has been holding protests against the ruling BJP on various issues. His protests in the last three days have stirred the state politics, forcing the ruling BJP to come up with a counter as well as leaving his party opponents uneasy. Rawat was in quarantine as per Covid-19 norms after returning from Delhi. He launched the protests after finishing his 14-day home quarantine.On Monday, Rawat held a bullock cart rally in Dehradun on the issue of fuel price hike followed by a sit-in protest on Tuesday near Governor house against the state government for booking Congress leaders on ‘false cases.’On Wednesday again, the Congress leader held an agitation against the BJP-led NDA government on fuel price hike in Dehradun.During the protest, he attacked chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat by accusing him of doing politics through BJP’s virtual rallies across the state but asking him (Rawat) to “stop doing politics in the pandemic”.“The CM had said today that I should stop doing politics in the pandemic through my various events which is just ridiculous. It is actually he and other BJP leaders who have been doing politics through their virtual rallies across the state in which they have been attacking Congress. I want to ask, if that is not politics in then is it ‘Gita Paath or Ramayan’s Choupai’?” said Rawat.“However, paying heed to his request of postponing my protest events amid pandemic, I have decided to do the same for my upcoming events. But we will keep raising the issues of the public against the government,” he said. His protests have rattled the ruling BJP with its senior leaders coming out to counter him. Former BJP state president and present MP from Nainital-US Nagar, Ajay Bhatt, termed these protests a “drama”.“The protests of Harish Rawat are just show-offs and mere drama. It would have no effect on us because Rawat knows that Congress is under attack for taking money from China as well as misusing the PM Relief Fund during their rule. He and other Congress leaders have no answer to them, hence this drama,” said Bhatt. Not only the BJP, Rawat’s opponents within the party have also become uneasy with his protests which have been grabbing all the attention. A senior party leader who didn’t wish to be named said, “Of course Rawat has made his opponents in the party uneasy because they cannot tolerate that he alone with his protests have been grabbing the eyeballs. These antics actually dampen their efforts to sideline him in the party and Rawat being a highly seasoned politician knows that very well.”The political experts also believe that it’s very difficult to keep Rawat out of the political picture of Uttarakhand. MM Semwal, political expert and professor of political science in Garhwal Central University in Srinagar, Pauri Garhwal, said, “Rawat has got his reach to every corner of the state as he has worked on grassroots. He knows how to shake the government as well as his opponents within the party and that is exactly what he is doing.”“Apart from that, Rawat is doing what an actual Opposition should do - to not let the government sit in its comfort zone. If the government and his opponents think that they can silence him, they are totally wrong,” said Semwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-chief-minister-harish-rawat-shakes-uttarakhand-politics-with-his-spate-of-protests/story-Hj3bUxheBHRr0uid79jaYL.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||There are reports of a new swine flu in China, and some news outlets claim it could be the next potential pandemic, but I’m going to ignore it for two reasons. One, we are still dealing with one pandemic which originated in China and is currently raging through the world (10.4 million cases and 510,000 deaths, and still counting). Two, China remains a black box when it comes to information — we still do not know a lot about the origin and the early growth of the coronavirus disease in that country, nor do we know enough about its current status in remote provinces.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWhich is why the US is a good country for India’s health policy mandarins, researchers, and epidemiologists to study. Sure, India’s population is much larger (1.3 billion compared to the US’s 330 million) but the US is larger by geographical area (7.7 million sq km to India’s 3.3 million sq km). And like India, the US is also divided into many states, and has many large cities (although its population density is lower than India’s). There’s more and better information coming out of the US too.As this column pointed out last week, things have taken a turn for the worse in that country. On Tuesday, at least 48,000 Covid-19 cases were registered in the US, the highest single-day tally thus far, and driven almost entirely by a rising number of cases in previously relatively unaffected states such as Arizona and Texas.That is an important learning for India.Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu accounted for 61% of the new cases on June 30, continuing a trend that has been in play for almost two months, maybe even longer, but there are signs (and I’ve discussed them in detail in recent instalments of this column) that things could get better in Delhi and Tamil Nadu, barring a sudden spike caused by what can only be described as moments of collective madness (for instance, the curious instance of the crowd in the vegetable market in Chennai). By the third week of July, if not the middle of the month, these states (fine, one city-state and a state) could see a sustained decline in new cases. Delhi has also been seeing the number of daily deaths stabilise in the mid-60s (for the past two weeks).I won’t discuss Maharashtra because (again, as I have said before in this column) the state is most likely paying for decades of neglect of health-, civic-, urban-, and transport-infrastructure and simple overcrowding. But, if the US trend is any indication, then, as cases come down in Delhi and Tamil Nadu, and as India continues to open up, allowing more movement and activities, new hot spots will emerge in other states.Sure, Delhi and Tamil Nadu are still hot spots (the first saw 2,199 new cases on Tuesday and the second 3,943), but if they seem to have gotten their hands and heads around managing the pandemic, it is on the basis of extensive testing. Delhi has tested close to 28,000 per million of its population, and Tamil Nadu 17,200. The rest of India isn’t testing as much as Delhi, Tamil Nadu, and Maharashtra. These three states account for 2.67 million of the 8.82 million tests carried out in the country. When the tests and the populations of these three states are included, India has tested around 7,000 people per million of its population; when they are excluded, it has tested 5,780 per million. And some states have tested far fewer, perhaps in an attempt to show that they are managing the pandemic well.They should increase testing now, instead of leaving it till too late. As China has shown (in Wuhan where there was a potential flare-up of infections, and now Beijing), and, closer home, as Delhi and Tamil Nadu have, it is possible to rapidly increase testing. Sure, the price of doing this will be an initial increase in number of new cases as testing increases, but, over time, this will come down; such testing will also provide the state with information it currently doesn’t possess — the prevalence of the disease in the region.Testing, tracing, and isolation remain the best way to manage the spread of the viral disease. Just as masks remain the best way to prevent being infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-7d622suVZSnXAWsW4KtuAP.html
02-07-2020||India||Railways opens doors for private trains||The railway ministry on Wednesday began the formal process to allow a private company to run trains on 109 routes -- a process that aims to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises that has in recent decades been outpaced by the demands of a rapidly growing economy. The ministry issued what is known as a request for qualification (RFQ) for a private company to run 151 trains spread over these routes, laying down specific conditions that will need to be met in a move that is meant to “introduce modern technologies and world class services” for one of India’s most popular modes of transport.“This is the first initiative of private investment for running passenger trains over Indian Railways network,” the ministry said on Wednesday. “The objective of this initiative is to introduce modern technology rolling stock with reduced maintenance, reduced transit time, boost job creation, provide enhanced safety, provide world class travel experience to passengers,” it said. The ministry said the planned investment will come to around ₹30,000 crore, the rakes will need to be manufactured in India, and the private entity shall be responsible for financing, procuring, operation and maintenance of the trains.“Trains shall be designed for a maximum speed of 160 kmph. There would be a substantial reduction in journey time. The running time taken by a train shall be comparable to or faster than the fastest train of Indian Railways operating in the respective route,” the ministry’s release said.The initiative for private investment for running passenger trains began in a limited way last year with the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) -- a Railways subsidiary -- introducing the Lucknow-Delhi Tejas Express. Currently, IRCTC operates three trains -- the Kashi Mahakal Express on the Varanasi-Indore route, the Lucknow-New Delhi Tejas and the Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas. These are the only ones not run by the Indian Railways itself, as has been the practice in its 167-year history.Opposition leaders criticised the move. “Now the govt is in a desperate mood to sell a great chunk of one of our largest national asset #IndianRailways, privatization cannot be construed as a panacea of railways malady, it is the inefficiency of the railways itself,” said Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who was the junior railway minister in the United Progressive Alliance - 2 government.Hindustan Times reported in September that the national carrier is considering the idea of handing over operations of more trains to private players on several important routes with improved services and amenities for passengers.It proposed the following routes for long distance travel: Delhi-Mumbai, Delhi-Lucknow, Delhi-Jammu/Katra, Delhi-Howrah, Secunderabad-Hyderabad, Secunderabad-Delhi, Delhi- Chennai, Mumbai-Chennai, Howrah-Chennai and Howrah-Mumbai.In October, the Union government and the think-tank Niti Aayog decided to set up a task force “drive the process”. On January 7, the ministry and the government’s think-tank Niti Aayog uploaded a draft RFQ, expanding the number of routes to 100 from the previously planned 50 routes. According to Wednesday’s statement, the “private entity shall pay to Indian Railways fixed haulage charges, energy charges as per actual consumption and a share in gross revenue determined through a transparent bidding process”.The operation will have to conform to key performance indicators like punctuality, reliability, upkeep of trains etc, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-opens-doors-for-private-trains/story-pN96IjtxbDM02i6U7jku4I.html
02-07-2020||India||Situation much better than month ago, but remain cautious: Kejriwal||The Covid-19 situation in the Capital was on a worrying trajectory until a few weeks ago but a concerted effort helped turn the situation around, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday, cautioning people that the outbreak could spike again if they become complacent. “Today, I am happy that we have waded through the tough times we had seen at the beginning of June. Our hard work has paid off. Today, only around 26,000 active cases are there in Delhi against our projection of 60,000 cases. This projection was made based on a portal created by the government of India,” he added. Kejriwal also pointed to other data points such as availability of beds and recovery rate to back his statement.  Delhi ended Wednesday with 89,802 cases of which 27,007 are active. It has so far seen 2,803 deaths, and 59,992 people have recovered from the coronavirus disease. In a digital press conference, Kejriwal steered clear of claiming that the worst of the pandemic is behind the city-state -- as indicated by numbers of the last week -- and instead urged people to strictly follow the only regimen known to prevent infections: wearing masks, maintaining hygiene, and distancing socially. Delhi saw a peak of 3947 cases on June 23, but the number has come down steadily since then despite the number of tests increasing. In the eight days since (including Wednesday, July 1) the city has seen, 3788, 3390, 3460, 2948, 2889, 2084, 2199, and 2,442 cases. The daily positivity rate (number of people testing positive to number of tests), which was hovering around a peak of 32% in mid-June has since fallen and was 12.24% on Wednesday. Although Kejriwal asked people not to rely on reports circulating in social media that the peak of Covid-19 cases in Delhi was over., he did admit that “the situation now is not as scary as it was around a month ago.” “But, this does not mean we get complacent and stop preparing. This virus is totally unpredictable. It is possible that the cases suddenly spike again. Some experts are saying in social media that Delhi has already seen its peak and now the cases will only decline. I request all of you not to pay attention to these experts at the moment. Keep wearing masks, follow social distancing and keep washing or sanitising your hands,” he said. The chief minister said his government would continue to prepare more beds and other Covid logistics at a war footing. “There is a proverb in English – hope for the best and prepare for the worst. We are preparing for the worst-case scenario.”  With cases peaking in the middle of June, there were fears about the availability of hospital beds. The prediction then was that 15,000 beds would be required by June-end, Kejriwal said. Hospital admissions were so high that every day, at least 250 new beds were required to be added, he added.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia cited projections that said Delhi could see 5.5 lakh cases by the end of July, a move that Union home minister Amit Shah said in an interview earlier this week caused “fear” and forced the Union government to take a hand in helping the city-state’s Aam Aadmi Party government deal with the issue. Things have improved since, Kejriwal said. “But, today the situation is just the opposite. In the last one week, bed occupancy has reduced by 450 instead of increasing. It is also an indication that serious patients of Corona are also decreasing. Today we have 15,000 beds ready in Delhi for Covid-19 in various hospitals and of this, only 5,800 are occupied. Until a month ago, we had only 8,500 beds for Covid.” According to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday, the city has 15,242 hospital beds, up from around 13,600 a day before. The chief minister added that the recovery rate is also on the rise. He said that a month ago, the recovery rate was 38%, and that this has now increased to 64%.“Delhi has seen a total of over 87,000 cases so far, of which over 58,000 have recovered. On June 23, nearly 4,000 cases were recorded and yesterday (Tuesday), around 2,200 new cases were. So, in the past one week, the daily (number of) fresh cases also appears to have reduced by a half. But, this may again spike,” he said. The chief minister also said the number of daily deaths due to Covid-19 have declined. Covid deaths in Delhi peaked in the first half of June. “There was a day when nearly 125 deaths were recorded. Today, the daily Covid deaths are hovering aorund 60-65. We have to reduce this further.” Kejriwal said Delhi has scaled up testing across the city and that the positivity rate has seen a decline over the past two weeks. “Earlier, of every 100 tests, 31 would test positive. Now, 13 positive cases are found per 100 tests,” he said. According to the Hindustan Times dashboard, Delhi has carried out 29,037 tests for every million of its population. According to government data, at the beginning of June, Delhi used to conduct around 5,000 tests every day. This now has been scaled up to 17,000-20,000 every day.Three types of tests are currently being conducted in Delhi. The first one is the RT-PCR test, which is a confirmatory test, but whose results come in after a minimum of five hours. The second one is the rapid antigen test (which is highly accurate in identifying positive cases) where the results take 30 minutes to come. The third is antibody tests, which is being conducted as part of the serological survey in Delhi (and which are not being used for identifying cases) to understand the extent of the spread of the virus. “I think it is too early to say whether the situation has stabilised in Delhi. We have to wait and watch, at least for the 14-day incubation period to see what happens. If the numbers keep coming down, great. But, there is a possibility that as the number of cases in the current containment zones come down with people in the area already having had the infection, newer hotspots might emerge,” said Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/situation-much-better-than-month-ago-but-remain-cautious-kejriwal/story-H5LRqoteLeSM4gYIthLPII.html
02-07-2020||India||Central India, west coast set for intense monsoon||Northeast and eastern India, which have reported flooding this week, will continue to receive widespread and heavy rains over the next five days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. Intense monsoon activity is now likely to begin over central India and the western coast as IMD issued an alert to authorities to remain prepared for any emergencies.The region covering eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Assam, Meghalaya, and Sikkim have been receiving very heavy and extremely heavy rain since June 26. According to IMD’s weekly weather report released on Wednesday, Assam received 104%, Meghalaya 141%, Sikkim 304%, and Bihar received 99% excess rain over the past week from June 24 onwards. The rain has triggered flooding in Assam, landslides in Sikkim, and created a flood-like situation in parts of Bihar. IMD on Wednesday issued an orange alert for heavy to very heavy rains in eastern Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Konkan, Goa, central Maharashtra from Friday to Sunday. Orange alert implies that authorities should be prepared for any related emergencies. National Weather Forecasting Centre head K Sathi Devi said the intensity of rain has reduced marginally over the northeast and eastern India but rain will continue for a few days. “Intense and widespread rains will start in central India including Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, and parts of the west coast like Konkan, Goa and coastal Karnataka.”Devi said weather stations in the northeast have been recording extremely heavy rains (over 20 cm) since last week. “This was a result of orography [topography of mountains] and the moisture laden south-south westerly winds blowing over the region.”The monsoon trough shifted to the north around June 26 with a convergence of strong southerly and south-westerly winds from Bay of Bengal over the northeast and eastern India. Now the trough is gradually moving back to its normal position.IMD bulletin said a cyclonic circulation is lying over south Gujarat and another over eastern Uttar Pradesh and its neighbourhood in lower and mid-tropospheric levels. “Under its influence, fairly widespread heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely along the west coast, Gujarat and interior Maharashtra during the next 5 days,” it said. It added extremely heavy rain is also very likely over Konkan and Goa on Friday and Saturday and over Madhya Maharashtra on Saturday. R K Jenamani, a senior IMD scientist, said there will be a high convergence of strong moist westerly and south-westerly winds from the Arabian sea very likely along western coast till Sunday and over northwestern plains and central India from Friday. “All conditions are favourable for intense monsoon activity over the west coast and central India. Monsoon progression and rains have been very good so far.”The country over the last month has received 15% excess rains. The monsoon accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall and is critical to the country’s agricultural sector. At least 700 million people are dependent on agriculture in India for their livelihood. The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country, where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-india-west-coast-set-for-intense-monsoon/story-R8kCeXrvHidK9e0NlOBQQO.html
02-07-2020||India||CBI case against GVK group that runs Mumbai airport over alleged Rs 705 crore scam||The Central Bureau of Investigation has registered a case against Dr G V K Reddy, Chairman of GVK group, the company that runs the Mumbai airport – MIAL (Mumbai International Airport Limited), and others for alleged irregularities worth ₹705 crore in the development of Mumbai airport.MIAL is a joint venture between AAI (Airports Authority of India), GVK and foreign entities. The AAI entered an agreement in 2006 for modernization and up gradation, operation and maintenance of Mumbai airport as part of joint venture called –MIAL.The agreement stated that the revenue share has to be given first to AAI and then the balance earnings of MIAL shall be used for modernisation and upgradation, operation and maintenance and the essence of the agreement was to make it a world class facility.CBI FIR alleges that the GVK group connived with their family members, relatives and employees to give undue monetary advantage to them and to cause corresponding unlawful loss to AAI. As part of the conspiracy, they assigned the premium retail areas of Mumbai airport to their family members at exorbitantly low rates there- by reducing the revenue of MIAL. The GVK group even used funds of MIAL by entering into agreements with a company owned by family members, relatives, employees to book train, air travel tickets and hotel booking for personal as well as group employees of GVK who were not connected to MIAL.The agency has named total 13 persons and companies as accused as well as unknown public servants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-case-against-gvk-group-that-runs-mumbai-airport-over-alleged-irregularities-of-rs-705-cr/story-NYJTJbpffn9av261LUQTSP.html
02-07-2020||India||In the Congress, the dilemma on nationalism and Modi||After the Indian Air Force (IAF)‘s Balakot strike to avenge Pulwama, the Congress had reached out to three domain experts to help it formulate its political responses. They included two former foreign secretaries and a general who once headed the northern command. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had built the February, 2019 attack on a terror hideout in Pakistan into a major plank for the April-May parliamentary polls. Broadly, the experts told the Congress leadership to hold fire and not rush into launching fusillades without getting a full sense of the complexities of the situation. The party’s first responses in the military-diplomatic state of play were very much in order. Priyanka Gandhi cancelled a press conference scheduled in Lucknow on February 14, the day the Central Reserve Police Force convoy came under attack from a suicide bomber. She refused to talk politics, observing instead a two minute silence in memory of the jawans who died. Rahul Gandhi was, then, the president of the Congress. His first tweet on February 26 saluted the IAF pilots who staged the airstrike. In that watershed moment, the entire political class was on the same page, barring Mehbooba Mufti who sounded sceptical on the outcome of the pre-dawn swoop. Unravelled by the exigencies of poll-time politics, the consensus was short-lived. The Congress expended the good advice that had come its way. It forgot the lessons of the May-July Kargil war of 1999 — India’s first televised armed conflict that ran parallel to the campaign for the September-October parliamentary polls the same year. The party’s sniper shots at Atal Bihari Vajpayee — especially on the import of sugar from Pakistan — didn’t cut ice with the people. The war had happened within weeks of the Congress having toppled him as prime minister (PM), but having failed to put together an alternative regime. The mountain battle was the result of a lax border vigil that helped Pakistani troops walk deep inside on our territory. The intelligence-security failure would have brought down the personal ratings of any prime minister. Yet, such was the principal Opposition’s crisis of credibility that it let the incumbent win as a caretaker PM. The BJP’s tally stayed static but the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) gained over a dozen seats. Its aggregate of 270 was tantalisingly close to the magic 272 that had eluded the Congress after it dislodged Vajpayee by one vote. The Congress hasn’t evidently learned much from the political costs it paid for taking on a charismatic adversary without a formidable counter-narrative. The mistakes of 1999 that it repeated in 2019 are evident again in the face of the India-China military stand-off. The Congress-BJP duel after the June 20 all-party meeting on the Galwan valley clashes is a replay of the post-Balakot name-calling. Coincidentally, an electoral joust is also due this year to the Bihar assembly where the NDA is seeking to grab the first-mover advantage by eulogising the men of the Bihar regiment who died fighting the Chinese. While the BJP is reaching out to the people with its story of Ladakh, the Congress struggles to cull a cogent script out of a host of issues — China’s military challenge; the pandemic; the sliding economy: loss of jobs; and human suffering of hundreds of thousands of migrant workers. The Opposition had sound reasons to not be satisfied with the PM’s statement at the all party meet. But legitimate questions get delegitimised when posed petulantly. Little wonder then that Rahul’s ‘Surender Modi’ taunt — reminiscent of his 2019 chowkidardig at the PM — found oblique disapprovals at the June 23 Congress Working Committee (CWC) parleys. A major United Progressive Alliance partner and former defence minister Sharad Pawar was more in-the-face when he referred to the territory India lost in the 1962 war with China. His call against politicisation of issues of national security came after the CWC meeting. There was a “silence of acquiescence” when a CWC member, who spoke before Rahul and Priyanka, underscored the pitfalls of personalising the political discourse. He reminded the gathering that the party defeated the NDA in 2004, not by besmirching Vajpayee but by taking down his “India shining” plank. The short-point he made was that policy and governance-failures, for which the ruling side must be criticised, can get clouded by individual mud fights. He wasn’t contradicted till Rahul took the floor, forcefully stating that he wasn’t, unlike others, scared of taking on Modi. The assertion fetched him ‘polite support’ from others, including Priyanka. A frontline Congress parliamentarian was prompted nevertheless to correct the impression that other leaders were loathe to dare Modi. He drew attention to the speeches he had made to make the PM accountable to the House. Another party veteran had an interesting caveat to the imperative of questioning Modi: “We must question him, but not in the manner of Mani Shankar Aiyar...” The allusion was to Aiyar’s chaiwala taunt that cost the Congress dear in the 2014 polls. The hiatus on how to deal with the conundrum that’s Modi came out starkly when a first-time CWC member complained that Rahul’s tweets weren’t often re-tweeted by other colleagues. The irony inherent in the complaint was hard to ignore. For, many among those present believed that being led by Twitter isn’t the best way to deal with a rival who is better received across media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-the-congress-the-dilemma-on-nationalism-and-modi/story-d5aE41PhremHHrsQFAElnK.html
02-07-2020||India||Six more die in Assam floods, nearly 1.5 million people affected in 21 districts||Floods in Assam claimed six more lives on Wednesday taking the total number of deaths in the state this season to 33. Nearly 1.5 million people in 21 of the state’s 33 districts are affected.According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), three people died due to drowning in Barpeta district and one each in Dhubri, Nagaon and Nalbari.Around 1.5 million people in 2,197 villages of 59 revenue circles have been affected by floods with Barpeta (nearly 6 lakh) and South Salmara (nearly 2 lakh) being the worst affected districts. Over 15,000 people uprooted due to flooding were residing in 254 relief camps in 15 affected districts.Over 4,200 people who were stranded due to floods were rescued by boats during Wednesday. Crops in over 87,000 hectares have been affected due to inundation, the ASDMA report said.According to the Central Water Commission (CWC), the Brahmaputra continued to flow above the danger mark at Nematighat, Tezpur, Guwahati, Goalpara and Dhubri. The Dhansiri crossed the red-mark at Numaligarh, Jia Bharali at Sonitpur and Kopili at Kampur. FLOODS IN KAZIRANGAAccording to a report by the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve, a total of 107 of the 223 camps used by forest personnel in the park area had recorded 49% inundation and 6 of them were vacated on Wednesday.A total of 18 animals had died during the floods. Two animals-one swamp deer and one wild boar-had died due to drowning and 7 hog deer died after being hit by vehicles while trying to cross the national highway adjoining the park.Carcass of a male adult rhino, which died due to natural causes, was recovered from the western range of the park on June 26. Flooding was also reported at the Rajiv Gandhi Orang National Park.FIRE CONTROL WORK AT GAS WELL AFFECTEDHeavy rainfall and flooding have affected work on controlling the fire at Oil India Limited’s (OIL) natural gas well at Baghjan in Tinsukia district. The gas well had a blow out on May 27 and caught fire on June 9 killing two firefighters.According to an OIL release, due to incessant rain, debris removal from near the well, which is an important part of the work to control the fire, was halted on June 27 and June 28.“Currently, there is only one road available (to the site), which was also kept closed for two days by the district authority due to floods. An alternate road is being repaired for entry into Baghjan and 90% of the repairing job has been completed,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-more-die-in-assam-floods-nearly-1-5-million-people-affected-in-21-districts/story-NpIn9NtWbWwoc5DpkP6qBL.html
02-07-2020||India||Thousands flee Hyd fearing a lockdown||Hyderabad: Thousands of people from the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, who live in Hyderabad, have left the city for their homes since the Telangana government indicated it could re-enforce a complete lockdown amid growing Covid-19 cases. This has prompted the Andhra government to make entry into the state conditional and forced many without travel passes to return to Hyderabad.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday announced the state cabinet would meet in three or four days to discuss a suggestion from the health department and medical experts to reimpose lockdown in the limits of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation for at least 15 days. Hyderabad has reported 11,080 cases since June 1 that has taken the city’s tally to 12,696 til June 30. It is XX worst-hit city in the country after XXXX. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu on Monday extended the Covid-19 lockdown until the end of this month even as the Centre issued guidelines for the second of a three-phase plan--Unlock 2.0--to lift restrictions imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19 in March.Traffic jams were reported from Hyderabad-Vijayawada national highway and near inter-state borders as people began rushing back to Andhra Pradesh. Many migrant workers, who had returned to Hyderabad after the national lockdown restrictions were eased this month, were also rushing back to their native villages. Akella Gnani (27), a sanitisation contractor, could not go to his native place Bhimavaram in West Godavari on Tuesday, as he was stopped at the check post on Hyderabad-Vijayawada national highway.“I have not registered my name in Spandana as I decided on my travel in the last moment, after coming to know that the Telangana government might impose lockdown again. But at the check post, after being caught in the traffic for two hours, I was not allowed to enter AP as I had no travel pass. So, I had to return. I will apply for the travel pass tonight,” he said.Many travellers were stopped at check posts and the Andhra police allowed only those to cross the inter-state border who had registered themselves on a state government portal and obtained travel permits.“It was a shock for us, as the Union government guidelines for unlock 2.0 clearly said there shall be absolutely no hindrance on inter-state or intra-state movements of individuals or goods and that no separate permits or passes will be required,” said S Narasimha Rao, who was stopped at Garikapadu check post with his family.Andhra Pradesh police chief Gautam Sawang said the state has powers to decide on the inter-state transport. “Since people are coming from Hyderabad, which has reported growing Covid-19 cases, we are taking precautions in allowing them into the state.”Sawang said those with travel permits would be allowed into the state. “We shall allow them only after conducting the mandatory thermal screening. These restrictions will continue till further notice and people should cooperate with us in their own interest,” Sawang said.Pass-holders were also being stopped at the check posts after 7 pm. “The travel permits are valid only between 7 am and 7 pm. The borders will be sealed after 7 pm, except for essential services,” Sawang said.An official release from the chief minster’s office said if the lockdown is imposed in Hyderabad and surroundings, it would be implemented strictly. “Even flights and train services have to be stopped. A decision will be taken at the cabinet meeting,” the official release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-flee-hyd-fearing-a-lockdown/story-fe6dNDsLV4csrO2IJgOZXN.html
02-07-2020||India||Centre asks states to step up antigen tests||The government moved to make access to Covid-19) testing easier for people on Wednesday , asking states to involve private laboratories up to their full capacity, and also allow both government and private doctors to prescribe Covid-19 testing, including antigen based testing, for diagnosis.Union health secretary, Preeti Sudan, and secretary, department of health research, Dr Balram Bhargava, jointly wrote to all states to ramp up Covid-19 testing using rapid antigen based tests, to early detect cases for containing the pandemic.An antigen is a foreign molecule that induces an immune response in the body, especially the production of antibodies, and its presence determines a present infection, which is why the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) recommended it for diagnosis along with real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. The Centre asked states to start antigen-based testing in “campaign mode” by setting “camps/mobile vans” in high incidence areas. The positive people should be treated as per protocol and negative tests need to be re-confirmed using RT-PCR test. “It is important to maintain strict vigil and continue to make all possible efforts to minimize the damage that can be caused by the pandemic. With the start of Unlock 2, focus will continue to be on saving lives and also protecting livelihood as more and more economic activities are expected to pick up gradually. Since test-track-treat is the key strategy for early detection and containment of the pandemic, it is important to augment testing for Sars-Cov-2 in all parts of the country. This is the only way to detect the infection early and prevent its spread,” read the letter to states.“…ICMR has also recommended use of a rapid point-of-care antigen test kit for diagnosis, and more such kits are being validated to increase the available options to the citizens,” it added.Like RT-PCR test, antigen-based test also requires naso-oral swab samples but does not need an advanced laboratory for analysis. The results can be out between 15 min and 30min, making it ideal for mass scale testing, and testing in remote, inaccessible areas where advanced testing laboratories are not present.Hospitals, both government and private, have either begun testing using antigen kits or are in the process of starting.“Yes, we have started antigen based Covid-testing in our hospital,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. Many private hospitals have either begun testing or are in the process of procuring kits. The cost of antigen testing is between ₹900-1000 in most private labs performing the test.Delhi’s big corporate hospitals such as Apollo Hospitals, Max Healthcare and Ganga Ram Hospital have begun testing, confirmed spokespersons of all three hospitals. However, a valid prescription from a registered doctor is required for testing.ICMR made it easier for labs, especially private labs, to conduct Covid-19 testing, provided government guidelines are duly followed.“ICMR strongly recommends that laboratories should be free to test any individual in accordance to the ICMR guidelines and state authorities must not restrict an individual from getting tested, as early testing will help in containing the virus and saving lives,” said the letter to states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-step-up-antigen-tests/story-S71KlX5GFoO1vqEzCrqCKJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Home-made masks effective, says study||Homemade quilted cotton masks are likely more effective than those made from handkerchiefs or even commercially available cone masks to contain the spread of Covid-19, according to a study published in the American Institute of Physics journal.“The reason is the weaving pattern and the string thickness,” the study’s lead author, Dr Siddhartha Verma, associate professor (ocean and mechanical engineering), Florida Atlantic University, told HT in an email.“The quilting cotton (most effective) we used had a tight-weave with thicker threads, in addition to having two layers stitched together, all of which impeded droplets significantly. One quick test that some people have suggested is to hold up the fabric to a light, and see how well it blocks the light,” Verma added.The study, which is peer-reviewed and published on June 30, involved simulating a cough through a manikin. For the experiment, Verma and his team covered the manikin’s mouth with four commonly used non-medical grade masks: a folded handkerchief, a stitched quilted cotton mask, a bandana and a cone mask (which is a non-medical grade mask available over the counter).Researchers followed instructions from the US government to make quilted cotton masks. The guidelines are similar to those recommended by the Indian government.Wearing masks in public places is mandatory in India, which follows World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines. WHO recommends a three-layer fabric or non-medical mask in public to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease.Researchers illuminated cough droplets using a green laser and measured how far they travelled. Without the mask, a typical cough will have droplets that travel almost 12 feet, which is almost double the six-feet social distance recommended by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) of the US. However, a majority of the droplets fall to the ground by this distance. With masks, the distance droplets travel is greatly reduced, but it is the stitched quilted mask that reduces forward movement the most — to just 2.5 inches.“The basic recommendation is in agreement with our experiments. The important thing to keep in mind is that whenever possible, it is better to use good quality fabric that is tightly woven, and mask designs that fit well and comfortably on the face,” Verma said.Reviewing the study, Ashwini Agrawal, head of department of textile and fibre engineering at IIT-Delhi, stressed the importance of breathability and filtration efficiency.“When we speak of cloth masks — whether they are quilted, non-quilted or multiple layers — their efficiency can vary between 20% and 50%,” Agrawal said. “Anything that is a little thick will be uncomfortable to wear. The next thing to look for is breathability, which the study is silent on. Something would be comfortable to wear if the breathability is good. When you cover your face, the moisture starts to build up and reduce breathability that would happen in hot and humid weather. I would recommend a person to wear a mask with high filtration and fitting well around the nose, which the study shows is a major leakage area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-made-masks-effective-says-study/story-6vNcyEAo5tdDNelBDFfL2N.html
02-07-2020||India||Kerala announces rehabilitation project for expats who returned home||The Kerala government on Wednesday announced the “Dream Kerala Project” to rehabilitate expatriates who returned amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at least 60 per cent of the returnees have lost their jobs and it is the duty of the government to rehabilitate them and make use of their expertise. “Their contributions are immense. They played a key role in the development of the state. It is our duty to help them,” he said. The CM said ideas will be invited from expatriates and public for new projects and after vetting them they will be implemented in a time-bound manner. “We have formed three different committees and we are planning to start these projects in 100 days. We will engage them and make use of their expertise for the development of the state,” the CM said adding these projects include IT, biotech, small-scale units, farming and food processing. But he did not spell out the exact plan allocation for the project.He said 870 flights arrived from six west Asian countries since the first week of May, out of which 446 were from the United Arab Emirates. Almost 1,50,000 expatriates have returned and the state is expecting at least 2.50 lakh more, he said. When the state government started a website for those who want to return in May first week at least 4.50 lakh registered. There are an estimated 18 lakh people from the state working in Gulf countries. Many of the expatriates were rendered jobless amid the pandemic and were forced to return.Meanwhile, as Covid-19 cases continue to rise, the government has also decided to include private hospitals in Covid-19 treatment. It has also asked teachers and government servants to be part of the ongoing fight against the pandemic. “It is a joint fight. All should be part of it,” he said. After 60 CISF personnel tested positive in Kannur airport the state government has deputed a senior officer to coordinate their treatment. Some of these personnel have joined duty after long leave infecting others also, health officials said.Kerala reported 151 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the tally to 4,592. Out of this figure, 2,435 have recovered while 2,130 are active cases. The state has reported 25 deaths so far. Its death rate is under one per cent and the recovery rate is the highest in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-announces-rehabilitation-project-for-expats-who-returned-home/story-h4u0blmGifIzEfzrapK04K.html
02-07-2020||India||Food aid extension may have grassroots impact||India’s overflowing granaries and a longer-than-anticipated recovery time to normalcy from the Covid-19 crisis are the two key factors behind Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to extend the free foodgrain programme for 800 million poor people for another five months, people aware of the matter said.Two people involved in the discussions before Modi announced the extension of the Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna on Tuesday added that it was also felt that such action would also have a “direct impact” at India’s “grassroot level” on mitigating the impact of the crisis.While the discussions had been going on for the past couple of weeks, a detailed meeting chaired by the Prime Minister took place on Monday to prepare the final plan. Modi’s decision to continue the handout was well-received by experts and political circles.“Sufficient availability of food grains provided the much-needed support for the scheme. But as the procurement has been quite good, there is also a need to distribute the produce to create space for fresh crops,” said a functionary involved in the planning, requesting anonymity.Food Corporation of India (FCI), the centre’s main grain trading agency, undertook the largest procurement of food stocks ever this year.“Procurement operations were delayed due to the first phase of the lockdown, starting 15 days late on April 15. The government was able to buy record wheat harvests of 38.2 million tonnes by June 16,” food minister Ram Vila’s Paswan told HT.He said he was constantly in touch with states where offtake, or drawing of grains and distribution, was less than 90% of the stocks received. “We will hold states food ministers’ meetings shortly to push states to utilise the free foodgrains till the next five months so that apart from 810 million people with ration cards... 80 million undocumented migrants get their ration quota,” he said.Since the government expects another bumper harvest from Kharif or summer-sown crops, the food ministry, based on its stock position, favoured extension of the offer of free foodgrains during discussion with the PMO, an official of the ministry said. In the first phase, the garib kalyan anna yojna was targeted for three months but as the battle against Covid drags on, the government had to extend its free foodgrain scheme.“As we review the situation, it is clear that it normalcy will take longer-than-anticipated time. There is also a limited reverse movement of migrants in larger cities as many of them prefer to stay home in these uncertain times. So, the government planned something to give direct relief to the grassroots for a longer period,” said another functionary involved in the planning.The final decision to cover all important festivals till Chhat puja and convey it much in advance was aimed at assuring people that they don’t need to worry about food during celebrations and thereby send the right political message. “Many people may point out that the government mentioned that the anna yojna will cover Chhat puja keeping in mind Bihar elections, but don’t forget that Bihar has received three million migrant workers—the highest after UP’s 3.7 million,” said another functionary.The scheme to give 5kg free rice or wheat to each member of a family and 1kg of free pulses monthly to each family has seen lifting of 113 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrain by the states till June 20. More than 700 million people benefitted from the scheme in April and May.The government has paid about Rs 73,500 crore in liquid cash, or money in hand, to 4.2 million farmers till June 17 for the record procurement. Eleven chief ministers had made a demand for extension of the free food grain scheme, which was forwarded to the Prime Minister’s Office.The FCI currently has 38.8 million tonnes of wheat and 74.5 million rice in federally held stocks, which is several times more than the four million tonne of buffer or emergency stocks the government must compulsorily set aside, according to official data. This excludes ongoing purchases that have not reached the FCI’s silos. The government ordinarily needs 5.5 million tonnes of foodgrains to meet requirement of ration distribution to 810 million beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act 2013 and other welfare schemes. Under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package, the government has set a distribution target of 0.8 million tonnes of foodgrains to an estimated 80 million migrants who are not covered under the National Food Security Act or any state scheme. They are being given 5 kg of foodgrain per person free of cost per month. Under the PMGKAY, a total of 10.1 million tonnes of rice and 1.5 million tonnes of wheat have been drawn by states and Union territories. In May, a total 3.6 million tonnes (91% of stocks taken) foodgrains were distributed to 720 million beneficiaries and in the month of June so far, 2.8 million tonnes (71% of stocks received) foodgrains have been distributed to 560 million beneficiariesAlong with cereals, the government is bearing 100% of the cost of Rs 5,000 crore for distribution of pulses. So far, 0.570 million tonnes of lentils have been dispatched to states, while 0.440 million tonne has been distributed, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-aid-extension-may-have-grassroots-impact/story-UgtPORfcjo75GAJiIGNahJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Odisha cop held for raping 13-year-old girl||Odisha police on Wednesday dismissed and arrested a police inspector for raping a 13-year-old tribal girl repeatedly in the police station and getting her pregnancy terminated.Director general of police Abhay dismissed inspector Anand Kumar Majhi of Biramitrapur police station in Sundargarh district from service after initial investigations revealed that he had raped the minor in a room of police station in March this year. After successive sexual assaults, the girl got pregnant and the inspector then forced her to terminate the pregnancy at a clinic.The 55-year-old inspector, who had been in hiding for over a week, was arrested from a forest in Angul district by a special CID team. Additional director general of police (CID) Soumendra Priyadarshi said Majhi had kept his mobile phones switched off so tracking him had been difficult.DGP Abhay later tendered a public apology for Majhi’s act calling it “shameful”. Six persons, including the inspector, doctor and the girl’s stepfather, have been named as accused in the FIR.The survivor had gone to visit a fair at Maoist-affected area of Biramitrapur in Sundargarh district on March 25 but the event was cancelled due to the lockdown. A police patrol team found her roaming near a bus stand and took her to the police station. There, Majhi allegedly raped her and let her go the next morning. After that, she was often called to the police station and raped by some policemen, including the inspector.The matter came to light after the child, who was seen crying outside the police station last week, was rescued by a local NGO and handed over to the district child protection officer who lodged a complaint with Raiboga police station.CID officials said the charge sheet would be filed within 60 days for trial before a fast track court.Meanwhile, the girl has been medically examined and is being kept at a child shelter home in Bisra area of Sundargarh district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cop-held-for-raping-13-yr-old-girl/story-HTSCKV4toI5zyxw9LAOnfL.html
02-07-2020||India||Terror tag for 9 pro-Khalistan operatives||The Centre on Wednesday declared nine Khalistani terrorists, including US-based Gurpatwant Singh Pannun of Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) who has been spearheading a campign under the banner of “Referendum 2020” for a separate Khalistani state, as ‘individual terrorists’ under recently amended fourth schedule of UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Amendment Act), an official statement by ministry of home affairs said.Others designated as individual terrorists under UAPA are Babbar Khalsa International’s UK chief Paramijit Singh, Canada-based head of Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) Hardeep Singh Nijjar, Germany-based members of Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) Gurmeet Singh Bagga and Bhupinder Singh Bhinda, and Pakistan-based terrorists – head of BKI Wadhawa Singh, Lakhbir Singh (International Sikh Youth Federation), Ranjeet Singh (Khalistan Zindabad Force) and Paramjit Singh (Khalistan Commando Force).Earlier, Pakistan-based terror group chiefs – Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Maulana Masood Azhar, Lashkar-e-Taiba founder Hafiz Muhammed Saeed, 26/11 Mumbai attacks co-mastermind Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi and fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim - were declared individual terrorists in September 2019 under the new law. The new law, which came into effect in August 2019, gives additional powers to the investigation agencies, particularly National Investigation Agency (NIA), as it allows investigators to put an embargo on arms and seize assets. A statement by MHA said on Wednesday, “Reinforcing the commitment to strengthening national security and its policy of zero tolerance to terrorism, the MHA under the leadership of the home minister Amit Shah, today declared the nine individuals as designated terrorists under the provisions of the UAPA Act 1967 (as amended in 2019) and included their names in the Fourth Schedule of the said Act.”“These individuals are involved in various acts of terrorism from across the border and from foreign soil. They have been relentless in their nefarious efforts of destabilizing the country, by trying to revive militancy in Punjab through their anti national activities and through their support to and involvement in the Khalistan movement,” it added.SFJ has been banned by the government. Its leader-cum-legal advisor Gurpatwant Singh Pannun has been leading a campaign “Punjab Referendum 2020 for Khalistan”, launched in a rally in June, 2014 in New York. While testifying before a UAPA tribunal last year, NIA DIG Sonia Narang said, “SFJ is presently propagating ‘Referendum 2020’ in a very big way on the social media as well as on ground by holding meetings across USA and other countries where Sikhs are in large numbers. Further, a website was also launched by name www.referendum2020.org which is full of pro-Khalistani posts and anti-India insinuations.”The Khalistanis get support from Pakistan and its spy agency ISI, according to Indian government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terror-tag-for-9-pro-khalistan-operatives/story-SRYgEwxdajXxV0M21rIvAJ.html
02-07-2020||India||New probe against Nath nephew over non-payment of dues: Cops||Delhi police has launched a probe against Ratul Puri, the nephew of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath for allegedly not paying dues, including gratuity, to over 1,800 employees of Moser Baer India Ltd and Moser Baer Solar Ltd, officials familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.Puri is already being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in different cases, including the Rs 3,726 crore VVIP Chopper (Agusta Westland) case, and has already been charged with money laundering in the matter. Last week, CBI filed a case against him and his mother Nita Puri (Nath’s sister) for allegedly cheating a consortium of banks led by Punjab National Bank of Rs 787 crore.The Delhi police first information report (FIR), registered this February but not reported until now, names Ratul Puri, his father Deepak Puri, mother Nita Puri, and two others. The FIR, reviewed by HT, was registered on a complaint from Dori Singh, secretary of the Moser Baer Employees’ Union, who alleged that around Rs 90 crore dues, including gratuity of 1,883 workers of Moser Baer, were not paid after the company went into liquidation in September 2018.Singh’s complaint, on the basis of which FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code sections pertaining to cheating (Section 420) and conspiracy (Section 120-B), said that “at least 1,883 employees of Moser Baer are suffering day and night because they are not getting due payments, their inalienable right, because Devendra Singh (resolution professional) in connivance with Deepak Puri, Nita Puri, Sunita Mowdgal (former directors of Moser Baer India Limited), and Ratul Puri (Director of Hindustan Power Projects Private Limited) diverted funds from Gratuity Trust Account which amounts to an offence Under Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code”.O P Mishra, Joint Commissioner (EOW) Delhi Police told HT, “We are investigating the case.”When contacted, Ratul Puri’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal contended that the FIR had no basis. “Delhi police has already filed a report in the court that no offence has been committed, and subsequent to the date of FIR, the order of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) clearly states that the gratuity dues of all employees have been paid. Moreover, my client Ratul Puri is neither named nor concerned with this FIR, and it is a matter between the liquidator and the workmen which got finally settled,” he said.“The records which were made a part of the application reveal that gratuity was processed to 112 employees preferentially. The e-mail dated February 7, 2019 by Devendra Singh to Anil Kohli, proves the fact. It is written that he had allowed gratuity preferentially. Those people were seriously ill/ bedridden/ expired,” the FIR said.The FIR added that the examples cited by the liquidator in his application before the National Company Law Tribunal (Principal Bench), which was disposed of by an order dated February 19, 2019, reveals that employees were made to resign from Moser Baer India, and were either appointed or transferred to Moser Baer Electronics Limited (a subsidiary of Moser Baer India). “This transfer was shown as a break in service... It is settled law that if there is a transfer of an employee/workman from the parent to the subsidiary company, then calculation of gratuity should be counted continuously,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-probe-against-nath-nephew-over-non-payment-of-dues-cops/story-ivdTnOOirTToauqLv2j9yL.html
02-07-2020||India||Ayush ministry clears Patanjali drug for sale as immunity booster||Patanjali Ayurved’s Coronil ayurvedic drug will soon be available for sale across the country, the company’s founder, yoga guru Baba Ramdev, said on Wednesday, announcing the resolution of issues with the government over the launch of the product that Patanjali billed as a cure for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) before reclassifying it as an immunity booster.In New Delhi, the ministry of ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy (AYUSH) clarified that it has approved the drug as an ayurvedic immunity booster, and not as a cure or treatment for the disease.“Ayush ministry has only given permission to sell this particular formulation as immunity booster, and not as a medicinal cure for Covid-19,” said Suvidha Kumra, a spokesperson for the ministry. The ministry did not seem to have a problem with the name of the formulation, which suggests an ability to fight the coronavirus disease for which there is, as yet, no confirmed cure, although there are several experimental ones that have been approved. Last week, Patanjali’s Divya Pharmacy claimed it has found a cure for Covid-19, following which the AYUSH ministry asked the company to validate the “facts of the claim and details of the stated scientific study”. The ministry also directed Divya Pharmacy to immediately stop advertising the product until its claim was verified.In its latest order, the ministry asked the Uttrakhand licensing authority to ensure that the ayurveda kit launched by Patanjal was not marketed as a cure for Covid-19. In Haridwar, where Patanjali is based, Ramdev said at a press conference that Coronil had been allowed to be marketed as a “Covid-19 management drug”.“All issues with the AYUSH department have been resolved and our ayurvedic drug has been labelled a Covid-19 management drug. This is appropriate and proves that Patanjali has done nothing wrong but followed all due legal processes,” the 54-year-old said.“Our Covid-19 immunity boosters are solely abstract and compounds of ayurvedic herbs like Giloy, Tulsi, Ashwagandha and have been effective during the treatment of coronavirus patients. Soon, this Covid-19 immunity booster kit will be available across the country, and we are in talks with those states also where due to confusion Coronil sale was being opposed,” said Ramdev.However, he referred to the controversial clinical trials carried out by the company and NIMS Medical College in Jaipur, which claimed the company’s ayurvedic formulations completely cured Covid-19. The clinical trial application filed with the regulator clearly mentions the title of the study as “Impact of Indian traditional Ayurvedic treatment regime for nCov-2 (Covid-19)”. It subsequently emerged that only mild and asymptomatic cases of Covid-19 were enrolled in the trial, which also excluded people with co-morbidities. On Wednesday, Ramdev insisted that Patanjali also carried out research on serious patients. He also played the nationalist card. The drug mafia, MNCs [multinational companies] and anti-national forces want me in jail,” he said.Acharya Balakrishna, Ramdev’s aide, said Patanjali had carried out clinical trials on diseases like dengue, hypertension, asthma and swine flu and it was not the first time the company has conducted virology trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayush-ministry-clears-patanjali-drug-for-sale-as-immunity-booster/story-mNRqjrUv6kHu4kLVDnfZVK.html
02-07-2020||India||Railways scraps thermal cameras tender after firms allege advantage China||New Delhi: Railways has scrapped a tender for thermal cameras meant for Covid surveillance following complaints from Indian firms alleging that the tender specifications favoured a Chinese firm, Hikvision . Railways’ telecom arm Railtel Corp of India Ltd (RCIL) in June, sought expressions of interest (EOI) for artificial intelligence (AI) based surveillance cameras . These can detect elevated body temperatures of people and can be used to screen people. Railtel has decided to issue a fresh tender with modified specifications. “EOI for selection of partner for thermal temperature screening solution to RCIL’s customers stands cancelled with immediate effect. Fresh EOI will be published soon,” a notice by the state-owned company said. This comes at a time when the Indian government has banned 59 Chinese apps (or apps with Chinese links), citing data security and privacy issues. The ban comes against the backdrop of escalating tension between India and China. In a letter written to Railtel, one of the vendors said the pre-qualification criteria laid down has some anomalies and ambiguities. Hindustan Times has seen a copy of the letter.“ Specifications issued are biased to Chinese OEM i.e. Hikvision, Specs clearly mentioned DeepinMind technology which is proprietary feature of Hikvision NVRs,” the letter said. OEM stands for original equipment manufacturer and NCR for network video recorders. DeepinMind is Hikvision’s proprietary AI technology. The name is a rip-off of DeepMind, an AI pioneer currently owned by Google parent Alphabet Inc. “As per latest Revised Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Policy dated June, 4 2020, wherein various provisions related to local suppliers and purchase preference has been appended. This policy has clearly stated in clause no. 3(a) in procurement of all goods, services or works, in respect of which the nodal ministry/department has communicated that there is sufficient local capacity and local competition, only “class-1 local supplier”, as defined under the order, shall be eligible to bid irrespective of purchase value. It is also stated that Global tender inquiry shall not be issued except with the approval of competent authority. (in case estimated value of purchase is less than Rs 200 crore,” the vendor added in the letter.Indian firms have alleged that artificial intelligence technology - DeepInMind which is specified in the tender is a proprietary feature of Chinese firm Hikvision, a company part owned by the Chinese government. While the initial tender for these cameras issued on June 9 excluded a crucial specification called “black body” temperature -- the ability of the cameras to accurately measure temperatures emitted by a person to say whether a person has fever or not and the DeepinMind technology specification, they were included in the revised tender issued on June 23.Railtel wanted to buy 800 such camera systems.Hindustan Times on November 10, reported the national carrier is planning a complete overhaul of security at railway stations through the use of facial recognition technology backed by artificial intelligence.It also planned to link the facial recognition system (FRS) with existing databases such as the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) to identify criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-scraps-tender-for-thermal-cameras-after-indian-firms-allegations/story-Flwl2rl72wazhv9KAARiFM.html
02-07-2020||India||Military steps up vigil on LoC as tensions simmer along LAC||At a time when India and China are locked in a standoff along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, the military is also keeping a strict vigil on the western front to deter Pakistan from fishing in troubled waters and prevent what could turn out to be a two-front conflict, officials and China watchers said on Wednesday.Reports prepared by the parliamentary standing committee on defence over the last decade have delved into the threat China and Pakistan could pose together. Pakistan was likely to step up hostilities if China were to launch offensive operations against India, a senior Indian Air Force (IAF) officer told the committee in 2014. He, however, stressed that China might not pose a collusive threat if hostilities were to break out between India and Pakistan.Officials tracking recent military developments in the region discounted the likelihood of India being drawn into a war on two fronts, but asserted that the armed forces were ready to ward off all threats.“The possibility of a two-front war is unlikely. But we have to stay militarily prepared to tackle a combined threat from China and Pakistan,” said an official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.The Indian military describes a collusive threat from China and Pakistan as “Contingency-III” , a second official said, asking not to be identified. Contingency 1 and 2 refer to individual threats from the two countries.“Three nuclear-armed countries may not go to war at the same time. But China and Pakistan have deep-rooted military links. No matter how remote the possibility of a two-front threat, the Indian armed forces must stay prepared for any eventuality,” said Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd), a former Northern Army commander.The army has moved around 30,000 soldiers, several squadrons of frontline tanks, additional artillery pieces and fully-ready mechanised infantry squads to the Ladakh sector as part of its expanding efforts to strengthen its deployments in response to fortified Chinese military presence in the region, as reported by HT on Wednesday. Some of the assets have been drawn from formations in the western sector where favourable combat ratios exist to deal with Pakistan.The armed forces have raised their guard and are prepared to respond to any provocation or threatening actions along India’s borders, a third official, who too did not want to be named, said.“Recent encroachment by China in the Depsang plains and Galwan Valley have strengthened the possibility of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) attempting to cut through northern Ladakh and link up with the Pakistani forces in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir in a war scenario,” strategic affairs expert Brahma Chellaney told HT.Tensions along LAC have flared up after an ugly India-China skirmish in Galwan Valley on June 15, which killed 20 Indian Army soldiers and an undisclosed number of PLA troops. According to India’s assessment, China’s casualties were twice the number on the Indian side.In his deposition before the parliamentary standing committee two years ago, a senior army officer said the modernisation of both Chinese and Pakistani militaries was going on in full swing, and it was critical to stay prepared for a joint threat from the neighbours.“China is competing to reach the levels of the United States. It is important that we remain deterrent as far as these are concerned. The possibility of a two-front war is a reality…It is important that we are conscious of the issue and pay attention to our modernisation and filling up our deficiencies,” he told the panel that tabled its report in Parliament in March 2018.The panel said it was important to channelise sufficient budget to modernise the Indian military and fill capability caps to take on the two-front challenge, referring to the “deficiencies and obsolescence” of weapons, stores and ammunition in the Indian military arsenal.Some of these gaps have been addressed, the third official said. “Several capabilities have been added. New fighter jets are about to be inducted, attack and heavy-lift helicopters have joined service, we have new air defence systems and the army has got new artillery guns and several other weapons,” the third official said on Wednesday.The military has been conducting exercises to deal with a two-front threat. Prominent among those drills was the Gaganshakti-2018 exercise that tested the Indian Air Force’s readiness and stamina for a two-front war. The largest-of-its-kind exercise saw IAF move its frontline assets from the western sector to the eastern front in less than 48 hours.Another report dealing with the challenges of a two-front war was tabled in Parliament as recently as January 2019. “In order to meet the challenges of a two-front war, IAF has to be equipped with essential combat capabilities and modern ground facilities,” the report stressed. IAF has increased its combat potential manifold during the last five to six years and it is capable for carrying out any task assigned to it in any sector, said a fourth official. Things, however, didn’t look as good a few years ago when the IAF admitted that it would be difficult for it to tackle a combined threat from China and Pakistan.In March 2016, then IAF vice-chief Air Marshal BS Dhanoa (later air chief) said the IAF did not have sufficient number of warplanes to fight a two-front war. “Our numbers are not adequate to fully execute an air campaign in a two-front scenario,” Dhanoa then said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-steps-up-vigil-on-loc-as-tensions-simmer-along-lac/story-MKsTw6ZufRjsUB6YPoKFEJ.html
02-07-2020||India||CBI files case in Rs 6,744-crore deal involving arms dealer Bhandari||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case in a deal worth Rs 6,744 crore by Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) in which the alleged bribe paid to the fugitive arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari is suspected to have been used to buy a London property linked to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi’s son-in-law Robert Vadra.To be sure, Vadra is not named as accused in the latest CBI FIR but Enforcement Directorate (ED) has repeatedly claimed in the court that this property at – 12 Ellerton House, Brynston Square (London), bought for 1.9 million pounds, belongs to Vadra.The CBI claimed that the deal for this property was stipulated to be completed on or before end of August 2009, just after Rs 22 crore (USD 5 million approx.) were transferred on June 13, 2009 in the Dubai account of Bhandari’s company Santech International FZC by Samsung Engineering Co Ltd (SECL).Vadra has repeatedly denied the allegations against him. “They can keep saying whatever. It has no meaning,” he told HT.The controversial deal was signed on February 10, 2009 for Rs 6,744.32 crore by ONGC with a consortium of M/s Linde AG, Germany and SECL, South Korea, for a Dual Feed Cracker Unit (DFCU) by ONGC Petrol Additions Limited or OPaL, for its mega petrochemical project at Dahej, Gujarat.In its FIR, registered on Tuesday, CBI named a former senior manager of SECL – Hong Namkoong, UK based company FosterWheeler Energy Ltd and unknown officials of ONGC and OPaL along with Sanjay Bhandari. The ED, in first week of June, filed a charge sheet against Bhandari for laundering money. The CBI is investigating him another Rs 2,895 crore-deal for 75 Pilatus basic trainer aircraft for the Indian Air Force in 2009. Bhandari fled to the UK in December 2016 via Nepal and is said to be hiding in London. An Interpol red notice request is pending against him.CBI has alleged in its FIR, reviewed by HT, that Bhandari, was hired by Samsung Engineering for consultancy services for USD 10 million was to be paid to him. Email conversation between Bhandari and Namkoong allegedly revealed that the latter agreed to pay 50% advance within 30 days of ONGC making an advance payment to Samsung while the rest of 50% consultancy was to be paid within next six months.This was in violation of contract that stated that Linde and SECL will not involve any agent/consultant in India or abroad. However, SECL didn’t disclose that they had hired Bhandari’s company. Subsequently, there was no provision of making advance payment by OPaL/ONGC to the private company but the OPaL board decided to approve the provision of advance linking it to payment for progress of work.OPaL made an advance payment to SECL on February 24, 2009 after which SECL transferred USD 49,99,969 in the account of Bhandari’s firm Santech in June 13, 2009.“Enquiry further revealed that Bhandari is the beneficial owner of one Vertex Management Holdings Ltd from December 2009 to November 2012. Bhandari has acquired a property no – 12 Ellerton House Brynston Square (London) by purchasing 100% shares of Vertex Management Holdings Ltd, UK in his own name for 1.9 million GBP. The deal was stipulated to be completed on or before end of August 2009 i.e. just after the transfer of USD 5 million (Rs 22 crore) on June 13, 2009 (by SECL in Santech). It is further revealed that the said property was sold by Bhandari to an entity – Skylite Investments FZE, incorporated in UAE in 2011-12,” the CBI FIR said.ED has claimed in court documents that Skylite, floated by an associate C C Thampi, was nothing but a front for buying property for Vadra. Thampi was arrested in January this year.ONGC, SECL didn’t respond to email queries. FosterWheller company spokesperson could not be located by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-case-in-6-744-crore-deal-involving-arms-dealer-bhandari/story-TK1WJXetbF06AACmvaasGP.html
02-07-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally nears 90K mark, death toll now over 2,000||Delhi’s Covid-10 tall neared 90,000 with 2,442 new cases on Wednesday even as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the situation in the national capital seemed to be improving.The new cases have taken Delhi’s tally to 89,802 including 27,007 active cases, the state health department said. A total of 59,992 patients have recovered/discharged/migrated cases while the death toll rose to 2,803 with 61 casualties on Wednesday.A total of 19,956 tests were conducted on Wednesday including 9,913 RT-PCR tests and 10,043 rapid antigen tests.Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal warned against complacency while saying that the Covid-19 situation in Delhi seemed to be improving in the last few days. Kejriwal said that nearly one month ago when the lockdown was relaxed, it was assumed the cases would increase in the national capital.“After much effort, we have come out of the situation that was a month ago. We will continue our team work. There is a proverb - ‘Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst’. We will continue our preparations to deal with any situation,” he said.The chief minister also described the national capital’s recovery rate as “very good” which now stands at 64%, up from 38% a month ago. He also said that the Covid-19 death rate in Delhi has also come down.Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia also reviewed the preparedness at the 500-bedded Covid Care Centre being set up by Delhi government at the Commonwealth Games Village.The facility is likely to accept patients from Monday, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-nears-90k-mark-death-toll-now-over-8-000/story-RaXeb5CvKWKLuwabOdz53M.html
02-07-2020||India||Delhi govt offers incentives to hire intensive care specialists||The Delhi government is considering to offer a host of incentives such as bonuses, health insurance for the entire family, and commendations to draw trained medical professionals to staff the intensive care units in government hospitals, officials familiar with the development said. The suggestions have been put up to the Delhi cabinet and will be sent to the lieutenant governor for approval, the officials said. The development comes close on the heels of the Centre giving an additional 575 ventilators to the Delhi government. Delhi already has 789 ventilator beds in its Covid-19 facilities but it is short of specialists to provide care to such patients. “The intensive care unit is not about just getting a bed and putting on a machine, adequate number of doctors and nurses are needed to continuously monitor the patients. There is a shortage of trained staff and even though the hospitals have advertised the posts, nobody is really willing to join. Why should they? The salary is the same, there is no additional incentive, and they have to work with corona-affected patients in challenging circumstances. This is the reason why the government is looking at various measures to address the shortage,” said an official from Delhi’s health department, on condition of anonymity.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe shortage of trained staff was one of the major reasons for delays in scaling-up ICU facilities in Delhi government hospitals, as per the health minister-level discussions held two weeks ago. With over 70% of ICU beds earmarked for treating Covid-19 patients in the city – in both government and private hospitals – already occupied, the Delhi government is working on augmenting facilities in its hospitals.Currently, there are 1,693 ICU beds in the city, of which 789 have ventilators, according to the Delhi Corona App. Of these, 197 ventilators are in three Delhi government-run hospitals and 185 in Central government-run hospitals.According to estimates given by Covid-19 hospitals, one nursing staff is needed for each ventilator bed and one doctor for every four hours. The government had decided to recruit final year students of MD/MS/ DNB (post-graduate medical courses) and final year student of undergraduate and postgraduate nursing courses to staff the hospitals, in the health minister-level discussions held two weeks ago. In addition, Dr Mahesh Verma, vice chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, who had been tasked by the government to help solve the manpower issue, has also suggested hiring Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha and homeopathy (AYUSH) practitioners and dentists, who can work in the non-critical areas of the hospitals, freeing up trained staff for the critical operations. All the special hiring will be for a period of six months that can be extended up to a year, it was suggested in the discussions.The government had hired 700 nurses through the Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board, according to another government official.“There is a need to hire specialists – intensivists and anaesthetists – who can staff the ICUs in the hospitals. To ensure that the well-qualified MD/MS/ and DNB students are able to work at the hospitals as senior resident, IP University has expedited the final exams and I have asked the Delhi University to also do so. The students will not have to wait for the results of the examination and will qualify for the posts of resident doctors on submission of a certificate of having given the exam from their colleges,” said Dr Verma.Lok Nayak hospital, which has received 175 of the 575 ventilators given by the Centre on Tuesday, is yet to operationalise most of the machines, according to doctors from the hospital. The hospital plans to increase its ICU beds to 500 – of these, 100 ventilator beds are already working, 140 more will be added in the surgical block and 60 in the emergency block by next week. Another 48 ICU beds will be set up in the operation theatre (OT) complex of the hospital and 116 in the medical block, as per the hospital’s plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-offers-incentives-to-hire-intensive-care-specialists/story-9WCmTyaxJKlIdYwtQ4WLPK.html
02-07-2020||India||New genus of freshwater fish found in Maharashtra named after Manipur professor||A team of scientists from Maharashtra and Kerala has discovered a new species of freshwater fish found in the Western Ghats and named it after a well-known professor of the Manipur University.The new fish genus is called ‘Waikhomia hira’. ‘Waikhomia’ is derived from the surname of Professor Waikhom Vishwanath, a well-known taxonomist with the department of life sciences of the Manipur University, while hira means diamond.“The name ‘Waikhomia’ for the new genus is a tribute to Professor Vishwanath Waikhom for his exemplary contributions to improving our knowledge on freshwater fish of north-east India, and for promoting fish taxonomy as a science in the country,” said Dr. Rajeev Raghavan, an assistant professor of Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS).“Professor Vishwanath has discovered and described the maximum number of freshwater fishes than any other living fish taxonomist in India,” he added. So far, Professor Vishwanath’s team has discovered around 100 freshwater fish species since the discovery of Puntius jayaremi locally known as Heikak Nga in 1986, and added over 200 fish species in Manipur alone.Dr. Raghavan, along with Unmesh Katwate of Bombay Natural History Society, Mumbai; Pradeep Kumar of Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Pune; and Neelesh Dahanukar of Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune; described the new fish genus and results of their work was published in the leading international journal, Zootaxa, on Monday.‘Maharaja Barbs’, a member of the freshwater family and endemic to the high-altitude streams of the northern Western Ghats are currently represented by a single species, Puntius sahyadriensis. It was described from the streams of the Yenna river basin close to Mahabaleshwar in the Western Ghats mountain range in 1953.“But our studies have shown that this species does not belong to the genus Puntius. Hence, we assigned a new genus name, ‘Waikhomia’. While undertaking this study we found that there is an additional species to (Puntius) sahyadriensis and we described it as ‘Waikhomia hira’,” Dr. Raghavan added.The journal reported that the population of ‘Waikhomia’ was recorded from several tributaries of the east-flowing Krishna river system, including in the upstream regions of the Venna river -- the type locality of Waikhomia sahyadriensis -- and the Koyna river in Maharashtra; Tunga river near Kudremukh in Karnataka, and from the other independent west-flowing rivers such as Sharavati, Aghanashini and the Kali – the type locality of ‘Waikhomia hira’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-species-of-freshwater-fish-found-in-maharashtra-named-after-manipur-professor/story-sMryQvRIbQBDGy3f0cbfeP.html
02-07-2020||India||California state sues Cisco for caste-based workplace bias||The US state of California on Tuesday filed a lawsuit against Cisco System Inc for alleged caste-based workplace discrimination against an Indian American employee, who was described as a “Dalit” in the filing.The victim had not been identified in the lawsuit. News agency Reuters, which first reported the case, had named the managers, who were named as the defendants along with Cisco. They both appeared to be Indian Americans, going by their names. They were no longer with the company.Caste-based discrimination does not appear to be rare in the United States. A 2018 survey cited by the lawsuit said 67% of Dalit employees had reported being treated unfairly at American workplaces, presumably by, though it was not mentioned, their Indian American colleagues. It could not be immediately ascertained if this was the first lawsuit about caste-based workplace discrimination in the United States.Also read: US Congressman applauds joint efforts of India, United States against terrorThe complainant and his managers had worked at Cisco’s San Jose headquarters, which has a dominant South Asian workforce, said the California’s Department of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH), which filed the lawsuit.The managers at the facility “harassed, discriminated, and retaliated against an engineer because he is Dalit Indian,” the department said in a statement on the lawsuit.The complainant was “expected to accept a caste hierarchy within the workplace where he held the lowest status within a team of higher-caste colleagues, receiving less pay, fewer opportunities, and other inferior terms and conditions of employment because of his religion, ancestry, national origin/ethnicity, and race/color,” the statement added.The case has been filed under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits workplace discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex and national origin.“It is unacceptable for workplace conditions and opportunities to be determined by a hereditary social status determined by birth,” said Kevin Kish, DEFH director. “Employers must be prepared to prevent, remedy, and deter unlawful conduct against workers because of caste.”A Cisco spokesperson said in a statement to Hindustan Times, “Cisco is committed to an inclusive workplace for all. We have robust processes to report and investigate concerns raised by employees which were followed in this case dating back to 2016, and have determined we were fully in compliance with all laws as well as our own policies. Cisco will vigorously defend itself against the allegations made in this complaint.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/california-state-sues-cisco-for-caste-based-workplace-bias/story-vwVclAR7uL48ox9Zb9uOGN.html
02-07-2020||Editorials||The great Indian strategic debate||For over two decades, ever since the process of rapprochement began between India and the United States (US) after the 1998 nuclear tests, there have been two clear views within the Indian polity and strategic community. One suggested closer ties between India and the US. Advocates of this view pointed to US power; the advantages that India could extract for its economic development; the convergence in democratic values; and the fact that the US can act as an insurance policy in the face of a rising China. The other school of thought pointed to the US track record of undermining Indian interests and its close ties with the Pakistan military; and argued that proximity will undermine India’s “strategic autonomy”, and deepen New Delhi’s disputes with Beijing.All governments have chosen a middle way till now, even as they have tilted towards the first view. Recognising the benefits of closer ties with the US, New Delhi has deepened economic and military links with Washington. But it has been careful not to enter any formal alliance; been hesitant to institutionalise structures such as Quad; retained its independent positions on issues such as trade; and deepened its economic ties with China. Each time tensions with China erupted, a familiar question was asked. Is China’s behaviour a result of India-US proximity, or is India-US proximity a result of Chinese behaviour?Chinese aggression at the Line of Actual Control in the last two months, and the brutal clash on June 15 which left 20 Indian soldiers dead, have now answered the question. China will be India’s greatest strategic threat in the coming decades. Whether India desires it or not, it will end up as one of the frontline states which will have to step up to contain Chinese power, not because of a third power, but because its own interests are at stake. This will mean India has no choice but to deepen its partnerships with other countries, particularly the US. And it will reduce links with China. But even as there is greater strategic clarity, walking down this path comes with responsibility and costs. It may lead to even greater Chinese aggression, and open up the prospect of an adverse two-front situation. It will mean making difficult trade-offs, since US interests do not always converge with Indian interests. It will also mean building internal economic capabilities, ensuring social peace, and evolving a cross-party consensual position. India’s choice has been made; it now has to stay the distance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-great-indian-strategic-debate/story-d7kDTP6zZGzJsXgoV82kCI.html
02-07-2020||Editorials||Make jobs the centre of political discourse||While extending the provision of free ration to 800 million citizens — a move that this newspaper has welcomed — Prime Minister Narendra Modi referred to the festival season, and mentioned Chhath, a key festival of Bihar. The fact that elections are due in Bihar at the end of the year, and the scheme is getting extended till the end of November, prompted many to suggest that political motivations drove the decision. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, too, said that her government will provide free ration till June, 2021. It is not a coincidence that elections are due in West Bengal next year. In democracies, the poor and marginalised have one key leverage — the power of the vote. This forces governing elites to come up with welfare schemes to address the distress of the poor. Such schemes, be it the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme in the case of the Congress or the provision of gas cylinders, housing, toilets and income transfer to farmers in the case of the Bharatiya Janata Party, have helped parties win elections. This is how it should be — you deliver to the poor, you get rewarded. But while welfare is laudable, it is essential that Indian political discourse moves to the one big challenge in current times — employment creation. The pandemic has exacerbated the crisis of employment, particularly in urban areas. It is time for political parties to compete not just on the basis of who has provided better welfare schemes, but also who has created jobs. Leaders will invest in sound economic management only when they realise that not doing so will lead to adverse electoral outcomes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/make-jobs-the-centre-of-political-discourse/story-t7AZyRyaavHjgKEdoCuUMK.html
