05-07-2020||News||Why custodial deaths often go unpunished | Opinion||The brutality of the killings of Jayaraj and Bennicks in the Sathankulam police station in Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu, is of a piece with police high-handedness which thrives in a broken criminal justice system. The police, responsible for those in their custody, acted in criminal breach of their constitutional and statutory duty.The murderous assault on the father-son duo took place despite a strong legal framework that protects the rights of an accused in custody. Examples are Article 21 and 22 of the Constitution of India, provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) relating to procedures of arrest and investigation, provisions of the Evidence Act relating to admissibility of evidence, and Supreme Court (SC) judgments like DK Basu vs State of West Bengal and Anesh Kumar vs State of Bihar.One important safeguard is the medical examination of the arrestees, detailing injury marks if any. The medical officer’s report on Jayaraj and Bennicks recorded their injuries merely as “abrasions,” even though accounts suggest that both were bleeding profusely while in custody.Another critical safeguard is that the police have to produce arrestees in court within 24 hours of the arrest, for the magistrate to ensure their legal rights are not violated. The presence of a lawyer during arrest reduces the possibility of physical harm and violation of the legal rights of the arrestees. In the absence of any mechanism, this constitutional right is often denied. For example, when lawyers went to the Sathankulam police station to meet Jayaraj and Bennicks, they were not allowed access.In 2018, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB)’s latest annual report recorded 70 deaths in police custody --12 were from Tamil Nadu, the second-highest after Gujarat, with 14 deaths.The question is: Will the outrage and attention the Jayaraj and Bennicks case has garnered finally bring about accountability? Going by the past record, it seems unlikely. There are roadblocks at each stage from the filing of a First Information Report (FIR) against the police to their prosecution. In the Thoothukudi case, initially, two sub-inspectors, Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, were suspended, and departmental proceedings initiated against them. This is the usual response in such cases, but things get complicated after this step.As per Section 176 (1A) of CrPC, every case of custodial violence shall be investigated by a judicial magistrate. But the 2018 NCRB report shows that of the 70 cases of custodial death in the year, judicial enquiries were ordered in only 28. Charge-sheets were filed only against 13 police personnel --11 of them were from Gujarat, the state with the highest number of custodial deaths. In Tamil Nadu, no police personnel were arrested, let alone charge-sheeted.In the Thoothukhudi killings, while an enquiry by the judicial magistrate has been initiated, the magistrate, in a letter to the Madras High Court, has alleged that the police is trying to intimidate them and destroy the evidence. This is a reflection of the impunity the police enjoys. Eventually, the Madras High Court had to intervene. As of now, the Crime Branch-Crime Investigation Department (CB-CID) of Tamil Nadu Police has taken over the case and the five policemen accused of torture have finally been arrested and sent to judicial custody. Furthermore, the absence of direct evidence in custodial death cases is another hurdle. The Supreme Court, in the State of MP vs Shyamsunder Trivedi judgment, observed that the police, bound by the “ties of brotherhood”, would prefer to remain silent rather than assist the court. To address this concern, the law commission recommended twice (in its 113th & 152nd report) the insertion of Section 114-B into the Indian Evidence Act 1972, which reverses the burden of proof. Which is, if there is evidence that the injury was caused during the custody, the court may presume that the police officer having custody of the person caused it. This recommendation has not yet been taken up by Parliament.Another roadblock is that cases go on for a long time, and witnesses often turn hostile under pressure. Just last week, seven policemen from Hapur, Uttar Pradesh, were exonerated in the case of the custodial death of Pradeep Tomar. His minor son, who witnessed the torture, narrated how the police used electric shocks and stabbed him with screwdrivers. But the victim’s family eventually turned hostile, contradicting their claims in the FIR. Multiple law commission reports have recommended a victim protection legislation. In 2018, the SC, in fact, approved the Victim Protection Scheme in Mahendra Chawla v Union of India case. While the mechanism was long overdue, the effectiveness of its implementation remains uncertain, given that the scheme hinges on the threat assessment analysis formulated by the police.To ensure accountability, all relevant agencies--the magistrate, the bar, and the medical practitioner--must follow their mandate scrupulously. They are collectively responsible for ensuring the constitutional rights of an arrestee, especially the right against torture. Their non-compliance in procedures coupled with complacency costs lives.Raja Bagga is senior researcher, Police Reform Programme, Commonwealth Human Rights InitiativeThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-custodial-deaths-often-go-unpunished/story-f35QfTkbmuvmxdRn759vII.html
05-07-2020||News||Shift focus to the maritime domain | Opinion||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s speech in Ladakh on July 3, where he addressed Indian Army personnel and commended them for their professionalism and valour, even while asserting that the “era of expansionism is over”, marks the beginning of a definitive reset in the troubled but the, up to now, violence-free India-China relationship.The cordial tenor changed with the Galwan Valley incident in May/June where the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops moved into previously uncontested locations in eastern Ladakh, taking advantage of the thin Indian tactical presence. This resulted in the loss of 20 Indian lives (PLA is yet to confirm the casualties it has sustained) and led to the surprise Modi visit to Nimu in Ladakh. The signal to Beijing is that Delhi will not blink and that the Galwan knot, triggered by PLA’s pre-meditated belligerence, will have to be untied by China.On current evidence, it appears that PLA has hunkered down for an extended stay in the areas it has occupied and the two armies will be monitoring each other for compliance as per the agreed disengagement and return to status quo protocols. The received wisdom is that this going to be a long haul into the winter months, even as the freshly-minted Chinese claim to Galwan is on the territorial expansion anvil.While Modi’s reference to this expansionist characteristic refers to the unresolved territorial dispute on land across 3,800 kilometres which has morphed into a Line of Actual Control (LAC) and shifting claim lines, Beijing has already set a precedent in the maritime domain in an audacious and innovative manner. The South China Sea (SCS) dispute that pitted Chinese Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZs) and fishing rights claims against those of the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) began with the adoption of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Seas (UNCLOS).China then invoked a historical, but dubious, nine-dash line formulation and adopted the might-is-right approach, much to the chagrin of the smaller nations. Consequently, the SCS dispute festered in an inconclusive manner for decades. The PLA began its creeping assertiveness by occupying certain atolls and enlarging the topography through artificial means and then staking a maximalist EEZ claim.What does a smaller nation do when a bigger more powerful neighbour refuses to engage in sincere dialogue to resolve a territorial jurisdiction matter? Seek third party arbitration or go to the International Court of Justice (ICJ). The Philippines took this path despite veiled warnings from China. Much to the consternation of Beijing, the international tribunal ruled in favour of Manila.Predictably, China rejected this ruling and asserted that its historical claim was the only truth that mattered. This unabashed assertion of expansionism by Beijing caused dismay in many capitals. But little was done in tangible terms to push back, since none of the major powers wanted to get into this tangle, except to defend the principle of free navigation in international waters.However, in an unusual development, the 36th Asean Summit held at the end of June under Vietnam as chair, made specific reference to the centrality of the UNCLOS and the need to uphold international law. This is a familiar politico-diplomatic position in relation to the SCS dispute. But what is instructive is that over the last six months, many Asean states have been visibly vocal about China’s expansionism and related belligerence.Thus, the template which has evolved is that China stakes a maximalist territorial claim, using history among other determinants, and then engages in salami-slicing through military intimidation, even while proclaiming its commitment to peace and tranquillity. Modi has belled the cat in Ladakh. India will now have to stay the course in managing the tensions that are bound to increase in the bilateral relationship.Whether other nations will support Delhi or not remains opaque at this point. But India could look at other leverages to temper the Chinese response and the maritime domain is the logical choice. Beijing has long harboured a deep anxiety about its vulnerability at sea — or what is referred to as the Malacca dilemma.India has the potential to either stoke this anxiety along with like-minded nations, or assuage it as part of the common good order at sea. The four-nation Quad (United States, Japan, Australia and India) is a work in progress and India could sherpa a cluster of Indo-Pacific nations into a “sagar panchayat” and uphold the rule of law at sea. Some Asean nations may be willing to join such a grouping. Enhancing interoperability at sea, intelligence- sharing and capacity-building would be the early building blocks.However, to be effective, India will have to invest in specific transborder military capabilities. The recent announcement by Canberra where it has committed $70 billion to acquire new inventory is illustrative. Delhi will have to undertake a radical review of its defence budget despite the Covid-19 constraints to increase its naval/maritime allocations for over a decade-plus. This could enable creating credible military capability in the Andaman & Nicobar islands, a proposal that has been on Delhi’s pending list since 1963. With a suitably-fortified Andaman & Nicobar, the Malacca dilemma can become very real for Beijing.India can create more negotiating space along the land border by turning to the seas. If this tenet is appropriately understood by Delhi, this policy transmutation could be the silver lining in the Galwan cloud.C Uday Bhaskar is director, Society for Policy Studies, New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/shift-focus-to-the-maritime-domain/story-bILL54vUdPQwho5WtR0X7L.html
05-07-2020||News||Guarding the guards is essential for rule of law, writes Madan Lokur||About 50 years ago, an experiment called the Stanford Prison Experiment (SPE) was conducted in Stanford University under the supervision of Professor Philip Zimbardo. He detailed his experiences in a book titled: The Lucifer Effect: Understanding How Good People Turn Evil. Its title is taken from the angel Lucifer who fell from grace and assumed the role of Satan. Professor Zimbardo says of his study that “normal college students were randomly assigned to play the role of guard or inmate for two weeks in a simulated prison, yet the guards quickly became so brutal that the experiment had to be shut down after only six days.” The participants in the experiment were student volunteers carefully selected after appropriate tests. Students with issues such as drug use or some other disability were not selected. Therefore, the selected students were like those that you would find in any university. In all, 24 volunteers were selected, and, of them, nine were randomly assigned the role of prisoners, and nine were randomly assigned the role of prison guards. The rest were on standby. The purpose of the experiment was to study the psychology of prison life, and so prison conditions and environment were carefully simulated in all respects.The experiment was abruptly stopped after six days because of the escalation of abuse by the guards on the prisoners including sadistic, degrading and humiliating treatment. The power and authority of the guards over the prisoners and their misuse resulted in the brewing of a rebellion on the second morning itself. As the days progressed, the Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde personality of the guards began to rear its ugly head. The experiment showed that the guards were of three kinds: Tough and fair guards who followed the rules; guards who carried out small favours for the prisoners and did not unnecessarily punish them; and those who were inventive in methods of humiliating the prisoners. If some of the experiences relating to the behaviour of the guards are extrapolated to the lock-ups in police stations across India and the arbitrary power they exercise, it is possible to find some truth in some allegations of police brutality and what hardships the armoury of the law enforcement agencies can cause to ordinary people. Remember, India’s Code of Criminal Procedure permits 14 days of police custody; an innocent person can theoretically be made to confess in a matter of six days, to having committed the most heinous crime.The National Crime Records Bureau informs that there were more than 100 custodial deaths in 2017, with very few convictions. These statistics may be ignored only for the time being; instead, consider some instances in the recent past where allegations have been made against the police of the use of excessive force and instances where apparently normal policemen and women have turned brutal. Last December, four persons accused of raping and killing a young lady were shot dead by armed policemen on the outskirts of Hyderabad. The accused were in police custody when the extrajudicial killings took place. A magisterial inquiry was ordered into the incident but the inquiry report (if any) is not in the public domain. Was this or was this not a manifestation of police brutality?In February, police in riot gear attacked students in the library of Jamia Millia Islamia. Investigations into the incident are continuing and it is difficult to conclude whether or not the police used excessive force. However, it does appear to be yet another manifestation of police excess. In March, videos were shown on national television of migrants being humiliated by the police who made them squat and hop for violating the lockdown. Some policemen have been suspended. But what has happened thereafter is not in the public domain. This is another facet of the display of brute power and authority. Recently, two men were brutalised by the police in Tamil Nadu, leading to their death. Investigations into allegations of murder have been levelled against some police officers. But the result will be known only after the investigations are concluded. Meanwhile, there are allegations of the police destroying evidence and witnesses being intimidated. A culture of impunity is festering and unless all of us are vigilant, some freedoms may slip out of our hands. A recent study by the Chicago University Law School titled Deadly Discretion: The Failure of Police Use of Force Policies to Meet Fundamental International Human Rights Law and Standards “evaluates the police policies from the 20 largest cities in the United States (US) during 2017 to 2018”. It concludes that each one of them failed to meet international human rights law and standards. Where would India’s police force stand in such an evaluation? The big question is how can we as a society humanise the police? Even in the US, where the SPE was conducted and lessons learnt even after the Abu Ghraib trial, it has not been possible to humanise the police as the recent choking of George Floyd suggests. Ratifying the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment is perhaps one answer. Faithfully implementing the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Prakash Singh in bringing about police reforms is another answer. But, these might end up being a little more than cosmetic solutions. There is an imperative and aggressive need to sensitise police forces and other law enforcement agencies and drill some compassion into them. It’s a huge task, worth undertaking, for if we do not guard the guards, we invite the destruction of the rule of law.Madan Lokur is a retired judge, Supreme Court of IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/guarding-the-guards-is-essential-for-rule-of-law/story-JXDxvhvf0RCPcJvVZMi60O.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Education department launches 3 online video channels, 9 more in the pipeline||As part of the state’s online learning initiative, the education department on Sunday partnered with Jio TV to launch three video channels and a radio channel to roll out educational content for students. Starting Monday, students of Class 10, studying in English and Marathi mediums, and students of Class 12, enrolled in the science stream, will get to watch six hours of educational content on the Jio mobile application. While the facility is currently limited to Jio users, the department said that it will be extended to all networks in the coming weeks. “The department will also roll out nine more channels for other classes and mediums so that students can benefit from it. These will be available 24x7, and students can view them as per their convenience,” said state education minister Varsha Gaikwad.Students can find a detailed timetable of the video classes on the official website of the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) – maa.ac.in.On June 15, the state education department launched the new academic year for state board schools. Currently, most schools are conducting online classes for students, and in places where there is no access to technology, textbooks are being delivered to students’ homes.Teachers said that while internet-based channels are useful, they will not help in cases where there is no access. “Ultimately, all these channels also need an internet connection and good network. Some students who have no access to online classes will not be able to access these channels,” said a teacher of a city-based school.As per data released by the education department, nearly 26% of students in the state have no access to mobile phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/education-department-launches-3-online-video-channels-9-more-in-the-pipeline/story-5FEgJjMtkO3UReiozfD2HI.html
05-07-2020||City||Part of road caves in amid heavy rainfall in Thane||A 20-feet wide patch of Khartan road in Thane (West) caved in on Sunday due to heavy rainfall. A small crater has developed in the middle of the concrete road, while the layer beneath has flown in the nullah. The crater is temporarily filled with sand and the road is open for traffic.Santosh Kadam, chief of regional disaster management cell (RDMC), said, “The Khartan road opposite Thane College caved in around 11.30am on Sunday. A small crater has developed on the surface, while a patch of 20-feet base course of the road beneath the top layer has flown into the nullah. The road is above a nullah and near to the creek, thus due to the force of the water it caved in.”The work of repairing the road was undertaken. “We got two to three trucks of sand and filled the base of the road temporarily to fill the crater. The road has been open for traffic now,” he said.Meanwhile, a nullah wall also collapsed near MH High School in Thane, however, no one was injured in the incident. Waterlogging was also observed in a few places in the city.Kadam added, “A ten-feet nullah wall behind MH Highschool in Naupada fell due to heavy rain. A huge tree near the wall was in a dangerous condition and fell, taking the wall with itself in the nullah. Another nullah wall, 12 feet in height too fell in Chirag Nagar area,” Kadam informed.A portion of plaster and few bricks of Chitra Mahal Building in Rashid Compound Mumbra too collapsed though there were no injuries.Nineteen complaints of tree fall were reported in which two houses and five cars were damaged. Waterlogging was also seen in areas like Kopri, Dharmaveer Nagar, Vandana Society, Rajeev Gandhi Compound, Samata Nagar, Batwadi in Kisannagar, Jambli Naka and Majiwada.Heavy rains lashed Thane since Sunday morning. The city witnessed around 90.91.00mm of rainfall since morning while on Saturday the rainfall recorded was 377 mm. The rain took a breather late in the afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/part-of-road-caves-in-amid-heavy-rainfall-in-thane/story-88bA2QxFgOJdUOlReRF3gJ.html
05-07-2020||City||RT-PCR test positivity rate rises at alarming rate in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad A large number of patients testing negative during rapid antigen testing have started testing positive during a follow up RT-PCR test in Ghaziabad, setting off alarm bells among district healthcare officials.According to health officials, the primary positivity rate for Covid-19 during antigen testing is about 3.52%, while subsequent positivity through RT-PCR tests is about 10.07% so far in the district.The Ghaziabad district at present has a total of 2,205 Covid-19 cases,and has witnessed 62 deaths. At least 843 people have been discharged from various hospitals and the district has 1,118 active cases, the highest across Uttar Pradesh as on July 4. The district was initially provided with 8,000 antigen kits on June 24, 11,000 more kits being provided for enhanced testing which started two days later.“So far, we have done 7,063 antigen sampling and 249 of these results were found positive, which puts the positivity rate at around 3.52% . When we took samples of 6,814 instances for getting confirmation of true negative, we found that 140 samples out of 1390 reports received so far, tested positive through RT-PCR test. The positivity rate jumped to about 10.07% , which is alarming,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.Approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), antigen tests look for specific protein associated with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, the pathogen that causes Covid-19. The new test, developed by a South Korean company, is highly specific (99.3% to 100%) — meaning a positive result on the test is a “true positive” and does not need any confirmatory test.The sensitivity is between 50.6% to 84% depending on the viral load, meaning those who test negative might still have the infection and are advised to go for a test through the more reliable RT-PCR method if they show symptoms of the disease.“A person testing negative during antigen testing isn’t necessarily virus-free. The subsequent sampling result (for finding true negative) shows that 10.07% persons are testing positive through the RT-PCR test. The infection, though mild, is a cause of concern if every 10 out of 100 tests that we do turn positive. The pending 5,424 samples that have gone for testing may have a similar positivity rate,” CMO added.The antigen testing at present is taken up primarily in trans-Hindon areas, which have a major share of containment zones.“We have also asked 12 teams to check the identity proofs and mobile number of persons whose xx tests are being done. The teams have been told to note down the ID proof numbers as well as ask the person to call them in order to verify his number. This is because we are not able to reach about 5 to 10% people whose tests were done. Their mobiles are either switched off or numbers found to be incorrect,” CMO added.With rise in number of cases, district officials are also now scampering to open up one more L1 hospital at IMS, Dasna, which is will have 325 beds. The district officials earlier this week had inaugurated a 250-bed Divyajyoti Hospital at Niwari and a Covid facility at SRM College campus, with 300 beds.According to the figures available with the state control room, the district till May 31 had 305 cases. The figures went up to 1,615 cases by June 30. During the first four days of July, at least 408 more cases have been added to the tally, with an average of little over 100 cases per day.The discharge rate is still on the lower side and this is the reasons why the health department is keen on opening more L1 Covid hospitals. The officials expect that after implementation of the new discharge guidelines, the discharge rate will rise.As per the new discharge guidelines issued on June 19, if an asymptomatic patient shows no symptoms, he/she can be discharged without undergoing any tests on the tenth day from the date of admission. But, such patients will have to remain in home quarantine for seven days after discharge from hospital.According to officials, the recovery rate of L1 category patients ranges from 8-16 days while L2 and L3 patients, having moderate to critical conditions, need full recovery before they can be discharged.“With rise in rate of positivity, there is another issue which has cropped up. Since Unlock 1, there have been a huge number of people going to different markets, workplace among other places. So, finding the source of infection is getting complicated with a rise in number of cases,” a health department official said. Earlier, there was major contribution of cross-border infection coming in from Delhi. “But now, cases are being found locally as people move about freely,” said the officer from the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rt-pcr-test-positivity-rate-rises-at-alarming-rate-in-ghaziabad/story-rj6B4J4MjTh5gPdGbVVjfM.html
05-07-2020||Pune||Pune registers biggest single-day spike of 1,288 Covid-19 cases||Pune district in Maharashtra recorded the highest single-day spike of 1,288 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 28,599, a Health official said on Sunday.With 16 more people succumbing to the viral infection, the number of the fatalities has risen to 869, he said.A total of 420 patients were discharged from hospitals in the day.“Of the 1,288 fresh cases, 803 are from the areas located under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) while 396 cases are from Pimpri Chinchwad,” the official said.The number of the cases under PMC now stands at 21,391 while those in Pimpri Chinchwad stands at 4,794.The number of cases from rural areas, civil hospital and Pune Cantonment Board has increased to 2,411, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-registers-biggest-single-day-spike-of-1-288-covid-19-cases/story-OZPZYSa67vgMamZNrBzk4N.html
05-07-2020||Dehradun||Covid-19: Himalayan state Uttarakhand banks on 5-point strategy to fight virus||Uttarakhand government is adopting a five-point strategy to check Covid-19 epidemic in the state, where positive cases of coronavirus disease crossed 3,000 mark on Friday, even as the recoveries increased, marking a positive trend. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday said the state is focussing on five points — surveillance, contact tracing, sample testing, clinical management and public awareness — to keep the virus outbreak from spreading further. “Every type of preparation has been done in state’s fight against Covid-19. We are fully alert even though the situation is under control to some extent. The health infrastructure has been strengthened in view of Covid-19 with adequate system of testing labs, ICU, ventilator, PPE kit, N95 mask, oxygen support in place,” said chief minister Rawat.Uttarakhand on Sunday reported 31 fresh Covid-19 cases from districts like Almora (1), Bageshwar (1), Dehradun (12), Haridwar (1), Nainital (7), Pauri Garhwal (1), Udham Singh Nagar (4) and Uttarkashi (4).Of the 31 patients, 11 cases were of people who were found to be as contacts of earlier detected Covid-19 positive patients. Travel history of three patients was not available.The others had returned to the state from places like Delhi-NCR, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh.A total of 22 patients were discharged from hospitals in the state on Sunday. The patients recovered from districts like Almora (1), Chamoli (1), Dehradun (9), Haridwar (5), Pauri Garhwal (4), Udham Singh Nagar (1) and Uttarkashi (1).While the recovery rate in Uttarakhand stands at 80.79 per cent, doubling of cases in the state based on the last seven days stands at 50.28 days. Districts like Dehradun with 754 cases, Nainital with 537 cases, Tehri Garhwal with 421 cases and Haridwar 319 cases remain the most-affected in the state. Champawat district with 59 cases has the lowest number of Covid-19 cases in the state.Uttarakhand has so far tested over 78,000 samples, of which results of over 6,100 are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/covid-19-himalayan-state-uttarakhand-banks-on-5-point-strategy-to-fight-virus/story-vtC7I1dFLIxAdaA2OngXCJ.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala records 4th Covid-19 death; 13 fresh cases reported||A 51-year-old woman became the fourth patient in Ambala to succumb to the coronavirus.The woman had tested positive on July 2 along with her 54-year-old husband, an employee at Ambala Cantonment Board Office. She was a resident of Housing Board colony in Ambala Cantonment and was cremated as per prescribed norms on Sunday.Chief medical officer Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The woman and her husband had tested positive after they developed influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms and were admitted to the designated Covid hospital in Mullana. The woman, who was a patient of diabetes, hypertension and asthma, died Saturday night after suffering a cardiac arrest. Her husband is undergoing treatment and is stable.”Dr Kuldeep said that a 48-year-old employee of Central Jail among 13 patients tested positive on Sunday. Meanwhile, in Yamunanagar, eight fresh cases were reported. This takes the total number of cases in Ambala and Yamunanagar to 508, with 76 active cases and six deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-records-4th-covid-19-death-13-fresh-cases-reported/story-bFR6UZQIv8jBX0DUnvbevJ.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Chembur resident loses ₹54k to conmen posing as Covid workers||Two persons stopped a 49-year-old man outside Chembur railway station and threatened him saying that they were officers in Covid cell. The accused then took his ATM card and PIN number, took him to a nearby ATM and withdrew ₹54,000. Following a complaint, Chembur police scanned CCTV footage of the ATM and found the registration number of the accused’s bike and arrested one accused on Sunday.During inquiry police learnt that the accused, Sohan Ganesh Waghmare, is a habitual offender and cases have been registered against him in Sion and Nehru Nagar police stations. Police are on the lookout for the other accused. According to police, the complainant, Abdul Yakub Shaikh, a resident of Chembur, was heading towards the railway station around 6pm on June 30 when two unknown persons approached him. They claimed that they work with the Covid cell and were checking everybody. The accused then took the Shaikh’s wallet, took his ATM card and asked him for the PIN number. The accused then withdrew the money at a nearby ATM and fled from the spot on their bike. Shaikh then approached Chembur police station and a case was registered against two unknown persons, said a police officer.“After scanning the CCTV footage, we found the registration number of the bike. He was later arrested from his residence. We have also recovered the ATM card from the accused’s possession and his bike has been seized,” said senior inspector Shalini Sharma, Chembur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/chembur-resident-loses-54k-to-conmen-posing-as-covid-workers/story-RRKDFruTpypUpuqMGk64TL.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||BEST bus crushes 18-year-old on flyover in Parel||An 18-year-old biker succumbed to head injuries after being hit by a BEST bus on the Senapati Bapat Marg flyover at Parel on Sunday. The deceased, Aniket Deepak Rewale, was heading towards Dadar from Lower Parel on his bike when the incident occurred.According to police, Rewale, who was speeding, lost control of his bike and hit another biker who was moving at a low speed, around 5.30pm. Due to the impact, Rewale fell off his bike onto the road on the other side. He then came under the tyres of a BEST bus which was headed towards Parel.Rewale was rushed to KEM Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. NM Joshi Marg police are conducting an inquiry. Police said the biker, who was at low speed, was looking at two damaged cars lying on the flyover after meeting a collision half an hour ago. In the car collision, only the driver of one of the vehicles had suffered a fracture in his leg as per the preliminary inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-bus-crushes-18-year-old-on-flyover-in-parel/story-JvfD2ESsYpUmCUao73FUcO.html
05-07-2020||City||Gurugram: SGT hospital gets nod for RT-PCR tests for Covid-19||Gurugram: The SGT Medical College Hospital and Research Institute in Chandu Budhera, located on the outskirts of Gurugram, will soon initiate reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests on its campus. The college had been awaiting approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) since the last couple of months, which was granted Friday. RT-PCR tests are used for detecting Sars-Cov-2 (the virus that causes the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease) in suspected patients and are often considered the gold standard in front-line testing for Covid-19, as per experts.Dr Mukesh Sharma, microbiologist, SGT College, said the college would be initiating the process soon. “We have received all necessary permissions from Chandigarh and the ICMR. Our lab can test up to 300-400 samples every day,” said Sharma. He added that he’d be visiting the chief medical officer (CMO) on Monday to apprise him of the development, before the college starts with the testing process.In its approval letter, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, said that the college had been permitted to carry out the testing for Covid-19 by RT-PCR after it was found to have existing infrastructure, facilities for testing, and trained manpower, Eighty beds are reserved in the college for Covid-19 patients. Earlier, a quarantine facility was also set up for overseas travellers. Currently, at least four Covid-19 patients are admitted at SGT.A government lab for RT-PCR testing is already running at the Civil Hospital in Sector 10. The lab has a capacity for 300 samples. Besides these, the government lab at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) Rohtak, and seven private labs are available for testing in the city.Gurugram chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav said the health department was making all efforts to ramp up testing. He said trial runs for the upcoming second RT-PCR lab at the Civil Hospital were underway and the facility could start full-fledged anytime this week. “With the second lab, we would have an in-house capacity of 500 samples. We want that sooner or later, all samples are tested at government facilities entirely. We are prepared for it and reports are already coming in within 24 hours now,” said Yadav.The health department is also carrying out antigen tests across different pockets of Gurugram. The department aims to scale up antigen testing up to 2,000 in coming days, said Yadav. Besides RT-PCR and antigen testing, the health department has also been using the TrueNat test for critical cases and pregnant women, who delivered through caesarean sections. It is also used for Covid-19 detection in people who are brought dead to the hospital. Like RT-PCR, throat and nasal swabs are collected for TruNat test in the viral transport medium (VTM) with virus lysis buffer, which inactivates the virus, after which the test is conducted on RT-PCR chips. These chips are inserted inside the TrueNat diagnostic tool.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-sgt-hospital-gets-nod-for-rt-pcr-tests-for-covid-19/story-ubE3avSolu81yDbcG8rH8I.html
05-07-2020||Jaipur||Air Force deploys two choppers to contain locust invasion near Jodhpur||The IAF on Sunday deployed two MI-17 helicopters for the first time in an anti-locust operation on Sunday and eliminated swarms of insects settled over a four-square-km area in Osian sub-division of Jodhpur by spraying pesticides The Indian Air Force deployed its helicopters laden with pesticides early on Sunday on a request by the Jodhpur district administration and sprayed the chemical over a huge swarm of locusts which had landed in Bheekamkor village in the sub-division on Saturday.“We informed the IAF in the night and two choppers reached the area in the morning to eliminate the locust swarm,” said Locust Warning Organisation’s Deputy Director K L Gurjar.Before the IAF helicopters took the anti-locust sorties, the officials had marked the affected area on the ground with red flags to help chopper pilots identify the exact location, he said.“The chopper sprayed the pesticide on the marked area in an operation that lasted about an hour,” said Gurjar.“About 50 percent of the swarm was eliminated by the end of the operation and remaining 50 percent was not in a position to move due to the impact of chemical,” he said.The remaining insects would die soon, he added.It was for the first time that the IAF came to the rescue of LWO with an indigenously developed mechanism to spray pesticide. The swarms of locusts have been consistently invading Jodhpur for the past two months, sad LWO officials.They said attacks by bigger swarms of locusts are expected next month as there has been massive breeding of the insects in Pakistan and beyond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/air-force-deploys-two-choppers-to-contain-locust-invasion-near-jodhpur/story-GNNEjzdm3dxvs3QQe4LXrL.html
05-07-2020||City||Man fires at SPO in Manesar, flees||Gurugram A 38-year-old special police officer (SPO) suffered severe injuries after he was allegedly attacked by a group of men armed with sticks in Manesar, said police on Sunday. One of the suspects also fired at least four gunshots at the police official during the alleged assault, said the police.According to the police, the incident took place around 10.30pm on July 1 when the SPO, Praveen Kumar, who is posted at MG Road police post, had gone to a private hospital to purchase some medicines and was returning in his car with a friend. The police said they had reached near Sector 1 in Manesar when another car overtook them and blocked their path.In his police complaint, Kumar said that one of the suspects alighted from the car and hurled abuses at him. “He appeared to be inebriated and had a gun. He asked us why we were driving around. When I tried to reason with him, he suddenly fired at me which went over my head. Then a group of men, carrying sticks, arrived and started assaulting me. The main accused also fired gunshots at a passing vehicle,” said Kumar.The police said the suspects threatened the victim and his friend and escaped from the spot. Kumar was rushed to civil hospital and later referred to a private hospital for treatment. His statement could only be recorded on Saturday, following which an FIR was registered.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The SPO had been on leave for some weeks on grounds of his ill health. He suffered a fracture in the leg. Four suspects have been identified and police are conducting raids to nab them. Probe has revealed that the main suspect, who fired gunshots, was attacked a few days ago over some personal enmity and he assumed that Kumar was involved in that incident and was making rounds of his house.”A case was registered against the suspects under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act at Manesar police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-fires-at-spo-in-manesar-flees/story-2DQG9uTN0wRNaP91wOawIJ.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai may get heavy rain today, says IMD||Incessant downpour over the weekend led to the second highest 24-hour July rain over the past five years in the city.After three days of heavy to very heavy rain, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) revised its forecast for Monday by issuing a yellow alert for all Konkan districts, including Mumbai, and predicted the possibility of heavy rain across isolated areas. Earlier, the weather bureau had not issued any warning for Monday. “Models have indicated moderate rain with intermittent heavy rain to continue on Monday but the intensity of rain is likely to be lesser than Friday to Sunday,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.Between 8.30am on Saturday and 8.30am on Sunday, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 200.8mm rain, falling under the ‘very heavy’ category.Last year, the city had recorded 375.2mm rain on July 2, which is the highest 24-hour July rain since 2015. In 2018, it was 184.3mm on July 10, 163.4mm in 2017 on July 18, 114.5mm in 2016 on July 30, and 61mm in 2015 on July 21.Over the past decade, however, more rain was recorded in 2013 (215.6mm on July 24) and 2014 (207.2mm on July 3). The all-time high 24-hour July rain was recorded on July 27, 2005 that led to 944.2mm.Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 129.6mm rain between 8.30am Saturday and 8.30am Sunday.On Sunday, the suburbs woke up to intense heavy rain with 95.4mm over a span of 3-hours (8.30am to 11.30am) that later increased to 103.9mm over 12 hours (8.30am to 8.30pm). South Mumbai recorded intermittent light showers of 11.2mm during the same time. Majority of Sunday’s rain was concentrated towards parts of the suburbs, central Mumbai, and outskirts of the city. Thane recorded 179.4mm rain.Over the past 60 hours (8.30am Friday to 8.30pm Sunday), Mumbai suburbs recorded 461.7mm rain while south Mumbai recorded 309.2mm rain.Thane recorded the highest rain across the Konkan region and the state over 24-hours at 377mm, which falls under the exceptionally heavy category.IMD classifies 15.6-64.4 mm as moderate rain while 64.5-115.5 mm rain as heavy, 115.6-204.4 mm as very heavy, and over 204.5 mm as extremely heavy rain.“North Konkan, including Mumbai, witnessed an active phase of the southwest monsoon over the past three days with continuous showers and extremely heavy rain in some areas. The impact of widespread rain activity led to overall excess rainfall for majority of the weather stations,” Hosalikar.Mumbai suburbs currently recorded 15% excess rain for the season while south Mumbai has recorded excess of 29%. The city has so far recorded 489mm rain (from July 1 to July 5, 8.30pm), which is 58% of the month’s average rainfall (840.7mm). The city had recorded 395mm rain in June, which was the lowest monthly rain in five years. However, with continuous downpour, the city has so far (from June 1 to July 5, 8.30pm) received almost 38% of its seasonal average rain (883.5mm of 2,317mm).Independent meteorologists said weather systems responsible for heavy rain over Mumbai were expected to move northwards towards south Gujarat leading to decline in rain intensity for the city. “Massive cloud bands in the Arabian Sea, as a result of the offshore trough, along with strong westerly winds led to these rains over three days. Now, there are chances of intermittent moderate showers for Mumbai on Monday while major rain intensity will be felt in Gujarat coast owing to a low-pressure system in Arabian Sea located close to Gujarat,” said Professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of Mechanical Engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-may-get-heavy-rain-today-says-imd/story-xDPPgCnmcZFqTq3QMO1vFM.html
05-07-2020||City||DTCP recommends FIR against developer for non-functional lifts in Gurugram society||Gurugram:The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Saturday recommended that a case be registered against promoters the and maintenance agency of SARE Homes project in sector 92 for failing to maintain the lifts, and violating license conditions, among other issues. It also decided to initiate action against residents who were not paying maintenance charges . District town planner RS Bhath said that a notice was issued to the developer earlier to ensure that repair works were done by Saturday, but they failed to do so. “The department is constrained to recommend an FIR be registered against the stakeholders responsible for this issue as lives of residents could be in danger. I will be sending the documents in this regard to concerned police station by Sunday evening. The matter is also under the notice of director, town and country planning, “ he said. As per the phase-3 residents association, the developer handed over 400 flats out of the 828. At present, 250 families are living in towers 1 to 7 and in 14. “Every tower has two lifts and one of these are not working in each tower. The annual maintenance contract expired on February 28 along with the no-objection certificate. The fire equipment too are not working,” said Aditya Jakhar, president of the association. Jakhar alleged that residents often got stuck in the lifts. “And neither is the sewage treatment plant functional nor is the rainwater harvesting system working. Authorities must act against the developer,” he said. Pravin Malik, president, SARE Homes RWA phases 1 and 2, said, “The authorities must monetize the bank guarantees offered by the developer to complete the leftover work.” Referring to the demands by residents, Bhath said that all issues would be considered to find a solution. “We have called for action even against those project residents who have not been paying the common area maintenance charges (CAM),” he said.A spokesperson for SARE Home Developers said that the phase 3 residents were paying CAM of ₹2.08 to the third party maintenance agency but that residents were not paying the annual maintenance charge (AMC) of around ₹11 lakh for the lifts.“The AMC of lifts and other equipment like STP etc were paid last year and now have to be renewed. To avoid disruption of services and to insulate them from company issues, it was mutually decided that residents pay directly to the facility services provider. Same has been functioning well for phase 1&2. However, phase 3 residents are insisting that the company pay the AMC. However, Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera) has freezed the accounts of the company. A mitigation plan for same has been submitted to H-Rera and they have been requested to release some funds towards renewal of AMC,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dtcp-recommends-fir-against-developer-for-non-functional-lifts-in-gurugram-society/story-iTVyJE5ZxQgC47tT8WaqZO.html
05-07-2020||City||Noida: Developers get six months more to deliver flats||NOIDA: In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh government has given six months more to the developers of the group housing projects, which are covered under the zero period policy. Now, such developers can deliver the flats to homebuyers by the end of December next year instead of earlier deadline of June 30, 2021.The developers had demanded the additional time so that they can finish their projects while taking benefits of the ‘interest waiver’ policy. Under zero period policy, a builder can claim interest and penalty waivers for the period when construction at a realty project was disrupted due to legal issues. In December last year, the government had launched the scheme in order to give interest waivers to builders. “We will provide the builders six months’ additional time as per the state government’s directions,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority. The move is aimed to benefit over one lakh apartment buyers in the twin cities of Noida and Greater Noida, officials said.There are at least 100 housing projects in Noida alone, which were mired by court cases between farmers and the Noida authority that delayed the projects. “We had demanded from the government to give us more time to deliver the housing projects because the construction was affected due to lockdown restrictions for the past three months. Now, the developers can finish their projects in the stipulated time period,” said RK Arora, UP president of National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), a developers’ group.The authority had allotted the housing land to developers after accepting 10% of the land cost. The remaining 90% land cost is paid in instalments in seven years. The authority also charges 9.5% interest on the remaining land dues, the officials said. But due to slowdown in the real estate sector, the developers have failed to pay dues on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-developers-get-six-months-more-to-deliver-flats/story-9z0nmZFjTh9B21vAfDUmGK.html
05-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: 8 charred to death in fire at illegal factory; CM seeks report||Ghaziabad: Seven women and a man were charred to death while eleven women were injured in a major blaze at a makeshift factory manufacturing party poppers at Bakharwa village in Modinagar town of Ghaziabad Sunday evening. Taking cognizance of the incident, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed the district magistrate and the senior superintendent of police to rush to the spot and submit a report by Sunday night.Officials of the fire department said the factory had a mass of hydrocarbons and manufactured items stocked at the complex which caught fire around 4pm on Sunday. Fire officials, asking not to be named, said the factory had no permission to operate.Teams of forensic experts were roped in to ascertain the exact cause of fire.“The CM has taken cognisance of the incident and asked us to conduct an immediate inquiry. We have found laxity on part of the local police post in-charge as he was prima facie expected to have knowledge about the operation of the factory. The CM has directed for compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of the victims. I have also directed for a magisterial inquiry. An FIR will also be lodged against the person who was operating the factory and they will be sent to jail,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey told reporters at Bakharwa village.Local residents, meanwhile, alleged that the factory was being allegedly operated illegally by one Nitin Chaudhary and his partner Momeen, and there had also been a police raid conducted about a fortnight ago but the operations continued unabated.“There were no safety measures here and the factory had no licence. It was operating illegally. There were 25 to 30 women who were employed here as workers and even children used to work here. There was a raid at the factory several days ago but it continued operations. The local police had information of the operation of the factory,” said Bhupender Kumar, a resident of the village, alleged.Following the incident, Ghaziabad administration and police officials rushed to the spot. Later, the residents blocked the way of ambulances which were roped in to ferry the victims to medical facilities and also raised slogans against officials.“The residents demanded strict action as the factory operations had continued unchecked. My aunt had been working here for the past one year, supporting her family which had four children. She was given a job at Rs 4,500 per month. On Sunday, she went for work at 8am and later we found out that she had died in the fire. About 15 days ago, cops had raided the factory but operations continued. The land belongs to a villager and the factory is operated by someone else,” said Sahil, nephew of one of the victims.“After the fire started, many women got stuck in the factory and an earthmoving machine had to demolish the walls to pull them out. The factory owner was manufacturing party poppers here while some work related to repacking the items was given to villagers at their homes. The owner had also roped in boys aged 15 to 19 years for distribution of goods to nearby areas,” he added.Ghaziabad SSP Kalanidhi Naithani late Sunday night said: “The factory was illegal as we have found no documents or records of its operation or permission. There is laxity on the part of local police post in-charge. The villagers must have gone to him with verbal complaints and he should have informed senior officials but he did not. The circle officer and sub-divisional magistrate went later to conduct a raid, and the police-post in-charge was suspended after the incident,” the SSP said.“In all, we have eight deaths including seven women and a young man aged about 18 years. The factory was manufacturing party poppers but these also had chemical components stored. This led to explosion and fire,” SSP added.Sanjay Kumar, another resident whose wife, Geeta, sustained severe burn injuries, said she had been going to work for the past one month and was paid Rs 200 per day.“Since I do wall painting work, which shutdown during the lockdown, I sent her to work at the factory. Her hands and face suffered burn injuries in the fire. At present, she is the one who has been supporting the entire family, including me and our three children,” he added.Modinagar MLA Dr Manju Siwach also surveyed the spot. “The factory was manufacturing party poppers which are used for birthday celebrations. The work was going on illegally and explosive chemicals which were also stored, caught fire,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-8-charred-to-death-in-fire-at-illegal-factory-cm-seeks-report/story-93A0mLzlGQWmE0JmaeaOKN.html
05-07-2020||City||32-year-old man’s body found in Bisrakh||Noida: The body of a 32-year-old man was found early Sunday morning in a field in the Bisrakh area of Greater Noida, police said. The victim, identified as Sube Yadav who was a resident of Sarfabad, had gone to gamble with a few friends on Saturday night, the police said, adding that he might have been shot dead after an argument over the game gone wrong. Police officials said that he had a farming background. The body was discovered by passersby who later informed the police.“It seems that the murder took place on late Saturday night. He had a bullet injury in his back. The body has been sent for an autopsy which will clarify the time and cause of death,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Zone 2.The police officials said that after the victim was identified, his family was contacted who informed cops that he had gone to play cards with his friends.“Yadav, along with a few friends and acquaintances, was gambling last night. There is a possibility that the murder was a result of an argument over the game gone wrong. We have taken a few of his acquaintances in custody and are questioning them,” said the DCP.Chander said that the family has mentioned one man in the complaint who is missing at the moment. A search is on for him, he said.Based on the complaint from the family, a case of murder under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Bisrakh police station, the police said, adding that the body will be handed over to the family following the autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/32-year-old-man-s-body-found-in-bisrakh/story-hT9WtFG94hrw7BCxSZavMI.html
05-07-2020||Noida||Over 9 lakh saplings planted at more than 800 sites in Noida||Over nine lakh saplings of 35 indigenous tree species were planted across the district on Sunday under a massive drive led by the district forest department.The Gautam Budh Nagar forest department, along with the staff of Noida, Greater Noida, Yamuna Expressway authorities, and personnel from the Central Reserve Police Force and Indo-Tibetan Border Police planted a total of 9.36 lakh trees against a target of 8.50 lakh trees, officials said.“We have successfully accomplished our annual mass plantation target. A total of 9.36 lakh saplings were planted at 882 sites across the district. Despite the pandemic, we got help from the local leaders, MLAs and MPs, local NGOs who added to our strength,” Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, said. He added that they received help from paramilitary forces such as the CRPF and ITBP.According to a state government order issue on May 8, a total of 25 crore trees were to be planted across the state this year of which the Gautam Budh Nagar district’s target was 8.5 lakh trees.“Of the total trees planted, about 3.02 lakh saplings were planted by the forest department, 2.76 lakh by the Noida authority, fifty-two thousand by Greater Noida authority and fifty thousand by the Yamuna Expressway authority. Apart from Gautam Budh Nagar MP Dr Mahesh Sharma,who lead the drive at Okhla Bird Sanctuary along with Noida MLA Pankaj Singh. Dadri MLA Tejpal Singh along with district magistrate Suhas LY lead the drive at Surajpur wetland. Along with ITBP jawans, Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh led the drive near the Yamuna Expressway, while CRPF personnel planted saplings in Greater Noida,” Srivastava added.“Our jawans took out time from the hectic duty and organised a drive at a East Gulistanpur site in Greater Noida and planted over 10,000 saplings,” said Pradeep Kumar, assistant commissioner, CPRF.DFO Srivastava added that 35 indigenous species including pakad (ficus), peepal, gular, kanakchampa(karnikara tree), kanji, arjun, jamun, neem among others were planted during the drive. Forest official said they will also soon start the geo-tagging of the saplings to check their growth.Last year, the mega plantation drive was held in August—the first such initiative in the district— and over 7.5 lakh saplings were planted in a single day.The Uttar Pradesh government aims to have a total green cover of over 15% (36,146 sq km) of its geographical area by 2021, against the present 12.09% (29,133.5 sq kms). Currently, the GB Nagar has a total of 5 sq km of moderately dense forests, (density 70%-40 %), while 15 are open forest (39%-10% density).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/over-9-lakh-saplings-planted-at-more-than-800-sites-in-noida/story-9nCXtDFTJPUlPkL2qMroPO.html
05-07-2020||City||Child labour cases rise in June||Noida: With the gradual lifting of restrictions, cases of child labour and missing children have seen a steady rise in June compared to the lockdown months.In June, six child labour related cases were reported to the Childline in Gautam Budh Nagar compared to none in April and two in May. There were 18 such cases in March before the first phase of lockdown was announced to contain the Covid-19 spread.“As the situation is coming back to normal, these issues will keep on increasing. With more restrictions being lifted, the number of child labour cases will also be on the rise,” said Satya Prakash, programme manager, FXB India Suraksha, an NGO that manages the helpline in GB Nagar.Childline – 1098 – is a 24x7 helpline number for children in distress.Prakash said that most of these cases were from the unorganised sector establishments like local eateries or grocery shops, though one case was of an underage domestic help.“Most of the migrants who had left for their home towns are now coming back. Even though many of them are avoiding coming back with families, a few will use all members, including children, to earn some money. Besides, the closure of schools due to the pandemic is also adding to the problem,” he said.The cases of missing children have also gone up from five in April and four in May to 12 in June.“On average, we receive about 1,100 intervention calls in a year. However, the figure will definitely be much higher this year as the patterns suggest,” said Prakash.Police officials admitted that there is a rise in the child labour cases in the district. “On Friday itself we had two tip-offs for child labour cases in Greater Noida. As economic activities resume, more such instances might come to light,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women and child safety).PK Singh, district labour commissioner, said, “We have a task force which acts on the information about child labour cases. We coordinate with anti-human trafficking unit, Childline, and police, and conduct raids if the need be. The rescued children are then taken to shelter homes for counselling, and are presented before the Child Welfare Committee before being sent back to their families.”The number of help calls to the Childline had more than doubled in April in the beginning of the lockdown. Most of these revolved around requests for nutrition of children.“Needy people were receiving food from various social organisations or the government. But we were receiving requests for milk and baby food. We are still receiving such requests. It is a new pattern and wasn’t there before the lockdown,” said Prakash.The total number of intervention calls, which also include counselling of children, among others, also went up to 28 in June compared to 20 in April and 24 in May, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/child-labour-cases-rise-in-june/story-7oDzLfO1x6UN0b3mMucNLI.html
05-07-2020||City||Noida: Gaur City residents put up ‘mask bank’ at entry points to lower Covid risk||Noida: In a bid to minimise the risk of infection of the Sars-Cov-2 virus in their society, the residents of Gaur City in Greater Noida West have started ‘mask banks’ within the township. The initiative was taken by a resident volunteer group called ‘sathi haath badhana’, which was created in March after the national lockdown was imposed, to distribute food and ration among migrants though the police. Residents said this is being done to keep their society safe from the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, given the rising number of cases in the city. As on Sunday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar reached 2,646, of which 972 are active cases.Under the mask bank, one box, each with a hundred face masks, would be placed at all seven entry points of Gaur City-1 and anyone entering without masks would be given a mask and asked to wear them.“There are over 5,000 families in Gaur City-1 across seven high-rises. The apartment owners’ association of every society were roped in and a box, each containing 100 masks, placed at each of the entry points, and every day they will be refilled by the volunteers. They are normal facemasks and come at a nominal cost, however, given the current scenario, they carry far more important value” said Amit Sharma, a resident of Gaur City and member of the volunteer group. He added that three new cases of Covid-19 were detected in the township on Saturday, after which the decision was taken.The township is divided into two sectors. Volunteers said that they will soon initiate the ‘mask bank’ at Gaur City-2 as well.“Several positive cases of Covid-19 were found from Gaur City and there are numerous floors sealed due to them being designated containment zones. It’s thus important to take all precautions. While sanitisers are already kept at the entrances, we also gave masks. If someone enters without a face mask, the guard will give them one, and ask to bring their own next time,” said Anita Prajapati, another resident who volunteered to form the mask bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-gaur-city-residents-put-up-mask-bank-at-entry-points-to-lower-covid-risk/story-DozKyNsHB7ck7ssEtcSbuM.html
05-07-2020||Noida||Only 55% target achieved in sampling drive, 118 new positive cases in Noida||After three continuous days of achieving high sampling rates in the 10-day massive surveillance drive, Gautam Budh Nagar slipped on Sunday, getting only 55% of its daily target of collecting 4,000 samples a day.District surveillance officer Dr. Sunil Dohre said that 2,204 samples were collected for testing by different methods, including on-site rapid antigen kits, TrueNat machines and lab-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. “Out of 1,257 samples collected through rapid antigen kits, 38 tested positive. Our teams have also collected 940 samples for RT-PCR testing and their results will come in a few days. Apart from this, seven samples have been taken through TrueNat machines, of which none were positive,” he said.On Sunday the district reported 118 new cases in the past 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 2,764. The number of cured patients rose by 113 on Sunday, taking the overall count to 1,759 in the district. “So far, 28 Covid-19 positive patients have lost their lives in the district. As a result, the district now has 978 active cases. Three of them, have been transferred to Ghaziabad,” the state daily Covid-19 bulletin stated.In Uttar Pradesh, in the last 24 hours, as many as 12 Covid-19 positive patients lost their lives. The overall tally of positive cases in the state has gone to 27,709 with 1,155 new cases in the last 24 hours. While 785 patients have lost their lives due to coronavirus infection in the state so far, 18,761 patients have been cured and discharged from different hospitals in the state till the date. At present, the state has 8,161 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/only-55-target-achieved-in-sampling-drive-118-new-positive-cases-in-noida/story-vcm4mKNgdIdxCREXKhIINK.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||4 deaths, 174 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||Punjab on Sunday reported four deaths and 174 fresh Covid-19 cases. With this, the death toll in the state has reached 166 and 6,283 people have contracted the infection so far. Three people, including a 70-year-old woman from Gandhi Nagar in Ludhiana and a 65-year-old woman from Godia Press Street in Muktsar and a 65-old man from Malerkotla in Sangrur died of Covid-19 in Ludhiana hospitals. Besides, 84 persons, including 77 from Ludhiana, were tested positive as Ludhiana on Sunday. Among the 84 cases, 26 are inmates of Ludhiana Central Jail. Meanwhile, former Youth Congress district chief Rajiv Raja also tested positive. A 65-year-old Tarn Taran man died of Covid-19 in Amritsar. Besides, seven persons contracted infection in the district. Jalandhar reported 71 fresh infections. These include 16 armymen.Twenty persons tested positive for the virus in Patiala district. Eight are from Patiala city, five from Samana, four from Rajpura and three from Nabha.With 14 new cases, Mohali crossed the 300-mark on Sunday morning. Besides, eight more cases were reported in Faridkot, five in Moga and four in Gurdaspur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-deaths-174-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab/story-5WoNagiK2rXXPVHWwvyDbI.html
05-07-2020||Noida||Three arrested, 761 vehicles penalised for violating Covid-19 curbs||Three people were arrested and owners of 761 vehicles penalised across Noida and Greater Noida on Sunday for allegedly violating curbs imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Gautam Buddh Nagar police said.Also, two vehicles were impounded for similar violation during a 24-hour period till Sunday night, the police said, even as “Unlock 2” -- the phased re-opening of activities that had been barred to contain the spread of Covid-19, began in the state on Wednesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageCriminal Procedure Code (CrPC) section 144, which bars assembly of more than four people, is in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar, whose urban areas fall in the ‘Red Zone’ for Covid-19.“Two FIRs were registered and three people arrested for violating Covid-19 curbs. A total of 1,709 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 761 of them, while another two were impounded,” the police said in a statement.Altogether, Rs 1,03,000 were collected in fines during the action, the police said.The Noida-Delhi border continues to remain sealed for movement except for essential services and people having passes issued by the district administration, according to officials.The Centre had on June 29 issued guidelines for the month-long ‘‘Unlock 2’‘ from July 1.‘‘Unlock 1’‘, a graded exit from the national lockdown imposed on March 25, ended on June 30.The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to tow the Centre’s guidelines in the state where educational institutions, Metro services, cinema halls and gyms will continue to remain shut.There is no ban on intrastate and interstate movement of people and goods, senior UP government officials said.However, the district administration, police and health department officials of Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad can impose a ban at the local-level after consulting each other, they said.Both the districts had sealed their borders with Delhi in view of the high rate of Covid-19 cases in the national capital in a bid to break the chain of transmission of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-arrested-761-vehicles-penalised-for-violating-covid-19-curbs/story-hbzJwwwC4hmbuyyDC2F9AP.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Antibody tests to be conducted across Haryana: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday said that antibody testing has begun in three districts and these tests will also be conducted in the other districts of Haryana.While inaugurating what the Haryana government claimed to be the state’s first multi-storey sports complex built at a cost of about ₹3 crore in Sirsa, he said it will be his endeavour to construct such sports complexes in other districts of the state as well.Addressing the members of Sirsa club, Dushyant said the complex will not only provide best facilities to the youth in future, but also inspire them to participate and excel in sports.He also announced ₹25-lakh grant from his voluntary fund for the Sirsa club. Later, addressing a press conference, he said the state government was making every effort to contain the spread of Covid-19 and many effective decisions were taken in the interest of people during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/antibody-tests-to-be-conducted-across-haryana-dushyant/story-5eqeZ1tBrDfiI3HPxHm90L.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn narrows down five firms to build new link road to Mullanpur||The UT administration has shortlisted five companies to execute the project to connect Dakshin Marg, Chandigarh, to New Chandigarh (Mullanpur) in Mohali with a new link road.The project’s allotment is expected to be done within a week, with a year-end deadline for completion.With the construction of the 1.2km road, a second route from Chandigarh to New Chandigarh will be established, in addition to the road from Madhya Marg. On the Mohali side, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has constructed the PR4 master plan road, which will be connected to Dakshin Marg through this 1.2km road.“The technical bids have been opened and five companies have qualified for the work. The tender assessment committee will finalise the company for allotment of work by Tuesday. We can start the work in less than two weeks,” said a senior UT Administration official, privy to the development.The proposed road will be 1,204m long and 60.96m wide. It will come up on 17.76 acres on the land acquired in Dadumajra and Dhanas. Earlier in May, the administration had declared the land acquisition award for around 17 acres.A total of Rs 74.67 crore compensation was decided under Section 26 of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013.A compensation of Rs 2.35 crore per acre was announced for 17 families for acquiring 5.56 acres in Dhanas and that of Rs 1.44 crore per acre for 93 families for 12.2 acres to be acquired in Dadumajra.“The UT engineering department is expected to get possession of the land by July 10,” said the official.Besides the cost of acquisition, around Rs 7 crore will be spent on the road’s construction, bringing the project’s total budget to around Rs 81 crore. SHORTER ROUTE TO NEW CHANDIGARH, KURALICurrently, commuters have to go through Sarangpur via Madhya Marg to reach New Chandigarh. The new road will shorten the distance between Chandigarh and Kurali by connecting National Highway 21 and Sector 39 through Kurali. The road will also connect directly to the new International cricket stadium coming up in New Chandigarh. Being constructed by the Mohali Cricket Association, the stadium is nearing completion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-narrows-down-five-firms-to-build-new-link-road-to-mullanpur/story-UOCwpWQL7LHsTQaNYJPUBM.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Hooda dares Khattar to contest Baroda bypoll||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday dared chief minister Manohar lal Khattar to contest the upcoming Baroda assembly byelection, saying he is ready to face him in the fray.Baroda assembly seat in Sonepat district fell vacant in April following the demise of sitting Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda. No poll date has been announced as yet.Interacting with mediapersons in Sonepat’s Gohana, Hooda said that he wants Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to contest the ensuing Baroda byelection to check the progress of his coalition government.“If Khattar contests the by-election, I am ready to contest against him. The CM had stated recently that if the people of Baroda want a stake in the government, they should vote for the BJP-JJP candidate in the upcoming bypoll. Khattar has failed to undertake development work in Baroda constituency in the last six years after assuming office for the first time in 2014”, Hooda said adding that the state debt increased from ₹60,000 crore to ₹2 lakh crore during the BJP government in Haryana.He said considering the demand of the family members of the two slain policemen, the government should give them an ex gratia compensation of ₹1 crore each and a government job.Two policemen were murdered while patrolling their area in Gohana in Sonepat, on Monday night.BJP-JJP leaders woo votersThe BJP and its coalition partner the Jannayak Janata party leaders have started village-level canvassing to woo voters. A day after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar visited few villages of Baroda constituency, the JJP patriarch Ajay Chautala visited four villages and interacted with party workers. Khattar had interacted with the people on Saturday and asked them to elect his nominee in the upcoming byelection. He also directed wrestler-turned BJP leader Yogeshwar Dutt, who last contested the 2019 assembly election from Baroda to send him a list of development works.Interacting with villagers in Baroda’s Rabda village, Chautala said that the BJP- JJP will field an alliance candidate to take on Congress and the Indian National Lok Dal.“This seat has remained our stronghold and the Congress remained successful in Baroda since 2009 assembly polls due to Sri Krishan Hooda’s popularity. I have been interacting with party workers to know their well being amid coronavirus crisis. The people of Haryana are happy with the functioning of the BJP-JJP coalition government and they will oust Congress from Baroda,” said Ajay Chautala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooda-dares-khattar-to-contest-baroda-bypoll/story-nB4UQiG4DWpk4JWFADR7JK.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM inaugurates 98 ‘vyayamshalas’ digitally||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday digitally inaugurated 98 newly built park-cum-vyayamshalas.On Saturday, he had inaugurated 12 such gyms in Sonepat and with the Sunday’s inauguration, the number of such facilities in the state rose to 511 even as work on additional 300 parks is expected to be completed in next few months, an official spokesperson said. Khattar said in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for promoting Ayush health and wellness centres, the state government is contemplating to set up such facilities with two to three rooms in all its park-cum-vyayamshalas.Cooperation minister Banwari Lal and minister of state (MoS) for social justice and empowerment Om Prakash Yadav were present during the conference, while deputy CM Dushyant Chautala digitally joined the inauguration ceremony from Hisar and Union MoS for social justice and empowerment Krishan Pal Gurjar from Faridabad.One such park each has come up in Ambala, Gurugram, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Panchkula, Panipat and Rewari, 10 in Bhiwani, six each in Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Karnal and Mahendergarh, seven in Fatehabad, four in Hisar, nine in Jhajjar, 13 in Jind, two each in Palwal and Yamunanagar, eight in Rohtak and 12 in Sirsa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-cm-inaugurates-98-vyayamshalas-digitally/story-XfL6Jf5O7DxWvuvkhHcZKL.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||5 fatalities, 457 fresh cases in Haryana||Five patients lost their lives due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday while Haryana recorded 457 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s total number of infections to 17,005, said the health department.Ambala recorded its fourth death after a 51-year-old woman succumbed to the virus on Saturday night. She had tested positive on July 2, along with her 54-year-old husband. She was a patient of diabetes, hypertension and asthma. “Her husband is undergoing treatment and is stable,” Dr Kuldeep Singh, chief medical officer, said, adding that a 48-year-old employee of central jail was among 13 patients found infected in the district. While the state health bulletin stated there were no new cases in Rohtak on Sunday, local civil surgeon Dr Anil Birla said, “As many as 61 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Sunday.”3,796 active cases Meanwhile, there were 3,796 active cases in the state on Sunday, while 687 patients in 11 districts recovered. So far 12,944 Covid-19 positive patients have been cured in the state. With three fatalities in Faridabad and one each in Gurugram and Ambala, the death toll due to Covid-19 has now risen to 265 (197 men, 68 women) in the state.Ever since the virus outbreak, the state has tested 3,07,159 people. The health department said 12,117 tests per million were being conducted in Haryana now.As per the bulletin, the recovery rate has reached 76.12%, while the cases are doubling in 18 days.Fresh cases were detected in 15 districts in the last 24 hours with Faridabad district reporting 161 infections. 120 test positive in GurugramGurugram saw 120 new cases, Rewari (34), Ambala (13), Palwal (5), Bhiwani (16), Karnal (15), Hisar (18), Mahendergarh (6), Jhajjar (13), Panipat and Kurukshetra (19 each), Fatehabad (5), Sirsa (12) and Yamunanagar (91). Six wedding guests among 15 found infected in Karnal Of 15 new patients in Karnal, six were relatives of the newlywed couple, which was found sick on Saturday. The health department had started the contact tracing of all people who attended the wedding ceremony on June 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-fatalities-457-fresh-cases-in-haryana/story-nxwcaBgDyQpHMhfDX9DixJ.html
05-07-2020||City||17 new cases reported in Himachal Pradesh; tally reaches 1,063||Seventeen new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday pushing the state’s tally to 1063 cases. While the number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 315.Seven cases were reported in Una, five cases were reported in Kangra, two each in Solan and Kullu and one in Mandi district.In Kangra, a 61-year-old man from Rajot village in Baijnath tehsil tested positive for Covid-19. The man had returned from Mumbai by air on June 27. He has been shifted to a dedicated Covid-Care Centre in Dharamsala.In Mandi, a 34-year-old man from Kharoh village in Sarkaghat tehsil tested positive for Covid. He had returned from West Bengal.The man was symptomatic and kept in home quarantine, he added.A total of nine people have died of the virus in the state so far.With a total of 288 positive cases, Kangra is the worst-hit district of the state followed by Hamirpur having 265 positive cases. Una has recorded 126 positive cases, Solan 116, Chamba 54, 47 each in Shimla and Bilaspur, 40 cases in Sirmaur, Mandi 35, Kinnaur 34, seven cases in Kullu and four cases in Lahaul-Spiti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-new-cases-reported-in-himachal-pradesh-tally-reaches-1-063/story-nIQdU2r525qRrpw82B2WoM.html
05-07-2020||City||From SGPC stage, Jasbir Rode flays SAD for dumping ‘panthic’ agenda||Former Akal Takht jathedar Jasbir Singh Rode on Saturday sent the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) into a tizzy when he used its platform on the Golden Temple premises to make a political statement. In a veiled attack, he flayed the Shiromani Akal Dal (SAD) for “dumping” the panthic agenda, during the daily discourse that is aired live on a Punjabi channel.Rode, who is the nephew of slain militant leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, was the Akal Takht jathedar when the militancy was at its peak in Punjab.“This is our bad luck that the Sikhs have abandoned their distinctiveness. Akali word was taken from the historical slogan ‘Akal Purakh ki fauj’. This word has been excluded. Now, they say that we have become Punjabi... the party has become Punjabi,” he said.“Will you be able to launch an agitation today as you did in the past? Today, we are being oppressed. Sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib is being committed,” he said in an indirect reference to the Akali Dal.“On July 4, 1955, police and military entered Darbar Sahib complex with shoes. They used arms and killed many Sikhs. Bhim Sen Sachar was Punjab’s chief minister, while Jawaharlal Nehru was the prime minister,” he said.Notably, his address did not catch the attention of even the intelligence agencies officials who were camping at Golden Temple in the wake of Khalistan ideologue Gurpatwant Singh Pannu-led Sikhs For Justice (SFJ)’s call for starting registration for ‘Referendum 2020’. Now, his address is being linked to the campaign being run by Pannu, who was declared a terrorist by the Union government recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-sgpc-stage-jasbir-rode-flays-sad-for-dumping-panthic-agenda/story-h0ZZfHWKe42aVlOcCCQAfP.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Former Shutrana MLA’s husband among 4 booked for woman’s murder||The husband of former Shutrana MLA Vaninder Kaur Loomba and three others were booked after a 35-year-old woman died of poisoning in Duhar village of Patran sub-division of Patiala on Sunday.The deceased Jasdeep Kaur is the wife of the former SAD MLA’s personal assistant Gursewak Singh, who had ended his life on June 3.The accused have been identified as Loomba’s husband Karan Singh, who is an officer with transport department, Jasdeep’s mother-in-law Gurmail Singh, brother-in-law Ramphal Singh, and local resident Lal Singh Yadav.Patran deputy superintendent of police Bharpur Singh said the case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) on the complaint of Jasdeep’s maternal uncle Satbir Singh.The DSP said, “The victim had recorded a video before her death in which she claimed she had been administered poisonous tablets by her mother-in-law and brother-in-law on Karan Singh’s behest. In the same video, she accused Karan Singh and Lal Yadav of harassing her mentally after her husband’s death.”The cop added that the accused had even submitted a written complaint against the deceased after her husband’s death. “In the complaint, they had stated that Gursewak had ended his life after finding out about Jasdeep’s extra-marital affair,” the DSP said.“In a video, the woman also alleged the accused were forcing her to give certain statements before the police in her husband’s death case,” the DSP said.He added they have initiated minute investigation into the matter and the accused will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-shutrana-mla-s-husband-among-4-booked-for-woman-s-murder/story-7TggLJyh8dv0QHKjkWLuGO.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Radiologists working sans salaries for three months in Amritsar GMCH||Radiologists at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, have not been paid salaries for the last three months even as they are working seven days a week, amid the Covid-19 outbreak.“At least seven radiologists, who were transferred to GMCH Amritsar from various government hospitals of Punjab in March 2019, have been working for seven days a week and performing their duties by risking their lives. But while the doctors, nurses and other medical staff have received their salaries, our salaries have been pending since April,” said radiologist Jagroop Singh.He added, “The Punjab government never disburses salaries on time. We too have families to support and many are the sole earning members of their families.”“The Indian government had issued orders that all medical staff should be paid complete salaries and on time, and legal action will be taken against those who do not obey the orders. Even then, the state government is not paying salaries to radiologists, who are an essential part of the hospital,” said radiologist Mandeep Kaur.She added that the hospital authorities have written to the government several times but to no avail. “If our salaries are not paid, we will be forced to boycott Covid-19 duties in protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/radiologists-working-sans-salaries-for-three-months-in-amritsar-gmch/story-X7nBtd7WaZSEBDDqnnUwwJ.html
05-07-2020||City||2 deaths, 26 inmates & ex-Youth Cong chief test +ve among 84 in Ludhiana||Two elderly women succumbed to coronavirus disease while 84 persons tested positive in the district on Sunday. This is Ludhiana’s biggest single-day spike yet.The deceased include a 70-year-old from Gandhi Nagar of Ludhiana and a 65-year-old woman from Godia Press Street in Muktsar.The district has so far recorded 1,070 Covid-19 cases in 104 days and 51 deaths since the beginning of the lockdown. Of those who succumbed to the virus, 25 hailed from Ludhiana, while 26 patients were from other districts and states.Among the 84 cases reported on Sunday, 26 are inmates of the Ludhiana Central Jail. Confirming the cases, district epidemiologist Rajesh Kumar Bagga said the inmates were kept in a separate barrack at the jail. Five among them had tested positive on Friday, while four inmates were declared infected on June 1.Interestingly, these 26 inmates are among the group of 150 undertrials who were kept in Borstal jail. They had tested negative 21 days ago, following which they were shifted to the central jail where they were kept in a separate barrack. As per the protocol, their tests were conducted and 26 inmates were found infected. They have been separated and their health is being monitored, said Bagga.Besides them, former Youth Congress district president Rajiv Raja also tested positive for the virus on Sunday. Raja had visited the civil hospital on July 2 and given his samples for testing. The area around Raja’s house in Rishi Nagar has been sealed and his family members have been asked to remain under quarantine. The health department has also started contact-tracing of the Congress leader. The news of Raja suffering from Covid-19 has caused flutters in the local Congress unit as it has been learnt that the now infected leader had met many of his party colleagues in the past week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-deaths-26-inmates-ex-youth-cong-chief-test-ve-among-84-in-ludhiana/story-6fZug1FoVh2mS6l2ExoyyK.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 patient escapes from isolation in Sangrur; booked||A migrant labourer who had tested positive for Covid-19 escaped from isolation on Saturday. As per information, he works at an industrial unit, from where a health department team had taken his samples. After he tested positive, he was sent into isolation but he managed to escape on knowing his test results. He has been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code at Sunam City police station. 24 hours on, Patiala health dept yet to find 30-yr-old patient Health officials in Patiala are still groping in the dark to find a 30-year-old Covid-19 patient who escaped from Rajindra hospital on Saturday. He belongs to Kaithal district of Haryana and was referred here. He had reported at the flu corner of the hospital but he did not reach the isolation facility.District epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said they have informed the health officials of Kaithal and efforts are on to find him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-patient-escapes-from-isolation-in-sangrur-booked/story-HBK96MrRILU98FIt4RXZaL.html
05-07-2020||City||Manager booked for sending fake resignation of employee on maternity leave in Ludhiana||After four and a half years of investigation, the police on Sunday finally booked the branch manager of an insurance company for submitting the fake resignation of an employee when she was on maternity leave.The accused has been identified as Diwakar Singla, Bajaj Alliance Life Insurance branch manager at Feroze Gandhi Market here.In his police complainant of January 6, 2016, Rakesh Kumar of Model Town had stated that his daughter-in-law, Priyanka Gupta, had joined the insurance firm as a trainee sales manager on July 15, 2011.In January 2012, she had availed maternity leave for four months and gone to Gwalior. When she returned to work, the firm’s divisional manager, R P Singh, told her he had received her resignation letter on May 12, 2012, while she had never filed any.The complainant alleged that Singla had sent a fake resignation letter of his daughter-in-law for no reason.Investigation officer ASI Arvinder Singh said a case has been lodged against Singla under Section 420 of the IPC and a hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manager-booked-for-sending-fake-resignation-of-employee-on-maternity-leave-in-ludhiana/story-WzwAwbSC1xSH2WwfiZphSI.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: SIT questions then Faridkot SP||The special investigation team (SIT) on Sunday questioned then Faridkot superintendent of police (SP) Balbir Singh in connection with the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident.However, then Faridkot senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sukhmander Singh Mann and the then Kotkapura deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Baljit Singh, who is also an accused in Kotkapura firing case, failed to appear before SIT despite being summoned twice.The SIT confronted SP Balibir Singh with the then Kotkapura station house officer Gurdeep Singh, who was in police custody and questioned them.Inspector general of police and SIT member Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh said that three cops were called for questioning, while only one appeared today. “Now, we will initiate procedure to question them,” he added. EX-SHO SENT IN 14-DAY JUDICIAL CUSTODYA Faridkot court on Sunday sent then Kotkapura station house officer (SHO) Gurdeeep Singh Pandher to 14-day judicial custody for his alleged role in tampering with the evidence in the Kotkapura police firing case.The SIT, probing the 2015 firings on people protesting the Bargari sacrilege in Faridkot, had arrested Pandher by adding Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) and 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc) of the IPC in the FIR registered on Pandher’s complaint on October 14, 2015, against the protesters.Pandher was presented before the court of duty magistrate Ekta Uppal after his two-day police custody ended on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kotkapura-firing-sit-questions-then-faridkot-sp/story-lgsQNkKKM6rNC2RNBoQ59M.html
05-07-2020||City||Ludhiana sees three-fold decline in road accident deaths during lockdown||Recording a significant decline in the number of road mishaps, the city witnessed only 17 deaths due to road accidents in the three-month Coronavirus lockdown.In the same period prior to the lockdown, 53 persons were killed in road accidents, shows official data.As per the police, due to curfew and restrictions on movement of vehicles in view of coronavirus outbreak, fewer deaths were reported during this period.Most of the road mishaps (10) during the lockdown occurred on the national highway near Sahnewal.According to official record, from January 1 to March 22, total 60 cases of road mishaps were reported in the city, out of which, 53 people had lost their lives. During this period, maximum number of road mishaps 29 was reported from zone 4, which includes Jamalpur, Koomkalan, Focal Point, Moti Nagar, Division 7, Meharban and Tibba police stations, while 20 people had lost their lives in the mishaps.Before the lockdown, 19 people were killed in 17 roads accidents in zone 2, comprising Daba, Shimlapuri, Division 6, Sadar, Dehlon, Dugri and Sahnewal police stations.From March 23 to June 30 (lockdown period), most deaths (10) were reported from zone 2. Out of 10 deaths, 7 were reported under the Sahnewal jurisdiction. Only 3 deaths were reported from zone 4 after the lockdown was enforced in the city.Deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said throughout the lockdown, movement of vehicles was restricted, following which the number of road mishaps also declined as compared to normal days. He added that in most of the cases, human error had caused the accidents. The police have chalked out special planning to minimise road mishaps, he said.MAJOR MISHAPS DURING LOCKDOWNOn May 16, a 50-year-old man and his 47-year-old wife had died after a speeding truck hit their motorcycle on the flyover near Sherpur Chowk.On June 8, an over-speeding SUV belonging to Fazilka Congress MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya had hit a motorcycle-borne man to death near Mundian on Chandigarh Road. At the time of the accident, the MLA was not in the car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-sees-three-fold-decline-in-road-accident-deaths-during-lockdown/story-AcSsUn7XCpvkxRjbsPNDQI.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||2015 BIR THEFT: Arrested dera followers taken to sacrilege spot||Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT), led by Jalandhar range deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra probing a sacrilege case, on Sunday took the seven Dera Sacha Sauda followers, who were arrested on Saturday, to Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village from where a ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen on June 1, 2015.Later, they were taken to Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda’s branch at Kotkapura and Sikhan Wala village.DIG Khatra said all the accused were taken to the spots in a chronological order to recreate occurrence of the crime. “The SIT has also identified a car used to transfer the stolen copy of Guru Granth Sahib by dera followers,” he said. “The bir of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala, than it was taken to dera’s naam charcha ghar at Kotkapura and then to Sikhan Wala village,” said an SIT official. The SIT on Saturday arrested seven dera followers in Faridkot district in a case registered at the Bajakhana police station in the district.However, Faridkot court termed the arrest of two of the accused, Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, of Kotkapura and Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village, as “illegal” since both were already released on bail. Both accused Shakti and Sunny on Sunday appeared before the SIT and joined the investigation. Meanwhile, Ram Singh, the head of the political wing of Dera Sacha Sauda, said: “We strongly believe that premis would never do such thing. The matter is being politicised and the premis are been harassed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2015-bir-theft-arrested-dera-followers-taken-to-sacrilege-spot/story-5eWuUmKD4BfLfEFQYWsSRL.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Dubai gurdwara reopens after lifting of Covid-19 restrictions||The Guru Nanak Darbar Gurdwara in Dubai re-opened after 110 days, adhering to safety rules with restricted timings for devotees to visit the shrine following lifting of the Covid-19 restrictions on places of worship in the UAE, according to a media report.It reopened on Saturday after getting clearance from Dubai’s Community Development Authority, Surender Singh Kandhari, chairman of the gurdwara, was quoted as saying by the Gulf News.“We had a very nice re-opening in the morning, it was a beautiful feeling. People were very well disciplined, very well behaved. They kept the social distancing norms, they were very co-operative.“People were overwhelmed, we found some of them in tears when they entered the Gurdwara,” he said.Restricted timings were put in place for the devotees to visit the Sikh shrine. They can pay obeisance from 9am-9.30am and from 6pm-6.30pm from Saturday to Thursday during which they will be allowed only a walk-through darshan, the report said.The gurdwara authorities have to follow the timings for two weeks after which officials will decide further on the matter, he said, adding it will remain closed on Friday.Around 250 people visited the gurdwara in the morning after it reopened on Saturday.Children below 12 years and people above 60 will not be allowed to enter the gurdwara until further notice, the report said.As part of the precautions, visitors will have to wear masks, gloves, use sanitisers, go through sanitising tunnels, have their temperature checked and maintain social distancing, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dubai-gurdwara-reopens-after-lifting-of-covid-19-restrictions/story-P7ZNzdkARib2yAVw26U2BI.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Policeman booked forstripping 3 men, recording video in Ludhiana in 2019||At a time when police brutality in Tamil Nadu was in the news, inspector Baljinder Singh, former station house officer (SHO) at the Khanna Sadar police station, was booked on Sunday for assaulting, illegally detaining and stripping three men and recording a video. Sections of The Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, and Information Technology Act have also been added to the FIR lodged at the police station City-1 of Khanna. Baljinder Singh is currently posted at Ferozepur, Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh confirmed.He is yet to be arrested.In a nine second video reportedly recorded around 12 months back, three persons were allegedly seen standing nude before the SHO, whose voice was audible though his face could not be seen. The three men in question were Jagpal Singh Jogi, the husband of a former sarpanch allegedly involved in a land dispute with a Doraha based Congress leader. Last year in June, when he was watering his crops, Bajlinder Singh, then SHO at police station Sadar had arrested him, his son Gurvir Singh and friend Jaswant Singh. They were allegedly beaten up brutally at the police station and forced to strip, after which a video was recorded. Jogi also added that later they were implicated in a false case of burglary.  After the video went viral and Jogi complained about the incident to Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta through an advocate, he directed the inspector general of police (IGP), Ludhiana Range, to carry out a fact-finding inquiry into the matter on April 16.On April 23 this year, the phone that was used to record the video and circulate it was traced by the police to constable Varun Kumur, chhota munshi at the sadar police station. His statement was recorded in which he claimed that Baljinder Singh had recorded the video. However, Kumar could not come up with a satisfactory response when asked about forwarding of the videos. He was transferred to police lines with immediate effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/policeman-booked-forstripping-3-men-recording-video-in-ludhiana-in-2019/story-NBRGVIE3AJ6vqCqDhdBq2K.html
05-07-2020||Delhi||1984 anti-Sikh riots case convict dies of Covid-19||A former MLA serving jail sentence in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case died due to Covid-19 at a hospital in the national capital, the second inmate of Mandoli prison to have succumbed to the infection, officials said on Sunday.Mahender Yadav, 70, was a former MLA from Palam constituency. He was lodged in Jail no. 14 of Mandoli prison, where he was undergoing a sentence of 10 years, and had been hospitalised on June 26, they said. Another convict Kanwar Singh, who died last month and had tested positive for coronavirus, was also lodged in Jail no. 14.The Supreme Court had on July 1 refused to grant interim bail to Yadav, who sought to be released on the ground that he was Covid-19 positive.Director general (prisons) Sandeep Goel said that Yadav complained of uneasiness and some heart related problems on June 26. He was taken to DDU Hospital, from where he was referred to LNJP Hospital the same day and admitted there.Later, on his family’s request, he was allowed to be shifted under police guard to a private hospital in Dwarka on June 30.“We received information that Mahender Yadav expired in Akash hospital on July 4 evening,” he added.Yadav was lodged in jail since December 2018, according to officials.Kanwar Singh died on June 15 in his sleep. A Covid-19 test had turned out to be positive, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/1984-anti-sikh-riots-case-convict-dies-of-covid-19/story-X3bimcTDYMe3ofJ8MV8LCK.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets 46.4mm rain, more likely on Monday||Residents woke up to a pleasant Sunday morning with 46.4mm rain lashing the city.With the monsoon system growing stronger in the region, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast more showers in the coming days.“Monsoon has strengthened in the region. Moderate rain up to 60mm will continue till Wednesday. Monday and Tuesday could also see heavy rain. Squally winds of up to 60 km per hour blew in the city on Sunday, and can be expected in the next few days as well,” said an IMD official.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature decreased slightly from 35.3 degrees Celsius on Saturday to 34.4. degrees Celsius on Sunday. Similarly, the minimum temperature went down from 22.9 degrees to 22.2 degrees. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 32 and 35 degrees, while the minimum temperature will remain around 22 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-46-4mm-rain-more-likely-on-monday/story-oipLO2I1FKVi237JcGEdRO.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Five of Dhanas family among 7 fresh cases in Chandigarh||Five members of a family in Dhanas, including a toddler, were among seven people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Sunday.The remaining two cases are from Sectors 20 and 21, which took the city’s tally to 466. As many as 65 cases are still active.In Sector 20, a 26-year-old woman, who is a workplace contact of a patient from Mohali, has tested positive. Her husband’s samples have also been taken. In Sector 21, a 58-year-old man was found infected. His seven family contacts have been quarantined.In Dhanas, the patients include three men, aged 20, 22 and 26, a woman, aged 20, and a one-and-a-half-year-old boy. They are family contacts of a patient from the same locality. A part of Dhanas — Kachhi Colony — remained a containment zone between May 21 and June 8. It had reported its first case on May 5. 7 more edu dept staffers +ve, not added to tally yetA day after two women staffers of the Chandigarh education department tested positive and their 23 co-workers were quarantined, seven more employees have reportedly been found infected on Sunday.However, the numbers have not been added to any tally yet, even as multiple sources confirmed the development. While four are Chandigarh residents, two are from Mohali and one from Panchkula, said sources.A 48-year-old male doctor of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, is also reported to have tested positive. He resides in the same sector and is a contact of health worker who tested positive earlier, said sources. Meanwhile, the offices of directors, higher education and school education, Chandigarh, were closed on Sunday “till further orders”, after “few suspected Covid-19 cases in the department of education”. “The office rooms/branches on the first floor of the additional deluxe building in Sector 9 will remain closed,” states the order. UT director of higher education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said: “Rest of the department will work with limited staff.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-of-dhanas-family-among-7-fresh-cases-in-chandigarh/story-bC83i0ZjK9z3Mox9MDJyjJ.html
05-07-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records 191 Covid cases on Sunday||Navi Mumbai on Sunday reported 191 Covid-19 cases and five deaths. The total number of cases has now gone up to 7,793, while the death toll is 244.The highest number of cases were reported from Airoli and Ghansoli, both areas saw 36 new cases, followed by 28 in Kopar Khairane and 30 in Neral. Till Sunday, 4433 people have recovered with the recovery percentage at 57%. The active cases are still over 3000 at 3116.Panvel, on Sunday, recorded the second highest single-day spike with 145 case and one death. Panvel City Municipal Corporation has so far reported 2,858 Covid-19 positive cases and 83 deaths. There are presently 1,146 active positive cases while 1,629 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-191-covid-cases-on-sunday/story-mPugNyjFB4oVyR23yvUlGN.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala villages to participate in beautification, development competition||With an aim to develop and beautify villages, a “super village challenge” has been launched in Ambala for the first time. Under a three-month initial plan, development works at participating villages will be judged under prescribed parameters. Later, competitions will be held and development funds will be sanctioned for five villages.Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said the village sarpanch will have a special role in the competition and scores will be given only after taking into consideration the work done in the villages. “Under this project, the sarpanch will have to declare what works have been carried out in the village till July 15. Also, the role of sarpanch has played in activities other than development works will hold more weightage. This includes 100% registration on ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal, Ante Natal Camp (ANC) checkup, vaccination, sanitation and other health services,” the DC added. “Not only this, prevention of drug abuse and female foeticide, beautification of schools, minimising wastage of water and steps taken to make village polythene free will also be considered,” Sharma said.Detailed information will be given to the sarpanchs by block development and Panchayat officials, DC said, adding that the departments concerned will also ensure that this work is done with coordination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-villages-to-participate-in-beautification-development-competition/story-X5y9GknjY2sN3DjoO8S4PI.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Scooterist dies in Chandigarh accident||A scooterist was killed in an accident at the Sector 34/35/43/44 roundabout on Saturday night with police as yet unable to ascertain whether he slipped or if an unidentified vehicle was involved in the accident.A case has been filed against an unidentified vehicle. No eyewitnesses were present at the spot.Ankush Gupta, a 30-year-old resident of Sector 40 working with an IT Park firm in the city, was returning home at 10pm from a friend’s house in Sector 20 when the accident happened.A passer-by later alerted the police. Gupta was taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 where doctors said he had died.Police have registered a case under Sections 279 ( rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 36 police station against unknown persons. Officials privy to the matter said it wasn’t clear whether any vehicle had hit Gupta or if his scooter had slipped. However, CCTV camera footage of the area would be examined, they said.There have been 18 fatalities in 16 accidents in the city this year till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/scooterist-dies-in-sector-35-43-chowk-accident/story-VPcreq1NespQDMpnTmh2yM.html
05-07-2020||City||5 deaths, 183 fresh virus infections in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded five deaths and 183 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 8,429, officials said. Of the new cases, 132 are from Kashmir and 51 from Jammu division. Among these, 32 patients have a travel history. As many as 21 employees of a firm that deals in supplying beverages of a US-based soft drinks company in Samba district have also tested positive for Covid-19. After the results came out positive, over 500 employees of the company in Bari-Brahmana area of the district have been quarantined. Senior superintendent of police Shakti Pathak said, “We are tracing their contacts and trying to ascertain their movements and source of infection. We are also trying to ascertain if during this period they had supplied soft drinks.”Five more people succumbed to the virus in Kashmir. With this, the death toll in the UT has risen to 132—118 fatalities in Kashmir and 14 in Jammu division.The UT particularly Kashmir valley is witnessing an increase in death toll for the past two weeks. More than half of the total deaths due to coronavirus in J&K have come since June 18. Active cases in the UT stand at 3,042 after 112 more patients recovered on Sunday. Officials said 23 people were discharged in Jammu division and 89 in Kashmir.The total number of people who have recovered since the first cases emerged on March 9 has reached 5,255, taking the recovery rate to 62.34%.In Kashmir, the highest jump in positive cases was witnessed in Srinagar district where 59 more people tested positive, followed by Kupwara at 20 and Budgam at 19. In Jammu division, the highest jump of 18 cases was reported in Samba district followed by Ramban at 10. “In three weeks post-unlock, Covid cases account for more than the cumulative numbers in three months of lockdown, despite thousands of travelers coming in. Reflective of adherence to precautions and reiterates indispensable need of wearing masks, physical distancing and hygiene,” said Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary.Till date, 2.96 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 40,149 in home quarantine, 42 in hospital quarantine and 45,780 under home surveillance. Besides these, 2.07 lakh people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-deaths-183-fresh-virus-infections-in-j-k/story-N3ObpLH918qwnkfzWv36mO.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||After slip in national rank, Panjab University to evaluate five-year data||After slipping in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) evaluation again this year, Panjab University is reviewing the data submitted to the Union human resource development ministry in the past five year.The varsity drew flak as it slipped from 34th rank in 2019 to 44th in 2020, having attained 12th position among all universities in the country in 2016.The step to evaluate the data has been initiated by the internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) of the university.IQAC director Ashish Jain said, “We have initiated the process after getting directions from the vice-chancellor. Based on analysis and evaluation, a report will be prepared by IQAC which we expect to submit by next week.”According to the IQAC, the evaluation will be category-wise as done by the NIRF. The university will evaluate score and performance in engineering, pharmacy, management and overall rankings of the university for the last five years.Every parameter will be examined in each category. This year, PU’s score in teaching, learning and resources, which includes its total student strength, faculty-student ratio and financial resources, dropped as well. Its score in research and professional practice, graduation outcome; outreach and inclusivity, and perception also slipped.After evaluating the data, IQAC will also make recommendations. “Our aim is to analyse all positive and negative points. We will make suggestions on every loophole to improve the university,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-slip-in-national-rank-panjab-university-to-evaluate-five-year-data/story-lQsyWVSLZr4fDQB6bJ2R4M.html
05-07-2020||City||Overnight rain in Ludhiana leads to waterlogging, road cave-in||Overnight showers laid bare the monsoon ill-preparedness of the civic authorities as waterlogging was witnessed at several places in the city on Sunday. A cave-in was also witnessed at Saggu Chowk, where the rain left a 20-ft long and 15-ft deep crater in the middle of the road.Food and civil supplies minister and area MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu, along with Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) chairman and area councillor Gurpreet Singh Gogi and MC officials reached the spot to find the reasons behind the cave-in.‘DRILLING FOR LAYING FIBRE CABLES CAUSING CAVE-INS’Area councillor Gogi said drilling of roads to lay fibre optic cables by private telecommunication companies is leading to road cave-ins. “It has been observed that while laying these cables, the sanitation pipes get punctured, causing seepage and ultimately resulting road collapse. However, the area has been dug up to find out any other leakages that need plugging,” added Gogi.RESENTMENT AMONG RESIDENTSWhile there was no untoward outcome of the road cave-in, the incident caused a lot of resentment among the area residents. They claimed that it was the third time that the road had collapsed near the chowk, but nothing has been done to stop such incidents from occurring.Sources said no money has been allotted to develop the road under the smart city project. It is an important connecting route for residents living in Hambra, Haibowal, Rishi Nagar and Kitchlu Nagar areas with the rest of the city. The road is widely used to rush patients to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital from Ferozepur Road.“What more is one to expect? The first rainfall of monsoon and the city has already begun to see road cave-ins and waterlogging,” rued Hardeep Singh, while showing the crater.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/overnight-rain-in-ludhiana-leads-to-waterlogging-road-cave-in/story-Ct8Tzz7ZiriyXp698yTerN.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab ahead of all states in handling Covid-19 pandemic, says state health minister||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said Punjab is ahead of all other states in checking the spread of Covid-19 and credited this to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.Sidhu was attending a state-level function on the occasion of martyrdom day of Baba Maharaj Singh at Rabbon Uchi village, on Sunday.He said that residents do not have to visit private hospitals or labs for testing as more than 10,000 tests are being conducted daily by government hospitals in Punjab. While replying to a question on a lab in Amritsar giving out wrong reports, he said the licence of that lab has been cancelled and in future, no such lab would be spared.He also announced the opening of a health and wellness centre in the village that will be named after Baba Maharaj Singh and be operational within a month. He said that the Punjab government is committed to strengthening healthcare services in the state. He added that out of 2,900 such centres in Punjab, 1,900 have already been constructed, while work on the remaining will be started soon.He also announced a grant of Rs 5 lakh from the Chief Minister Discretionary Fund for the development of village and for installing a statue of Baba Maharaj Singh.While paying tribute to Baba Maharaj Singh, Sidhu exhorted the people to strive for unity and integrity of the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-ahead-of-all-states-in-handling-covid-19-pandemic-says-state-health-minister/story-9WBQFWHxrWmnNJJjapkFEL.html
05-07-2020||City||Punjab profs say promoting students on basis of previous exams will be cumbersome task||A day after Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced cancellation of all university and college exams and said that students will be promoted on the basis of the previous semester results, professors and teachers said it is going to be a cumbersome process and will involve a lot of technicalities.“We need to look at a lot of aspects before evaluating the students’ performance on the basis of the previous results,” said Khushvinder Kumar, principal of the Patiala-based MM Modi College. He, however, said that it was a welcome move as students’ safety is the first priority.Authorities at Punjabi University, meanwhile, are waiting for strictures from the University Grants Commission before deciding their own criteria on the basis of the guidelines issued by director public instructions (DPI) of colleges, Punjab.A professor said the university is yet to declare the results of several undergraduate and postgraduate courses for December-2019 semester.“Even the internal assessment for May semester is incomplete as the second leg of mid-semester tests, which are considered for internal evaluation, are yet to be conducted,” the professor added.As per the directions of DPI (colleges), all the students in terminal or exit classes or semesters will be awarded degrees on the basis of their average grades, marks or CGPA of their previous exams or semesters. Students in intermediate classes will also be promoted to the next classes on the same criteria.Punjabi university registrar Prof Manjit Singh Nijjar said the university has only received a communiqué from the state government so far. “The university has to wait for final guidelines and directions from the UGC before deciding on the criteria for declaring results,” Prof Nijjar said.STUDENTS WELCOME MOVEAjaib Singh, president of democratic students’ organisation, said the government has taken a “pro-student” decision as it won’t be easy for students to come and take final exams amid the pandemic.“Moreover, the government has provided provisions for the students to improve their scores when the situation gets better,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-profs-say-promoting-students-on-basis-of-previous-exams-will-be-cumbersome-task/story-J0VUhQE1MQTqTuH7cAn6ZP.html
05-07-2020||City||Ludhiana manufacturers add ‘Made-in-India’ labels to PPE kits, masks||As the anti-China sentiment is gaining momentum among consumers, makers of face masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits in Ludhiana — the biggest manufacturer of the same in the country — are ensuring to attach ‘Made in India’ tags to their products.Stating that Chinese products were not be being accepted by customers, the mask makers said the latter were seeking only indigenous stuff these days.Ludhiana district chemists’ association chairperson Manjit Singh said in the prevailing scenario, no customer wants to buy Chinese items and preferred locally-made masks and PPEs.“We are receiving orders for locally-made N-95 masks from hospitals. There are reasons for it. First, the current border tension between Indian and China and secondly the poor-quality material supplied by Chinese firms. China has used India for dumping its medical equipment. Majority of its N-95 masks and PPE kits were of poor quality and did not meet the standards. The filter on these Chinese masks used to get detached easily and was made of substandard material,” said Manjit.Similarly, PPE and N-95 mask manufacturer Avneesh Aggarwal said Ludhiana industry has both the potential and expertise to manufacture better quality face masks and PPE kits.The need to put a barcode, lot number and place of manufacturing was felt as many people were importing products from China and selling them in the market, said Avneesh Aggarwal. “But following the killing of our soldiers, people started boycotting Chinese-made goods. We were receiving feedback that people were asking about the place of manufacturing. So, we decided highlight our products with ‘Made in India’ tags,” he added.Another manufacturer Ujjwal Miglani said they were receiving direction from buyers to mandatorily attach made-in-India logos on the products made by the firm. “Not only customers, but the labourers working in the factory do not want to use any product made in China. This anti-China sentiment is proving to be blessing in disguise and will give push the MSME industry of the city.” said Miglani.Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) textile division head Ajit Lakra said, “The anti-China sentiment is dominating every sector of the industry. But we have to keep in mind that over the years we have greatly depended on China in terms of machinery. While software could be replaced overnight, glitches in machinery cannot be fixed without technical support. So the government should encourage subsidised technology exchange with countries like Taiwan, Korea and Japan in order to eliminate dependence on China.”He added that the government has laid down stringent guidelines for manufacturing of PPE kits and face masks. “As per the new guidelines, the manufacturer has to mention the barcode and lot number of the product being made,” said Lakra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-manufacturers-add-made-in-india-labels-to-ppe-kits-masks/story-OttlflENVbGzfFH3PBGvUN.html
05-07-2020||City||Ban on prasad: Shopkeepers near Mansa Devi temple praying for better days||Over a hundred shopkeepers, making their living by selling prasad to devotees at Mata Mansa Devi temple, have not earned a single penny since the Covid-19 lockdown began in March. While devotees started visiting the shrine on June 9 after online registrations were started, they are still not allowed to offer prasad.Meanwhile, the shops selling the offering, located on the way to the temple, remain decked out, but have no takers.“Our sales are directly dependent on offerings. For us, the unlock period is similar to the lockdown period. There is no relief,” said Pankaj Shukla, who opens his shop at 8am and shuts it at 5pm, earning hardly anything. Shukla, who is also the general secretary of Mata Mansa Devi Market Shopkeepers’ Union, said selling prasad was the only source of livelihood of over 150 people here. “A large quantity of perishable items had to be dumped, causing huge losses,” he said.Union’s president Surinder Manchanda said they had urged the shrine board’s CEO to allow sale of sanitised prasad packets and reopen the small gates next to the booths.Hansaj, who has three shops, said, “Our family has been running shops here since 1975. Earlier my grandfather used to look after the business, which was eventually handed down to me. We never saw days like these when devotees couldn’t offer prasad. If they can offer money, why not prasad?”“Before the pandemic, I would earn around Rs 30,000 on Sundays and Rs 5,000 on weekdays. This has come down to Rs 50-100 per day now,” he said.Somnath Kharbanda, who has been running two shops for over three decades, said it was only during the 1984 curfew that they last had to shut down their shops for a few days.Nestled in the Shivalik foothills, the temple complex is spread over 100 acres. Constructed during the early 19th century by Maharaja Gopal Singh, it is one of the most renowned Shakti temples in North India.However, its doors were closed for devotees since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March to contain the spread of Covid-19. The temple was reopened on June 9 and entry is now allowed only for those who register themselves on www.mansadevi.org.in.Because of the pandemic, the decision was taken not to accept offerings from outside. Besides, bhandaras, dharamshalas and mundan ghat also remain closed.Every devotee needs to wear a face mask and stand on earmarked spots. Entry is allowed only after proper sanitisation of hands and feet and thermal screening.People aged above 65 years and below 10 years, those with comorbidities and pregnant women are advised not to visit the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ban-on-prasad-shopkeepers-near-mansa-devi-temple-praying-for-better-days/story-Y2xGTVQIG6BgKuSkCfNr3K.html
05-07-2020||City||Bathinda MC prepares blueprint for using assets of defunct thermal plant||Blurb: Plans to spend ₹1.5 crore on connecting three water reservoirs of the plant with the city’s main waterworks stationBATHINDA Notwithstanding a strong political opposition against the state government’s announcement of closing down Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP), the Bathinda municipal corporation has prepared a blueprint to use assets of the defunct power project.According to the plan chalked out by the local body, a sum of ₹1.5 crore will be spent to connect three large water reservoirs of GNDTP with the main waterworks station near Joggers Park here.The three man-made water bodies, spread over 164 acres, previously part of the power generation process, are now tipped to be used for additional storage of canal water for supply to the city households.Bathinda depends upon water supply from Bathinda branch of Sirhind canal. Municipal commissioner Bikram Shergill on Sunday said the proposal to use lakes will be beneficial for the city.“As per the plan, water from the defunct power facility lakes will be flown to the waterworks site through a pipe. If needed, water treatment will be installed at these lakes for better supply management,” said the official.Ever since the government announced to put a curtain on the power plant that was established in 1974, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), employees of state power department and various factions of Bhartiya Kisan Unions have been protesting against the decision. They demand the revival of the facility.Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who also represents Bathinda (urban) assembly segment, has invited political wrath for backtracking on his pre-poll stand of reviving the plant. For a population estimated 3.5 lakh, Bathinda has 53,510 registered water subscribers. Sources say GNDTP’s lakes have a water holding capacity of 500MGD and it will be beneficial in the long term.Officials say when the canal is closed for maintenance for 20-days each before sowing of kharif and rabi crops, water supply time gets half to two hours in a day.Former SAD legislator from Bathinda Sarup Chand Singla said the city had never witnessed a crisis-like situation and the existing public water system has enough capacity to meet the demand.“Manpreet is trying to deviate public attention from the closure of power plant and plan to dismantle chimneys which are a landmark of development of the neglected part of south Malwa,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bathinda-mc-prepares-blueprint-for-using-assets-of-defunct-thermal-plant/story-Za6xo59vinCrGjo1lg5TDM.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||2 hurt as illegal vendors clash in Mohali, residents want them to move||Two men received minor injuries when a group of illegal vendors clashed in Phase-11 on Sunday over placement of their carts, even as residents expressed apprehensions over the men being allowed to sell fruit and vegetables in their area without permissions during the Covid-19 pandemic.Phase-11 residents said the men who did not have vending permissions, and could pose health risks because of the virus outbreak. No action had been taken against them despite requests made to the chief minister, governor, local MLA, deputy commissioner and municipal corporation commissioner to remove them from the spot, they alleged. The injured men left the area after police arrived at the spot and after compromising with others.Office-bearers of an Area Social Welfare Association set up by residents of HIG colony in Phase-11, including president Maninder Kaur, general secretary Gurjit Singh Kalsi and treasurer Jagjit Kaur said when the vendors were asked to move they had refused to do so.Traffic problems were also reported from the area when carts were set up, the association members said.When asked to comment on the matter, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said he had been informed and “officers concerned had been issued to check and remove them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-hurt-as-illegal-vendors-clash-in-mohali-residents-want-them-to-move/story-HubtO53PjwSHuOOzj5gcMO.html
05-07-2020||City||Zirakpur firing suspect identified, yet to be arrested||A day after a man was injured after some youths opened fire near a park at Lohgarh village in Zirakpur, police have identified the main suspect, who has yet to be arrested. “The main suspect has been identified as Vivek Bhardwaj, a resident of Sector 19, Panchkula. A police team raided his house on Sunday, but it was found locked. He claims to be an online journalist, and is facing several cases, including rape. We are hopeful of arresting him soon,” said Gurwant Singh, station house officer (SHO), Zirakpur. The victim, Harpreet Singh, resident of Lohgarh, is out of danger at the Dera Bassi civil hospital.Bhardwaj and another unidentified accused have been booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act.The victim told police that he was passing by the park on his motorcycle around 8:30pm on Saturday when a woman sitting there with her friends abused him. When he confronted her, an argument erupted and the woman allegedly made a call to some acquaintances, claiming that he had misbehaved with her.Harpreet alleged that four to five youths reached the spot in a car and opened fire, with one bullet hitting his leg. Suspect claims innocenceIn a Facebook post, Bhardwaj claimed that he, along with a friend, was passing through Lohgarh, when they saw five to seven drug addicts sexually harassing two girls. “When we tried to stop them, they attacked us and started hitting one of the girls. We fired in the air to save the girls. But, police have registered a case against us, as they are trying to shield the accused, who are close aides of an influential politician in the area,” he wrote in the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zirakpur-firing-suspect-identified-yet-to-be-arrested/story-40OP0KpNE369vh6uMZ1wAJ.html
05-07-2020||Dehradun||Over 50,000 villagers supplied milk in lockdown, state govt pays them Rs 45 crores||Amidst various odds and fear of coronavirus disease outbreak, over 50,000 Uttarakhand villagers continued supplying milk to state government’s flagship milk brand ‘Aanchal Dairy’ during the three-month-long Covid-19 lockdown period. The state government has paid such villagers a total of Rs 45 crores for milk supply during these months, said officials. Two lakh litres of milk was daily procured from 2551 village-level cooperatives based in 13 districts till May end this year, according to the data released by the state Dairy Development Department.In Uttarakhand, milk cooperatives have 51,121 members, comprising mostly villagers and farmers who supply milk, and are paid directly by the Aanchal Dairy on a monthly basis. R Meenakshi Sundaram, secretary dairy development in the state said, “Our main focus is on uninterrupted procurement of milk and payments to members of the cooperatives. During the lockdown, all the cooperative members had a regular source of income for supplying the milk and the payments were made directly into their bank accounts.” The procured milk from these cooperative members is supplied to the Aanchal Dairy for packaging and sale across the state on a daily basis.“Milk and dairy product start-ups would play a key role in providing sustainable livelihood opportunities to locals in Uttarakhand. All the factors like climate, environment and awareness- in our state, makes it a natural hub for the start-ups involved in the milk and milk products. Our department has come out of schemes for owning milk production units,” added Sundaram.Of the thirteen districts, Nainital has the highest number of milk cooperatives at 550 with 21,320 members and a collection of 86,805 litres of average milk daily.Dehradun has 292 milk cooperatives with 2538 members who supplied 17,332 litres of milk daily during the lockdown. Similarly, Haridwar has 252 milk cooperatives with over 2755 members who supplied 13191 litres of milk daily during the lockdown.Officials from Aanchal Dairy explain that they did not reduce demand for milk despite the outbreak and will use the surplus milk in anganwadis and mid-day meal schools.Jaideep Arora, joint director of Aanchal Dairy said, “We did not reduce the procurement of milk during the lockdown and used the surplus milk for products like milk powder and white butter. Around 200 tonnes of milk powder will be used in Anganwadi centres and mid-day meals in schools across the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/over-50-000-villagers-supplied-milk-in-lockdown-state-govt-pays-them-rs-45-crores/story-f58RFu4KdwLJzxxxqqi4PL.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||SoBo bizman files extortion, threat call complaint||An organised gang of fraudsters cheated a businessman of Malabar Hill area of ₹51000 by threatening to circulate his obscene picture on social media. The victim paid an amount in three instalments, but after being fed-up of the accused’s continuous threat and demand for money he approached the Malabar Hill police station and registered a complaint against the person.According to the police, the victim is into the jewellery business and received a call from an unknown number last week. The person demanded ₹5,000 from him alleging that he has used escort service two days ago. When the victim refused to bow in to the demands, the fraudster then sent him a link which had victim’s contact number and an obscene picture.The victim then gave in to his demand and paid ₹5,000. Two days later the accused called again and demanded more money to remove his name and number from the link. The victim agreed and paid him ₹20,000. But, this didn’t end, and the accused threatened him again, said a police officer.“Soon the victim started getting calls from several people threatening him to settle the issue. This time the victim paid ₹26,000. Fed-up with the continuous harassment and demand for money, the victim approached Malabar Hill police station and filed a case, said a police officer. “We have registered a case of extortion and cheating against the unknown person. We have been inquiring to trace the culprit. No one has been arrested yet” said senior inspector Nilkanth Patil of the Malabar Hill police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sobo-bizman-files-extortion-threat-call-complaint/story-gwSdLWxwnXnFgb9uY6ayKM.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||HC grants bail to woman with toddler as 44 test positive in Nagpur central jail||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Friday granted bail to a double murder accused on the ground that keeping her 19-month-old toddler at Nagpur central prison would be unsafe, especially when 44 inmates and staff members of the jail have tested positive for Covid-19.The bench of justice AS Chandurkar and justice Anil Kilor found that the accused, Gudiya Sahu, was not entitled to be released on temporary bail given the recommendations of the high powers committee. But, the possibility of Sahu and her child getting infected could not be ruled out, as 44 prison inmates and staff at Nagpur central prison had tested positive for the virus.“We cannot overlook the welfare of the child during the pandemic. The child will be at high-risk if he is not shifted to a safe place,” the bench said while granting his mother temporary bail on a personal bond of ₹20,000.Sahu, her husband and a brother-in-law, were accused of brutally killing an elderly tribal woman and her one-year-old granddaughter when she had come to their residence seeking a loan. The incident occurred in the evening of February 17, 2018, and the bodies were later found thrown under a bridge at Vihirgaon in Yavatmal district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-grants-bail-to-woman-with-toddler-as-44-test-positive-in-nagpur-central-jail/story-wsELuBYaKrtUze0pWcYuQN.html
05-07-2020||City||Lockdown violations: 632 cases registered, 128 vehicles impounded in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai police on Saturday registered 632 cases of violating lockdown. The police also impounded 128 vehicles of those who ventured out without valid permission or reasons.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) and Panvel City Municipal Corporations (PCMC) have imposed lockdown from July 3 till July 13 and 14 respectively.There are police checkpoints at 39 strategic locations from Vashi to Panvel to crack down on violators. Throughout Saturday, the police registered 632 cases under various sections of Motor Vehicles Act, Indian Penal Code and Maharashtra Police Act. The persons were booked for stepping out without essential or emergency purposes, an officer said.City police also acted against bikers found loitering and those taking out their private vehicles for joyrides. During the drive, 128 vehicles were impounded.Police also booked 58 persons for non-cognisable offences as they stepped out for morning and evening walks. The PCMC has also imposed a penalty of ₹100 on those not wearing masks. On Saturday, 21 such persons were fined.The Kharghar police station also warned of legal action against tourists and locals visiting Pandavkada and Fanaswadi waterfalls, driving range in Kharghar Sector-6 and the lakes located near Taloja prisons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-violations-632-cases-registered-128-vehicles-impounded-in-navi-mumbai/story-UaOpqHzLs68qtv6rEICUjI.html
05-07-2020||City||2 die in Amritsar as govt school wall collapses due to storm||A 40-year-old man and his 60-year-old neighbour died after an under-construction parapet of Government High Senior Secondary School (GHSSS), Nawankot, collapsed due to the storm on Saturday night.The deceased have been identified as Satpal Singh and Kiran Bala, whose houses are right next to the school.Satpal’s wife Rajni told the police that around 8pm, her husband had gone to the terrace when the school’s parapet collapsed due to the storm and fell on him. Kiran Bala, who was sitting outside her house, also got injured in the incident.The duo was rushed to a private hospital, where they succumbed to their injuries.Rajni said that she and other people in the locality had requested the school authorities several times to stop the construction as the building was weak, but they did not pay heed. Gate Hakima station house officer Sukhbir Singh said a case has been registered against the school authorities under Section 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-die-in-amritsar-as-govt-school-wall-collapses-due-to-storm/story-PTx16UQkxArBQSI2XpEpaM.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Online evaluation tests for govt school students from July 13||About 1.3 lakh government school students of classes 6 to 12 in Ludhiana will have to sit for online bimonthly assessment tests from July 13, the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has said.SCERT has directed schools to conduct tests of 20 marks for each subject with teachers getting a week’s time to check the papers. A virtual meeting of teachers with parents will be conducted on July 30 and 31 for updates on the students’ performance. Marks awarded by the subject teacher and class in charge will be sent online to the district and block mentors. SCERT will also send question papers for six subjects online for classes 6 to 10 and date sheets have already been despatched to schools. Schools will have their own date sheets for classes 11 and 12.With just a week left for the tests teachers will not send any daily assignments to enable students to revise lessons.According to the date sheet, the first exam will be held on July 13 , which includes Punjabi for classes 6 and 8; English for Class 9 and mathematics for Class 10.The last exam will be conducted on July 18; including mathematics for classes 6 and 9; social studies for Class 7 and science for classes 8 and 10. The teachers will submit the result online with the school principal by July 25.It was time the students’ performance was evaluated, said district education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur. “The students are attending classes through television for the last two months and teachers have been holding classes through Zoom and WhatsApp since March. There was a need to evaluate their performance. The students will get to know the areas they need to work on. We will share the children’s performance with the parents through virtual parent teacher meetings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-evaluation-tests-for-govt-school-students-from-july-13/story-HCRR3EmtpInBkb0tdKFIbM.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Labourer held in Ludhiana for attempting to rape 5-year-old girl||A 23-year-old labourer was arrested by the Sadar Police here on Sunday for attempting to sexually assault the five-year-old daughter of his neighbour.In a complaint against Sonu of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Dhandhra, the victim’s father, a scrap dealer, said he lured her to his room with a chocolate as she played on the street and attempted to assault her.Sonu fled from the scene after the father rushed to his room on hearing the child’s cries and saw him attempting to assault her.Assistant sub inspector Satish Kumar, who is investigating the case, said a case under sections 376/511 of IPC, sections 8 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) had been registered against the accused. Sonu was arrested while trying to escape from the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labourer-held-in-ludhiana-for-attempting-to-rape-5-year-old-girl/story-N3Y0bnvtzO4AHU2H7KBmfK.html
05-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally crosses 99K-mark, over 2,000 new cases in last 24 hours||Delhi’s coronavirus case tally inched closer to one lakh-mark on Sunday after 2,244 cases were reported in the last 24 hours. The cumulative tally for national capital reached 99,444, while 63 deaths were recorded, pushing the total death toll to 3,067. As of Sunday, there are over 25,000 active cases in Delhi. Marking a positive trend, Delhi’s recovery rate has gone above 70 per cent as out of the total cases, 71,339 people have recovered from the virus. Along with the increase in testing and reduced positivity rate, Delhi’s recovery rate has also increased – a positive indicator keeping the city’s total number of active cases or those living with the infection a constant between 25 and 26 thousand.Also read: Covid-19 deaths in Delhi pass 3,000 but recovery rate also highest so farAiming at testing more people to contain the spread, the government has conducted 9,873 RTPCR tests and 13,263 rapid antigen tests today, pushing the number of total people tested to 6,43,504. With addition of eight more areas, the containment zones in Delhi went up to 456 in the last 24 hours. The cases are set to cross a lakh-mark in the next 24 hours, in line with prediction for June end by a panel constituted by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. The Capital, panel said, will need 15,000 additional hospital beds by the end of the month and around 42,000 by July. Statistics shared by the Delhi government state that over 16,000 beds are still available for treating the virus-infected. Near about 11,000 beds were added to Delhi’s share on Sunday after home minister Amit Shah inaugurated two facilities for treating coronavirus infected people. Also read: A positive Covid statistic makes Kejriwal shoot a congratulatory tweetAlongside, an order has been issued by the authorities to amp up manpower engagement up to 25 per cent in addition to the total strength, to accelerate efforts in treating those contracting the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-99k-mark-over-2-000-new-cases-in-last-24-hours/story-7rafBqWZPvauLY17zWKnxL.html
05-07-2020||City||Agri dept for rain gun irrigation on paddy sown through direct seeding||Faridkot To check excessive extraction of groundwater, the agriculture department will conduct trials of rain gun irrigation method on the fields where paddy is sown through the direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique.The agriculture department and soil conservation department together will promote the micro irrigation culture and demonstrate rain gun technology to the farmers. Of 138 blocks in the state, 110 are overexploiting the groundwater.Agriculture secretary KS Pannu said: “Earlier, it was not successful because of different agronomic practices being followed in paddy and wheat cultivation. With DSR, agronomy is the same and it is the right time to introduce rain gun method. Punjab needs to shift to rain gun method as it is cost effective. It costs about ₹20,000 per acre as against ₹1 lakh for drip irrigation. However, rain gun is not successful for cotton, for that drip irrigation is better,” he said.Pannu has asked the officials in all districts to promote the method. “For maize crop, funds for trials are available with the agriculture department. For sugarcane, which guzzles as much water as paddy, cane commissioner has been asked to liaise with sugar mills and district soil conservation officers for promoting rain gun technology,” Pannu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agri-dept-for-rain-gun-irrigation-on-paddy-sown-through-direct-seeding/story-F2t3rb0JchGPWhWieytEcN.html
05-07-2020||City||Transfer an incidence of service, not act of punishment: HC to BSF officer||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that the transfer is an incidence of service and cannot be taken to be an act of punishment. The high court bench of justice HS Madaan dismissed a plea filed by a deputy commandant, Border Security Force (BSF), Western Command, RS Hundal, against his transfer, observing that it is for an employer to see where he requires services of the employee. “… an employee especially member of a paramilitary force is supposed to maintain strict discipline and cannot dictate terms in that regard keeping his personal interest in view rather than showing a willingness to serve, where he is posted, especially at this juncture when the country is facing hostilities by the neighbouring countries at border,” the bench added.Hundal, 58, approached the high court on June 24, challenging his transfer from Chandigarh to Anupgarh (Rajasthan), alleging that transfer order was in violation Covid-19 instructions barring movement of officers as well as BSF rules. He had informed the court that he is due to retire on December 31, 2022 and on attaining the age of superannuation, he cannot be sent to a faraway place in view of the fact that there is no administrative exigency.He was posted as deputy commandant in May 2017 and now transferred with March 24 order. The court was told that he has two children — son studying in Class 12 and daughter doing Master of Arts — and there is nobody to look after them except him. A representation stating that same was submitted on January 16, 2020.The BSF had told court that the petitioner’s representation was submitted to headquarters in Delhi. As of his new posting, he had given a few choices in 2019 for new posting, some could not be entertained due to his age and others due to administrative reasons and therefore, he was given this posting for which he gave oral consent and never represented against it.It was also informed that he stands relieved on June 12. He could have remained here for three years only and if allowed extension of another 2.6 years, his tenure would go beyond five years, which can’t be allowed as per administrative rules. He had also not applied for terminal posting. Further, he had served in Mohali, near Chandigarh, for 165 days (August 2015 and May 2017), before taking up the Chandigarh posting. As of movement of officers during Covid-19 now there is no restriction.Dismissing the plea, the bench observed that the petitioner has been unable to point out mala-fide in his transfer and Covid-19 guidelines also do not help the officer. The family circumstances are not that compelling requiring his immediate presence with the family for most of the time, the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/transfer-an-incidence-of-service-not-act-of-punishment-hc-to-bsf-officer/story-zn0M9sQ9Ii6jMYk3sjYkfL.html
05-07-2020||City||Himachal govt starts process to set up 100 panchavati parks for senior citizens||Senior citizens of the state have a lot to cheer as the state government has started the process to set up 100 panchavati parks and gardens for creating recreational space for the elderly in all 78 blocks of the rural areas of the state.The panchavati scheme notified by the rural development department was recently launched by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to set up such parks with outdoor sports and play areas. These parks will be primarily designed for elderly citizens to improve their fitness and well being.Under the scheme, in the first phase land site has been identified for construction of these parks at development blocks Gohar in Mandi district, Bangana in Una district, Banjar and Naggar in Kullu district, Kaza in Lahaul-Spiti district, Nagrota Bagwan and Sulah in Kangra district, Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district, Tissa and Bhatiyat in Chamba district, Kalpa in Kinnaur district, Kandaghat in Solan district, Rohru in Shimla district and Nadaun in Hamirpur district. A wide range of activities would be made available in these parks to meet the physical, emotional and social needs of the elderly.Panchayati raj and rural development minister Virender Kanwar said, “The initial work on such parks has started at some places and construction work on parks in all above-mentioned blocks will be completed during the current financial year while the remaining 80 parks and gardens will be developed in phase manner by December 2021”The park and garden will be built at a cost of around ₹10 lakh and ₹10 crore will be spent on construction of 100 such parks throughout the state with budget provision from convergence with MNREGA, Swachh Bharat Mission (rural) and 14th Finance Commission, said Kanwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-govt-starts-process-to-set-up-100-panchavati-parks-for-senior-citizens/story-lFZUz54MRKJ5jHWhrBjaEM.html
05-07-2020||City||Jammu cremation ground deaths: Zadoo family awaits details of probe||As the authorities ordered a probe into the death of Zadoo brothers while cremating their relative who died of coronavirus, their family members still await the findings of the report.Vimal Zadoo and Vipin Zadoo, the two cousin brothers, had died due to dehydration and suffocation during the cremation of their uncle who had succumbed to the coronavirus, forcing the administration to order a magisterial probe.Mimic Zadoo, elder brother of Vipin Zadoo, said, “No one has bothered to share the autopsy report and probe findings with us so far.”“We want the administration to share the findings of the report with us,” he said adding that they have the right to see the guilty officials being punished for their negligence.Following an outcry by the civil society over criminal negligence that led to the death of two men, Jammu district commissioner Sushma Chauhan had ordered a magisterial probe to be conducted by ADC Ghanshyam Singh, was the one deputed for the cremation of the Covid-19 victim, during which the two men had died.Following further criticism by the civil society that the same official had been appointed as an inquiry officer, another ADC Tahir Firdous replaced ADC Ghanshyam.Subsequently, on June 25, the government ordered that Jammu divisional commissioner Sanjeev Verma will conduct the probe and submit his report within 10 days.Sanjeev Verma said, “The inquiry is going on and I will be going to Kathua on Monday in this regard. There are different angles and intricacies involved but we are on the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-cremation-ground-deaths-zadoo-family-awaits-details-of-probe/story-tPcwJNwDrfVgLSTd9TTw3L.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Transport light point most dangerous intersection in Chandigarh||With seven fatal accidents, the transport light point in Sector 26 remained the most dangerous intersection in the city in 2019, as per the traffic police data. The fatalities included five pedestrians and two motorists.The light point is used mostly by outstation traffic, heading out from Chandigarh towards Haryana and Himachal side. The light point is also in close proximity to the entrance of Bapu Dham Colony (BDC) and the Transport Area in Sector 26.Explaining why it has become one of the most dangerous intersections in the city over the years, general secretary of the Chandigarh Transport Association, BL Sharma, said, “A lot of traffic from Punjab going towards Haryana and Himachal comes from this light point, making it very busy and dangerous. Challaning drives carried out here, especially for speeding, fetch good results.”Local area councillor Dalip Sharma added, “The entrance to Bapu Dham has made the lightpoint a busy intersection. We had made pedestrian paths here but people don’t always walk on those. The area is also dimly lit at night and we have only recently installed lights from here to the entrance of BDC to make the road safer.” Sharma added that he had also written to the UT chief architect to increase the width of the road till Bapu Dham Colony entrance by 5 feet on each side as the route gets congested during peak hours.Deputy inspector general of police (DIG, traffic) Shashank Anand said that the traffic police have recommended to the UT engineering department to install table top speed breakers, similar to the ones used at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, to bring down fatalities here.Punjab traffic advisor Navdeep Asija pointed out how even this year, the Sector 32 roundabout had recorded zero fatalities. “Traffic calming devices are the way forward, and table top breakers here can make this intersection much safer,” he said.DAKSHIN MARG, MADHYA MARG MOST DANGEROUS ROADSDakshin Marg and Madhya Marg were the most dangerous roads in the city in 2019 with 18 and 14 fatalities respectively. Around 30% of the total 104 fatalities in the city took place on these two roads and 45% of the total accidents involving two-wheelers also happened here.Speaking about the problem, member, National Road Safety Council, Government of India, Kamal Soi said, “These are both major roads where speeding takes place. Traffic calming devices, such as rumble strips and speed breakers, can be made here with proper engineering to curb speeding.”DIG Anand added that by slowly switching from manual challaning to e-challaning, the traffic police were improving the implementation of traffic rules to bring down the road fatalities. He added they had made a temporary median on the road connecting Sector 25 and 38 West to bring down collisions. They have also started challaning those who stop on these roads to reduce traffic bottlenecks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/transport-light-point-most-dangerous-intersection-in-chandigarh/story-X4UlMf6kWLoc5YTcdB1WUI.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Amid focused testing, Chandigarh’s positivity rate highest in tricity||Out of every 100 people tested for Covid-19 in Chandigarh since the outbreak, more than five were found positive, a number way higher than its neighbouring districts of Mohali and Panchkula.Till July 3, Panchkula has conducted 10,355 tests, in which 120 people were found infected, translating to a positivity rate of 1.1%. Mohali district has tested close of 15,000 people, finding 284 of them positive, which means a positivity rate of 1.8%. Chandigarh has tested just over 8,000 people and reported 454 cases, leading to a positivity rate of 5.6%. In fact, the number has been on the higher side ever since the outbreak, even reaching 8.3% on May 11.Meanwhile, not just in absolute terms, but even relatively, testing numbers are lowest in Chandigarh, when tests conducted per lakh population are considered (see graphic). However, among several indicators considered by the ministry of health and family welfare to demarcate Covid-19 hotspots in May, Chandigarh is near the critical value of 6% in terms of just positivity rate. In terms of active cases, case fatality rate and tests per lakh population, it is in the desirable range. In fact, when it comes to recovery rate, it is among the top states and union territories, constantly staying over 80%. In Panchkula and Mohali, the rate stands around 75%.The Chandigarh health department as well as medical experts attribute the high positivity rate to a focused testing policy being followed in line with the central government guidelines.Dr KK Talwar, who is a former director of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER, Chandigarh, says the high numbers could be due to testing of high-risk persons and contacts in cluster areas, especially during the outbreak at Bapu Dham Colony.“A number of reasons could be involved, including concentrated testing. As you test more high-risk people, the test positivity rate is bound to increase,” he says.Prof Rajesh Kumar, former head of the department of community medicine and school of public health at the PGIMER, says the states that conduct more tests are bound to report lower positivity rate. “Chandigarh is religiously following the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. However, its neighbouring districts are also regularly testing frontline workers, who may be more susceptible to contract the infection but have not tested positive in large numbers,” he says.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta says: “Many states have extended testing to certain categories of people, such as domestic air travellers and asymptomatic people, beyond the ICMR guidelines. Ideally, this should not have been done. Their positivity or confirmation rate is expected to be low.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-focused-testing-chandigarh-s-positivity-rate-highest-in-tricity/story-hZ29bTDwn4RguL2w2b00gO.html
05-07-2020||Lucknow||Highest single-day spike of 1,153 Covid-19 cases in UP; 12 more die in state||Uttar Pradesh recorded the highest single-day jump of 1,153 coronavirus cases on Sunday, pushing the infection tally to 27,707, while the death toll in the state reached 785 with 12 fresh fatalities, officials said. A total of 18,761 Covid-19 patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals, Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage There are now 8,161 active cases in the state, he added. As many as 29,117 samples were tested for coronavirus on Friday, Awasthi said. In Lucknow, samples were tested at King George Medical University and Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences. Tests were also done at Institute of Medical Sciences - Banaras Hindu University in Varanasi, Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College in Meerut, Baba Raghav Das Medical College in Gorakhpur, Moti Lal Nehru Medical College in Prayagraj, RML hospital in Lucknow, National Institute of Biologicals in Noida and Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Medical College in Kanpur, he said. Besides, as many as 2,703 antigen tests were done, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/highest-single-day-spike-of-1-153-covid-19-cases-in-up-12-more-die-in-state/story-Z2QtgVARog1yB8Jot8yZxO.html
05-07-2020||City||Take concrete steps to bring Nepalese labour for apple season: CPI M to HP govt||Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Sunday asked the Himachal Pradesh government to take concrete steps to bring Nepalese labour on time for the apple season by discussing it with the Centre.CPI (M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said orchardists are worried due to shortage of labour. “If labour is not arranged on time then it will become difficult for orchardists to take their produce to fruit markets thereby causing huge losses,” he said.He said,” Most apple orchards are away from roads therefore labour have to carry apple boxes on their backs. Labour is also required to load and unload apple boxes from the vehicle. Due to Covid-19 and other issues with Nepal, labour have not been able to come to the state this year. Till now, the state government has also not taken any concrete step in this direction.”He said the apple season has started in the state and will pick up pace in lower and middle hills within the next two weeks but due to the pandemic, there is a shortage of labourers, packaging materials and other essential resources. Besides, truck owners and other commercial vehicles have also hiked transportation charges by 20% due to hike in prices of petrol and diesel.Also, around 65% fruit crop has been destroyed by untimely rainfall and hailstorms which has resulted in losses, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/take-concrete-steps-to-bring-nepalese-labour-for-apple-season-cpi-m-to-hp-govt/story-D6m5xiMX5MFeQeEKhGOxtN.html
05-07-2020||Delhi||106-year-old Delhi man who was child during Spanish Flu survives Covid-19||A centenarian man from Delhi, who was four years old during the 1918 Spanish Flu, has survived Covid-19 and recovered faster than his son, in his 70s, at a dedicated coronavirus facility here, doctors said.The 106-year-old patient was discharged from the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) recently after recovering, where his wife, son and another family member also recuperated after contracting the novel coronavirus infection, they said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Perhaps, he is the first reported case of Covid-19 in Delhi who also went through the dreaded Spanish Flu pandemic of 1918 which like Covid-19 had also ravaged the world. And, he not only recovered from Covid-19, he recovered faster than his son, who is also very old,” a senior doctor.Spanish Flu was a pandemic which hit the world 102 years ago, and affected nearly one-third of the global population at that time.“The 1918 influenza pandemic was the most severe pandemic in recent history. It was caused by an H1N1 virus with genes of avian origin. Although there is not universal consensus regarding where the virus originated, it spread worldwide during 1918-1919,” according to the Centre for Diseases Control (CDC) in the US.In the US, it was first identified in military personnel in spring 1918. It is estimated that about 6,75,000 deaths occurred in America, it said.According to a World Health Organisation (WHO) report, the pandemic of 1918-1919 called the Spanish Flu was particularly virulent, and killed an estimated 40 million people worldwide.In India, the disease is believed to have been brought in by the soldiers returning from World War I conflicts.The first cases of Spanish Flu were reported in areas which are major ports of entry, such as Mumbai (then Bombay), Kolkata (Calcutta), Delhi and Chennai (Madras), where a large number of people returned from abroad.The casualty count in India from the Spanish Flu is believed to be nearly one-fifth of the entire fatalities in the world, though the statistics for mortality in India are too wide-ranging and debatable.Doctors at the RGSSH, a dedicated Covid-19 facility were amazed to see the recovery of this centenarian patient from the novel coronavirus, even though he was highly vulnerable to the infection.“We don’t know whether he was affected by the Spanish Flu or not. We haven’t seen much documentation on the situation back then as far as Delhi is concerned, but very few hospitals were there at that time. It is amazing this 106-year-old showed the will power to survive,” a senior doctor, who monitored his situation, said.But, what is more interesting is that he recovered faster than his son, who is in his 70s. So, he lived through the Spanish Flu and now survived Covid-19, hence, he lived through two pandemics, he said.Besides, his wife and an another family member also had contracted Covid-19, and all four have successfully recovered and were discharged about a month-and-a-half ago, the doctor said.The RGSSH has treated 1,000 Covid-19 patients so fare, and on Monday it is marking the milestone with a symbolic event where Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and Heath Minister Satyendar Jain are slated to participate.Delhi recorded 2,505 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the tally in the city to over 97,000-mark, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,004, authorities said.The national capital, at present is the worst-hit city in the country, from the pandemic.According to the bulletin, 68,256 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/106-year-old-delhi-man-who-was-child-during-spanish-flu-survives-covid-19/story-pE1cvPf8F92XUipyjoTqKP.html
05-07-2020||Patna||Nitish to kick-start Bihar poll campaign in virtual mode on Aug 7, aims at least 10 lakh people||Chief minister and Janata Dal United national president Nitish Kumar will launch party’s election campaign on August 7, ahead of the general assembly elections scheduled for later this year in November, through a virtual rally that aims to reach out not less than 10 lakh people through various social media platforms.Nitish’s rally is in line with the trend of virtual rallies, kick started by BJP leader Amit Shah last month in wake of Covid-19 situation, and will be the first big political event by the head of NDA ally JD(U) during which Kumar is likely to spell out his developmental initiatives and urge people to ensure the return of the alliance to power for another term.“Party is excited and efforts have begun to make the proposed virtual rally a grand event. A minimum of 10 lakh people, other than party leaders and workers, will be linked for live streaming of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s address for upcoming Bihar polls and his vision for the future,” said party general secretary Navin Kumar Arya.Ahead of Nitish’s first virtual poll campaign rally, the party has constituted four teams. The teams are headed by senior JD (U) leaders RCP Singh, Rajiv Ranjan Singh, alias Lallan Singh, state president Vashistha Narayan Singh, state energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav. The team will hold virtual meetings in all the 243 assembly segments from July 18 to July 31 that aims to set up the platform for kickstarting party’s campaign.Party general secretary Arya said “the party has set a target for holding virtual sammelan (meeting) in at least six assembly constituencies, with grass roots party leaders and sympathisers, on a daily basis. As such, 24 assembly segments will be covered each day by all the four teams and the task will be over by July 31, leaving ample time for mobilising 10 lakh people for the August 7 event.”Prior to the constituency-level virtual meetings, the JD (U) has decided to organise online interactions with office bearers of various cells, from July 7, where Rajya Sabha member and national general secretary RCP Singh, who looks after organisational matters, will be present as the chief guest.Arya said that the first in line of the meeting of party wings will begin with Chatra JD (U) on July 7, followed by EBC cell, women’s cell, yuva JD (U), kisan prakosth, mahadalit cell and others. “On July 16, party’s national general secretary RCP Singh will hold a virtual meeting with all regional in-charge, district presidents, district organisational in-charge, assembly segment in-charge and heads of various cells,” Arya said.According to a party insider, while it appears that the BJP has taken a lead on JD (U) in using the social platform, chief minister has also been holding meetings with workers and organisational heads at the grass roots level, finding out time in between his daily review meetings for keeping a tab on the return of migrant workers, their stay and monitoring the spread of Covid-19. “So, no one can say for sure whether the JD (U) is a late starter for the upcoming polls. For us, keeping connected with party structure down the line has remained a priority,” he said, requesting not to be quoted.Earlier, Opposition parties had raised question over BJP and JD (U)’s comfort and support on the issue of virtual campaigning at a meeting with the representatives of all political parties, convened by the chief state election officer HR Srinivas on June 26. RJD, along with allies, had objected to the use of digital mode of campaigning and demanded a ban alleging that it would not provide a level playing field for everyone and resource rich and tech-savy parties will have undue advantage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nitish-to-kick-start-bihar-poll-campaign-in-virtual-mode-on-aug-7-aims-at-least-10-lakh-people/story-pwrY3GewDg3YqGGE4OF9aO.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fruit procurement and processing hit, Panipat pickle makers in a jam||About 15 to 20 pickle manufacturers find themselves in a jam because of the three-month lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, exodus of migrant labourers and restrictions on transport, putting at stake thousands of jobs in Panipat, one of India’s biggest pickle manufacturing hubs. As fruit procurement and processing had been hit over April to June, the best months pickle making, manufacturers were unable to gear up for demand that was starting to pick up during the unlocking.They said it would take them a year to emerge from the havoc wreaked by the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, with labour shortage and transportation restrictions being the biggest challenges in catering to demand across the country and in the US, UK and other countries.“We depend on migrant labourers as the locals are not willing to work. We had to shut down production for more than two months as most of the labourers had gone home for Holi and were unable to return due to the lockdown,” said Pankaj Dhingra, owner of Pachranga Foods.Even as orders were coming in from the US and other countries, “we face labour and transportation problems as train movement remains restricted,” he added.Among other demands, manufacturers demanded relief from 12% GST on their products as labourers and farmers working for the industry had been affected by the pandemic.“Pickles are like vegetables for the poor and taste boosters for the rich. Around 50% of our products are consumed locally and 50% is exported to different states and abroad,” said Jitender Juneja, owner of Popular Achar, reiterating the need for GST relief.Om Parkash, in the pickle business since 1984, said government restrictions, including 12%GST had also hit manufacturers, which is why many of them were going out of business.“There are problems with raw material procurement as farmers do not sell their products directly to the manufacturers and we have to buy it from traders,” he added.Pickle outlets too were not getting enough footfall. “Like dhabas, pickle outlets also remained closed for three months during the lockdown. Even now, though the eateries are open no one stops to eat because of fears of contracting Covid-19,” said Rahul Dahiya, owner of a pickle shop on National Highway 44 near Gharaunda.Chhattardhari, who ran an outlet on Jattal road in Panipat city and had 14 varieties of pickles in stock, including mixed, mango, lime, green and red chillies, amla, carrot, radish, turnip, onion and even garlic, but buyers were not turning up.“My two sons are completing undergraduate studies and the younger one is in coaching classes in Kota, Rajasthan. Things have come to such a pass because of poor sales that I find it difficult to pay their fees,” said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fruit-procurement-and-processing-hit-panipat-pickle-makers-in-a-jam/story-vM41cv0WQLYW6AzqvfbKeO.html
05-07-2020||Pune||Chargesheet against 7 in Chandan Shevani murder case; accused demanded Rs5 crore extortion||The crime branch, Pune, on Friday, submitted a chargesheet against the seven accused who were arrested in the kidnapping and murder of businessman Chandan Shevani (48). The chargesheet submitted by Shivaji Pawar, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) and Bund Garden police station incharge, before the Special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (Mcoca), court also stated that the seven accused had demanded a ransom of Rs five crore from the deceased while he was in their custody.Shewani owned a footwear store on Laxmi road and was found dead with three bullet wounds near a canal in Lonad, Satara, on January 5. The seven arrested in the case have been identified as Afridi Rauf Khan (23), Sunil Namdev Gaikwad (49), Ajinkya Hanumant Dhumal (21), Kiran Sunil Kadam (21), Pritam Ramesh Ambe (36), Parvez Hanif Shaikh (42), and Anil Suresh Sapkal (48).Shewani was kidnapped from Pune on the night of January 24 and an extortion note was found in his pocket. However, as no ransom call was made, the police did not suspect extortion as the motive during the initial phase of the investigation.City police commissioner K Venkatesham had granted permission to prosecute the accused under the relevant sections of the Mcoca Act.Pawar stated that the victim refused to give in to their demands after which he was shot dead.Shaikh and Ambe are prime accused in the case and are notorious criminals on record. The crime branch sleuths had recovered seven pistols, 58 live cartridges, five extra magazines and eight cell phones from their possession post their arrest.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 387 (putting a person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with an attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 201 (destruction of evidence), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(25) of the Arms Act has been lodged at the Bund Garden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/chargesheet-against-7-in-chandan-shevani-murder-case-accused-demanded-rs5-crore-extortion/story-1zi1s2lDZORtagkJWOpEyI.html
05-07-2020||Pune||PMC reserves two crematoriums for bodies of Covid victims, installs mortuary to tackle rush||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has reserved only two crematoriums – one at Sangamwadi and another at Yerawada for final rites of patients dying due to the Covid-19 infection while allowing non-covid bodies to be cremated at other crematoriums. However, this has led to an increase in wait time for ambulances transporting the bodies.In a quest to avoid the delay, the PMC has now reserved a mortuary at Kailash Crematorium near Sangamwadi.Earlier, the civic body reserved six of the 21 crematoriums for the cremation of Covid-19 bodies. However, the PMC faced a staff crunch and decided to keep only two crematoriums.As of Friday, the Pune death toll due to Covid-19 infection reached 685 with 19,849 progressive positive cases.PMC electric department chief Shrinivas Kandul, who is also co-ordinating the cremations, said, “As the Covid-19 deaths are increasing in the city, sometimes there is a queue outside the Kailash and Yerawada crematorium for performing final rites on dead bodies. As the ambulances are stuck at the crematorium, hospitals keep calling the driver to transport the next body. To avoid all this trouble, PMC has now fixed a mortuary at Kailash crematorium. Four dead bodies can be placed in this mortuary at a given time.”According to Kandul, the PMC also planned to keep the mortuary at Yerawada crematorium for the next few days.“PMC allotted six ambulances only for transporting Covid-19 bodies to the crematorium,” he said.According to the PMC, the aim of an extra mortuary is that ambulances would not need to wait to unload the body. They can drop the body at the mortuary and immediately rush for the next call.The PMC officials said the decision to bring down reserved crematoriums from six to two was because civic staff had to use gas crematoriums for final rites and there were some difficulties as gas crematoriums are managed by a private contractor. Also, there was a manpower shortage issue. Due to panic and fear, PMC employees were not ready to perform the final rites, said another civic official.In order to streamline this work effectively, PMC has now only kept two crematoriums for performing final rites. There are three working shifts and in each shift, four employees remain present for duty. Both Kailash and Yerawada crematoriums are in close proximity to many Covid-care hospitals.Kandul said that he instructed ambulances to avoid going to the vehicle depo, but return to the hospital from where they get a call.“They should stop near Kailash crematorium as it would help to decrease their travel time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-reserves-two-crematoriums-for-bodies-of-covid-victims-installs-mortuary-to-tackle-rush/story-UiQS7DoQOphtDp5wBpDdxM.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||20 feet patch of road caved in due to heavy rain in Thane||A 20 feet wide patch of Khartan Road in Thane west caved in on Sunday due to heavy rain since morning, making it hollow. A small crater has developed in the middle of the concrete road, while the layer beneath has flown in the nullah, making it hollow. It is closed for traffic and work of filling the road has started.A nullah wall also collapsed near M H High School in Thane, however no one was injured in the incident. Water-logging was also observed at few places in the city, though there was no loss of life and property.Heavy rains lashed Thane since Sunday morning. The city witnessed around 80.00mm of rainfall since morning while on Saturday the rainfall recorded was 377 mm.Santosh Kadam, chief of Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC), said, “The Khartan Road opposite Thane College caved in around 11.30 on Sunday. A small crater has developed on the surface while a patch of 20 feet base course of the road beneath the top layer has flown into the nullah. The road is above a nullah and near to the creek, thus due to the force of the water it caved in. It is a Ultra White Thin Topping (UTWT) road.”The work of repairing the road has begun. “We have got two to three trucks of sand and will fill the base course. A ten feet nullah wall behind M H Highschool in Naupada fell due to heavy rain. A huge tree near the wall was in dangerous condition and fell taking the wall with itself in the nullah. The work of excavating the tree and nullah is going on,” Kadam informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-feet-patch-of-road-caved-in-due-to-heavy-rain-in-thane/story-8C8VDJDlwv826WUOvLkBeM.html
05-07-2020||Kolkata||Cases of nepotism in Cyclone Amphan relief run into thousands in poll-bound Bengal||Nepotism and malpractice by the Trinamool Congress’ (TMC’s) panchayat leaders involved in the distribution of compensation for people whose homes were damaged by Cyclone Amphan on May 20 have turned into the most raging issue in poll-bound West Bengal.While genuine claims have been ignored, the compensation of Rs 20,000 in most cases went to people who suffered no loss. It is also alleged that multiple members of the same families got Rs 20,000 each. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has asked district administrations to review the payments and take back the money. Bank accounts are also being frozen. “The chief minister is personally looking into this. It is a serious issue and action is being taken. Poor people cannot be deprived,” Javed Ahmed Khan, the state disaster management minister, said while speaking to HT on Saturday. In a reminder of the so-called ‘cut-money’ or illegal commission that TMC leaders charged from beneficiaries of rural housing schemes in the past, the issue of corruption for Amphan relief led to two killings on Saturday.The TMC and Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist), a small Left party, lost one local leader each in the Moipith-Boikunthapur panchayat area of South 24 Parganas district, one of the worst affected by the cyclone. In at least five other districts in south Bengal, agitations and clashes over alleged nepotism has been continuing since June though no death was reported.“Being a coastal area, Moipith was ravaged by the cyclone. But our supporters did not get any compensation. On Thursday, we lodged a complaint at the local police station against the panchayat pradhan. TMC workers attacked our supporters within 48 hours,” said Tarun Naskar, former SUCI legislator from the local Joynagar assembly seat and a professor of engineering at Jadavpur University. While officials in the Cyclone Amphan-affected districts said the number of complaints runs into thousands, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has alleged that around Rs 300 crore has been misappropriated. Relief packageWithin 48 hours of the cyclone hitting the state, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the affected areas and announced an initial grant of Rs 1,000 crore for relief and rehabilitation.Later, the Bengal government told the Centre that 28.6 lakh houses were damaged and the cost of this damage stood at Rs 28,560 crore. The quantum of total damage stood at Rs 1.02 lakh crore, the state said.The chief minister announced an initial relief fund of Rs 6,250 crore. On June 2, she tweeted that the government has transferred funds to nearly five lakh people for repairing homes.In addition, the government has also promised wages for 100 days of work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme for the affected people.Political observers and opposition leaders feel that the huge relief package opened the Pandora’s box as the TMC controls more than 80% panchayat bodies and had won around 34% seats uncontested in the 2018 polls that were rocked by violence. Case studiesThe allegations have surfaced in North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, East Midnapore, Howrah and some parts of West Midnapore. Surprisingly, complaints have been received even in Nadia, a district located 232km away from East Midnapore and 170km from South 24 Parganas, the worst-hit areas.“We are receiving a huge number of complaints. I cannot give you a figure off-hand as thousands of people applied for compensation. There are cases where vested interests worked. We are not taking any chances. The claims are being reviewed on a daily basis and banks accounts being frozen,” Vibhu Goel, Nadia’s district magistrate, said while speaking to HT. In East Midnapore district, hundreds of people in Mahishadal, Patashpur, Contai and Nandigram assembly constituencies have staged agitation saying TMC leaders deprived them.“We have issued a show-cause notice to some of our men and 25 people have returned the money so far. No party can take such prompt action,” said Tilak Chakraborty, vice-president of the TMC-controlled Mahishadal panchayat samiti.In Howrah district, allegations have been raised in Uluberia, Sankrail, Panchla and Jagatballavpur Assembly segments.“The complaints received include four or five members from same families making claims and even same persons receiving multiple payments,” said Kartik Chandra Roy, community block development officer of Uluberia-1.In North 24 Parganas, where the TMC has faced agitation in assembly constituencies such as Amdanga, Deganga and Sandeshkhali, the party’s district president and state food and supplies minister Jyotipriyo Mallick accused eight BJP-run panchayats of the same nepotism. He even released the list of beneficiaries, mentioning details of the payments made.One such gram panchayat is Keniara 2 in Bagdah assembly segment.“If any irregularity has taken place then it will be rectified,” said Anamika Biswas, the panchayat pradhan who, Mullick alleged, got the compensation three times.“If the government has proof then it should take legal action. This corruption exposes the government’s failure. The accused TMC leaders are writing declarations, saying they made mistakes so that bureaucrats can remain safe,” said BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha.The effectSuvashis Maitra, a political observer and columnist, feels that such a large scale corruption points at a problem with the character of people in rural Bengal.“Otherwise why will poor people in villages lie? This trend started much before the TMC came to power. The ruling party is trying to enforce rectification. The CPI(M) tried it too but failed. This relief scam is like some sort of democratisation of the combination of political power and corruption,” said Maitra.Udayan Bandopadhyay, Kolkata-based political science professor, believes that the issue will directly affect the outcome of the 2021 assembly polls in at least three districts. “The cut money issue helped BJP bag 18 Lok Sabha seats in 2019 and also affected the panchayat polls in 2018,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cases-of-nepotism-in-cyclone-amphan-relief-run-into-thousands-in-poll-bound-bengal/story-3Bm3P9pgoGClWgE5vrb4vN.html
05-07-2020||Noida||Kanpur effect: Crackdown begins on mafia in Noida||The Gautam Buddh Nagar Police has attached illegal properties, including land and luxury cars worth crores, of dreaded gangsters Sundar Bhati and Anil Dujana and their associates in a crackdown on regional mafia, officials said on Sunday. The crackdown began in Greater Noida on Saturday on the instructions of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to reign in the gangsters, a day after eight policemen were killed in Kanpur by henchmen of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey.  “In line with the chief minister’s instructions, Police Commissioner Alok Singh ordered the attachment of properties worth Rs 7 crore which includes land and cars,” Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida, Rajesh Kumar Singh said. “Land of water bodies illegally occupied by these gangs got reclaimed today (Saturday), illegal fences razed down. The action would continue unabated and illegal properties would be attached,” he said. The clampdown is being carried out chiefly under Section 14(1) of the Gangsters Act, which allows attachment of illegal properties, in order to effectively curb gangsters, mafias and criminals and their associates, the officials said. DCP, Central Noida, Harish Chander said properties of Anil Dujana gang member Chandrapal have been attached and his vehicles impounded, while properties of Divya Sangwan, wife of another gang member Robin Tyagi, were also attached. The seized cars include models of luxury brands like Audi and BMW, the officer said. This is the first action taken by the Commissioner of Police under the Gangster Act for attachment of property under the commissionerate system of police in the district which started in January this year, a police spokesperson said.   “The action will continue against criminals and mafias involved in criminal activities in future,” the spokesperson added. PTI KIS RHL||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/kanpur-effect-crackdown-begins-on-mafia-in-noida/story-UIL2ZsvM6qeuX4jAm559gP.html
05-07-2020||Patna||Heavy rains continue to disrupt normal life in Bihar’s Patna||Heavy rains continued to throw normal life out of gear in Patna on Sunday as the city saw waterlogging in several parts.People on the streets had a tough time as they waded through knee-deep water to buy essential items.Those driving through narrow lanes flooded with water also faced difficulty as they had to pass through poorly constructed roads. Pumps have also been placed in some parts of the city to flush out the rainwater.The IMD has predicted more rains in Patna in the coming days. At least 20 people lost their lives due to lightning in five districts of Bihar on Saturday. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had announced Rs 4 lakh for the kin of those killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/heavy-rains-continue-to-disrupt-normal-life-in-bihar-s-patna/story-dunZbt3IVeQsz3YVzWLOwJ.html
05-07-2020||City||With 14 fresh cases, Mohali’s tally crosses 300 mark in 107 days||With 14 fresh cases, Mohali’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 300 mark on Sunday morning.The development comes a day after the district reported its fifth fatality related to the disease.The number of confirmed cases stand at 302, of which 79 are active. Of the fresh ones, 12 are from Behda village in Dera Bassi subdivision, which is emerging as a new hotspot.The patients include seven females, aged 14, 17, 18, 27, 28, 32 and 45, and five males, aged 17, 24, 26, 40, 51. All are contacts of previous positive cases.The other two patients are a 57-year-old woman from Lalru, also in Dera Bassi subdivision, and a 36-year-old woman from Phase 4 in Mohali city. Both of them were suffering from influenza like illness.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all patients have been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and are responding well to treatment.A 69-year-old woman of Phase 3A, who had returned from the UK, was the first to test positive in the district on March 20. The count climbed to 112 by the end of May, as Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi emerged as a hotspot with 46 cases. Since June 1, when the Centre unrolled the Unlock plan, the district has seen a major spike, with 190 cases being reported in the past 35 days. Dera Bassi subdivision, which comprises of Dera Bassi town besides Zirakpur and Lalru, accounts for 60% of the total count so far.“Dera Bassi is witnessing more cases as it has interstate border, and being an industrial hub, it also houses migrant population. We are making our best efforts to carry out extensive sampling in the area,” said Dr Singh.Dr Vikrant Nagra, Covid-19 nodal officer for Dera Bassi, said Behda village in Dera Bassi is becoming a new hotspot as 35 cases have been reported so far. “There are two meat plants in the village and most of the infected persons are migrants working there,” he said. Dr Harmandeep Kaur Brar, nodal officer for the district, said it is the duty of industrialists in Dera Bassi to take precautions and prevent the spread of infection among migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-14-fresh-cases-mohali-s-tally-crosses-300-mark/story-HByrph5Bns7vufYtK8kB0H.html
05-07-2020||Delhi||Rains drench Delhi, more expected on Sunday||A fresh bout of rain and high-velocity winds lashed the national capital on Saturday night, bringing the mercury down by several notches.The Met department has predicted more rain, thunderstorm and strong surface winds during the day.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for Delhi, recorded 33.6 mm rainfall till 8:30 am. The Palam station gauged 48.6 mm precipitation, the weatherman said.The weather stations at Lodhi Road, Ayanagar and Ridge got 38.2 mm, 35.2 mm and 46.6 mm rainfall respectively.Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is considered moderate, and above 64.5 mm is considered heavy, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Humidity levels in the national capital also shot up to 100 per cent.More rain is expected over the next three to four days, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s regional forecasting centre, said.The maximum temperature is expected to drop to 34 degrees Celsius by Wednesday.The monsoon arrived in Delhi on June 25. Normal rainfall is predicted in the national capital during the season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rains-drench-delhi-more-expected-on-sunday/story-QckJZNPnn1qMjSzrJrFnRN.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||35 Himachal Pradesh administrative service officers transferred||Shimla: The state government has transferred 35 Himachal Pradesh Administrative Service (HPAS) officers.A government notification said that Suneel Sharma has been posted as the registrar, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla; Ghanshyam Chand as the secretary, state transport authority cum-additional commissioner, transport, Shimla; Vikram Mahajan as the additional director of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports, Manali; Bhang Chand Negi as the land acquisition officer of the Parvati project in Kullu; Sonia Thakur as the additional director, information technology, Shimla; Neeraj Gupta as the joint director, higher education, Shimla; Anil Kumar as the joint secretary, cooperation, Shimla. He will also hold the additional charge of the post of registrar, HP Consumer Redressal Commission, Shimla.Narender Kumar has been posted as the joint chief executive officer of Baddi Barotiwala Nalagarh Development Authority; Surender Mohan as the sub divisional officer (civil), Rampur Bushahr, Shimla; Niraj Kumari Chandla as general manager, administration/projects, SPV Shimla Smart City Limited; Amar Negi as joint director, technical education, Sundernagar; Samritika as registrar, Atal Medical and Research University, Nerchowk; Narender Kumar as SDO (civil), Chopal; Krishan Chand as district tourism development officer, Kullu; Hem Chand Verma as SDO (civil), Banjar; Rati Ram as district tourism development officer, Solan; Paras Aggarwal as SDO (civil), Thunag, Mandi; Somil Gautam as SDO (civil), Churah at Tissa, Chamba; and Shashank Gupta as SDO (civil), Dodra Kwar, district Shimla.Aprajita Chandel has been transferred as assistant commissioner (AC)-cum-block development officer (BDO), Nadaun, Hamirpur; Swati Dogra as AC-cum-BDO, Sujanpur Tihra; Priya Nagta as AC-cum-BDO, Nirmand, Kullu; Swati Gupta as AC-cum-BDO, Dehra, Kangra; Rajneesh Sharma as AC-cum-BDO, Mehla, Chamba; Rohit Sharma as AC-cum-BDO Nurpur, Kangra; Gunjeet Singh Cheema as SDO (civil), Kumarsain, Shimla; Vishva Mohan Dev Chauhan as AC-cum BDO, Nalagarh; Dharam Pal as AC-cum-BDO Jhandutta, Bilaspur; Mahender Pratap Singh as AC-cum-BDO Kaza, Lahaul-Spiti; Nishant Tomar as deputy director-cum-project director, district watershed development authority, Kangra; Pawan Kumar as SDO (civil), Jaisinghpur, Kangra; Manjeet Sharma as SDO, (civil), Shimla (Urban); Devi Chand as joint director, Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Mandi; Raj Kumar as SDO (civil), Udaipur, Lahaul-Spiti; Rajesh Bhandari as SDO (civil)-cum-project director, district rural development authority, Keylong. He will also hold the additional charge of project officer, Integrated Tribal Development Programme (ITDP), Keylong.Manoj Kumar is the new SDO (civil), Shimla rural; Rajiv Thakur is deputy secretary, HP Staff Selection Commission, Hamirpur; and Shamsher Singh has been posted as the land acquisition officer, Beas dam project, Fatehpur, Kangra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35-himachal-pradesh-administrative-service-officers-transferred/story-fSTDkgbLbgYPVYZWHwtSFN.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Traffic hit in Mumbai as overnight heavy rains cause water-logging in several parts||Mumbai witnessed heavy downpour Saturday night due to which the city’s traffic was hit and many parts reported water-logging issue on Sunday. The traffic police authorities have issued an alert for Sunday of water-logging and traffic jams in low lying areas.Due to the heavy rains, Hindmata, Dharavi Cross Road, Dadar TT, Shakkar Panchayat at Wadala and below Chembur Bridge in the city witnessed water-logging, according to the traffic police. As a safety precaution, the police warned Mumbaikars against venturing into low lying areas that were prone to water-logging. “At present traffic has been diverted from Andheri subway due to water-logging,” said Pravin Padval, additional commissioner of police (traffic).Traffic moved slowly at Jogeshwari Vikhroli link road due to water-logging near western express highway. Meanwhile locations like Khetwadi, Bandstand, Nana Chowk, JJ Junction, Mahalaxmi Temple junction Churchgate junction, Alankar Junction, Worli Naka, Bhendi Bazar, Anand Nagar and Khar Masjid, SV road were also affected due to water-logging.The Indian Meteorological Department on July 4 had forecasted extremely heavy rainfall in many parts. IMD issued a statement that heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur at many places in Palghar, Mumbai, Thane and Raigad districts. At some places extremely heavy rainfall is likely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/traffic-hit-in-mumbai-as-overnight-heavy-rains-cause-water-logging-in-several-parts/story-O3iD4MSgaZNXySChklSpUL.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records its second-highest single day July rain in 5 years||Incessant downpour over the weekend allowed Mumbai to record its second-highest 24-hour rain in the month of July in over the past five years.The weather bureau had issued a yellow alert for Sunday but only light to moderate rain alert had been issued for Monday.“Models have indicated heavy rain to continue on Sunday but the intensity of rain is likely to be lesser than Friday and Saturday,” KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of IMD’s western region, said.On Sunday, the suburbs woke up to intense heavy rain with 95.4mm over a span of three hours from 8.30am to 11.30am, while south Mumbai recorded intermittent light showers of 9.4mm.The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 200.8 mm rain between 8.30am on Saturday and 8.30am on Sunday, falling under the ‘very heavy’ rain category.Last year, the city had recorded 375.2mm on July 2, which is the highest 24-hour rain in the month between 2015 and 2020. In 2018, it was 184.3mm (July 10), 163.4mm in 2017 (July 18), 114.5mm in 2016 (July 30), and 61 mm in 2015 (July 21).Over the past decade, however, more rain was recorded in 2013 (215.6mm on July 24) and 2014 (207.2 mm on July 3). The all-time high 24-hour July rain was recorded during the July 27, 2005, deluge that led to 944.2mm.The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 129.6 mm rain between 8.30am on Saturday and 8.30am on Sunday.Over the past 48 hours—8.30am on Friday to 8.30am on Sunday—Mumbai suburbs recorded 357.8mm rain while south Mumbai recorded 298.6mm rain.Thane recorded the highest rain across the Konkan region and the state over the past 24-hours at 377mm rain, which falls under the exceptionally heavy rain category.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) further classifies 15.6-64.4mm as moderate rain while 64.5-115.5mm rain as heavy, 115.6-204.4mm as very heavy, and over 204.5mm as extremely heavy rain.“North Konkan including Mumbai witnessed an active phase of the southwest monsoon over the past three days with continuous showers and extremely heavy rain in some areas. The impact of widespread rain activity led to overall excess rainfall for the majority of the weather stations,” Hosalikar said.Mumbai suburbs has currently recorded 15% excess rain for the season while south Mumbai has recorded large excess of 29%. Mumbai has so far recorded 480.4 mm rain (from July 1 to July 5, 11.30 am), which is 57% of the month’s average rainfall (840.7mm). The city had recorded 395 mm rain in June, which was the lowest monthly rain in five years. However, with continuous downpour over 48 hours, the city has so far (from June 1 to July 5 11.30am) received almost 38% of its seasonal average rain (875 mm of 2,317 mm).Independent meteorologists said weather systems responsible for heavy rain over Mumbai were expected to move northwards towards south Gujarat on Sunday leading to the decline in rain intensity for the city.“Massive cloud bands in the Arabian Sea, as a result of the offshore trough, along with strong westerly winds led to these rains. While overnight intermittent heavy rain is expected and there may be some spillover for Sunday, major rain intensity will be felt for the Gujarat coast from Sunday,” Sridhar Balasubramanian, a professor with the department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, said.The city and suburbs can expect intermittent moderate rain through the day on Sunday with the possibility of heavy showers in isolated areas and light to moderate rain on Monday, IMD’s updated forecast on Sunday read.Rain records during July over the past five years:2020 (July 5) - 200.8mm2019 (July 2) - 375.2mm2018 (July 10) - 184.3mm2017 (July 18) - 163.4mm2016 (July 30) - 114.5mm2015 (July 21) - 61mmOther records2013 (July 24) - 215.6mm (second highest July rain in 10 years)2005 (July 27) - 944.2mm (all-time highest 24-hour rain)Location-wise rainfall for 24-hoursThane - 377mmMumbra:291mmDombivali:265mmNavi Mumbai:263mmMatheran: 209mmKalyan: 192mmMumbai SuburbsKandivali: 235mmBorivali: 211mmVikhroli: 204mmChembur: 203mmKurla: 160mmPowai: 184mmBandra: 152mmSouth MumbaiDharavi: 187mmWadala: 180mmByculla: 159mmWorli: 153mmHaji Ali: 142mmMalabar Hill: 129mmNariman Point: 105mm(Source: India Meteorological Department)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-its-second-highest-single-day-july-rain-in-5-years/story-J2EFoDXg0z6Zy6wiUHJifN.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha govt’s priority is to tackle Covid-19 crisis: Aaditya Thackeray||Ignoring the opposition’s criticism of the Maharashtra government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis, state minister Aaditya Thackeray has said the priority of the government is to tackle the pandemic situation and other things are secondary.The state environment and tourism minister was talking to reporters in Thane on Saturday evening while he was here to take stock of the Covid-19 situation and measures undertaken by civic bodies in the district to contain the disease.Asked about the opposition’s criticism that the government was unable to properly tackle the Covid-19 crisis, Thackeray said, “Let them do their work, we will keep on doing our work. Our priority at present is to deal with the Covid-19 situation and break the virus chain, other things are secondary.” The Shiv Sena MLA also launched an app developed by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) for online hospital bed allocation and ambulance booking.Addressing a Covid-19 review meeting at the TMC headquarters here, Thackeray stressed on the need for increased contact-tracing and maintenance of good facilities at the quarantine centres.He asked the civic officials to periodically inspect the quarantine centres and check various facilities, including the food supplied there.He also suggested for increasing the testing capacity.The review meeting was attended by Thane Guardian Minister Eknath Shinde, Mayor Naresh Mhaske and other senior leaders from the district.The TMC already has a dashboard providing information about the availability of beds in Thane hospitals and the Covid-19 situation in the city.Till Saturday, Maharashtra reported 2,00,064 Covid-19 cases and 8,671 deaths due to the disease.The Covid-19 tally in Thane district reached 40,542 on Saturday and the death toll rose to 1,221.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-govt-s-priority-is-to-tackle-covid-19-crisis-aaditya-thackeray/story-qF6pn3lxnfRiOyleroG37H.html
05-07-2020||Kolkata||Fire breaks out at multi-storey building in Kolkata||A fire broke out at a godown packed with plastic items on the second floor of a multi- storey building in Burrabazar area of the city on Sunday.Seven fire tenders rushed to the spot to put off the blaze, which erupted around 10 am, fire brigade sources said.The blaze quickly spread to other floors of the dilapidated building, which houses several offices and godowns, most of which were shut on Sunday, they said.“No one was reported to be trapped inside. Our men are working to contain the flames,” one of the sources said. PTI SUS RMS RMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/fire-breaks-out-at-multi-storey-building-in-kolkata/story-iTdIMtTNqu7vT8pZRDPF8O.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rains continue in Mumbai; low-lying areas waterlogged||Heavy rains continued to lash Mumbai, Thane and other parts of Konkan Maharashtra for the third consecutive day on Sunday and caused water-logging in some low-lying areas of the metropolis.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast intermittent rains in the city and suburbs “with possibility of heavy falls” at isolated places in the next 24 hours.Heavy rainfall inundated some low-lying areas of the city, including Hindmata in Central Mumbai, and Chembur in eastern suburbs.The Colaba observatory in South Mumbai recorded 129.6 mm rain in the 24 hours ending at 8.30 am on Sunday while the Santacruz weather station in western suburbs recorded 200.8 mm rain during the same period, the IMD said.The neighbouring Thane district and some other areas in Konkan region, including Sindhudurg, also received very heavy rains.Some parts of Vidarbha received moderate rain, the IMD said, adding that thunderstorm with lightning is likely at isolated places in the region.On Saturday, water-logging and traffic jams were reported from some areas in Mumbai and there were 19 complaints of tree/branch falling, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rains-continue-in-mumbai-low-lying-areas-waterlogged/story-FcMLwEJpsT0b7EkQtITZWI.html
05-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi LG Anil Baijal inaugurates world’s ‘largest’ Covid care centre||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal inaugurated the 10,000-bed Sardar Patel Covid care centre, the “largest” of its kind in the world, at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas here on Sunday.The centre has been set up in Chhatarpur for treating mild and asymptomatic coronavirus patients.It will also serve as a treatment centre for those who are asymptomatic but cannot afford home isolation.The centre is 1,700 feet long, 700 feet wide -- roughly the size of 20 football fields -- and has 200 enclosures with 50 beds each.  Authorities say it is the largest of its kind in the world.While the Delhi government has provided administrative support, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) will be the nodal agency operating the centre.  Volunteers from the religious sect of Radha Soami Beas will also help run the centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-lg-anil-baijal-inaugurates-world-s-largest-covid-care-centre/story-3LNugaUBIyN1jS10sI6egI.html
05-07-2020||Lucknow||Kanpur shootout: UP police raise prize money for arrest of Vikas Dubey||Police in Uttar Pradesh have increased the prize money for the arrest of Vikas Dubey, the dreaded criminal whose accomplices shot dead eight policemen out to arrest him in in Kanpur Dehat in connection with a murder case.Jai Narain Singh, the additional director general of police (ADGP) of Kanpur Zone, increased the prize money from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh on Vikas Dubey’s arrest, who is on the run since Thursday midnight after the killing of the policemen in Bikru village.Dinesh P, senior superintendent of police (SSP), also announced a reward of Rs 25,000 each on the 18 aides of Dubey named in the first information report (FIR) lodged in connection with the killing of the policemen.Others in the list are Shyamu Bajpai, Chotu Shukla, Monu, Jahan Yadav, Daya Shankar Agnihotri, Shashi Kant Pandit, Shiv Tewari, Vishnu Pal Yadav, Ram Singh, Ramu Bajpai, Amar Dubey, Prabhat Mishra, Gopal Saini, Viru Dubey, Bauan Shukla, Shivam Dubey, Bal Govind and Baua Dubey.Dubey’s men had fired indiscriminately on the policemen from the roofs of his house and nearby structures after the team got off their vehicles, killing a deputy superintendent, three sub-inspectors and four constables in an ambush that the police said was a “well-planned conspiracy”. The announcements about the prize money came even as about 25 police teams are looking for Dubey, who is facing 60 criminal cases, and his associates across Uttar Pradesh and other states.Authorities have also razed Dubey’s house in Bikru village, 45km from the district headquarters, using the same earthmover machine that the criminals used to block the police team.A sub-inspector, who is under the scanner after the failed raid, has also been suspended. Officials probing the case questioned Chaubeypur station officer (SO) Vinay Tiwari for nine hours. He was later suspended and shifted to Lucknow.Chaubeypur, about 14km from Bikru, is the place where an attempt to murder case was registered against Dubey on Wednesday by a villager.The team that went to raid Dubey’s village had set off from the police station in Chaubeypur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kanpur-shootout-up-police-raise-prize-money-for-arrest-of-vikas-dubey/story-WTwoMrdvcYIWt0rBtCCDyJ.html
05-07-2020||Delhi||‘More people getting cured at home’: Kejriwal tweets on Covid-19 situation in Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that nearly 10,000 beds meant for coronavirus disease patients are free in Delhi hospital because more and more people are getting cured at home.“Less and less people in Delhi are now requiring hospitalisation, more and more people are getting cured at home. Whereas there were around 2300 new patients daily last week, no of patients in hospital has gone down from 6200 to 5300. Today, 9900 corona beds are free,” he said on Twitter. Less and less people in Delhi are now requiring hospitalisation, more and more people are getting cured at home. Whereas there were around 2300 new patients daily last week, no of patients in hospital has gone down from 6200 to 5300. Today, 9900 corona beds are freeOn Saturday, the national capital recorded 2,505 new cases of Covid-19 which took the overall number of infections in the city to 97,200. More than 2,500 (2,632 to be exact) people also recovered from the infection on the same day, which took the tally of those cured of the disease to 68,256. With this, Delhi achieved its highest recovery rate - of just over 70 per cent.“The efforts of 2 crore people of Delhi has showed results. Congratulations to all Delhi’s corona warriors as Delhi’s recovery rate has increased to over 70%. We all need to work harder to defeat corona,” Kejriwal had tweeted on Saturday.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also tweeted about the recovery rate. “This is the first time that the recovery rate of Covid-19 in Delhi has gone beyond 70%. Meaning 70% of the total number of patients have already recovered. Among the 97,200 patients, 68,256 have recovered. Positivity rate (meaning the number of people testing positive among those tested) is 10.58%, which had increased to 36.94%,” he tweeted.With increased testing and more cases being detected in the city, the case fatality ratio has decreased over the last two weeks.On June 23, the national capital had reported its highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases.With a drop in average fresh cases reported per day in Delhi over the past one week, experts on Saturday claimed that the city may go past its Covid-19 peak in early August.However, they cautioned that before reaching any conclusion, the trend of cases should be watched over the next week or so.The number of containment zones in the city on Saturday stood at 448.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/more-people-getting-cured-at-home-kejriwal-tweets-on-covid-19-situation-in-delhi/story-1UYDxQgFDXA0zMzNZb5DyI.html
05-07-2020||Delhi||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi-NCR, authorities look for over 1,500 missing patients||There is new problem at hand for health authorities in Delhi-NCR which is grappling with rapid rise in the number of coronavirus disease cases. More than 1,500 Covid-19 patients are missing in the region, according to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan.The health authorities are not able to trace these 1,589 patients, the Hindustan reported. This happened because these people gave wrong address and mobile numbers while being tested for Covid-19, it further reported.The highest number of these missing patients - 1,000 - is from Faridabad followed by 266 from Gurugram, 180 from Delhi, 124 from Ghaziabad and 19 from Noida.The health authorities Hindustan spoke to said that a patient’s medical information is uploaded on the mobile application of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) before the sample is taken. The patient is then asked for mobile number and the data is uploaded only after an OTP (One-Time Password) is generated.In these cases, the lapse happened because these people got themselves checked at private labs, when the pandemic was just about rearing its head in India.The health authorities have asked the police to help trace these patients. The authorities say that they have found 65 missing Covid-19 patients in Ghaziabad and they have been admitted to the hospital.In Faridabad, the municipal authorities have also been roped in to trace these missing patients.Tightening the rules further, Faridabad’s civil surgeon Dr Randeep Singh Poonia told Hindustan that they have made Aadhar card, identity card and home address proof mandatory. The authorities have already issued order in this regard, he added.Delhi, meanwhile, crossed the 3,000-mark in the number of Covid-19 fatalities after 55 deaths were recorded on Saturday. The number of deaths due to the viral infection stood at 3,004, according to the health bulletin released by the Delhi government, with 26 “old cases” added to the cumulative number.Delhi had recorded its first death on March 13 - a 68-year-old woman from Janakpuri who got the infection from her son who had travelled to Switzerland, Japan, and Italy. From then, it took exactly two months for Delhi to record the first 100 deaths due to Covid-19.On Saturday, the city recorded 2,505 new cases of Covid-19 taking the cumulative total to 97,200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-ncr-authorities-look-for-over-1-500-missing-patients/story-vHBCHFLfKXSc5veCdZKfmO.html
05-07-2020||Bangalore||‘Exercise self-discipline, cooperate’: Bengaluru Police chief tweets amid 33-hour lockdown in city||Bengaluru’s commissioner of police Bhaskar Rao has requested citizens to stay at home as authorities clamped a 33-hour lockdown from Saturday to Monday morning as the Karnataka’s capital city has seen a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“Respected Citizens, just stay home and don’t ask for exceptions as this is being done in everybody’s interest, heavens won’t fall if you postpone by a day. Please exercise self-discipline and cooperate. Happy Sunday,” Bhaskar Rao tweeted on Saturday. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) commissioner Anil Kumar said on Saturday only essential services will be allowed during the 33-hour period.“Sale of essential items will be allowed during the lockdown, including meat shops. Police action will be taken against people found roaming outside unnecessarily,” Anil Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier, the state government had announced that there would be complete lockdown on Sundays from July 5 and will be followed for the next four Sundays till August 2 as a part of the Centre’s Unlock 2.0 plan.Here is what’s allowed and what’s not:* Grocery stores, newspaper delivery, eateries and restaurants will be open only for home delivery* Bars and pubs will be closed and so will theatres, shopping malls and other commercial establishments apart from essential services* Meat shops will remain open* All shops apart from essential services and all markets will remain closed* Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) bus services will not be open to people but a fleet of 100 buses will be operational for those in essential servicesClick here for complete coronavirus coverage * Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has said services will be normal on Saturday but there will be no bus service on Sunday. Services will resume on Monday morning.* Pharmacies and drug stores will remain open||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/exercise-self-discipline-cooperate-bengaluru-police-chief-tweets-amid-33-hour-lockdown-in-city/story-hOQmZ8fVELcbePWQ04E4sM.html
05-07-2020||Education||Rajasthan govt cancels UG, PG exams due to Covid-19 pandemic||In view of Covid- 19 pandemic, the Rajasthan government has decided to cancel all undergraduate and postgraduate exams for all the universities, colleges and technical educational institutions.The decision was taken by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot after a meeting on Saturday. “In view of the scenario of the Corona epidemic, examinations of UG and PG courses of higher and technical education will not be conducted this year, and all students will be promoted to the next class without examination,” said Gehlot.He said in relation to the determination of the marks of the students being promoted, the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India, will take appropriate decisions after studying the guidelines issued in the next few days.In the meeting were Higher Education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati, Minister of State for Technical Education Subhash Garg, Chief Secretary Rajiv Swaroop, Additional Chief Secretary Finance Niranjan Arya, and Higher Education Secretary Shuchi Sharma and other officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/rajasthan-govt-cancels-ug-pg-exams/story-Am9j6DgEVc6KrmN3QQ23TL.html
05-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR wake up to heavy rain, thunderstorm||Heavy rainfall, lightning and thunderstorm hit the national capital on the early hours of Sunday bringing some respite from sweltering weather.“Thunderstorm with a heavy spell of rain and wind speed of 20-50 KMPH most likely to continue over and adjoining areas Delhi,” Indian Meteorological Department tweeted.Earlier today, the IMD had tweeted: “Thunderstorm with heavy rain and wind speed of 20-50 KMPH would occur over and adjoining areas of many places of entire Delhi, Hansi, Narwana, Kaithal, Hissar, Jind, Rohtak, Gohana, Gannaur, Sonipat, Baraut, Panipat, Karnal, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Jhajjar, Bhiwani, Mahendergarh, Kosli, Gurugram, Manesar, Rewari, Bhiwari, Narnaul, Meerut, Hapur, Nuh, Palwal, Noida, Gr. Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Bulandshahar during the next 2 hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-ncr-wake-up-to-heavy-rain-thunderstorm/story-Jqw2uwhjjIWUSTKyOljq1H.html
05-07-2020||Kolkata||Bengal: 3 killed in political violence, 2 while trying to make crude bomb||Five persons were killed in West Bengal in the past 24 hours, three in two separate incidents of political violence and two while trying to make a crude bomb, police said Saturday.Two persons were killed in a clash allegedly between the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Socialist Unity Centre of India (SUCI), a fringe Communist outfit, at Baruipur near Kolkata since Friday night. In Birbhum district, a TMC supporter was found dead.The dead have been identified as Ashwini Manna, a TMC leader and Sudhansu Jana, a SUCI leader. Manna was allegedly beaten and hacked to death. Following the incident, TMC supporters allegedly ransacked the houses and shops of SUCI supporters and set them on fire. Later, Jana was also found dead.Meanwhile, SUCI insisted that villagers lynched the TMC leader. “TMC supporters have been threatening people over the past few days. A village mob lynched Manna,” said Tarun Naskar, a local SUCI leader.In Birbhum, Sisir Bauri, a TMC supporter, was found dead. While the TMC has alleged that he was murdered by the BJP, the latter refuted the allegations and claimed that Bauri was killed in an internal clash of the TMC.Elsewhere, two persons were killed and five others injured in an explosion in Murshidabad district on Friday night. The deceased have been identified as Maharul Sheikh and Situ Sheikh. “Preliminary investigations have revealed that the men were hired to make crude bombs,” said a senior district police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-3-killed-in-political-violence-2-while-trying-to-make-crude-bomb/story-NkoC98t4hfVDyaoKTtARYO.html
05-07-2020||Lifestyle||Missing roadside chaat? Try some easy recipes at home||No matter which street or city you visit in India, there will surely be one common sight that will be powerful enough to hold your attention. Not just that, there in addition there will also be an aroma that shall tickle your taste buds and fuel your hunger pangs. The street-side chaat kiosks! These small thelas (handcarts) of chaat overloaded with a gamut of snack time foods such as fruits, potatoes, puffed rice and boiled corn kernels among others, express the mood of a city. And now that most of us are indoors, to avoid the spread of Covid-19, why worry about hygiene and quality? Learn to make some popular chaat at home with these quick tips:Aloo Chaat One of the most common and popular chaats is the aloo chaat or potato chaat. It’s also one of the easiest to make because all you need is boiled, chopped potatoes, spices as per taste and chutneys of mint and tamarind. Deep fry the potato cubes, and after they are golden brown, add chopped onions , sprinkle some spices (salt and red chilli powder), pour chutneys, squeeze some lemon on the top, and relish it! Bhelpuri Mumbai and its beaches are known for Bhelpuri stalls. Having bhelpuri while walking on the beach is nothing short of a bliss! But when locked in Delhi, unlock this recipe at home. All you have to do is mix four-five handfuls of puffed rice with chopped onions, tomatoes, and crushed papdi. Then add some salt and red chilli powder, a few drops of lemon juice, and tamarind and mint chutneys. Give all these a nice toss, and sprinkle some sev on the top when you plate it. Corn Chaat One of the healthiest chaat options, it’s not just tasty and fulfilling but nutritious as well. To prepare this chaat, what’s needed is lightly boiled corns, a few drops of ghee, some lemon juice and salt as per taste. Mix all these ingredients well. Alternatively, you can also add some chopped onion, tomato and cucumber to make it have a lasting taste.Paneer Chaat: This one’s quite cheesy yet healthy, tasty and satisfying. Chop paneer into fine pieces, shallow fry them, and add sprinkle a little bit of spices alongside mint and tamarind chutneys. Seems easy? It is easy!Chana Chaat: It’s a mix of chickpeas, green peas, potatoes, pomegranate and tomatoes, finished with mint and tamarind chutney. You need to soak chickpeas a night before and boil them properly before mixing them with the other usual spices. Healthy and tasty!Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/missing-roadside-chaat-try-some-easy-recipes-at-home/story-f5ERH69YZKxlNeCM2mDsZJ.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||4 held for assaulting Dalit woman in Jind||Four persons were on Saturday arrested for allegedly assaulting a Dalit woman for fetching potable water from a hand pump in Jind’s Ramkali village, police said.Those arrested are Sandeep Kumar, Ashish, Vikas and Dashrath, all residents of the same village.The woman alleged that one of the accused had caught her hand when she went to get water from a hand pump in the village two days ago.“The men, who were in inebriated state, had barred me from getting water from the hand pump. When I visited the area, the accused were bathing there. When I asked why did they stop me from fetching water, they made casteist remarks on me. I narrated the entire episode to the village head and my family members. The sarpanch talked to the parents of the accused, but to no avail. The next day, those men visited my house and pelted stones. When I raised alarm, my brother-in-law and others came for my rescue but the accused thrashed them as well. Then they continued to roam around my residence. My husband, who works with Haryana Police, lodged a complaint on Friday evening,” she added.Julana SHO Surender Singh said the incident took place two days ago and an FIR was registered on Saturday after the victim approached the police in person.“We have arrested four men of the village and booked them under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 323 (punishment for causing voluntarily hurt) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the SC/ST (atrocity prevention) Act. The matter is being investigated. Atrocities against Dalits will not be accepted and we will take strict action against culprits,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-held-for-assaulting-dalit-woman-in-jind/story-q7XiRiXKPnfR3tv10fzQCP.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Retired cop’s wife seeks Maharashtra govt’s help as his Covid-19 treatment is likely to cost family ₹25 lakh||The wife of a 58-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI), who retired on March 31 from Dongri police station and later tested positive for Covid-19, wrote to the home minister and senior police officers seeking financial help, as his treatment expenses are likely to be Rs25 lakh. The retired personnel is undergoing treatment at a private hospital and has been put on a ventilator. The family has arranged for Rs13.5 lakh, his son said. “We have been helped by our family and friends to a great extent. Now we have requested the home department and Mumbai Police commissioner to help us and we are hoping that they will,” the retired ASI’s son said.The family stays at BIT chawl police colony at Mumbai Central. In her letter, the retired ASI’s wife stated that her son is studying in college and her husband was the only earning member of the family. Thus, it was not possible for her to pay the amount.Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner of police (admin), said, “As per the rules, the Maharashtra Police’s Kutumb Arogya Yojana [under which police personnel and their families can avail free treatment] expires once a staff member retires from the service. However, we are exploring other ways through which we can help him.”According to the letter, the ASI was suffering from cold and fever on March 20. “He did not apply for medical leave as he wanted to serve for the 10 days left in his service,” stated the letter. Later, even after retiring on March 31, he continued to remain unwell for more than a month. The ASI visited a local physician, who suggested him to undergo a Covid-19 test, in which he tested positive. “In May, his test results came positive and we had to shift him to a hospital. We tried to admit him to several hospitals, but there were no beds available. Then I received a call from the private hospital and we admitted him there on May 6. His condition deteriorated and he had to be put on ventilator. His condition has not completely improved yet,” the letter stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/retired-cop-s-wife-seeks-maharashtra-govt-s-help-as-his-covid-19-treatment-is-likely-to-cost-family-25-lakh/story-f2p1QOH21AYR9RlZfsGcbK.html
05-07-2020||City||Four Covid patients from Thane try to flee to UP, nabbed from airport||Four Covid-19 patients who tried to flee Thane were detained moments before they attempted to board a flight to Lucknow on Thursday, due to the efforts of an alert civic official. Kausa’s health officer Hemangi Ghode tracked the family with the help of police and airport authorities, despite the family trying to mislead her, said RT Kendre, officer on special Covid-19 duty.The four are family members of a 54-year-old resident of Kausa in Mumbra who was tested positive for the virus last month. The man died on June 25, after which his 50-year-old wife and three sons – aged 27, 25 and 23 years – were also tested positive for the virus on July 1. “On July 2, I made a phone call to the family, asking them which hospital would they like getting admitted to. They named a facility in Andheri, so I got suspicious and decided to keep a track on them,” Ghode said.The family told Ghode that they are leaving home by 9am for the hospital. “Accordingly, I sent a team to check on them. At 11am, the team found their door locked. When I called the Andheri hospital to inquire if the family had been admitted, the authorities there said they had no information about them. Around 11.45am, when I called one of sons, he did not answer. So I asked the surveillance officer to inquire in the nearby areas and also alerted the police as well as the railway and airport authorities. Following this, the airport authority surveillance team traced the family through the Arogya Setu app when they were boarding the flight and alerted TMC,” Ghode said.Ghode then informed the Mumbra police, following which the family was brought back and admitted to a private Covid hospital in Thane.“If they would have boarded the flight, several more people would have being infected,” she said.Senior inspector M Kad from Mumbra police station, said, “We have not registered a case against the family yet but will take action after their recovery.”When HT contacted the mother and youngest son, they refused to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-covid-patients-from-thane-try-to-flee-to-up-nabbed-from-airport/story-nMmZTxpOHER5zW58wQOfAM.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Three friends die in Sonepat car crash||Three persons were killed after the car they were travelling in rammed into a tractor-trailer on National Highway 44 near Bahalgarh in Sonepat, police said on Saturday.The victims are Riya, 17, Rajiv Kumar, 26, and Tushar, 27, all residents of Delhi. The injured, Lalit Kumar, is undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak, where his condition is stated to be out of danger.Investigating officer Anil Kumar said the four friends were going to Murthal for dinner on Friday night. “Their car rammed into a tractor-trailer near Bahalgarh flyover. Three of them died on the spot, while the fourth one was rushed to the Rohtak hospital,” the cop added. The police have registered a case against the car driver under sections 304-A (causing death due to negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-friends-die-in-sonepat-car-crash/story-IY6KENrfxxQL2UfDwLcE5H.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Actor Akshay Kumar’s Nashik trip: Maharashtra minister Bhujbal clarifies that no rules violated||Actor Akshay Kumar’s Nashik trip by helicopter created a stir as the district’s guardian minister, Chhagan Bhujbal, said on Saturday that he received complaints of violation of lockdown rules and he asked the local administration to probe the same.Later in the evening, Bhujbal said that the actor had come to visit a doctor and there was no flouting of rules when providing him police protection. The minister said that after the preliminary information he received, he does not find any reason to probe the issue further.Bhujbal, while speaking to the media after the inauguration of a Covid-19 facility in Nashik on Saturday morning, said that he had received complaints about the actor’s trip. He said he was surprised that when the chief minister of the state and ministers travel by road, how the actor received VIP treatment and how he could fly in a helicopter amid the lockdown. He said that he would seek information from officials and check if there was any flouting of rules and how was he provided police escort by the city police when he was travelling to the rural area of the district.Kumar had visited Trimbakeshwar, a temple town on the outskirts of Nashik, four days ago, and had shared photos of his visit on social media. According to local media reports, several senior police officers met him during his stay in Nashik. Kumar’s photographs at the helipad went viral and triggered a controversy in Nashik as people from the district raised questions about the permission given to the actor to travel and stay at a resort during the lockdown amid rising cases of Covid-19. CM Uddhav Thackeray had travelled by road to Pandharpur in Solapur two days ago for a traditional puja at Vitthal temple on occasion of Ashadi Ekadashi. Other ministers and influential people, too, were denied permissions by the administrations, making them travel by road.Later in the evening Bhujbal told HT, “I had said in the morning that I would check into the incident and how he got permission to fly and stay. Later, the district collector informed me that the actor had paid a visit to one Dr Ashraf in Trimbakeshwar. The Nashik police commissioner had called on him there and the escort, about which complaints were received, was for the commissioner. As far as the flying permission is concerned, the flight originated from Mumbai and it needs to be checked into by the authorities there. For us [the Nashik district administration], the chapter is closed now.”When HT contacted the actor, his team said, “Akshay had travelled there for health reasons to meet Dr Ashraf, and he had all the required permissions for the same.”Local officers said the actor had visited Trimbakeshwar as he is planning to set up a Martial Art and Meditation Centre in the vicinity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/controversy-over-akshay-kumar-s-nashik-trip-maharashtra-minister-bhujbal-clarifies-that-no-rules-violated/story-QM4xIg49uo87zYtCBwvBPJ.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Doctors caution against Covid-19 spread during monsoon||Medical experts have advised citizens to be vigilant during the monsoon, which brings with it ailments like seasonal influenza whose symptoms are similar to those of Covid-19. Health experts said three parameters govern the how a virus spreads — seasonal change, nature of the virus and patterns of human behaviour. With the onset of the monsoon, doctors in the city are keeping a close watch on how the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, may be impacted by changes in climate and weather. “As the virus is new, we lack knowledge on how it will react to the monsoon. We don’t know if humid temperatures will provide a more suitable environment for the virus to thrive, like in the case of swine flu or seasonal influenza,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, epidemiologist at Hinduja Hospital.A recent study by professors Amit Agarwal and Rajneesh Bharadwaj of Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B), published in the American Institute of Physics, suggested humid weather may promote the infection. “When an infected person coughs or sneezes, the droplets sit on the surface. In dry weather, these droplets dry faster. But in humid temperature, it takes longer which further increases the chances of the spread of the virus,” said Bharadwaj.However, Dr Randeep Guleria, pulmonologist and director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said, “Without more research, it will be unscientific to make any such comments.” Experts also warned against self-medication, even in case of seasonal ailments. “If a person has Covid-19, taking fever suppressants will delay treatment. So far, people have been very vigilant and approaching hospitals with the onset of any symptoms. I request people to do the same even in the monsoon,” said Dr Om Shrivastava, part of the state Covid-19 task force. Civic officials said that the virus’ spread may be curbed by the rain, which will force people to stay indoors. “Rain will restrict people’s movement. It will also curb spitting on the roads which often exposes the surrounding public to the virus,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).In July last year, 8,921 people were treated for fever and 123 cases of swine flu (highest in 2019), according to BMC’s data. City doctors are worried that it may be difficult to distinguish the symptoms of these ailments from those of Covid-19. “They all have common symptoms, like fever, cold, cough, rashes. It will be tough to differentiate them,” saidDr Ramesh Bharmal, in-charge of Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, Sion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/doctors-caution-against-covid-19-spread-during-monsoon/story-pHnpGDGZnoi5TMooXXfByJ.html
05-07-2020||City||Six booked for selling vegetables in containment zone||With the 10-day lockdown implemented in Thane and Kalyan, Kolsewadi police in Kalyan (East) along with the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Saturday seized four vegetable tempos for illegally selling vegetables on the streets in Vithalwadi. Six accused have been booked under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code for violating lockdown protocol.Vasant Bhongade, ward officer, KDMC, said, “The vendors were found operating in containment zones. Any sort of such activity is strictly prohibited during the ongoing 10-day lockdown period in Kalyan–Dombivli. The police informed us about this and we caught them red hand.”He said despite being warned before, the vendors sold the vegetables in the same zones leading to overcrowding.An officer from Kolsewadi police station, who did not wish to be named, said, “We have seized the tempos and also registered a case against four men who indulged in selling vegetables by violating lockdown norms.”KDMC also recorded 555 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths on Sunday. The total number of positive cases reported in KDMC stands at 8,604 and deaths at 135.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-booked-for-selling-vegetables-in-containment-zone/story-BGG90STjtki26fmS2W5HON.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||You can travel within ‘neighbourhood’: Cops||The controversial 2-km travel restrictions imposed on citizens by the Mumbai Police on June 28 is not applicable any more. The Mumbai Police on Saturday clarified that the restriction was imposed only for two days on June 28 and June 29 and that the restriction was corrected in an order issued on June 30, which stated that citizens were allowed to travel within their neighbourhood. Mumbai Police spokesperson and DCP, Sangramsingh Nishandar, said, “Taking action against people who travelled beyond a radius of 2km from their residence was an appeal to the people. Later, we corrected it in an order on June 30 and mentioned it as ‘neighbourhood’.”Nishandar clarified the definition of ‘neighbourhood’ with an example. “Neighbourhood of Malad cannot be Marine Drive or neighbourhood of Dadar cannot be Borivli. Neighbourhood of Dadar can be Naigaon or Parel and we have taken action against people who were roaming around unnecessarily,” said Nishandar.On June 28, the Mumbai Police in its effort to curb the spread of Covid-19 had appealed to Mumbaiites to stay at home, and had imposed a new rule asking people to move only within a radius of 2km for essentials. Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh had tweeted, ‘Driving past 2km of your place of residence for ‘fun’? ‘We know a spot’ for your car.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/you-can-travel-within-neighbourhood-cops/story-aD5l61ZfvHEShGoJuNUhWK.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Two arrested for making fake e-pass and medical certificates||The Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested two people for allegedly making bogus e-pass and fake medical certificates for travelling in the state during lockdown. The accused charged ₹5,000 for fake police e-pass and ₹1,000 for fake medical certificate for travelling to other districts in Maharashtra as well as the country. According to norms, police e-pass and medical certificates are compulsory to travel to other states or districts during lockdown.The arrested accused are Ravindra Dhige, 39, a Kalyan resident, and Namdev Shankar Dighe, 25, a resident of Bhandup. Officers of crime branch’s unit 7 got a tip-off about a gang duping people who wanted to visit other districts in Maharashtra from the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) by providing fake police e-pass.“Following the information, police inspector Manish Dhankar contacted the accused posing as a customer and said he required e-pass and medical certificate to visit his hometown in Solapur. The accused agreed and demanded ₹5,000 for the pass and ₹1,000 for fitness certificate (medical certificate),” said deputy commissioner of police (crime branch) Akbar Pathan. The accused then called Dhankar to meet in Bhandup where the police laid a trap and nabbed Namdev who came in a private car to deliver e-pass. During interrogation, he confessed that his cousin brother Ravindra is the mastermind, said Pathan. A police team then nabbed Dhige. Both the accused were produced in the court and have been remanded in police custody till July 9. Further inquiry is going on to find out if others are involved in the racket, said Pathan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-arrested-for-making-fake-e-pass-and-medical-certificates/story-3TfJeqvVdnN0IA3q5gXXMP.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha police collect ₹53L in fines for violations in a day||Maharashtra police in their effort to strictly enforce lockdown collected ₹53,06,050 as fine in one day from those found violating lockdown norms.From March 22 when lockdown was imposed across the state, till July 3, the state police collected ₹10,32,34,611 as fines. Between July 3 and July 4, the amount increased to ₹10,85,40,661, according to official statistics shared by the state police.“Citizens of Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai were the biggest contributors to these statistics since inter-district and regular movement of people in these cities are high. A lot of people continue to move out of their homes because of misinformation on lockdown being lifted,” said Milind Bharambhe, inspector general of police (law and order), state police.The fines, which range from ₹200 to ₹2,000, were mainly collected by police for those found violating lockdown regulations including riding pillion on two-wheeler, four passengers riding in a four-wheeler as opposed to the permitted three persons, not following government orders and venturing out without valid reasons among others.“We take action under section 179 of Motors Vehicles Act against those who are violating government orders and impound their vehicles under sections 207 of the Act. At the time of releasing the impounded vehicle, we check for any unpaid e-challan on the vehicle and collect fine accordingly. We also collect fine from violators if we find they have not done all compliance as per traffic rules which include PUC renewal, vehicles papers, license and insurance,” said Pravin Padwal, additional commissioner of police (Mumbai traffic police).Apart from fines, violators who were not following movement restrictions and other lockdown restrictions have been booked in cases under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rules) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulation, 2020. Under this, the accused are arrested and released on bail.Since March 22 till July 4, as many as 1,45,896 cases have been registered across the state under section 188 of the IPC while 29,607 people were arrested and 88,306 vehicles were impounded for violations of lockdown rules.Last Sunday saw maximum action from the Mumbai Police after it enforced a 2-km movement restriction to control the spread of the pandemic.Two more cops succumb to Covid-19A 50-year-old head constable attached with the protection branch of the Mumbai Police, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at SevenHills Hospital in Marol, died on Saturday. After the head constable showed symptoms, he tested positive for Covid-19 on June 28. “He was immediately admitted to SevenHills Hospital as he complained of breathlessness. He was kept in ventilator support two days ago, but he died on Saturday around 12.30pm” said deputy commissioner of police Datta Nalawade. In the second case, a 56-year-old head constable attached to the main control room of Government Railway Police (GRP), succumbed to Covid-19. He was admitted to Sapphire Hospital in Kalwa after complaints of breathlessness and tested positive. He was on ventilator support and died on Saturday evening, said GRP officials.The number of deaths in the city police force has now reached 43, and that in the state is 66.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-police-collect-53l-in-fines-for-violations-in-a-day/story-bzgAfSdWF0bBKk8HkYEHWK.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Delay in NEET, JEE causing anxiety among students: Parents||The ministry of human resource and development’s (MHRD) decision to postpone the schedule for undergraduate (UG) medical and engineering entrance examinations has left many aspirants and parents anxious and worried. Constant delay in the examination is leaving students with “less enthusiasm and concentration which could, in turn, affect their grades”, said many of them. The parents and UG medical aspirants had written to MHRD and the National Testing Authority (NTA) against delaying the entrance exam any further than July. “More the exam gets delayed, the more students are worried about their preparation. The examination authority needs to find a way to hold exams virtually, so the online admission process too can start immediately,” said Sudha Shenoy, activist and parent of medical student.MHRD on Friday announced the postponement of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate medical and dental aspirants as well as Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains for engineering aspirants to September from their original dates in July. The decision came after an expert committee stated that holding competitive exams in July amid the pandemic, will not be feasibleWhile NEET-UG was scheduled to take place on July 26, the second phase of JEE-Mains was slated between July 18 and 23. The first phase of JEE-Mains was conducted in January. More than 2.25 lakh students from JEE-Mains will be eligible for JEE-Advance, which is the one-point entry to the premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs).“Most students have spent the last two years of their lives preparing for the entrance exams in the hope of getting through to one of the best medical or engineering institute. This constant delay is leaving students anxious and in a state of panic,” said Anjana Singh, parent of a NEET aspirant. Over 15 lakh students have registered for NEET 2020, including 2.3 lakh from Maharashtra.Delay in conducting the entrance exam directly leads to a delay in admissions, say parents. Senior NTA officials have stated that with the entrance exam in mid-September, admissions will begin only in October. While the decision on NEET and JEE is already out, the state common entrance test (CET) cell is yet to announce the new dates for MH-CET exam. New dates will be released soon, said CET officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/delay-in-neet-jee-causing-anxiety-among-students-parents/story-tvSTncm5NnKKadTU0D0zOJ.html
05-07-2020||City||Ludhiana police stations turn into fortresses against Covid||That the Covid-19 pandemic has affected various sectors is a given, and the Ludhiana police department is no exception.From the district’s 28 police stations adapting to working amid the pandemic to cops exercising every caution while battling the virus from the frontline, along with health workers, the past four months have brought a sea change in the Ludhiana police commissionerate’s functioning.It was on April 18 when the department lost its first officer, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kumar Kohli, to Covid-19, prompting police stations to enforce stringent rules for visitors. While urging residents to visit police stations only in case of emergency, the department has been encouraging them to register their complaints via e-mail. Several police stations have also installed complaint boxes outside their premises.Entry of more than two people at a time is restricted, while those entering are thermal scanned, given sanitisers and asked to wear face masks.While going out for investigation, cops arm themselves with not only weapons, but also face masks and gloves, and sanitise their uniforms before reentering the police stations.Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at Division Number 8 police station, said, “We work on the frontline, hence we remain vulnerable. We allow only one or two people to enter the police station at a time and ask them to wear masks.” “Responsibilities of the sentry at the main gate have increased manifold due to the Covid-19 outbreak. He checks the body temperature of visitors using a thermal scanner and maintains hand sanitisers for the public,” the SHO added.The inspector is one out of the 3,000 police personnel, who have undergone Covid-19 testing so far. While he tested positive in the first test, the results were negative in the two subsequent tests.In addition to the other precautions, the Shimlapuri police station has also installed a sanitisation gate to disinfect visitors. Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, the SHO here, said they had also made adequate seating arrangement to ensure social distancing between visitors.ASI Harbhajan Singh, in-charge at Mundian police post, said the area under their purview was mostly inhabited by labourers, whom they had been educating about the pandemic. “We take all precautions while arresting suspects, as a man arrested in an abetment to suicide case had tested positive for Covid-19,” he said.“Besides ensuring enough gap among visitors, we disinfect the police station building daily,” he added.When it comes to social distancing, police are taking measures for those locked up as well.“Only one suspect is sent in one lock-up room. In case more space is needed, they are sent to other police posts under our jurisdiction,” said inspector Mohammad Jameel, SHO, Focal Point police station, where 17 cops, including the SHO, were quarantined after a snatcher they had arrested and produced in court on April 5 was found positive for Covid-19.Inspector Prem Singh, SHO at Dakha police station, said they had pasted notifications outside the main gate that only two persons are allowed with a complainant. “It is a common habit among people, especially in rural areas, to bring along a crowd for every complaint,” he said.The Dakha police station, which earned the tag of model police station, has also installed a sanitisation gate, besides ensuring availability of sanitiser for villagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-stations-turn-into-fortresses-to-against-covid/story-jJfV6HqFfd9HORnYJXeDcK.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Do not reopen schools until Covid vaccine is found: Parents to education minister||Several parents of students from across the state met with Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Friday evening, requesting her to hold off reopening schools till a vaccine is found for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes Covid-19. India Wide Parents Association, comprising several members from Maharashtra, submitted its list of demands to Gaikwad on Friday.“Our key demand is that the education department should not rush to reopen schools as it will be risky for children. Online learning can continue until a vaccine is found. Parents won’t be in a position to send their children to school in the current scenario,” said Anubha Sahai, president, India Wide Parents Association.The group also submitted a set of complaints from parents, about schools pressuring them for full payment of fees. “Several schools are asking parents to pay the same amount that they were charging earlier, despite the expenditure having reduced with schools remaining shut,” the letter states.While Gaikwad did not respond to calls and messages, an official from the education department said the complaints will be looked into.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena (MNVS) also complained to the department on Friday, stating that some city schools were threatening to remove children from online classes if parents do not pay the fees in full. “They cannot deny the basic right of students as mandated by the Right to Education (RTE) Act,” said Chetan Pednekar, vice-president, MNVS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/do-not-reopen-schools-until-covid-vaccine-is-found-parents-to-education-minister/story-wUWKGJOBM2x7ZjqFStwCeJ.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s former chief parliamentary secy among three duped of Rs 7.2 crore||Three persons have been booked for allegedly duping Haryana’s former chief parliamentary secretary Bakshish Singh Virk and his two partners of ₹7.2 crore, police said on Saturday. Harpreet Singh said he ran a trading firm, along with his father Bakshish Singh and uncle Narender Singh, in Taraori. He alleged that the three owners of trading company Gurunanak Agro Industries duped them of ₹7.2 crore by not making the payments of paddy they had procured in October 2018. As per the complainant, they had procured paddy worth ₹11.12 crore in October and November 2018, but only paid ₹4.49 crore. The accused didn’t clear the pending dues, he added. An FIR has been registered under sections 406, 420, 506, 201 and 120 B of the IPC against Kapoor Singh, Lakhwinder Singh and Vikram Singh. Taraori police station in-charge Sachin Kumar said the investigation has been handed over to the detective branch. Bakshish Singh Virk, meanwhile, did not divulge any detail about the complaint filed by his son and said, “I am unable to tell anything right now as I am out of town for the past two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-former-chief-parliamentary-secy-among-three-duped-of-rs-7-2-crore/story-ipI4kBNFGZ3GmgJwy4q93M.html
05-07-2020||City||Man injured as ‘shots fired’ near park in Mohali district||Around four to five youths allegedly opened fire near a park in Lohgarh village of Zirakpur, leaving a man injured on Saturday night.Identified as Harpreet Singh on Lohgarh, the victim was rushed to the Dera Bassi hospital, where he is undergoing treatment.Though witnesses claimed they heard five gunshots being fired and even the victim told police that the youths fired four times in the air before shooting at him, police were still verifying the claims at the time of filing of this report.Meanwhile, an investigating official confirmed that one suspect has been rounded up for questioning.The victim told police that he was passing by the park on his bike around 8:30pm when a woman sitting there with her friends abused him. When he confronted her, an argument erupted and the woman then allegedly made a call to some acquaintances, claiming that he had misbehaved with her.Harpreet alleged four to five youths reached the spot in a car and opened fire, with one bullet hitting his leg. Police are awaiting the medical report to ascertain whether the victim’s wound is due to a bullet. No case had been registered yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-injured-as-shots-fired-near-park-in-mohali-district/story-l7QiBixBKqrsBLjvNYR12K.html
05-07-2020||City||Thane teachers on Covid survey duty demand better facilities||Teachers carrying out a Covid-19 survey in Thane city have alleged that no social distancing is maintained in most of the congested areas and slums, putting them at risk of infection. They have demanded accommodation in quarantine facilities so as not to risk spreading the infection to their families.Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has roped in around 400 civic school teachers and around 200 from private schools to conduct a health survey to track down people who could have been infected by the coronavirus.“We cover around 70 houses a day and have to work for eight hours daily. It is not only physically tiring, but we also have the mental stress of its impact on our health. Moreover, we do not have any quarantine facility to stay at. We return home every day knowing that our families are also at risk. When we visit densely-populated slum areas, there is no chance to maintain social distance,” said one of the teachers, on condition of anonymity.The civic school teachers were roped in for the survey in May and private school teachers were asked to join in June to ease the load.“We have been working continuously for over two months and hardly got a few days of break. If we are allowed to quarantine at home for 15 days on a rotational basis, it will help us to take care of our health. Moreover, some alternative in slum areas – like an open area where we take information from each family – will also be beneficial,” said another civic school teacher.TMC claimed that even if the slums are congested, teachers are provided safety gear. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “We have provided preventive measures like face shields, masks, gloves and sanitisers to all those who are conducting health surveys. Those who are above 55 years of age are also allowed to work in the office.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-teachers-on-covid-survey-duty-demand-better-facilities/story-oUggJAfvy00vdFXk028cIL.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Recoveries exceed new infections in Haryana||As many as 566 Covid-19 patients in Haryana recovered on Saturday as the state’s tally of people cured of coronavirus reached 12,257, about 74% of the total cases recorded. As per a health bulletin, five coronavirus patients died, pushing the death toll to 260, while 545 fresh infections from 15 districts took the tally to 16,548. Among the dead were three Gurugram residents and two Faridabad natives. About 61% of the patients who have succumbed to the virus had comorbidity (an existing medical condition or disease).The number of active infections on Friday stood at 4,031. Faridabad yet again threw up maximum new infections (180) on Saturday, followed by Gurugram (130) and Sonepat (81). The three districts bordering Delhi collectively contributed to about 71% of the fresh cases reported on Saturday. These three districts also accounted for over 73% of the total cured patients across the state. Among the other districts, Bhiwani reported 41 fresh cases followed by Karnal (23), Rohtak and Jhajjar (15 each), Nuh (14), Hisar (11), Ambala (10), Palwal (8), Mahendragarh (6), Panipat and Jind (5 each) and Yamunanagar (1). Newlywed Karnal couple tests +ve, hunt on for wedding guests A newlywed couple has tested positive for Covid-19 in Karnal, forcing the authorities to trace all people who attended the wedding ceremony. The couple had tied the knot at a famous hotel in Karnal on June 29 and about 50 people were part of the celebrations. The couple decided to get themselves tested for the virus, results of which came out positive on Saturday.  Hisar MP found infectedHisar MP Brijendra Singh also tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. In a video message, he said that he had undergone a test on Friday after experiencing mild fever and cold. “I want to urge all people who met me on Wednesday in Hisar to undergo a Covid test, use masks and maintain social distance,” the MP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/recoveries-exceed-new-infections-in-haryana/story-YkwQmR06C0klqpMqAsbH8O.html
05-07-2020||City||Successful Mumbai models to be implemented in Thane: Aaditya Thackeray||The models that have been successful in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic in Mumbai will be implemented in Thane and other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), informed state cabinet minister for environment Aaditya Thackeray, while in Thane to review the Covid situation on Saturday. He said that all the necessary resources to implement these models will be provided by the state.The number of positive cases in the city has crossed the 10,000-mark, with 408 new cases detected on Saturday and 17 deaths reported. The total case count in Thane now stands at 10,358, with the death toll of 367.“We have implemented a few successful patterns in Mumbai which can be replicated in Thane and nearby cities. For this, the state is willing to provide all the required resources. There is also a need to increase contact tracing and testing capacity in Thane to reduce the fatality rate. More testing labs need to be set up in the city,” said Thackeray.Former Thane mayor tests positiveA former mayor of Thane tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The ex-mayor is being treated at a private hospital in Thane, and the person’s condition is stable. “My sugar levels increased two days ago, for which I got admitted to a city hospital. As per protocol, the hospital did my Covid test, which came positive. I got admitted to a Covid hospital and am now stable. I don’t have any symptoms,” said the ex-mayor.TMC increases testing capacity, tracingThane civic commissioner Vipin Sharma informed that the testing capacity of the city has increased from 800 tests per day to 1,300 tests, and will be increased further to 3,000 tests in the coming days. “With the one lakh new rapid antigen testing kits, we will be able to increase testing capacity. We have also increased contact tracing and trace 28 contacts per positive patient,” he said.Get bed, ambulance status onlineThane residents can now get real-time updates on the availability of beds and ambulances. “We have launched an automatic bed and ambulance management system online which will be available from Monday,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/successful-mumbai-models-to-be-implemented-in-thane-aaditya-thackeray/story-5f5iKsuMyROyStLhIwCC6H.html
05-07-2020||City||Four arrested for holding Fazilka girl captive, pushing her into prostitution||Chasing them for four months, police have arrested a 23-year-old woman and her three aides for holding a 14-year-old Fazilka girl captive for four months, raping her and pushing her into prostitution. The accused are Ramandeep, alias Simran, 23, of Phase 3, Dugri, who kidnapped the child; her friend Rajandeep Singh, alias Gagan, Kot Mangal Singh, who raped the victim; and their accomplices Ashish Masih, alias Ashu, and Sunita of Tibba Road, who made money off of pandering the girl.The matter had come to fore after the victim narrated the ordeal to her mother, who approached the Fazilka police. After lodging a zero FIR on February 14, the Fazilka police had referred the case to Ludhiana police, who registered a case on February 29.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the victim, a student of Class 8 in Laduka, Fazilka, had told the police that she and her younger brother had been living with their grandmother for over a year following marital discord between their parents.On September 10, 2019, after her mother chastised over a petty issue, she fled home. She boarded a train for Ludhiana, where she stayed on a platform for two days. There, Ramandeep lured her to her house in Dugri, offering her help in returning home.Ramandeep had kept her at her house for over a month, where she forced her take drugs. In the absence of the woman, her friend Gagan raped her for three days. In October, the duo sent her to the house of a woman named Sunita at Gulabi Bagh, Tibba Road.Sunita and her accomplice Ashish, who lives in Prem Vihar, Tibba Road, then pushed her into prostitution. Sunita would send her with different men after sedating her with drugs.The victim added that managed to escape from Sunita’s house in January 2020 and returned to the Ludhiana railway station, where she was found by members of Childline helpline. They helped reunite her with her parents. Earlier in February, she revealed the matter to her mother, who took her to the police.The ADCP said the accused had been booked under Sections 370 (buying or disposing of any person as a slave), 370-A (exploitation of a trafficked child), 372 (selling minor for purposes of prostitution, etc), 373 (buying minor for purposes of prostitution, etc) and 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.The police produced the accused before the court on Saturday, from where they were sent to three-day police custody for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-arrested-for-holding-fazilka-girl-captive-pushing-her-into-prostitution/story-vzJXRjF0AZXcSb5zPzWx3M.html
05-07-2020||City||60-year-old Zirakpur woman becomes fifth Covid-19 fatality in Punjab’s Mohali district||A 60-year-old woman from Zirakpur undergoing treatment for Covid-19 succumbed on Saturday, taking the death toll in Mohali district to five.She also became twelfth fatality in the tricity. While six people have died of Covid-19 in Chandigarh, Panchkula recorded its first fatality on Thursday. Nine of these patients were 60 or above.The Zirakpur woman was undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. “She was suffering from a chronic disease and was on ventilator,” said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh.Meanwhile, four people, including a Chandigarh education department employee and an ex-serviceman, also tested positive on Saturday, taking the total confirmed cases in Mohali to 288, 65 of which are active. While three reported at the flu corner, one case has been traced to the meat plant in Behda, Dera Bassi, which has been a source of multiple infections.The 40-year-old education department employee is a resident of Phase 11. Her 50 family and work contacts have been quarantined. The 48-year-old ex-serviceman from Lohgarh in Zirakpur was undergoing treatment at the command hospital in Chandimandir. His wife and two children have been home quarantined while four shops visited by him in the locality were shut down. A 32-year-old man from Dera Bassi besides a 44-year-old man from Behda, who is a contact of a positive patient working at the meat plant in village, have also been found infected.However, with five women and a man from Dera Bassi winning the battle against Covid-19, the number of discharged patients reached 218.Cancer patient among 5 cases in ChandigarhWhile no case was reported in the neighbouring Panchkula district, five fresh cases surfaced in Chandigarh, taking its tally to 459.The cases were spread across the city, being reported from Sectors 30 and 42 besides Manimajra, Dhanas and Daria village. A 50-year-old cancer patient from Dhanas is among those found infected. He was undergoing treatment at a private hospital before being tested for the contagion. His seven family members have been sampled.A 45-year-old Punjab government employee tested positive in Sector 42. He is a workplace contact of a patient from Sector 25. His two family members have been sampled. A 57-year-old man from Sector 30 was also found infected. His 15 family contacts, including two high-risk ones from Indira Colony in Manimajra, have been sampled.The other patients are a 64-year-old woman from Daria and a 27-year-old woman from Manimajra, Meanwhile, two patients have been discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital and shifted to the quarantine facility at Sood Dharmshala, taking the number of recoveries to 395 and active cases to 58. 23 UT education dept employees quarantined, building shut down  As many as 23 government employees working in the school education department of the Chandigarh administration were quarantined after its two women employees tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.Among those found infected, a 40-year-old is a resident of Phase 11, Mohali, and a 26-year-old lives in Sector 20, Chandigarh. The first has been added to Mohali’s tally, but the other has not been accounted for in Chandigarh’s tally yet. However, multiple sources have confirmed the development. Officials said as the two employees were working on the second floor of Deluxe Building of the UT administration in Sector 9, it has been closed for sanitisation. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-woman-5th-covid-fatality-in-mohali/story-r4HFiPdMGmMWXSgWE5YzPJ.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||12 lakh completed quarantine in Mumbai since March: BMC||With more than 83,000 cases of Covid-19 in the city to date, more than 12 lakh people have completed their quarantine — institutional or at home — according to data by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). On Saturday, Mumbai recorded 1,163 fresh cases and 68 new deaths. The city’s case tally rose to 83,237, while the death toll touched 4,830. The total number of discharged patients in Mumbai was 53,463 with a recovery rate of 64.2%. Further, active cases stood at 24,936. The fatality rate in the city as of Saturday was 5.80%, and the doubling rate was 41 days. One hot spot that has shown signs of drastic improvement — Dharavi — recorded only two cases on Saturday, the lowest since the first week of April. The area has reported a total case count of 2,311, of which 1,704 have been discharged.According to BMC data, more than 12.72 lakh citizens have completed their quarantine period till now, since March 11. As of July 2, around 12,465 citizens were under institutional quarantine, and over 2.47 lakh were under home quarantine.Further, BMC has used contact tracing to identify more than 15.32 lakh citizens who were either high-risk or low-risk contacts of Covid-positive patients. The figure also includes those who have been arriving in Mumbai from domestic and international destinations under the Centre’s Mission Vande Bharat.The civic body claims to have screened more than 1.24 crore people, which includes the floating population, and around 4.97 lakh senior citizens to ascertain their blood-oxygen level. Of the 4.97 lakh senior citizens who were screened, 2,254 had oxygen levels below 95.Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer, BMC, said, “You can say that we have quarantined over 9% of Mumbai’s population. But we have to keep in mind that this is the cumulative figure of almost four months. All low-risk contacts are home quarantined, and high-risk contacts are quarantined institutionally.”BMC estimates over 9.67% of the Mumbai’s total 1.24 crore population (as of 2011 census) has been directly or indirectly affected by Covid-19. The city’s population is estimated to rise by around 4 lakh by 2021, according to BMC’s projections for the development plan (DP) 2034.Shah added that BMC is attempting to screen maximum citizens through area-wise screenings or sero-surveillance that is currently being conducting in three wards. “We would like to appeal to citizens to come forward to give their blood samples. The test is only to ascertain how many have developed antibodies,” she said. A sero-surveillance test is conducted to diagnose individuals for antibodies of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 and monitor its spread. During sero-surveillance, citizens undergo blood tests that can detect the presence of IgG antibodies, which develop against Sars-CoV-2.“We have the highest number of citizens quarantined in the state as many international and domestic passengers who landed in Mumbai increased our home quarantine count. We trace around 13 high-risk contacts of every Covid-positive patient in slums, and in non-slum areas, two to 10 high-risk contacts are traced,” said a BMC official.Meanwhile, according to BMC data, H-East ward (Bandra East and Santacruz East), has traced a maximum of 19 persons behind every positive patient from slum areas. The second highest is 17 patients in D ward covering areas like Malabar Hill, Grant Road, and Chowpatty.BMC also claims to have around 38% bed vacancy, with 7,273 of the total 19,561 beds available. The highest vacancies have been reported in type-2 Covid care centres (CCC-2), where 3,479 of the total 6,160 beds are empty.There are around 757 active containment zones in the city that consist slums and chawls. The highest containment zones are in L ward covering Kurla and Sakinaka, which has 96 containment zones. The city has around 6,352 active sealed buildings, with a maximum of 789 in R-Central ward (Borivli).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-lakh-completed-quarantine-in-mumbai-since-march-bmc/story-DmC8H3TnXfxzQftwI2FYsJ.html
05-07-2020||City||Chandigarh Citi Center: Rift among partners leaves investors in lurch||A rift among the partners of the Chandigarh Citi Center (CCC), a commercial property project in Zirakpur, Mohali, has left over 200 investors in the lurch, who allege that the builders cheated them by not fulfilling the promises made at the time of investment. There were around eight partners when the project started in 2011 but most of them left, alleging fund misappropriation by the main partners. Currently, there are only two partners left in the project.Around 25 investors said that on June 8, they had given a written complaint to the additional chief secretary of the local bodies department, deputy commissioner and additional deputy commissioner of Mohali, but no action has been taken yet.‘TALL CLAIMS FELL FLAT’They further stated that the builder had made tall claims of providing facilities such as open-air gym, amphitheatre, parking for more than 2,000 cars, maintenance agency and assured return of 12 % per annum on the deposited amount and possession of the project within one-and-a-half years. “Initially, the construction work was started at full swing so as to attract maximum investors but soon after that, work slowed down and ultimately stopped,” they alleged.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said instructions have already been given to the officers concerned, who are looking into the matter. Once the report is submitted, action will be taken accordingly, he added.Alka Kapoor, who is one of the investors and had bought office space here, said, “I have paid the full amount of Rs.25,60,000, excluding taxes and was issued the allotment letter on September 22, 2018. As per the agreement, possession was to be given in December 2018, but till date, they have not given me the possession as work has still not been completed,” she said, adding that she has lodged a complaint with the real estate regulatory authority (RERA).Another investor, Amit Nagpal, said, “They promised me 12 % assured return every month and last year, they promised physical possession of the office space, but so far, neither have they given any possession nor any return.”When contacted, CCC managing director Tejpal Gupta said, “There are some issues and are in my knowledge. We are sorting it out and hopefully, it will be sorted out within a week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-citi-center-rift-among-partners-leaves-investors-in-lurch/story-RRwYYIgzW6oe9DwsrtjWsK.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh engg dept gears up to build 139 smart bus shelters||Chandigarh: After several failed attempts previously the Chandigarh engineering department is renewing efforts to build 139 new shelters and repair 132 existing ones.Of the 191 existing concrete ‘heritage’ shelters , 139 additional ones will be rebuilt and 52 repaired. The old concrete shelters were built after factoring in the architectural ethos of the city, and the administration has insisted on preserving the design and style.The department has made four attempts so far to build the new shelters and repair the old ones, none of which have worked.“The successful bidder has to construct, repair, and maintain the shelters. The firm can generate revenues through selling advertisement space there. The company has to bear the construction cost and share the advertisement revenue with the administration,” said an official of the department who did not want to be named. MC to get ad revenuesAdvertisement revenues will go to the MC and licence fee to operate the shelters will go to the transport department.An intelligent transport system (ITS) is crucial for a smart city like Chandigarh. “The transport department been pushing the engineering department to expedite the project, which has floated tenders now to build the shelters and to carry out the repair work,” said a senior union territory (UT) official. Information hubsPart of the ITS project, the smart bus queue shelters are to be used as information hubs for passengers using local Chandigarh Transport Union (CTU) buses. Digital information boards, dynamic and static, will be put up there to display live information on bus location, routes, arrival and departure timing, and bus ETA for a particular shelter.Real-time information on buses will also be available on a mobile application. CTU services will be upgraded with IT-enabled solutions as well.A primary control station will keep track of all buses though global positioning system (GPS) and monitor them under a planned system.Bus depots will be linked to the primary control station via LAN connections and bus drivers will be provided with SMS facility to inform about their leaves that will be monitored by the central system of CTU.“Significantly, even though the transport department was laying emphasis on construction/repair of around 80 shelters that are key to starting ITS, the engineering department went ahead with the overall project. It will take another at least nine months for the shelter work to get completed, and that also if any company gets the contract,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-engg-dept-gears-up-to-build-139-smart-bus-shelters/story-HgmO0SJKRpr2mc0KGqpYvN.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Following complaints, BEST announces ‘kindness package’ for electric consumers||Following several complaints from consumers over exorbitant bills, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking on Saturday announced a ‘kindness package’ for all its electricity consumers in Mumbai. Based on orders issued by the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC), BEST will allow consumers to pay their bills in three easy monthly instalments (EMIs) if the bill is double than the average for the period between March-May. In case consumers have been billed in excess, the excess amount will be credited to the consumers. The delayed payment charges and interest on arrears will also be based on the actual consumption, a press note issued by the electric division stated. It also said that as a policy, power supply was not disconnected during lockdown. BEST has initiated actual meter reading in non-containment zones since June 16. Since actual meter reading was suspended in March, consumers were being billed on an average of the previous three months. The undertaking supplies power to 10 lakh consumers in the island city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/following-complaints-best-announces-kindness-package-for-electric-consumers/story-TNNbBQlGbAriJy5QdmXzhI.html
05-07-2020||Lucknow||Major revenue earning depts of UP fail to meet targets again||The Uttar Pradesh government’s major revenue earning departments have failed to meet tax collection targets for third consecutive month, realizing only 37.77 per cent of the targeted tax revenue from April 1 to June 30, the first quarter of 2020-2021, amid fight against Covid-19.The UP government’s total tax revenue collection in first quarter (April 1 to June 30, 2020) was Rs 15,716.48 against the targeted tax revenue of Rs 41,602.68 crore.As the collections were only 37.49% of targets on non-tax revenue front too, the UP government may have to mobilise additional resources soon, if situation fails to improve in coming months.“We hope the situation on tax collection front will improve in coming months. More activities have been allowed now and this will generate more revenue. In June 2020 we have collected about 61 per cent revenue against targets,” said additional chief secretary, finance Sanjiv Mittal.Mittal’s optimism is based on the fact that the tax collections in June 2020 have been considerably higher than the collections in first two months of the first quarter of 2020-2021. UP government earned tax revenue of Rs 8848.69 crore against a target of Rs 14447.47 crore from June 1 to June 30, 2020. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has already asked mining department to start tendering process for mining of minor minerals from October 1, 2020 to earn more revenue. In a statement in June 2020, he had exuded confidence about increase in state government’s earnings saying there was no proposal to levy any new taxes in view of upward trend in the revenue collections in UP.Significantly, GST compensation of Rs 3092.44 crore from the Centre (Rs2259.96 crore received in June 2020 and Rs 832.48 crore received in April 2020) has come as a big help to the state government. The GST compensation has taken the government’s total available tax revenue in first quarter to Rs 18,808.92 crore though tax earnings in the period remained only Rs 15716.48 crore.“The GST compensation for previous financial year received in the first quarter obviously has helped and payment of salaries and other dues well in time,” said senior officer of UP government.A close scrutiny of the revenue earned in the first quarter of 2020-2021 indicates that excise continues to remain the highest revenue earning department after the GST while VAT remains on third place now. The state government was able to get Rs 5589.11 crore as GST in the first quarter while Rs 4978.75 crore was earned from excise. The revenue collected from VAT was Rs 2944.02 crore during the same period. The earnings from stamps and registration remained at Rs1412.89 crore while transport department collected tax of Rs 632.69 crore. Land revenue got Rs 111.00 crore while energy department was able to get Rs 48.02 crore only.Among non-tax revenue earning departments, mining and minerals department got Rs 633.43 crore against target of Rs 900 crore while total non-tax revenue collected in first quarter was Rs 1696.27 crore against target of Rs 4524.55 crore.“An upward trend in state government’s tax earnings is a good sign. The state government’s revenue, including earnings from VAT, transport and stamps and registration gives indication of revival of economy. More revenue collection gives the government leeway to focus on development activities,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor, economics department, LU.The state government spends a sum of Rs 12,000 crore to Rs 13,000 crore every month on salaries and pension of its employees. As the total earnings of the first quarter are only about Rs 15716.48 the state government faces a wide gap between earnings and tax collections. It has already initiates measures to cut down its expenditure, besides freezing the dearness allowance and scrapping other allowances. “The state government has to go a long way to increase earnings and strengthen its finances. If there are no more lockdowns due to Covid-19 pandemic, the situation will improve in coming months,” said Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/major-revenue-earning-depts-of-up-fail-to-meet-targets-again/story-1n2iuvBPagmif6MQDsoW3N.html
05-07-2020||City||Depressed over losing ₹20 lakh in chit-fund scam, Ludhiana man ends life||Upset over losing Rs 20 lakh in a fraudulent chit fund scheme, a 45-year-old man ended his life by jumping into the canal near Kaind bridge.The deceased’s body was fished out from the canal on Saturday. He was missing since June 30.Police said a resident of Bilga village of Sahnewal, the deceased was an auto driver. His wife had lodged a missing person complaint at Sahnewal police station on July 1 after he went missing.ASI Sadhu Singh, who is investigating the case, said the auto driver had invested Rs 20 lakh through various instalments in Pearls Group chit fund scheme in 2010. However, he lost all his money after the scheme was found fraudulent.This had plunged him into depression over the years, and he had even left his house twice, according to his wife.On June 30, he left the house again, stating he was going out for some work, but did not return. Therefore, his wife lodged a missing person’s complaint with the police on July 1.On Friday night, some passers-by noticed a body floating in the canal near Kaind bridge and sounded the police. Later, a police team, along with divers, fished out the body from the canal.The ASI said as per preliminary investigation, the man committed suicide due to depression. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the statement of his wife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/depressed-over-losing-20-lakh-in-chit-fund-scam-ludhiana-man-ends-life/story-j7QlcRT8rKxfhvkbmiYVzI.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Vehicular density linked to rise in nitrogen oxide levels in Chandigarh: Study||Nitrogen oxide (NOx) levels are increasing in the city due to higher vehicular density, reveals a study by the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on air quality in the last 25 years.NOx are a group of toxic gases that contribute to the formation of aerosols and ozone that can worsen respiratory conditions and cause other health problem. The study showed a 68.2 % and 165.2% increase in NOx concentration at commercial and industrial sites, respectively, in 2018 as compared to 2000. This can be linked to increased vehicular emissions.The study titled Air pollution trend in Chandigarh city situated in Indo-Gangetic Plains: Understanding seasonality and impact of mitigation strategies has been authored by Ravinder Khaiwal (department of community medicine and school of public health, PGIMER), Tanbir Singh and Suman Mor (department of environment studies, Panjab University) and Vivek Pandey (Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee).Increasing trend at all locations“As in the year 2011, vehicle number has increased by 270%. Similarly, the concentration of NOx is showing an increasing trend at all the locations in Chandigarh,” the study reads.Chandigarh has the highest vehicular density (878 registered motor vehicles per thousand persons) in India due to which vehicular emissions can be considered as one of the primary sources of background air pollution here. The study has also shown higher particulate matter (PM) 10 concentration (which are inhalable and hazardous to health) in winter as compared to monsoon as air quality deteriorates during December due to crop-residue burning and meteorology. More pollution in winter Winter of 2018 had the highest PM10 levels, and the concentration decreased by 28 to 47% during monsoon.As per United Nations Environmental Protection Agency, “Breathing air with a high concentration of NO2 can irritate airways in the human respiratory system. Such exposures over short periods can aggravate respiratory diseases, particularly asthma, leading to respiratory symptoms (such as coughing, wheezing or difficulty breathing), hospital admissions and visits to emergency rooms.”According to the study, air pollutants show strong seasonal variability having a higher concentration in post-monsoon and winter season, which was found to be linked with activities such as crop residue burning and use of solid biomass fuel for cooking and other purposes.Besides, industrial and commercial sites show a statistically declining trend of PM10. In industrial areas, the reason could be attributed to stricter implementation of air pollution control policies. At commercial sites, moving of interstate bus terminals has restricted movement of diesel buses and cleaner air.The study underlines the need for stringent action to control air pollution due to non-exhaust emissions, municipal solid waste, and crop residue burning to minimise public health and climate risk||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vehicular-density-linked-to-rise-in-nitrogen-oxide-levels-in-chandigarh-study/story-jPUM59x0G1IuPTJDabQZcO.html
05-07-2020||City||Woman, paramour held for murdering sister-in-law in Ludhiana’s Akalgarh village||The 23-year-old woman found bludgeoned to death in Akalgarh village on Thursday was murdered by the wife of his stepbrother and her paramour.Police have arrested the accused Charanjit Kaur, 32, of Link Road, Mullanpur, and her paramour, Harjit Singh, 31, of Jassowal, for the murder of Balvir Kaur, alias Chinu.Harjit works at a petrol pump, while Charanjit’s husband Jatinder Singh works as food delivery boy. According to police, all three live together.Police have recovered gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 7.71 lakh, along with two watches, that the accused stole from Balvir’s house.Ludhiana rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vivek Sheel Soni said Captain Mewa Singh (retd) had lodged a complaint against unidentified persons for murdering his daughter on July 2.Mewa had told the police that he, along with his wife, Balwinder Kaur, had gone to visit some relatives on July 2.When they returned, they were shocked to find their daughter, Balvir, dead, and jewellery stolen from the house.During investigation, police found a woman and a man roaming around the victim’s house and identified them as Charanjit Kaur and Harjit Singh.The duo was apprehended and during questioning, they confessed to the crime, the SSP said.Woman was jealous of victimThe SSP said it was the second marriage for both Mewa and Balwinder. Balvir is Balwinder’s daughter from her first marriage, while Mewa has two daughters and a son, Jatinder, from his first marriage. His first wife Paramjit Kaur had died, and his three children are married and live separately.Charanjit was jealous of Balvir as she suspected that Mewa will transfer is property to her instead of his son and her husband, Jatinder.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Dakha) Gurbans Singh Bains said on July 2, Charanjit and her paramour visited Mewa’s house with the intention of robbing them, but ran into Balvir, who was alone at home.While Harjit stood guard outside, Charanjit first strangled Balvir with a dupatta and then bludgeoned her to death with a wooden log.Both accused have been booked for murder and robbery at the Sudhar police station. The DSP said they had not found Jatinder’s involvement in the crime so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-paramour-held-for-murdering-sister-in-law-in-ludhiana-s-akalgarh-village/story-bdDZESO8QidwGNvoJhB8mO.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Banks told to issue ID cards to staff for train commute||The State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) in Maharashtra has written to banks in Mumbai asking them to issue identification cards to its employees for travelling by local trains in the city.The association of bankers raised concern after a few employees complained that they are not being permitted to travel in locals by Central and Western railway authorities.“It has been informed that some of the bank employees are still facing problems since the names of merged banks are not appearing on the list of nationalised banks. It is suggested that banks issue proper identification cards to their staff and in case of merged banks, identification cards are issued by merged identities,” states the letter written by Pramod Datar, general manager and convener, SLBC Maharashtra. A copy of the letter has also been sent to the chief secretary of Maharashtra.Central and Western Railway started allowing employees working in nationalised banks to travel by local trains on July 1. The state government had written to the railway ministry to include more employees under essential workers. Additional employees include employees working in the Central government, defence, postal service, nationalised banks, income tax, customs, Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) and Raj Bhavan.Earlier employees working in public and private hospitals, municipal corporations, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) were permitted to travel by local trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/banks-told-to-issue-id-cards-to-staff-for-train-commute/story-9BBc9kpYLdNoIpW1M7jQ4I.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Chinese firm bids for Metro work; MMRDA to decide soon||Three companies, including a Chinese firm, have shown an interest in manufacturing 234 coaches for Mumbai Metro-4 (Wadala-Thane-Kasarvadawali) as well as its extension line 4A (till Gaimukh). The development comes amid the border stand-off between India and China in Ladakh and the consequent cancellation of bids given to Chinese firms in various projects across sectors.According to an official from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), the bids were invited in December last year and recently, domestic manufacturer Bharat Earth Movers Ltd (BEML), Canadian company Bombardier and Chinese firm CRRC Corporation Ltd, expressed their interest in the project. MMRDA is executing the Mumbai Metro projects.MMRDA officials said that any further decision on the Chinese company’s bid will depend on the central government’s stand on the issue.“The situation is very sensitive right now. The decision to allow a Chinese player will depend on the stand taken by the Government of India as well as the German company which is funding the project,” a senior MMRDA official, who did not wish to be named, said. A German state-hold development bank, KfW, is funding for the rolling stock of Metro 4 and 4A, both under-construction.Last month, CRRC Corporation Ltd and another Chinese company – BYD Co Ltd – had shown interest in manufacturing 10 additional rakes for the monorail. However, MMRDA had then terminated the bids stating that it will look for Indian manufacturers following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call of ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat’ or self-reliant India.On Friday, HT had reported that the authority is now in talks with three Indian companies for the monorail rakes. The rolling stock for Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E) is also being procured from Bengaluru-based BEML. Recently, Nitin Gadkari, Union minister for road and transport, had said that no Chinese company will be allowed to bid for highway projects and even those entering a joint venture with Indian companies will also be banned. The Centre had also banned 59 Chinese apps earlier this week, citing security and privacy concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/chinese-firm-bids-for-metro-work-mmrda-to-decide-soon/story-1lP7Ev5sDHkKO9tZEw38uO.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||2018 Amritsar Dussehra train accident: Punish politicians responsible for tragedy too: Victims’ kin||The families of the victims of the 2018 Amritsar Dussehra train tragedy on Saturday termed the indictment of some municipal corporation (MC) officials as a travesty of justice as political leaders responsible for the accident have not been punished yet. The development comes a day after HT reported that the judicial inquiry report held two serving and three retired MC employees responsible for the lapses that led to the accident. Addressing a press conference, Deepak Kumar, son of Girender Kumar, one of the victims, said it was really unfortunate that the political leaders who were responsible for the accident have been being spared.Navjit Singh, whose son was killed in the accident, said, “Until the magisterial probe indicts the Dussehra committee members and railway employees as well, justice would not be considered as having been done to the victims.”“For the last two years, we have been demanding jobs as promised by the then local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, but to no avail, “ said Kamal Makhan, the father of another victim.Also, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha accused Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi of securing a clean chit for the then local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and his wife Navjot Kaur, who was chief guest at the Dussehra function.“The judicial probe by a retired judge wrongfully framed junior officers of the municipal corporation. The employees could not have refused directions from the local bodies minister who was also the sitting MLA from the Amritsar (East) constituency where the function was held in contravention of all rules and regulations,” said Valtoha during a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2018-amritsar-dussehra-train-accident-punish-politicians-responsible-for-tragedy-too-victims-kin/story-AGnqvLqh2RNyVONC9nYx6L.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||HC raps state for inaction against vendors who sold spurious soybean seeds to farmers||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has rapped the state government for not showing any inclination towards taking action against vendors supplying spurious soybean seeds to thousands of farmers in rural Maharashtra. The court took suo moto cognizance of news reports pertaining to complaints of 2,000 farmers who had purchased soybean seeds for sowing during the ongoing Kharif season, but the seeds did not sprout, and the farmers suffered losses.The court observed that the government did not show any haste in taking action against such vendors even though the farmers in Marathwada and Vidarbha region are poor and such fraud by the soybean seed vendors was detrimental to their survival.A division bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice D Kulkarni on June 26, was hearing the petition initiated after news reports surfaced of farmers from districts like Nanded, Latur, Parbhani, Hingoli and Ahmednagar complaining to the authorities that soybean seeds purchased by them recently, did not germinate. The court said that in light of the reports it had asked the office to register suo moto public interest litigation to see that action is taken against the shop owners and the companies, if any, who had put such bogus seeds in the market. The court-appointed advocate PP More as amicus curiae to assist the court.The minister for agriculture of the state on June 25, had expressed that there are no provisions under the Seeds Act, 1966 for taking action against the concerned. He further said that the state will try to see that farmers are given other seeds. Referring to this statement, the court said, “It can be said that the government, the concerned department has no intention to take criminal action against the vendors and producers of the bogus seeds, even when they have duped the farmers and they have caused huge loss not only to the farmers but to the country.”The court then observed that as farmers incurred huge expenses while sowing the seeds, and such incidents occurred frequently, the matters cannot be closed only by supplying more seeds to the farmers by the state. “This season is more peculiar as due to the Covid-19 pandemic peculiar circumstances are created. These peculiar circumstances are used by the traders and so, the offence committed by them is grave in nature,” the court observed.Holding that as the Seeds Act stipulated the minimum limit of germination and purity and the seed inspector had powers to take action against vendors supplying bogus seeds under section 420 of Indian penal Code. However, the failure of the seed inspector to initiate proceedings was prompting it to pass directions to the state.The court directed the state to provide details of the date and number of complaints received by the police, nature of complaints, action taken by seed inspector at tehsil level, number of routine visits to shops selling seeds and seizure and testing of seeds and number of similar complaints received by agriculture department in last five years.The matter had been posted for hearing on July 3 but was adjourned to Tuesday, July 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-raps-state-for-inaction-against-vendors-who-sold-spurious-soybean-seeds-to-farmers/story-PYoUFcaw2pXKOGYH6AXO3O.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||HC allows 12-yr-old rape survivor to terminate pregnancy||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday permitted a 12-year-old rape survivor from Sangli to get her 23-week-long pregnancy medically terminated.The mother of the survivor had filed a petition stating that in the first week of June 2020, she had suspected that her minor daughter was pregnant. On enquiry, the child revealed that she had been repeatedly raped by some persons from the neighbourhood.The woman then approached the local police station in Sangli and based on her complaint, a first information (FIR) was registered on June 5. On June 16, following a medical examination of the minor, her mother was informed that the pregnancy could not be terminated without permission of the HC, as it had crossed the 20-week limit set by the Medical Termination of Pregnant Act, 1971.A medical board from the Government Medical College and Hospital at Miraj examined the 12-year-old pursuant to order passed by HC on June 26 and opined that if allowed to progress, the pregnancy would have serious repercussions on the general and mental health of the survivor. It, therefore, recommended that she should be allowed to terminate the pregnancy.The bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Surendra Tavade accepted the recommendation. “In the case at hand, the physical and mental trauma that will be suffered by the minor if the pregnancy is not terminated requires no elaboration,” said the bench.It has now asked the petitioner woman to approach the hospital where the minor’s unwanted pregnancy will be medically terminated on July 6.The court has also directed the hospital to preserve blood and tissue samples of the foetus, which may be required as forensic evidence in the criminal case.The court has further directed the doctors to ensure that all necessary facilities are provided to the foetus for saving its life if it is born alive. HC clarified that if the child born is alive and the petitioner woman and her daughter are not willing to or not in a position to take responsibility for it, the state and its agencies will have to assume full responsibility for the child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-allows-12-yr-old-rape-survivor-to-terminate-pregnancy/story-Im1ke6pdlUj3jJdxEBgJvL.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||172 cases take Punjab tally to 6,109, five fresh deaths||Five coronavirus-related deaths and 172 fresh infections were reported from across Punjab on Saturday, taking the death count to 162 and patient tally to 6,109. The deaths were reported from Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Moga, Mohali and Patiala districts.A 62-year-old woman of Hamza village in Hoshiarpur district was found positive for Covid-19 a day after her death. She was suffering from diarrhoea and admitted to a hospital in Jalandhar.A 25-year-old man of Bhagat Singh Colony in Amritsar died of the virus at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in the city on Saturday, civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said.A 67-year-old Patiala resident with co-morbidities died of coronavirus at Rajindra Hospital, while a 35-year-old Moga resident breathed his last at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot.A 60-year-old woman from Zirakpur undergoing treatment for Covid-19 succumbed on Saturday, taking the death toll in Mohali district to five.57 test positive in JalandharJalandhar district’s patient tally on Saturday was 57 people, while three were found positive in Kapurthala. Health officials said the Jalandhar’s patient tally has gone up to 829, besides 22 virus-related deaths.In Bathinda, seven people, including a couple and their three-year-old son, tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, district nodal officer for Covid-19 management Dr Kundan Pal said.Four fresh cases were recorded in Mohali district.33 infections in LudhianaLudhiana district’s Covid-19 count reached 993, highest among all districts in Punjab, with 33 people, including five healthcare workers at different private hospitals, testing positive on Saturday.DSP, wife among 14 found infected in AmritsarIn Amritsar, 14 fresh cases were reported on Saturday, out of which eight are fresh community transmission cases and 6 are close contacts of the Covid patients. Among the patients is a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) and his wife.Also, four more people of Gurdaspur district were tested positive for Covid-19.A woman and her daughter from Nabha Gate area were among the five new patients in Patiala district. Three more people, including a cop, tested positive for Covid-19 in Moga.(With inputs from Ludhiana, Patiala, Mohali)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/172-cases-take-punjab-tally-to-6-109-five-fresh-deaths/story-ThNYOKdjS0AIGHYzB0zrbO.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||HC nod to teen rape survivor to end pregnancy ‘in interest of future’||The Bombay high court (HC) on June 30 allowed a 17-year-old rape survivor to get her 26-week pregnancy medically terminated, despite the medical board stating that it was unsafe for the minor to undergo the procedure.The bench of justice KK Tated and justice Milind Jadhav allowed the girl to get her pregnancy medically terminated, primarily because despite being appraised of the risks involved in the process, both the minor and her father expressed their desire to go ahead with the procedure “in the interest of the minor’s future”.According to the survivor’s father, on June 10, the girl felt a pain in her stomach following which a doctor confirmed that she was pregnant.Six days later, her father filed a complaint with Vakola police in Santacruz, alleging that his daughter was raped and the assault had resulted in an unwanted pregnancy. A first information report (FIR) was registered basis on his complaint.The father then moved the high court seeking permission for medical termination of pregnancy (MTP), as his daughter’s unwanted pregnancy had crossed 20 weeks of gestation – the outer limit set by the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, 1971. He prayed for permission on the grounds that his daughter’s mental and physical health was at serious risk because of the pregnancy, and that there was an inherent risk to her life due to her young age.On June 23, HC referred the minor to a medical board at KEM Hospital. Two days later, the board submitted its report opining that “the patient should be advised to continue the pregnancy with medical and psychological support”.However, on June 26, HC sought a further report from the medical board, indicating whether it would be safe for the minor to undergo the MTP procedure. Accordingly, the board submitted another report on June 29, stating that in the case of advanced pregnancies, the chance of haemorrhage is higher.The second report also highlighted the chance of infection and that “it could lead to a catastrophe like infertility, ectopic pregnancy that is potentially fatal”.The report stated that if the termination were to be a failure, the girl would require a Cesarean operation, which would then lead to scarring. “[The scar] is more likely to give way in any subsequent pregnancy as and when it may occur. Depending on the situation, that may need a hysterectomy – removal of uterus,” it mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-nod-to-teen-rape-survivor-to-end-pregnancy-in-interest-of-future/story-qJuIOHKKBQ8bmOv7yZbQQI.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Graft case: Absconding Manimajra cop made false DDR entry, CBI tells court||Absconding Chandigarh police inspector, Jaswinder Kaur, who was booked in a graft case, had tried to create false evidence in the shape of a DDR entry to show she had joined investigations on June 30.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday told the CBI court that Jaswinder was “deliberately avoiding joining investigation to avoid confrontation with the other accused Bhagwan Singh.”Jaswinder, the former station house officer (SHO) of Manimajra, was booked on charges of demanding Rs 5 lakh graft from a resident, Gurdeep Singh, for not registering a cheating case against him. The conduit Bhagwan Singh was arrested on Monday while accepting Rs 1 lakh from the complainant.The investigating agency submitted before the court that Jaswinder made a false DDR entry at the Manimajra police station on June 30, saying that she had returned from the CBI office. “The reality is that she has been on the run since June 30 and her phone is also switched off,” the CBI stated, adding that letters have been sent to senior officers of Chandigarh police, asking them to direct her to join investigation. “It has been informed that she has been suspended on account of the false DDR entry,” CBI told the court. Jaswinder, who was shifted to police lines, has neither joined duty there or visited her home.Bhagwan’s remand extended The CBI court, on Saturday, extended the remand of the accused, Bhagwan, by four days. CBI teams had visited the houses of the other accused-- Randhir Singh, who had complained that Gurdeep Singh had duped him of Rs 28 lakh on the pretext of providing a government job to his wife, one Daljit Singh and Nirpinder Singh alias Nippy, all residents of Sangrur, but they too are missing. As per the complaint, Gurdeep Singh had alleged that Narpinder Singh was present in the police station when Jaswinder Kaur had demanded bribe.Son writes to CBI, says Jaswinder was implicatedJaswinder Kaur’s son Gurpreet Singh has written to the CBI, alleging that his mother is being framed. He said that the alleged bribe amount was actually part of a compromise and Bhagwan Singh was the mediator. A DDR with regard to the compromise was also registered at the police station, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/graft-case-absconding-manimajra-cop-made-false-ddr-entry-cbi-tells-court/story-bAt4aMcE4HdEPDPys0SgRL.html
05-07-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 deaths in Delhi pass 3,000 but recovery rate also highest so far||With 55 deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recorded in Delhi on Saturday, the city’s toll crossed the 3,000 mark. The number of deaths due to the viral infection stood at 3,004, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government, with 26 “old cases” added to the cumulative number.This puts the city’s care fatality rate to 3.09%.Delhi had recorded its first death on March 13 — a 68-year-old woman from Janakpuri who got the infection from her son who had travelled to Switzerland, Japan, and Italy. From then, it took exactly two months for Delhi to record the first 100 deaths due to Covid-19, days after Delhi’s death audit committee started adding backlog deaths after a discrepancy in the cumulative state data and data from individual hospitals was highlighted.Also read: Maharashtra’s highest spike takes its Covid-19 tally past 2 lakhDelhi crossed the 1,000-death mark on June 11, when the addition of 101 deaths took the city’s cumulative toll to 1085.On Saturday, the city recorded 2,505 new cases of Covid-19 taking the cumulative total to 97,200. On the same day, 2,632 people recovered from the infection taking the number of people who have beaten the infection so far to 68,256.This puts Delhi’s recovery rate at just over 70%.Along with the increase in testing and reduced positivity rate, Delhi’s recovery rate has also increased – a positive indicator keeping the city’s total number of active cases or those living with the infection a constant between 25 and 26 thousand.“This is the first time that the recovery rate of Covid-19 in Delhi has gone beyond 70%. Meaning 70% of the total number of patients have already recovered. Among the 97,200 patients, 68,256 have recovered. Positivity rate (meaning the number of people testing positive among those tested) is 10.58%, which had increased to 36.94%,” tweeted Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia.With increased testing and more cases being detected in the city, the case fatality ratio has decreased over the last two weeks – the average case fatality ration recorded during the week ending on June 21 was 3.79%, and that during the week ending on June 28 was 3.32.Also read: ICMR says following globally accepted norms to fast-track vaccine; wants to ‘cut red tape’In the same time the average number of tests – both rapid antigen and RT-PCR – conducted in the city went up from 11,346 during the week ending on June 21 to 18,343 during the week ending on June 28.During the current week, 20,325 samples were tested each day, with an average positivity rate – the number of people testing positive among those tested – of 11.7%. This had shot up to an average of 31.4% during the second week of June. The highest positivity rate – as referred to by the Deputy CM – was recorded on June 13.“The efforts of 2 crore people of Delhi has showed results. Congratulations to all Delhi’s corona warriors as Delhi’s recovery rate has increased to over 70%. We all need to work harder to defeat corona,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-deaths-in-delhi-pass-3-000-but-recovery-rate-also-highest-so-far/story-Zi4Ix5AyglX4Ur2gKb60zI.html
05-07-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus cases surge in Delhi jails, authorities come up with action plan||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Delhi’s three prisons -- Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini -- have gone up from 68 on June 21 to 137 till July 3, officials records show, prompting the jail authorities to come up with a 24-point action plan including rapid antigen testing and contact tracing to contain the spread of the viral disease. Officials in the three prisons attributed the sharp rise in the number of cases to the aggressive testing. A total of 480 tests – 237 RT-PCR and 243 rapid antigen – have been done so far. Director-General (prisons) Sandeep Goel said the 24-point actionable plan includes the creation of a special task force (STF) in each of the three prisons to carry out the contract tracing of the Covid-19 positive prisoners and staffers and regular screening of jail inmates. The STF will comprise of the chief medical officer, superintendent and a couple of other senior officials of the concerned jail.Also read: Delhi govt offers incentives to hire intensive care specialistsGoel said a rapid antigen testing camp has been set up at the government dispensary at Tihar residential complex for around 2,600 prison staffers, including 800 security personnel from Tamil Nadu Special Police, who are deployed on the security duty at the three jails.Till July 3, according to the data shared by Tihar jail administration, 243 jail staff of the total 2,600 have got themselves tested, following the contact tracing of positive Covid-19 inmates and jail staff. Of them, 38 tested Covid-19 positive.“The rapid antigen testing in our jail complexes is primarily for our staff members. The inmates are mostly being tested by RT-PCR methodology. Apart from those identified through the contact tracing procedure, the rapid antigen testing is done on voluntary basis too,” said Goel.Tests that detect presence or absence of an antigen in the body are called antigen detection tests. An antigen is a foreign molecule that induces an immune response within the body, especially the production of antibodies, and detecting its presence determines infection. The test has high specificity (true negative rate) of 99.3% to 100%, which rules out people who are not infected. Tests with a high specificity are most useful when the result is positive. Sensitivity (true positive rate) is lower at 50.6% to 84%, which makes it less accurate in correctly diagnosing a positive case. This is why people with symptoms who test negative have to undergo an RT-PCR test to rule out active infection. Of the total 137 cases, 53 are prisoners and 84 jail staff. Among the 53 prisoners, one, a murder convict, Kanwar Singh,62, died in Mandoli Jail on June 15. In all, 29 Covid-19 positive prisoners have recovered. From the 84 Covid-19 positive jail staff, 23 have recovered, the data shows. Tihar Prisons (which includes Mandoli and Rohini) is the largest prison complex in Asia and nearly 13,600 prisoners were lodged there before the lockdown was announced on March 24. A total of 4,129 prisoners, including 1,168 convicts, were released from the three prisons on interim bail or emergency parole in a drive carried out following the court’s order to decongest the jails to contain the spread of Covid-19.Following the spurt in cases, the prison officers have converted semi-open and open jail buildings into designated isolation hostels for prison staff. As the semi-open and open jails in Tihar jail complex are not operational since the Covid-19 outbreak hit the national capital, the two buildings have been converted as designated isolation hostels for prison staff, senior jail officials said.Also read: At capacity, Chhatarpur centre to dish out 100k meals a day“The objective is to provide isolation facility to staffers who test positive but do not have enough space at their homes for self-isolation,” said a senior jail official, who asked not to be named.Similarly, isolation wards have been created in each jail for isolating prisoners who tested positive for the virus.Goel said a double-layer screening arrangement has been put in place for the checking new prisoners before shifting them to the barracks. The first screening is done at the central public relations officer’s (CPRO) office, which is located near Gate No. 4 of Tihar jail, while the second screening is done at the entry gate of the ward.“Entry of new inmates has been restricted only to two sub jails -- one adolescent jail and one female jail to segregate them from other prisoners for 14 days. Suspension of court production of inmates and discontinuation of visits by family members and outside agencies, including NGOs are other key points in our action plan,” said Goel.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said, “Since jails are crowded places and inmates stay in congested spaces, the Covid-19 virus can spread faster in such places. But at the same time, the virus can also be contained faster if the preventive measures and guidelines are strictly implemented, as these are confined places and every activity can be monitored and regulated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cases-surge-in-delhi-jails-authorities-come-up-with-action-plan/story-hmut4UhktaMlT6INiEPeiP.html
05-07-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Dilli Haat reopens, but customers stay away||A bustling tourist hub till it shut as part of the government’s bid to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, the Dilli Haat in INA reopened after more than three months on Saturday to barely any visitors. In fact, few stores were open either, with several shopkeepers and owners still away.Save for the government-run handicrafts ‘Tribes of India’ shops, no stores or food stalls at Dilli Haat were open on Saturday. Some of the owners, who had come, left within hours. HT spotted one or two visitors, but they too left when they saw all the eateries shut. Chui Shangs, who runs a Manipur handicrafts store, was leaving around 3pm. “I did some cleaning, but there were no customers since morning, so I shut the store for the day,” she said. At the eateries, most owners said their employees had returned to their home states — Mizoram, Nagaland, Bihar among others. “I received an SMS around 5pm on Friday to open the store from Saturday. It will take at least 15-20 days to clean up and procure stock. Besides, most of my staff have not returned to Delhi. it will take them close to a week to arrange for travel and come to work,” said a food stall owner, who asked not to be named.A group of stall owners said they had met the manager of the Dilli Haat on Saturday morning to raise their concerns related to the rent. “We have been told to pay rent from July 4. But there are no customers. How can they charge us rent while we have almost no business? We have requested them to consider charging only 50% rent or allow us to open fully from August, by when we can set up the logistics,” he said.Tenants were exempt rents for April, May and June, they said.The monthly rents of the stalls vary from ₹ 50,000- ₹70,000.The ticket counters were closed, with entry made free to encourage visitors.The government-run shops offered 40% discount on all items. “Earlier the discount was only applicable on select items. Now, it has been given on all items to encourage customers. We have had not a single customer so far,” said an employee at the Tribes of India store in the afternoon. Nidhi Bharadwaj, who works in Hauz Khas, had come to the Haat along with her colleague in the afternoon. “We thought we would eat something nice, as this was one of our usual hangout places near the workplace. But nothing was open,” Bharadwaj said. Some of the artisans, who sit outside the stores at the Haat, came in on Saturday as well. Surendra Kumar Ram, who sells Jharkhand fabrics, said he found out the shop was opening only in the morning through the newspapers. Ratan Singh, chief manager, Dilli Haat, said, “All government-run stores are open. We have informed all artisans all over the country to start coming in. At least those in Delhi and nearby areas can start coming. The footfall will pick up in some days. We had to start somewhere. We did not ask for rents for April, May and June, but now we expect them to open, and that business will pick up. The owners’ demands regarding reducing the rent for some time is under consideration.” The Garden of Five Senses in south Delhi, which was among the five tourist spots that opened on Saturday fared better. “Around 40-50 people have dropped in since morning. Only the garden area is open, while the amphitheatre and the canteen are closed. People are asked to sit at least a metre away from one another and wear masks at all times,” said the security supervisor of the garden. Anas Abdullah, an MBA student from Madangir had come along with his friend. “I saw online that the place has been opened and decided to come out. So far weekends were just about being home. I just wanted to take a break from staying at home,” he said. The Delhi tourism department had on Friday announced that all three centres of Dilli Haat, Nature Bazaar, The Garden of Five Senses, Azad Hind Gram and GTB Memorial would open from July 4 and that no entry fee would be charged for the first 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tourist-hubs-in-delhi-reopen/story-v3bTDFkEmJ8rtp6QvLDTyN.html
05-07-2020||Delhi||Positivity rate in Delhi at 7.2%, 181,883 antigen tests so far: Govt data||Of the 11 districts in Delhi, Shahdara in the trans-Yamuna region, has seen the highest positivity rate in the rapid antigen tests being conducted across the Capital over the past two weeks, government data showed on Saturday.The rapid antigen test, a much faster way to confirm positive cases, was started on June 18 as part of the Centre’s and the state government’s efforts to ramp up testing in Delhi. Government reports seen by HT showed that till Friday 181,883 antigen tests were conducted in Delhi, of which 13,100 people were found positive. The positivity rate of the antigen tests in the city as on July 3 was 7.20%. This is 0.26 percentage points lower than the positivity rate of 7.46% that was reported till June 26.An analysis of the district-wise data of the antigen tests showed that Shahdara district has the highest positivity rate of 11.29%. The district has conducted 16,724 antigen tests so far, of which 1,888 tested positive.Also read| ‘Delhi won’t have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July end, Manish Sisodia’s comments created fear’: Amit ShahThe cluster reports of Shahdara district for July 3 and July 2 showed that the zone has seen as many as 229 cluster cases and 114 single or individual cases in the past two days. The total Covid-19 cases reported from the district in these two days, including those emerging from the containment zones was 389.“The high positivity rate should not come as a surprise in Shahdara district because the area is very densely populated and is highly congested. It also houses a number of health workers since two dedicated Covid-19 hospitals GTB and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospitals are in the neighbouring northeast district,” said a senior official from the district administration.In absolute numbers, the Southwest district has conducted the maximum number of antigen tests and accounts for the highest number of positive cases. This district also had the highest number of containment zones (81 as on Friday). It has so far conducted 26,460 tests, of which 2,595 tested positive. The positivity rate is 9.81%, the third highest of all the 11 districts.“Our district has the highest number of antigen testing centres of all districts. We have a total of 44 centres, so naturally the number of tests conducted is much higher than others. We are conducting tests touching all areas from Dwarka to Najafgarh in outer Delhi,” said a senior district official.Also read: The science behind Delhi’s five-pronged fight against Covid-19At 10.15% the West district has the second highest positivity rate after Shahdara, while northwest district has the lowest positivity rate at 3.22%. The northwest district has so far conducted 14,239 tests of which 458 tested positive till Friday. Saturday’s data from all districts had not been compiled till this report was filed.The media advisor to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal did not comment on the matter. Lalit Kant, a scientist and former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR said such kind of district-wise data helps the authorities in identifying the transmission rate in different areas. “Also, such data helps in identifying the type of positivity. So, those who are asymptomatic should be isolated at home immediately, while moderate and serious patients anyway have to go to institutional facilities. On the basis of this, high-risk contacts should also be traced and isolated,” said Kant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/positivity-rate-in-delhi-at-7-2-181-883-antigen-tests-so-far-govt-data/story-Z0xsHL3q5XXPMjuyIB6ktM.html
05-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi University extends date of registration to July 18||Delhi University (DU) has extended the date of registration for admission in undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD courses till July 18. The registration process, which had begun on June 20, was scheduled to close on Saturday.According to DU’s dean of admissions Shobha Bagai, the decision was taken following the postponement of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). “Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the university has received a tremendous response in terms of applications. The decision of extension of the registration has been taken keeping in view the notification of declaration of class 12 results by CBSE and postponement of JEE and NEET,” she said.Results of CBSE’s class 12 examinations will be declared by July 15. The Union human resource development (HRD) ministry had announced Friday to postpone both JEE and NEET exams till September. A member of the university’s admission team, asking not to be named, said, “Mostly, NEET and JEE aspirants register and take admission in DU colleges before their results are announced. However, many of them cancel their admission once they are able to secure a seat in an engineering or medical college. So, it’s better the varsity syncs its admission process with other competitive exams.”By Saturday evening as many as 2,15,435 paid applications had come through for undergraduate courses, 1,00,198 for postgraduate courses and a total of 12,800 for MPhil and PhD courses at DU. Last year, the varsity had received as many as 2,58,388 applications for undergraduate courses, 1,31,129 for postgraduate courses and a total of 20,862 applications for MPhil and PhD programmes. Many students, who could not fill the forms by Saturday evening, also welcomed the move. Gyan Kumar, a resident of Mehrauli, said he could not fill the form since his OBC certificate is awaited. “I got really late in getting my certificate issued to apply for admission under the OBC quota. With this decision, I will have some more time to obtain my certificate and register for the varsity,” he said.In view of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, DU has shifted its admission process completely online. The admission process has also been delayed by over two months this year due to the prevailing situation. Last year, the registration process had begun on May 30 and the first cut-off list was announced on June 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-university-extends-date-of-registration-to-july-18/story-7NR2x7Jue3XQjtaeB7FFCI.html
05-07-2020||Delhi||Modify approach to door-to-door Covid-19 survey, suggests govt report||New Delhi: A report jointly prepared by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoH&FW), the Delhi government, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and NITI Aayog has stated that a door-to-door survey to identify those with symptoms of Covid-19 may not be “suitable for Delhi at this juncture”. HT has seen the report.As per the directive issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on June 29, district administrations were directed to complete door-to-door survey in all the 445 containment zones of Delhi by July 6. This was to be followed by a similar survey across the city.But now, the second part of the survey, which meant covering more than 40 lakh households in Delhi, is likely to be tweaked to cover more specific geographic and demographic areas based on the emergence of Covid-19 cases, officials privy to the development said.The report says that while an extensive survey may help in early identification of symptomatic and high-risk individuals, it could also adversely impact contact tracing. Instead, it suggests a modified approach for survey by classifying the localities into containment zones, areas with isolated cased and areas which are yet to report any cases or “free areas”. “Conducting such an extensive survey may help in early identification of people with influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). It could also identify the high-risk individuals including senior citizens, pregnant women and malnourished children in the city...But the ongoing survey in containment zones already covers most of the population, and that such a survey could adversely impact contact tracing,” the report dated July 1 states.The report also says that a one-time survey may not be “beneficial” because ILI and SARI symptoms may appear any time. It says that a large population living in the containment zones in Delhi are already part of an intense surveillance programme, which has included all cluster cases that account for 43% of all cases. “There are also practical difficulties with the ongoing intense surveillance work. This (such a survey) may also hamper proper contact tracing in the high-risk areas or containment zones across the city or district or state,” the report states. It said that more than 2,000 new cases and on an average 50-100 deaths per day are being reported daily in Delhi. “Although efforts are being undertaken by the state government and other relevant agencies for containment, numbers of new cases are still increasing daily,” it added.Senior government officials on Saturday said a modified approach to surveillance, including the door-to-door survey, is currently under “active consideration” of the Centre’s expert committee led by Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul. While the MHA did not respond to text queries sent by HT , calls and messages sent to the media advisor to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal went unanswered. Enhance surveillance As part of the modified approach, all districts have been advised to enhance surveillance in containment zones with strict perimeter control.“All districts have been asked to strengthen house-to-house surveys by immediate personal, not telephonic, visits. In buffer zones, apart from the ongoing drill of the same survey, SARI and ILI surveys have to be conducted in all private and government health facilities as well, including OPDs,” said a senior official in the health department.In areas with isolated cases, the district surveillance officers (DSOs) have been asked to review localities which have been regularly reporting cases for over 14 days by mapping of cases in terms of time and geographic location. Epidemiological situation analysis and tracking the transmission chains will also have to be done by the districts in this case.Until July 4, Delhi reported 97,200 cases and 3,004 deaths (accounting for 26 deaths added to the cumulative number). There were 448 containment zones spread across all the eleven revenue districts of the city.Rope in residentsIn areas categorised as “free areas”, officers have been asked to focus on reducing morbidity and mortality among high-risk groups. Apart from this, special surveillance groups are to be formed across the city to ensure the rules of social distancing, wearing masks and disinfection are being followed.The focus of these groups will be rickshaw/auto, taxi, goods carriage and lorry drivers, domestic helps, daily workers (plumbers, electricians, carpenters, etc) and daily suppliers of food, general stores and delivery persons, the report says.“In housing colonies, all elderly and others with co-morbid conditions have to be listed by the districts. Entry of persons coming from affected areas should be avoided. And screening upon entry of everyone must be ensured. The RWAs have to ensure these aspects and stay in touch with district authorities,” a senior official in the revenue department said.In villages, the report states that the same protocol is to be followed with the help of the sarpanch and by constituting Nigrani Samitis (surveillance committees), comprising locals.Lalit Kant, a scientist and former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR, said instead of house-to-house survey in entire Delhi which merely involves asking questions about any flu-like symptoms, high risk members in the family and possible contact with Covid-19 patients, the authorities should scale up serological survey across the city. “The authorities should rather scale up antibody testing which basically is the serological survey. It will help determine who has antibodies and find out who has been infected with the virus. Even if someone never reported a positive test or experienced symptoms will be identified through this. So, the serological survey should be expanded further as it gives a sense of the extent of the virus in Delhi,” said Kant. On Saturday, sample collection under the serological survey in Delhi was completed and the results of the antibody tests are expected in 2-3 days from the NCDC, senior government officials said. The sero-surveillance study was jointly conducted by the NCDC and Delhi government in all the 11 districts of Delhi focusing on as many as 20,000 households on a random basis. Those who were tested also included individuals below 18 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/modify-approach-to-door-to-door-covid-survey-suggests-govt-report/story-LdRgfh9HnAgRchhNBYPESK.html
05-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram health dept gets 10,000 more rapid antigen testing kits||Ramping up Covid-19 testing in Gurugram, the district health department procured an additional 10,000 antigen detection kits from the state government on Saturday. Earlier this month, the district had received around 8,000 kits, most of which had been utilised.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn Saturday, the district administration deputed officials to assist health teams in areas of large outbreaks where most of the testing is being done. The assistance will include ensuring availability of infrastructure, security and other requirements.The directions come at a time when social distancing norms were being flouted at test sites.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that better management would lead to better coverage in testing. “On an average 1,000 antigen tests are being conducted daily. On Saturday, over 1500 tests were done.”The health department is testing in Dundahera, Sukhrali, Patel Nagar, Feroze Gandhi Colony, Om Nagar and Gandhi Nagar.Approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), antigen tests look for specific protein associated with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, the pathogen that causes Covid-19. The state health department has already placed an order of 100,000 kits with a South Korean company that has a manufacturing plant in Manesar. The new test highly specific (99.3% to 100%) — meaning a positive result on the test is a “true positive” and does not need any confirmatory test.The sensitivity is between 50.6% to 84% depending on the viral load, meaning those who test negative might still have the infection and are advised to go for a test through the more reliable RT-PCR method if they show symptoms of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-dept-gets-10-000-more-rapid-antigen-testing-kits/story-3f1fVgGZe1fIUsbiJ3uwCK.html
05-07-2020||Gurugram||Police use geo-fencing to ensure Covid-19 patients, their contacts follow quarantine rules||To ensure that Covid-19 patients and their contacts do not jump quarantine, the city police are using geo-fencing technology to track their movement. Geo-fencing refers to using a person’s mobile phone data and creating a virtual boundary. Gurugram Police said technology allows them to triangulate the position and alert them if the person steps out of their home, a police officer said. If the person switches off their mobile phone, the police is alerted. “In that case, we visit their locations and and ensure they are indoors,” Nitika Gahlaut, joint commissioner, Gurugram Police said on Saturday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe process for geo-fencing people begins with the health department providing the contact information of the patient and their contacts to the police. The information is segregated zone-wise.“We track their number. If any mobile phone is taken out doors, we will know about it and ask the person to remain indoors,” said Gahlaut. After the quarantine period, the phone number and details of the patient are removed from the database. As per police data, they have put around 10,000 people under surveillance and detected that 7,639 persons breached the geo-fence. Over 1180 persons had switched off their phones and deleted Aarogya Setu applications, while police convinced 1119 of them to switch on their phones and re-install the application, the rest were still being traced.Gahlaut also said that some people gave them wrong mobile phone numbers and addresses too. “Things have improved after the testing centres were asked to take valid address proof from the people,” she had said on Friday. Meanwhile, police officers privy to the matter said that most geo-fence breachers were reported from the west district, followed by east district, Manesar and the south district. Out of the 2000, police officials deployed in the city 666 are deployed in the east zone, 566 in west zone and 324 in Manesar for containment duties, nakas and related work. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that strict instructions have been given to all the private labs and hospitals to ensure no test is conducted if people have not given correct credentials and that test will be conducted only after an OTP is received on the given mobile number. “This will ensure the data stored is correct and no fake or wrong information is stored,” he said.Apart from that the police officials from cyber cell and crime branch are also reaching out to trace Covid-19 patients and their contacts. Out of the details of 573 persons received by the Gurugram police, 496 have been verified and 77 are being verified by the crime units, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/police-use-geo-fencing-to-ensure-covid-19-patients-their-contacts-follow-quarantine-rules/story-1KN689F5Xk7JACcYgOP1RJ.html
05-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram sees 130 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday||The district reported 130 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, along with three deaths. Gurugram’s total tally of Covid-19 cases stands at 5,829, with a total of 99 deaths so far. Of the deaths recorded, 62 patients had pre-existing co-morbidities. The number of active cases now stands at 1,234, up from Friday’s tally of 1,178. With 71 new recoveries on Saturday, the district’s recovery rate stands at 77.1 percent. Of the current active cases, 843 are currently in home isolation, 51 are hospitalised, and 340 are under observation at Covid-19 care centres across the district. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“So far a total of 4496 patients have been discharged from hospitals, home isolation and Covid-19 care centres after testing negative. Majority of people are still under home isolation. Most of them are not showing any symptoms at all,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.On Saturday, the district collected 2640 samples, the highest in a single day so far (through antigen tests, RT PCR tests, and RT PCR tests in private labs). This was also up from Friday’s collection of 2402 samples. Saturday’s test-positivity rate remained low, at about 6 percent, while cumulatively about 14 percent of all samples tested from Gurugram have shown positive for Covid-19. “Our aim is to keep positivity rate at around 8 percent, even as cases continue to rise,” Yadav added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-sees-130-new-cases-on-saturday/story-JyYalVKKrYl0Au0sGtf7MM.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||7 Dera Sacha Sauda men held for 2015 Guru Granth Sahib bir theft||The Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT), led by Jalandhar range deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra, on Saturday arrested seven Dera Sacha Sauda followers in Faridkot district in connection with a sacrilege incident that had sparked off statewide protests in 2015.Khatra said the accused stole a bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara of Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on June 1, 2015. The case was registered at the Bajakhana police station in the district.The accused were identified as Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, Nishan Singh and Ranjit Singh alias Bhola all resident of Kotkapura, Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village, Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village, Randeep Singh, alias Neela and Narinder Sharma, both resident of Faridkot.‘TWO WERE ALREADY RELEASED ON BAIL’Hours after the arrest of seven dera followers, the Khatra-led SIT produced the accused in a Faridkot court on Saturday afternoon and sought their police custody for investigation. Duty magistrate Chetan Sharma, however, termed the arrest of two of the accused, Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny of Kotkapura and Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village, as “illegal”since both were already released on bail.He also ordered their release. The defence argued that the Sukhjinder and Shakti were already granted bail by the CBI court, Mohali, in the case and the SIT has not taken any approval for their arrest from the court concerned. The court has sent the other five accused to two-day police custody.Defence counsel Vinod Monga said the SIT acted irresponsibly without confirming all the facts. He said Sukjihnder and Shakti both were arrested in this case in 2016 and have spent 11 months in jail.“The SIT was not even aware that the two were arrested in this case earlier. But has admitted the mistake and filed an application asking the court to release both the accused,” he said.DIG Khatra said that all the three cases, which the CBI was probing, have been handed over to them and they have started the investigation. “We have got the remand of five persons while two were released due to some technical legal issues,” he said. “They all are also accused in the 2011 Moga riots case. In the investigation of Gurusar and Malke sacrilege cases, the Moga riots and confession of some accused has revealed that late Mohinderpal Singh Bittu was the main conspirator of the episode. These seven accused acted on his directions. As per investigation, Sukjinder and Randeep had stolen the bir from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village. Later Shakti, Baljit and Ranjit took the bir from them, further Nishan while Baljit took it to Sikhanwala village. We are investigating further to know what happened after that,” he added. THE CASEIn 2018, the Khatra-led SIT had arrested more than 20 followers of the Sirsa-based dera, including Mohinder Pal Bittu, who was killed in the Nabha jail in 2019, in connection with the sacrilege incidents and rioting in Punjab in 2015.The Akali-BJP government, led by Parkash Singh Badal, had handed over the probe into the three sacrilege incidents to the CBI. The first case pertained to the theft of the bir (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village near Kotkapura in Faridkot district on June 1, 2015. The second was the putting up of a poster at Bargari village in the district on September 25, 2015; and the third was the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib as torn pages of the bir were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari on October 12, 2015.The Congress government, led by Captain Amarinder Singh, however, took back the cases from the CBI and handed over the probe to the Punjab Police SIT, led by Khatra.THE TIMELINEJune 1, 2015: A case pertaining to theft of bir (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village near Kotkapura in Faridkot registered.Sept 25, 2015: Second case registered for putting up of a poster at Bargari village.Oct 12, 2015: Third case registered for the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib as torn pages of the bir were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari.Nov 2, 2015: The then SAD-BJP government handed over probe to the CBI in these three FIRsNov 30, 2015: The SAD-BJP government constitutes another SIT led by then DIG RS Khatra to probe similar incidents of desecration at Gursar and Malke villages.July 4, 2019: CBI files closure report claiming no proof against Dera Sacha Sauda followers.Sept 6, 2019: A notification issued by Punjab government, withdrawing the consent to the CBI to investigate the case.December 2019: Punjab and Haryana High Court upheld the notification of the Punjab Government to withdraw the investigation in the Bargari sacrilege caseFeb 2020: SC dismisses plea of CBI against withdrawal of consent by Punjab to probe sacrilege cases||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-dera-sacha-sauda-men-held-for-2015-guru-granth-sahib-bir-theft/story-Xxok9t7TLq7L38VIZIEcgM.html
05-07-2020||Mumbai||Nine leopards trapped in Nashik in past eight months||A surge in human-animal conflict at forest areas in Nashik has resulted in nine leopards being trapped or tranquilised by the forest department over the past eight months.On Thursday night, a five-year-old female leopard, said to have killed four people and injured three, was trapped in a cage by a team of six forest officials around 9pm. The trapped leopard was transported to Sanjay Gandhi National Park’s (SGNP) leopard rescue centre on Saturday.“The leopard arrived after a five-hour journey (12.30pm to 5.30pm) from Nashik to SGNP through a tedious transportation process due to heavy rain. The animal was deemed medically fit by our veterinarian and was released at one of the rescue cages,” said Vijay Barabde, range forest officer (RFO), SGNP. Last month, a 25-day-old leopard cub was brought to SGNP from Nashik as well.While the five-year-old leopard arrived at SGNP, Nashik forest officials are yet to confirm whether the leopard was responsible for multiple human deaths. The leopard’s scat and swab samples have been sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad for DNA analysis for confirmation. “Until results are received, it is best to keep the animal at SGNP to avoid any other possible conflict situations. There are no rescue centres here,” said Vivek Bhadane, range forest officer (RFO), Nashik.Meanwhile, Bhadane explained that a surge in conflict was witnessed across 25 villages along a 12-km stretch bordering Darna river (between Sinnar and Eklahare areas) where number of leopards have risen significantly. “Farmlands are providing shelter along with a large prey base to these big cats. With three to four cases of human injuries per month, over 200 dogs have been killed by these leopards with an average of 25 dogs killed per month,” said Bhadane, adding that wild boars have also been killed. “The safety of villagers and their children has become a serious concern. Leaving children in the fields alone is now a risk.”So far, six adults and three sub-adults have been trapped or tranquillised. “The eight other leopards were released back into the wild at undisclosed locations in the state. However, the latest case has been the most serious with four deaths,” said Bhadane. There are five leopards in the region presently, he said.Independent experts said Nashik needed to replicate models adopted by Mumbai and Junnar that used to be high conflict zones. “In 2015, a standard operating procedure (SOP) to deal with such conflicts involving leopards was prepared. Nashik has had a problem for a long time now; it is high time they implement existing SOPs or else the situation will only escalate,” said Vidya Athreya, a wildlife biologist.Nikit Surve from the Wildlife Conservation Society-India said, “Long term awareness for villagers, forest department and the media (similar to the Mumbai model) is the key to address this issue.”Senior forest officials said rising conflict was a matter of concern. “Trapping leopards is not the final solution. Similar to the Junnar model, ‘living with leopards’ programme is being implemented in Nashik since a year. Our attempt is to educate villagers about coexisting with leopards. Simultaneously, we are increasing monitoring by scaling up the number of camera traps to 30 from the current less than 10, to understand animal behaviour better,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife west).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nine-leopards-trapped-in-nashik-in-past-eight-months/story-ZwfiqjsdXpbqrgqWxDQjLK.html
05-07-2020||Noida||Noida Sector 29 society asks authorities to remove waste from patient’s home||Residents of Park View Society in sector-29 have called on the Noida authority to dispose off household waste from the apartment of a Covid-19 patient.“Four days ago one member of our society tested positive. He was admitted to hospital for treatment. At least four members are yet to receive their test reports and so they are living in their house. Their waste has to be disposed off correctly so that no one is exposed,” said Col UB Singh, a retired army officer and president of the society’s residents’ association.The Gautam Budh Nagar district development residents’ welfare association (DDRWA), an umbrella body of at least 100 RWAs of the city demanded that the authority handle such waste.“We have appealed to all citizens that they should cooperate the authority’s health department in handling the hazardous waste that includes mask, gloves and waste from a patient’s house. The authority has decided to impose a fine of ₹5000 against those who fail to hand over hazardous waste,” said Sanjeev Kumar vice-president of DDRWA.According to the Noida authority, it has laid down rules on collecting such waste.“We have made sure that such waste should be collected as per laid down guidelines. The waste collection vehicle carries a separate yellow colour bag in which it contains the waste from the houses, where a positive case is confirmed,” said SC Mishra senior project engineer of the Noida authority heading the health department.The authority said that there are at least 200 vehicles, which are engaged in the task of waste collection and each carry a yellow colour bag.“We are treating this waste from positive patient’s house as hazardous waste and treat it accordingly. We hand it over to Synergy agency that handles medical waste. If sector 29 society has some issues then they can send a complaint at 9717080605 prompt action will be initiated,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-sector-29-society-asks-authorities-to-remove-waste-from-patient-s-home/story-eBt2t5hmg3XAEGYAvpkzmK.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Last date to revive postal life insurance extended to August 31||Due to residents facing issues in obtaining medical certificates amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the department of posts, ministry of communication, has extended the date for revival of lapsed postal life insurance (PLI) and rural life postal insurance (RPLI) to August 31. PLI was introduced in February 1, 1884, as a welfare scheme for the postal employees. But now, it covers all government employees and specialised degree holders, including BSE (non-medical), BCom, BCA, BBA, MSc (IT), postgraduate diploma in fashion designing and others.Prabhjot Singh, administrative officer at Ludhiana city post office, said, “We appeal to all the customers to revive their policy by August 31. PLI is a good investment option on account of lower premium and higher bonuses. To reap the benefits of the policy, regular payment is mandatory.”To revive the policy, insurants have to visit the nearest post office and submit a medical certificate from authorised doctors or medical officer as a declaration of good health and put in a request for revival by filling the form. The penalty is applicable under the revival procedures and the customer will get all earned bonuses for a number of years the policy remained lapsed. The department of posts has directed all post offices to send reminders to all policy-holders asking them to revive their accounts failing which it will be cancelled as per rules.PLI offers six different policies including whole life assurance (suraksha), endowment assurance (santosh), convertible whole life assurance (suvidha), anticipated endowment assurance (sumangal), joint life ass4urance (yugal suraksha) and children policy (bal jeevan bima).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-last-date-to-revive-postal-life-insurance-extended-to-august-31/story-5Q9pqO3Xrt3StKWKINI9kL.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab School Education Board asks evaluators to speed up checking, upload marks in five days||Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has directed evaluators to speed up the process of checking answer sheets for Class 12 exams. Earlier, they had been directed to check, recheck and upload the marks online in 10 days. But, in the new directions sent by the board to centre coordinators and principals, the evaluators will get only five days time to complete the process.Due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown, the evaluation process had been stopped March and was started again last month.For Class 12, the board has set up four evaluation centers in the district at Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School (GMSSS), Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), GMSSS, Model Town; Government Girl’s Senior Secondary School, Khanna and Government Senior Secondary School (boys), Jagraon.At GMSSS, PAU, the evaluation centre received 20 bundles (each containing 200 sheets), which will handed over to the teachers on Monday who will be instructed to check and upload marks online in five days. The evaluation centre at GMSSS, Model Town, also received 20 bundles. Principal of GMSSS, PAU, Sanjeev Thapar, said, “The centre received 23 bundles of English and Punjabi answer sheets earlier, which have been checked and rechecked. The teachers are uploading the marks online and will submit the bundles by Monday.”District education officer (secondary), Swaranjit Kaur, said, “I have asked centre coordinators and principals to direct teachers to speed up the work and upload the marks after answer sheets are checked.” A teacher on evaluation duty, requesting anonymity, said, “Earlier, I used to check the answer sheets and another was deputed for rechecking. But, last month, the board directed the evaluators to check, re-check and upload the marks online in 10 days which has burdened us. Now, they have asked us to complete the process in five days. To complete it in such a short period of time, the teacher has to devote entire day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-school-education-board-asks-evaluators-to-speed-up-checking-upload-marks-in-five-days/story-1GfIehZUr3FQcqiOJckEqM.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Veggie prices shoot up in Ludhiana amid hike in fuel prices||Uncertainty over the Covid-19 lockdown, coupled with poor weather and rising fuel prices, has affected vegetable supply, causing prices to shoot up in city. Prices of vegetables such as tomatoes, potatoes and lemons are worst hit and have increased by Rs 30 in the last seven days.The price of tomatoes has increased from Rs 35 to Rs 60 to Rs 70 per kg in the last seven days. The price of potatoes has also shot up by Rs 10 and capsicum by Rs 20. Rakesh Bhatia, a wholesale dealer at vegetable market, said, “Prices of vegetables have shot up in the last week. The hike in fuel prices has increased transportation cost, causing the spike. Prices are expected to come down in a week.”The rise in the prices will also affect the household budget of residents. Sunita Mehra, a housewife, said, “The Covid-19 lockdown has had an adverse effect on finances of people and rise in vegetables prices will upset the household budget.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/veggie-prices-shoot-up-in-ludhiana-amid-hike-in-fuel-prices/story-N6XOWSbuuGka4ABz6IQrdI.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Dharmendra expresses sadness over dilapidated theatre in Ludhiana||Bollywood actor Dharmendra expressed his sadness over the dilapidated condition of Raikhy Cinema, one of the oldest theatres in Ludhiana, in a Tweet, on Saturday.The theatre came up in 1933 and was wearing a deserted look even before the lockdown commenced, said Deol, who is also popularly known as the He Man of Bollywood. Rikhy cinema, ludhiyana..... unginnat filmen 🎥 dekhi hain yahaan....ye sannata ......dekh kar ..... dil udaas ho gaya mera ..... pic.twitter.com/MGY5VG3z0S“Rikhy cinema, ludhiyana..... unginnat filmen dekhi hain yahaan......ye sannata......dekh kar.....dil udaas ho gaya mera .....(I have watched numerous movies at the theatre at one time and the empty silent theatre now makes my heart ache).”The octogenarian also interacted with fans on Twitter and said he kept aside 25 paisa for a tikki samosa treat at the theatre. He said that he had watched Deedar, a 1950’s classic starring Dilip Kumar, at Raikhy Cinema.Deol had last visited his hometown in March when he was awarded this year’s Noor -E -Sahir award. Dharmendra, who is a native of Dangon village, later shifted with his family to Sahnewal. He shared some fond memories of his long journey from Ludhiana to Mumbai after receiving the award. He spoke about how he used to visit Clock Tower and Chaura Bazar with his friends and how mango orchards near Bharat Nagar Chowk have now been now been replaced with houses.Dharmendra, who enjoys a huge following on social media platforms including Twitter and Instagram said social media has offered him a perfect platform to reach out to his fans and admirers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dharmendra-expresses-sadness-over-dilapidated-theatre-in-ludhiana/story-rTMOUZtoS8fdsEBA7Vvg6J.html
05-07-2020||Pune||10,000 cases in just 18 days, Pune breaches 20k mark of progressive Covid cases||The number of Covid-19 positive cases crossed the 20,000 mark as the city recorded 819 cases on Saturday, according to the data provided by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).Pune took 100 days to reach the 10,000-mark of progressive Covid-19 positive cases since the first case was reported on March 9 and in a matter of only 18 days city breached 20,000-mark.The overall tally of progressive positive cases is now 20,668. In the past 24 hours 18 deaths were reported, taking the death toll to 703. As many as 12,689 patients have recovered from the infection, said civic officials. Out of the 7,276 active patients in the city, 385 are in critical condition with 56 on ventilator and 329 in ICU. Besides Pune, other cities in Maharashtra to have crossed 20k-mark includes Mumbai and Thane. Despite repeated lockdown and the civic body’s multiple efforts to contain the spread of the virus, number of cases reported on a daily basis has pushed the tally, adding pressure on the health infrastructure and government authorities.Pune reached the 10,000 mark of Covid cases on June 16. With current doubling rate of 19 days, the city crossed 20,000 cases in just 18 days. As the number of cases rise the number of deaths and critical patients is also rising proportionately.The rising cases has forced civic body to focus on better hospital bed management and will start an interactive coordination and facilitation call centre dedicated for the 24x7 hours service for Covid-19 patients.According to PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, the civic body is now focusing on bed management so that any Covid-19 positive person who requires a bed does not have to wait for a longer time.“We will train around 50 National Cadet Corps (NCC) and National Service Scheme (NSS) students to run our dedicated Covid19 call centre. We will make sure that all the positive patients are counselled and directed to the nearest Covid care centre or a private hospital within two hours of getting the report,” said Gaikwad.“They will note down all the basic information like age, comorbidities and address and direct the person to the nearest facility. We are adding about two to three facilities every week so that there is no shortage of beds for any patient. Once the details are noted down, the students will forward those details to the doctors and then the doctor or the hospital will get in touch with the patient,” said Gaikwad. “There was some resistance from major private hospitals in the beginning when we regulated the prices for 80% of the beds according to the government GR but then now they have agreed to our terms,” said Gaikwad.According to PMC officials, human interaction has increased in the last few days after Unlock 1.0, which has relaxed some of the curbs.“People in slums have come out in the open to interact with each other. It is practically impossible to stay put inside a 10x10 room which you have to share with 5-6 more people. In housing societies, need for services such as domestic helps and drivers is essential than the fear of Covid which is diminishing now, as more and more people are being cured and are being discharged. That is why we are now focusing on the use of masks which is isolation in itself. We are penalising people not found wearing masks. Increased movement will definitely lead to more cases,” said Gaikwad.Dr Sanjay Dabhade, member of Jan Arogya Manch, which works for public health, said, the focus of authorities should henceforth be on preventive steps rather than lockdown. “It is not possible to lockdown such a huge population for more than a month, there is a question of livelihood and also of the need for human interaction,” said Dabhade. “The government must focus on extensive use of masks. Masks must be compulsory in public places. Those violating norms must face action,” said Dabhade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/10-000-cases-in-just-18-days-pune-breaches-20k-mark-of-progressive-covid-cases/story-9tvIFm0KrtHNcvM49WN5IL.html
05-07-2020||City||Increased fare, low footfall: Pandemic hits auto-rickshaw drivers, passengers in Ludhiana alike||Low footfall in markets and fear among the residents regarding the spread of coronavirus are taking a toll on the livelihoods of auto-rickshaw drivers in the city.On the other hand, the consequential increase in fare from Rs 10 to Rs 20 per ride is burning a hole in the pocket of the passengers. In times like these, the drivers rue that they are only left with Rs 50-Rs 100 for their families at the end of the day. Meanwhile, challans are also being issued to three-wheelers for overloading (more than three passengers), travelling without masks and non adherence to social distancing.An auto-rickshaw driver, Rinku, said, “The people are avoiding auto-rickshaws so the footfall is low. I used to earn around ₹500-600 daily before the lockdown, but now I bring home only ₹50-100 after all my daily expenses are met. I have a family of four and it is difficult for us to make the ends meet even though my wife works as a maid.”‘GOVT SHOULD HELP DRIVERS’The vice-president of Auto Rickshaw Union Sangharsh Committee, Ranjit Singh, said, “We had to increase the fare due to low footfall, increased price of diesel and reduced earnings. The traffic police and administration are not allowing the drivers to seat more than three passengers. The state government should help us drivers; we are struggling to earn even bread and butter for our families.”The passengers, however, have demanded that the administration should intervene to reduce the fare or provide an alternative in the form of public transport.A resident of Karimpura, Gurdeep Singh, said, “The income of a middle class family has decreased but the expenses are increasing. The auto-rickshaw drivers have also hiked the fare, and people have no other choice as there is no other public transport available.”“Earlier, I used to travel by the city bus from Jawahar Nagar area to Clock Tower for Rs 5, but now I have to pay Rs 20 per ride. The administration should fix a cap on the fare,” said Charanjit Singh, another resident. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, traffic) Gurdev Singh said, “Around 200-250 challans are issued to auto drivers on a daily basis. These include challans for overloading, inadequate documentation, no social distancing and travelling without masks. The police are also spreading awareness among the drivers to allow only two-three passengers in their vehicles.”CITY BUS CONTRACTOR LIKELY TO HIKE FARE Suspended on March 20 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ludhiana city bus service will resume on a single route—Sahnewal to Clock Tower—from Monday. However, the contractor is likely to increase the fare from the earlier ₹5, citing low footfall and increased rates of diesel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/increased-fare-low-footfall-covid-19-hits-auto-rickshaw-drivers-passengers-in-ludhiana-alike/story-RtwHHyIVJpH3KT76R34ZxM.html
05-07-2020||Pune||Private hospitals admit patients with mild or no coronavirus symptoms||Even as the city continues to fight the rising Covid-19 positive cases, the civic administration is in a battle with private hospitals who are reserving beds meant for critical patients for those experiencing only mild symptoms or are even asymptomatic in some cases. In some private hospitals, relatives of patients who have tested positive even though asymptomatic or with mild symptoms are occupying the critical care beds. Click here for full Covid-19 coveragePune mayor Murlidhar Mohol has raised the issue with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, on Friday and urged private hospitals to admit patients only as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines.In a series of tweets, Mohol tweeted, “The state government must take a policy stand to ensure smooth coordination with private laboratories and private hospitals with the civic body.”“Whenever a person from a well to do family tests positive for Covid-19, the private hospitals without looking for the intensity of the symptoms, immediately admits the person. So, about four to five beds are occupied in the process which is required for those who cannot afford home isolation or are likely to become critical,” he said.“The hospital should otherwise divert such patients to civic body quarantine centres or isolation centres,” he said.Shekhar Gaikwad, PMC, chief, said, “There have been such incidents wherein the private hospitals are providing beds to patients who could be otherwise isolated at homes or even at PMC’s Covid-19 care centres.”“When a person is admitted, the bed is occupied for at least ten and this can lead to a shortage of beds if this practice continues,” said Gaikwad.Gaikwad said, “After several meetings with private hospitals we found that there is uncertainty about cash flow and so they are admitting such patients. Many hospitals have taken loans from private banks and so we have raised this issue with the district administration too, to ensure that at least part payments could be released every week or every fortnight.” Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director, Sahyadri Speciality Hospital, said, “The patients insist that they do not want to go to the civic-run centres due to multiple reasons and they want to be admitted at private hospitals. We admit patients only when required.”“Sometimes they test negative for the virus, but then again it could be a false negative and there are some patches of pneumonia and looking at their condition we admit the patient. We have three separate sections now Covid19, non-Covid19 and the grey area where it is not known for sure as to if the patient is Covid-19 positive or negative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/private-hospitals-admit-patients-with-mild-or-no-symptoms/story-VJHeqDOsFmjrrPzZDEgiBI.html
05-07-2020||Pune||Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol tests Covid-19 positive||Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol tested Covid-19 positive and was admitted to a private hospital on Saturday due to fever.Mohol tweeted and announced that he tested positive for the Covid-19 infection and is “stable now” The mayor attended various meetings in the last few days. On Friday, he was present for the meeting called by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar where all the city’s IAS and IPS officers were present.Mohol was leading the Covid-19 crisis from the front and visiting various hospitals and attending review meetings.On Thursday, he conducted a meeting with PMC officials and instructed them to increase the bed capacity as Pune Smart City data predicts that by the end of July, there would be a shortage of beds in the city.Many elected members have been tested Covid-19 positive in the city. A BJP MLA from Pimpri-Chinchwad is admitted in the hospital. PMC opposition leader and her husband both were detected Covid-19 positive too.Mohol said, “It is confirmed that I have tested positive for Covid-19. After a fever, I was given a Covid-19 test and the result was positive. I am undergoing treatment and would be in touch with the administration. I will definitely recover.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-mayor-murlidhar-mohol-tests-covid-19-positive/story-q7ZBQQkdRwLgL1GkjmhRrJ.html
05-07-2020||Pune||1.42 per cent mortality rate in PCMC, lowest in state||Although the total Covid-19 positive cases has crossed 3,500 mark, Pimpri-Chinchwad has a ray of hope with the lowest mortality rate in the state. As of Saturday, the mortality rate of industrial town is 1.42 per cent, while Pune’s mortality rate is 3.52 per cent and Maharashtra’s rate is 4.34 per cent.As of Saturday, till 5pm there are a total of 3,967 Covid-19 cases in the PCMC. As many as 2,369 patients have been discharged after being cured of the virus and 1,532 are still undergoing treatment. The city has reported a total of 54 deaths due to the virus.According to Dr Rajendra Namdev Wable, dean, Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (CMH), continuous and quick identification of Covid-19 positive patients and strictly following the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) norm has helped Pimpri-Chinchwad keep the mortality rate in check.“We are conducting more Covid-19 tests which has helped us in starting early treatment for the patients,” said Dr Wable.“We have a streamline pattern of working which is helping us to keep things under control. It is a collective effort,” added Wable.Starting Friday, the PCMC health department has also started rapid antigen tests at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital.“Now with antigen detection test being conducted, it has bought down the hassle for people and we also get the test results early. Antigen test, which is also started in Pune, allows for test results within 30 minutes. Earlier the patients had to stay in the hospital for two to three days till they got the test results. It will benefit hospital and patients,” added Wable.Dr Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC, said, “All our medical and civil staff are working hard to fight the pandemic. We are providing them complete support, out real heroes are the medical staff.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/1-42-per-cent-mortality-rate-in-pcmc-lowest-in-state/story-lV3XVuznfXhUGWsbICH07K.html
05-07-2020||Pune||NCP corporator Datta Sane dies of Covid-19||Former leader of opposition in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and NCP corporator Datta Sane, 47, who tested Covid-19 positive, died during treatment at a hospital on Saturday morning.“With the demise of corporator Datta Sane, we have lost a hard-working activist, a good colleague who worked hard for the common people. His contribution in social work will always be remembered. A heartfelt tribute to him,” Ajit Pawar, Maharashtra deputy chief minister, said in a tweet.Sane was admitted to the Aditya Birla Hospital, Chinchwad, on June 25. In addition to Covid-19, Sane was also suffering from pneumonia. He is survived by his mother, wife, son, daughter and two brothers.From Ward 1, D division, Sane was serving his third term as a PCMC corporator.Sane, who was fondly known as ‘Datta kaka’, helped a lot of people by distributing food grains during the lockdown. He was identified as a soft-spoken leader in Pimpri-Chinchwad.“He had a very soft-spoken personality, as an opposition leader he never used harsh language in the corporation and taking care of the ward was his top priority,” said PCMC mayor Usha Dhore.“With the demise of Datta kaka Sane, the NCP has lost an important pillar of the party in Pimpri-Chinchwad. We share the grief of his family and his workers,” Jayant Patil, minister and NCP president said in a tweet.Shiv Sena MP from Maval, Shrirang Barne said, “We had worked together on many things in PCMC. We had spoken three times when he was in the hospital. I have lost an open-minded and straight forward personality friend.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ncp-corporator-datta-sane-dies-of-covid-19/story-bGC9A8yxcG3eA3duipNnrM.html
05-07-2020||Latest||Spreading joy under a pandemic: Shikhar ‘The One’ Dhawan visits Hindu refugees living in Delhi||Ace cricketer, doting daddy, and an overall Good Samaritan, Shikhar Dhawan has added another feather to his hat. On Saturday morning (July 4), he visited the Hindu refugee colony near Majlis Park Metro Station in Delhi to distribute cricket kits, toilets and bedding amenities. The area houses a number of Hindu refugees from Pakistan, which are taken care of by the Delhi Riding Club Foundation.“I like to contribute to the society and this was a great experience. The Delhi Riding Club Foundation has been doing a lot of work there, so it was good to collaborate with them. I am in a position where I can contribute in that direction and it gives me immense joy and peace,” says the Delhi-born batsman.  Enjoyed my morning with the refugees staying near Majlis Metro Station. Grateful for the kind reception they gave me 🙏🏼Special thanks to @kookaburracricketofficial for help with the kits!A post shared by  Shikhar Dhawan (@shikhardofficial) on Jul 4, 2020 at 4:17am PDTThe inhabitants of the refugee colony had no idea about Dhawan’s visit, which made it all the more special. “They were quite shocked at first. They were very happy that I came and I could feel their happiness. They asked me about my moustache and asked me to do the thigh fives (his signature celebratory gesture). They told me they enjoy watching my game and the (on-field) celebrations,” he adds. Though it is not unusual for cricketers to sport gloves and shields, this time, given the coronavirus pandemic, the batting gloves were replaced by surgical gloves and the helmet with a mask. Protective gear in place, the left-handed opener took selfies with the refugees and helped boost their morale. Read: ‘I will do it with a lot of love’: Shikhar Dhawan reveals plans post cricketThe young ones, especially, had a field day as he interacted with them. He believes that these kits will help them take up sports and practice better. “You just have to give them directions in life. It is very important to educate them. Cricket unites the whole community. It promotes a sense of bonding. You learn how to share, and wait your turn. All these little things have a huge impact in life,” he concludes.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cricket/spreading-joy-under-a-pandemic-shikhar-the-one-dhawan-visits-hindu-refugees-living-in-delhi/story-raofxmx5GPRLzq31hXk74N.html
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal tax officials directed to dispose of all pending legacy cases||Field functionaries were directed to dispose of all pending legacy cases under the Himachal Pradesh (Legacy Cases Resolution) Scheme, 2019 on Saturday. The scheme was launched by the state government under the HP VAT Act, Central Sales Tax Act and other allied taxes. The orders were issued by Himachal commissioner of sate taxes and excise Dr Ajay Sharma while he was presiding over a revenue review meeting for Kangra district at Dharamshala.He asked functionaries to utilise the lean period amid the Covid-19 crisis to liquidate all pending legacy cases . The scheme allows for complete waiver of interest, which it is applicable at 18%, and full waiver of penalty. Penalty can range from 25% to 150% of the taxes due.The government will only levy a 10% settlement fee and if nothing is due the pending case will be settled on the basis of a settlement application.SEPTEMBER 30 DEADLINE Sharma said in Kangra alone there were around 17,000 cases pending for disposal and assessment . The deadline to dispose of such cases is September 30.Kangra state taxes and excise deputy commissioner Vinod Singh Dogra said Kangra had earned ₹ 414 crore in 2019-20 in comparison to ₹ 387 crore in 2018-19, registering a growth of ₹27 crore.The district has also successfully implemented the National eWay Bill System for enforcement of GST. So far, ₹ 50 lakh has been collected as GST and penalty from eWay Bill non-filers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-tax-officials-directed-to-dispose-of-all-pending-legacy-cases/story-hOs6EiIjd0ruFhvcaaY1HN.html
05-07-2020||Education||As Delhi schools remain shut, students yet to receive mid-day meal allowance since April||The central government’s mid-day meal programme – according to which students up to class 8 are served cooked, nutritious meals during school hours – has taken a hit as schools remain shut since March in view of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Despite the Centre’s order to provide food security allowance to students amid the lockdown, parents of students of both government and municipal schools in Delhi say they have not received the subsidy since April.The mid-day meal scheme, which aims to provide food security to children from economically weaker families and increase enrolment in public schools, is channelised through state governments.Delhi schools have been shut since March 19. The Centre on March 20 directed states to either provide cooked meals or food allowance to students till schools reopen. In March, between Rs 78 and Rs 95 were transferred to accounts of students of Delhi government and municipal schools.Kulsum Khatun, a resident of Jagdamba camp in Sheikh Sarai, said she has not received any money in the accounts of her two daughters (ages 7 and 9 years) since April. “My two daughters study in a government school in Malviya Nagar. We received around Rs 95 in March but nothing after that. Mid-day meals were very important for us since we hardly make enough to feed them twice a day. Under the lockdown, neither my husband, a a rickshaw puller, nor I got any work,” she said.Like Kulsum, many families from disadvantaged sections were dependent on the meals to feed their children at least once a day. Kamlesh Devi fromJahangirpuri, said her two children – 5-year-old daughter and 7-year-old son – study in a municipal school but have not received any food allowance in this academic session (since April). “They would get chana, puri and halwa in the meals. Ever since the lockdown, my kids could not get any of these items. My husband is a mason . We can only afford chapatis once a day. In other meals, we generally have tea and biscuits,” she said.An NGO, Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, wrote to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on June 30. “Since the closure of schools on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has sanctioned food security allowance for the month of March. No meals or food security allowance has been provided for April, May or June. We, therefore, urge you to ensure that mid-day meals are immediately restarted or food security allowance is provided to all eligible children without any delay,” the NGO said in the letter.Yogesh Pratap, deputy director at the directorate of education (DoE), said there has been some delay due to the situation but the government has started the process of transferring the allowance. “First, we will cover lower primary classes (nursery to fifth) and transfer Rs 360 as food security allowance in the accounts of these students for April, May and June. Then we will start the process for upper primary classes (sixth to eighth) and send Rs 480 for three months.”Officials at the south and north corporations said they are yet to receive funds from the state government. Ira Sehgal, the north body’s spokesperson, said, “We have not received funds from the Delhi government since April for the food allowance.” An official from the south corporation cited the same reason.Binay Bhushan, DoE, said: “The department has been regularly transferring money to the civic bodies. They have enough money to transfer food allowance to students.”Arun Kumar, spokesperson for the east civic body, said, “We are processing the allowance of April. It will be transferred by next week. We are trying to send the rest by the end of this month.”Ranjana Prasad, member of the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR), said, “The delay in providing nutritious food to children can aggravate problems of malnutrition. We had, last month, written to the government to take this issue on priority and resume the mid-day meal scheme.”An advisor to Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia said, “The government has started the procedure of transfering food security allowance to the accounts of the students. There has been a delay because majority of the officials have been engaged in covid duties since March.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-as-schools-remain-shut-students-yet-to-receive-mid-day-meal-allowance-since-april/story-Zz1V3NVNaOLoiNkNTJYVnN.html
05-07-2020||World||Virus fear prompts Mexican town to block road from US border||Residents of the town of Sonoyta, across from Lukeville, Arizona, briefly blocked the main road leading south from the U.S. border over the weekend over fears of coronavirus outbreaks.Arizona has seen a major upsurge in infections and there were worries about intensified contagion during the July 4 weekend.The mayor of Sonoyta, José Ramos Arzate, issued a statement Saturday “inviting U.S. tourists not to visit Mexico.”Local residents organized to block the road with their cars on the Mexican side Saturday.Video posted by residents showed several travelers complaining that they had a right to cross because they were Mexican citizens. The road is the quickest route to the seaside resort of Puerto Peñasco, also known as Rocky Point.Ramos Arzate wrote that people from the United States should only be allowed in “for essential activities, and for that reason, the checkpoint and inspection point a few meters from the Sonoyta-Lukeville AZ crossing will continue operating.”“We had agreed on this in order to safeguard the health of our community in the face of an accelerated rate of COVID-19 contagion in the neighboring state of Arizona,” Ramos Arzate wrote. “It is our duty as municipal authorities to protect the health of our town.”Mexico and the United States agreed previously to limit border crossings to essential activities, but up until this week, that had mainly been enforced for people entering the United States, not the other way.Residents of Sonoyta demanded health checks on incoming visitors, better health care facilities and broader testing.There has been some resentment that tourists, but not local residents, had reportedly been allowed into Puerto Peñasco, where many banks and other services are located.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/virus-fear-prompts-mexican-town-to-block-road-from-us-border/story-p0zRCwrm1pWMi5k353HC6O.html
05-07-2020||World||Covid-like virus was sent to Wuhan in 2013: Report||Virus samples sent to the Wuhan Institute of Virology seven years ago closely resemble Covid-19, according to a report in the Sunday Times that highlights unanswered questions about the origins of the global pandemic.Scientists in 2013 sent frozen samples to the Wuhan lab from a bat-infested former copper mine in southwest China after six men who had been clearing out bat feces there contracted a severe pneumonia, the newspaper said.Three of them died and the most likely cause was a coronavirus transmitted from a bat, the Sunday Times reported, citing a medic whose supervisor worked in the emergency department that treated the men. The same mine in Yunnan province was subsequently studied by Shi Zhengli, an expert in SARS-like coronaviruses of bat origins at the Wuhan Institute of Virology.Shi, nicknamed “bat woman” for her expeditions in bat caves, described Covid-19 in a February 2020 paper, saying it was 96.2% similar to a coronavirus sample named RaTG13 obtained in Yunnan in 2013. The Sunday Times said RaTG13 is “almost certainly” the virus that was found in the abandoned mine.China’s ‘Bat Woman’ warns coronavirus is just tip of the icebergThe differences between the samples may still represent decades’ worth of evolutionary distance, according to dissenting scientists cited in the article. The Sunday Times said the Wuhan lab did not respond to its questions.In May, the director of the Wuhan Institute of Virology said there was no live copy of the RaTG13 virus in the lab, so it would have been impossible for it to leak. There is no evidence the lab was the source of the global outbreak that began in Wuhan. But U.S. President Donald Trump claimed in May he’d seen proof of the theory, contradicting intelligence services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-like-virus-was-sent-to-wuhan-in-2013-report/story-VkKCUGaU0EtM1WsUWuJF0N.html
05-07-2020||World||‘It’s scary’: Debates in America turn emotional as schools decide how and if to open||School districts across America are in the midst of making wrenching decisions over how to resume classes in settings radically altered by the coronavirus pandemic, with school buses running below capacity, virtual learning, outdoor classrooms and quarantine protocols for infected children the new norm.The plans for the upcoming school year are taking shape by the day, and vary district to district, state to state. The debates have been highly emotional, with tempers flaring among parents and administrators, and have been made all the more vexing by record numbers of Covid-19 cases being reported each day.In Florida, some school districts want students back in the classroom in early August, even though the virus is surging through communities. On average, Florida has reported more than 7,000 new cases each day recently — more than seven times what it was reporting a month ago.New Mexico, which has been largely spared major outbreaks, plans a hybrid model of virtual and in-person learning. Parents in New York have demanded schools reopen in the fall. And in Maine, more outdoor learning is planned. Districts nationwide are coming up with various rules for wearing masks. Some want all students to wear them. Others, such as Marion County, Indiana, plan to limit the requirement to older children.Each of these decisions is fraught, trying to balance health concerns with clawing back as much normalcy as possible. Parents, wrung out after months of juggling full-time work and full-time home schooling, are desperate for help. Children, isolated from their peers, are yearning for social interaction. And everyone, including teachers, is concerned about stepping into the unknown, with so much still uncertain about the virus.Districts are worried about being able to afford added supplies — including masks and more buses. And school officials said the resurgence of virus cases underway could shatter reopening plans before they’re even put in place.“If we see large outbreaks happening across communities, it’s going to be very hard to keep schools open,” said Dr. Ashish Jha, director of the Harvard Global Health Institute, on “Fox News Sunday.” “The good news is we think kids transmit less. They are certainly less likely to get sick, but ... imagine Arizona right now. If schools were open right now, they would not be able to stay open.”Aimee Rodriguez Webb, a special education teacher in Cobb County, Georgia, is wrestling with her own health concerns while waiting to hear her district’s plans. She also has a 3 year old.“I love being in the classroom. And this year I get my own classroom, so I was looking forward to decorating it and all that,” she said. “But then the flip side is ... I don’t know that I’m mentally ready to step into the unknown like that.”Schools around the U.S. shut down suddenly this year as coronavirus cases first began rising. That led to a hodgepodge of distance learning, on-the-fly homeschooling and, for some families, a lack of any school at all. Districts are now turning their focus to how to create more structured environments.But the debates have been filled with tension. Near Rochester, New York, parents rallied in favor of fully opening schools, holding signs outside an administration building June 29 saying: “No normal school? No school taxes!”Christina Higley, a parent in the Rochester suburb of Webster, said she started a Facebook group initially to demand answers and have a say in what school would look like, but the discussions there sparked a movement for reopening schools.“There’s a lot of parents that are saying, `Open our schools, let us have the decision if we feel comfortable sending the children in to them,’” said Higley, whose children just finished kindergarten, third and fifth grade.The decisions are even more complicated in districts where the case count is rising. In Manatee County, Florida, the working plan is for all elementary students to return to school full time on Aug. 10. Older students would rely on virtual learning while they are phased back into brick-and-mortar schools.But that proposal isn’t set in stone amid a surge in infections. The county recorded its highest number of new cases in a single day in late June.If a student tests positive for the virus in the new school year, classrooms or whole buildings would need to be disinfected, said Mike Barber, a district spokesman. Students and staff with confirmed infections wouldn’t be able to return until they had tested negative twice.Meanwhile, medical experts have expressed concerns for children’s development and mental health. The American Academy of Pediatrics said it “strongly advocates that all policy considerations for the coming school year should start with a goal of having students physically present in school.”In Cape Elizabeth, Maine, Shael Norris said she’s particularly concerned about children who could face abuse at home and parents who risk losing their jobs to care for their kids. Norris has two children set to attend high school in the fall and runs a nonprofit that combats sexual assault.“There are so many equally important risks, and we’re focused entirely on Covid-19,” she said. “But I get it. It’s scary.”Maine never saw a major outbreak, and it is now reporting, on average, a few dozen cases each day. Still, the state’s largest school district of Portland has left all the options on the table: a full reopening, a partial reopening or fully remote learning.The district sent a letter to parents that said it plans to use outdoor space when possible — a solution for only a few months a year, given Maine’s weather.In order to keep kids a safe distance apart on school buses, districts will need more vehicles — an especially thorny issue for rural districts, where students travel vast distances. New Mexico has issued guidelines that buses should be run at 50% capacity, according to Nancy Martira, a spokeswoman for the state Department of Education.Many districts plan to lean heavily on federal bailout money to pay for their extra transportation needs.It’s all adding up to an anxious start to the school year.“Nobody has really laid out a clear plan for how you’re going to keep kids safe, especially smaller kids who are not going to be able to social distance all day, and they’re going to touch things and take their mask off,” said Duncan Kirkwood, whose 9- and 11-year-old daughters attend the Charter School for Applied Technologies in Buffalo, New York.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/it-s-scary-debates-in-america-turn-emotional-as-schools-decide-how-and-if-to-open/story-h6EHMFtN8t692t1VxVOgmK.html
05-07-2020||World||Pink ice in Italy’s Alps sparks algae probe||Scientists in Italy are investigating the mysterious appearance of pink glacial ice in the Alps, caused by algae that accelerate the effects of climate change.There is debate about where the algae come from, but Biagio Di Mauro of Italy’s National Research Council said the pink snow observed on parts of the Presena glacier is likely caused by the same plant found in Greenland.“The alga is not dangerous, it is a natural phenomenon that occurs during the spring and summer periods in the middle latitudes but also at the Poles,” said Di Mauro, who had previously studied the algae at the Morteratsch glacier in Switzerland.The plant, known as Ancylonema nordenskioeldii, is present in Greenland’s so-called Dark Zone, where the ice is also melting.Normally ice reflects more than 80 percent of the sun’s radiation back into the atmosphere, but as algae appear, they darken the ice so that it absorbs the heat and melts more quickly.More algae appear as the ice melts more rapidly, giving them vital water and air and adding red hues to the white ice at the Passo Gavia, altitude 2,618 metres (8,590 feet).“Everything that darkens the snow causes it to melt because it accelerates the absorption of radiation,” said Di Mauro. “We are trying to quantify the effect of other phenomena besides the human one on the overheating of the Earth,” said Di Mauro, noting that the presence of hikers and ski lifts could also have an impact on the algae.Tourists at the glacier lament the impact of climate change.“Overheating of the planet is a problem, the last thing we needed was algae,” said tourist Marta Durante. “Unfortunately we are doing irreversible damage. We are already at the point of no return, I think.” Elisa Pongini from Florence said she felt the Earth was “giving us back everything we have done to it”. “2020 is a special year: terrible things have happened,” she said. “In my opinion, atmospheric phenomena are worsening. Climate change is increasingly evident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pink-ice-in-italy-s-alps-sparks-algae-probe/story-dzkDQKkjOV8J5q4vl6aiVP.html
05-07-2020||World||Iran registers 163 deaths due to Covid-19 in 24 hours||Iran has registered over 163 deaths due to coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours, taking the coronavirus related toll to 11,571 in the country, said Health Minister spokesperson Sima Sadat Lari on Sunday. The country has registered over 2,560 new cases of Covid-19 over the last 24 hours and the total count of positive cases has risen to 2,40,438, Sputnik reported. In Iran, 201,330 Covid-19 patients have recovered since the beginning of the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-registers-163-deaths-due-to-covid-19-in-24-hours/story-ehnJgR4QNI9RF9N0JOPsSI.html
05-07-2020||World||Pakistan stops work at first Hindu temple in Islamabad||The fate of Islamabad’s first Hindu temple seems to hang in the balance after its boundary wall was vandalised by a group of fundamentalists men over the weekend and the Capital Development Authority ordered stoppage of the constructionThe video of the temple being attacked went viral on Twitter and garnered a lot of criticism from people across the country. Following this the hashtag #MandirTauBanga has become one of the top trends on the social media platform.Prime Minister Imran Khan, who had earlier approved its construction and allocated money for it, has now asked that the matter of its construction with government funds, be referred to the Council of Islamic Ideology, a government approved body that advises on religious matters.Over the weekend, Islamabad’s Capital Development Authority also stopped construction of the boundary wall on the plot allotted to the temple. A team of the authority’s building control department visited the temple site and instructed workers to stop working on the boundary wall. According to CDA spokesperson Mazhar Hussain, the action was taken because a building plan had not been submitted to the authority. “Any construction taking place in Islamabad, residential or commercial, requires a building plan (map) to be approved.”Following this, Islamabad’s Hindu Panchayat has halted the construction and decided to visit the CDA office on Monday (July 6) to discuss the matter.“We had already submitted an application addressed to the authority regarding the boundary wall construction on June 19 but got no response from them,” Hindu Panchayat President Pritam Das told local media.“The application said that the boundary wall was being built to secure the possession of the plot,” he said, adding that it did not make sense for the authority to take this step.PTI Member of Parliament Lal Chand Malhi, on the other hand, said that a building plan for the temple has already been submitted to the Ministry of Religious Affairs, which has forwarded it to the Prime Minister’s Office.“The plan along with the request for a grant of Rs100 million has been sent to Prime Minister Imran Khan,” Malhi said, pointing out that the PM had initially approved the grant. After opposition from clerics, however, it was agreed that a decision will be taken after advice from the Council of Islamic Ideology.The religious affairs ministry in a press conference on Friday said that it only “releases funds for the renovation and rehabilitation of minority’s worship places”, not for construction.The Hindu Panchayat is constructing the temple from its own finances, the ministry’s spokesperson said, adding that the CII will, however, be consulted on the matter of funds.This, however, is not the only problem faced by the panchayat during the temple’s construction.In a tweet on Saturday, Malhi said the Hindu Panchayat has announced that it is discontinuing the temple’s construction, even if the CDA allows it, due to recent cases of violence and destruction of its site.“On June 23, we filed a request to the Islamabad district commissioner’s office for security to be provided after the temple site was vandalised,” Malhi said. “We, however, got no response from them, nor was any security provided,” he added.“We have been receiving threats and objections from “Muslim elites and clerics” in the capital ever since construction started. A number of fatwas were also issued. “They demand that a temple should not be built with the government’s money,” Das said.The Shri Krishna Mandir is the first of its type to be built in the capital, according to Das. It will be a worship place for over 3,000 Hindus living in Islamabad.“The temple will have a complex, community centre and a cremation ground inside it,” he said, adding that it will comprise 10 floors. The temple will also have a ground for celebrations of festivals such as Diwali and Holi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-stops-work-at-first-hindu-temple-in-islamabad/story-xZgQn4uSBouJIJYCp30xGL.html
05-07-2020||World||Naked men and drunks: England assesses reopening of pubs as social distancing norms ignored||It seems to have been more like a typical Saturday night than a drunken New Year’s Eve.The reopening of pubs in England does not seem to have overwhelmed emergency services as many had feared ahead of the biggest easing of Britain’s lockdown. But one senior police officer said Sunday it was “crystal clear” that drunk people struggled, or ignored, social distancing rules.For the most part, people appeared to abide by the rules and rejoiced at the chance Saturday to lift a pint in the company of their mates, but in some places large crowds raised concerns that the deadliest outbreak in Europe may find fresh legs.Chris Newell, a 33-year-old courier, traveled to trendy Shoreditch in east London to see friends.“As long as everyone’s keeping their distance, we’re going to have a few drinks and just enjoy it and try and get back to a bit of normality,” he said.Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the vast majority of people did “the right thing” and abided by social distancing rules to stay at least one meter (over 3 feet) apart from members of another household and use hand sanitizers.“It was really good to see people out and about and largely, very largely social distancing,” he said on Sky News.John Apter, chair of the Police Federation, who was on patrol in the southern England city of Southampton, said it was a “busy” shift, one that saw officers having to deal with naked men, “happy” drunks as well as “angry” drunks.He said the shift “managed to cope” but it was “crystal clear” that those who have imbibed one too many cannot, or won’t, socially distance.Pubs and restaurants worked hard to get ready for the moment, spacing tables, putting some staff behind plastic counters and registering customers upon arrival. The wearing of masks is optional though, even for staff.Rafal Liszewski, a store manager in the central London district of Soho, voiced concerns about the swelling crowds on Saturday.“Quickly everything got out of control and by 8-9 p.m. it was a proper street party with people dancing and drinking,” he said. “Barely anyone was wearing masks and nobody respected social distancing .... to be honest with that many people on one street it was physically impossible.”Some fear the British government is being overly hasty, even reckless, in sanctioning the changes. The U.K.’s confirmed virus death toll of 44,198 is the third-highest in the world, behind the United States and Brazil.Critics note that the reopening of bars and restaurants in the United States and South Korea has been blamed for a spike in new infectionsThe four nations of the U.K. — England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland — are moving at different speeds out of the coronavirus lockdown. The restrictions in England, with a population of around 56 million, or 85% or the U.K.’s, have been lifted the most, triggering concerns that Conservative Prime Minister Boris Johnson is being unduly influenced by a desire to kickstart Britain’s ailing economy.Johnson’s office at 10. Downing Street, among many other places across the U.K., was lit up blue overnight to celebrate the 72nd anniversary of the formation of the country’s beloved National Health Service, which gives free health care to residents.A number of events are planned Sunday to celebrate its birthday. People are being encouraged to clap at 5 p.m. to say “Thank you” to the hundreds of thousands of NHS staff who have worked selflessly throughout the coronavirus pandemic.After coming down with coronavirus himself, Johnson credited NHS workers with saving his life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/naked-men-and-drunks-england-assesses-reopening-of-pubs-as-social-distancing-norms-ignored/story-XVGqT6aFOhLpcX0ccgz5cK.html
05-07-2020||World||2 dead, 8 hurt in nightclub shooting in South Carolina’s Greenville: Sheriff||A shooting at a South Carolina nightclub left two people dead and eight wounded, a sheriff’s official said.Two Greenville County sheriff’s deputies noticed a disturbance at Lavish Lounge just before 2 a.m., and saw a large crowd running out of the building, Sheriff Hobart Lewis said at a press conference. There was “active gunfire from inside the building,” Lt. Jimmy Bolt said in an initial statement, and Lewis said all the shots were fired inside.Both Lewis and Bolt initially said 12 people had been wounded — with at least four in critical condition, Lewis said — but Bolt later told WYFF-TV that the casualty figure had been revised. A phone call and text message to Lewis and an email to Bolt from The Associated Press seeking clarification weren’t immediately returned.No one was immediately taken into custody. The sheriff’s office had “some suspect information,” Lewis said at the press conference, but wasn’t sure if there were multiple shooters.“We don’t really have a person of interest that we can name,” Lewis said, later adding that authorities weren’t sure what led to the gunfire.The names and precise conditions of the victims weren’t immediately released. Lewis said the victims were taken to the Prisma Health hospital in Greenville, some via private vehicle.Prisma Health spokesperson Tammie Epps could not immediately comment when reached by telephone.Lewis said a “very large crowd” was at the nightclub for “some type of concert. A post on Lavish Lounge’s Facebook page advertised a July 4 performance by trap rapper Foogiano.An Instagram direct message from the AP wasn’t immediately returned, but a bookings representative told the AP via text message that Foogiano was fine and his team was safe.The nightclub is about 5 miles (8 kilometers) southwest of downtown Greenville, in South Carolina’s Upstate region.Coronavirus cases in South Carolina have risen swiftly and the state’s rate of positive tests is three times the recommended level. In late June, Greenville — which has experienced some of the state’s highest COVID-19 rates — became the first city to mandate face coverings in South Carolina, where Gov. Henry McMaster has refused to implement a statewide mask requirement.McMaster reminded South Carolinians last week that he hadn’t lifted restrictions on large crowds, and that those operating nightclubs illegally or holding concerts against his orders don’t have to be caught in the act to face criminal charges, but instead could be charged weeks later if COVID-19 cases are traced back.A phone call and an Instagram direct message from the AP to Lavish Lounge weren’t immediately returned, but the club posted on Facebook just before 6 a.m. that events “have been postponed until further notice.”Lewis said at the press conference that he didn’t know whether the club had sought an exemption to the governor’s order or secured a permit for Saturday night’s event, but said it was clear that the club’s patrons weren’t 6 feet (2 meters) apart.“It’s certainly not the best situation to stop the spread of this virus,” the sheriff said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-dead-8-hurt-in-nightclub-shooting-in-south-carolina-s-greenville-sheriff/story-TKmvhEoO6pIgCmrNJfAGVN.html
05-07-2020||World||Donald Trump blames China’s ‘secrecy, cover-up’ for spread of Covid-19||China must be held fully accountable for its “secrecy, deception and cover-up” that allowed it to spread the coronavirus all over the world, US President Donald Trump has said, upping the ante on Beijing over its handling of the Covid-19 outbreak. Addressing the nation for a second time in as many days on the occasion of 244th Independence Day on Saturday, President Trump touted the country’s “progress” against the Covid-19 disease despite a nationwide spike in the number of coronavirus cases. “We have the manufacturing record for ventilators. We have the most and the finest testing anywhere in the world. We are producing gowns, masks, and surgical equipment in our country…It was almost exclusively made in foreign lands, in particular, China, where ironically this virus and others came from,” he said in his address from the lawns of the White House. “China’s secrecy, deception, and cover-up allowed it to spread all over the world, 189 countries and China must be held fully accountable,” he said, once again accusing Beijing of covering up the outbreak of the pandemic. On Friday, Trump made a direct appeal to disaffected white voters four months before Election Day, accusing protesters who have pushed for racial justice of engaging in a “merciless campaign to wipe out our history.” Praising America’s “scientific brilliance”, Trump said on Saturday that the US will likely have a therapeutic and/or vaccine solution long before the end of the year. Trump has expressed disappointment over China’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in the past. In May, he claimed that it was the “incompetence” of Beijing that led to the mass killing across the globe. China has denied US’ claim of “covering up” the extent of its coronavirus outbreak and has accused the US of attempting to divert public attention by insinuating that the virus originated from a virology laboratory in Wuhan. “China was the first country to report the Covid-19 to the World Health Organisation (WHO), (and) that doesn’t mean the virus originated from Wuhan... There has never been any concealment, and we’ll never allow any concealment,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said in April. The novel coronavirus which first originated in Wuhan in December last year has claimed over 5 lakh lives and infected more than 11 million people globally. The US is the worst affected country with over 1.2 lakh deaths and over 2.8 million infections, according to Johns Hopkins University data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-blames-china-s-secrecy-cover-up-for-spread-of-covid-19/story-ifbYM0vQjBT6GQLvNekxUL.html
05-07-2020||World||Thousands rally at Black Lives Matter protests in Australia||Several thousand people rallied in Black Lives Matter protests across Australia over the weekend to call for racial equality and highlight deaths of Indigenous people while in police custody.About 500 people protested Sunday in Newcastle, north of Sydney, after the New South Wales state Supreme Court approved the rally following an attempt by police to have it banned.A rally in Sydney on Sunday began with a ceremony at which people mourned the Indigenous Australians who have died in police custody.There have been more than 400 Indigenous deaths in custody since a royal commission into the issue ended in 1991. No convictions have been recorded in any of the deaths.“We went through the lawful process, we sat through that process of the coronial inquiry, we listened to that process and we received no justice from that process,” Sydney rally organizer Paul Silva told SBS Television. “This is our process to demand justice.”On Saturday, Australians took part in Black Lives Matter rallies in the cities of Brisbane, Darwin, Perth and Adelaide. Many of the protesters work masks and attempted to maintain social distancing due to coronavirus concerns.Australia’s Indigenous people are the most disadvantaged ethnic minority in the country. They have higher-than-average rates of infant mortality and poor health, as well as shorter life expectancy and lower levels of education and employment than other Australians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-rally-at-black-lives-matter-protests-in-australia/story-qzBTKcVgXTol6b5V2pRcuM.html
05-07-2020||World||Japan floods leave up to 34 dead, many at nursing homes||Deep floodwaters and the risk of more mudslides that left at least 34 people confirmed or presumed dead hampered search and rescue operations Sunday in southern Japan, including at elderly home facilities where more than a dozen died and scores were still stranded.Helicopters and boats rescued more people from their homes in the Kumamoto region. More than 40,000 defense troops, the coast guard and fire brigades were taking part in the operation.Large areas along the Kuma River were swallowed by floodwaters, with many houses, buildings and vehicles submerged almost up to their roofs. Mudslides smashed into houses, sending people atop rooftops waving at rescuers.At a flooded elderly care home in Kuma Village, where 14 residents were presumed dead after rescuers reached them on Saturday, rescue continued Sunday for the dozens of remaining residents and caregivers.Sixty-five residents and about 30 caregivers were trapped at the riverside care facility Senjuen when floodwaters and mud gushed in. All remaining 51 residents, including three who had hypothermia, had been rescued by boats and taken to hospitals for treatment by Sunday afternoon, officials said.Overall, 18 people were confirmed dead, while 16 others, including those at the nursing home, were presumed dead. Fourteen others were still missing as of Sunday afternoon. Dozens of others were still trapped in inundated areas waiting to be rescued, according to the Fire and Disaster Management Agency.In Hitoyoshi City, the deluge poured into houses near the main train station. “The water rose to the second floor so fast and I just couldn’t stop shivering,” a 55-year-old woman who was visiting her relatives told the Asahi newspaper.She and her relatives ran upstairs, swam out of a window and eventually took refuge on the roof to wait for their rescue.As floods eased in parts of Kumamoto on Sunday, vending machines and cars lay scattered on mud-coated streets. Some people were cleaning their homes, taking out damaged furniture and rinsing off mud.More than 200,000 residents in Kumamoto prefecture were urged to evacuate following pounding rains on Friday evening and into Saturday. But the evacuation was not mandatory and many people opted to stay home because of concerns over catching the coronavirus, even though officials say shelters are adequately equipped with partitions and other safety measures.Flooding also cut off power and communication lines, further delaying the search and rescue. Nearly 6,000 homes in Kumamoto were still without electricity Sunday, according to the Kyushu Electric Power Co.The rainfall that exceeded 100 millimeters (4 inches) per hour has since subsided, but the Japan Meteorological Agency kept mudslide warnings in place across Kumamoto. Prefectural officials said evacuation advisories were still in place due to more rain predicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-floods-leave-up-to-34-dead-many-at-nursing-homes/story-jjoBnslF26IfcooFUtUZmO.html
05-07-2020||World||US holiday fuels worries about skyrocketing coronavirus cases||The United States has dipped under 50,000 new daily infections for the first time in four days, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University, but experts fear celebrations for the July 4th weekend will act like rocket fuel for the nation’s surging coronavirus outbreak.Johns Hopkins on Sunday counted 45,300 new coronavirus infections reported Saturday in the U.S. after three days in which the daily count reached as high as 54,500 new cases. The lower figure does not mean the situation in the U.S. is improving, it could be due to reduced reporting on a national holiday.The United States has the most infections and virus-related deaths in the world, with 2.8 million cases and nearly 130,000 dead, according to the university. Experts say the true toll of the pandemic is significantly higher, due to people who died before they were tested and missed mild cases.Worldwide, nearly 11.3 million people have been infected and over 531,000 have died, with outbreaks surging in India, South Africa, Pakistan, Brazil and several other Latin American countries. In a first, South Africa on Sunday reported more than 10,000 new confirmed cases in a single day.To show just how steep the U.S. infection curve is, authorities were reporting under 20,000 new infections a day as recently as June 15. On Saturday, Florida and Texas reported more record daily increases in confirmed cases and virus-related deaths have begun to rise.Despite warnings by health experts to limit gatherings, President Donald Trump went ahead with a speech at Mount Rushmore in South Dakota on Friday and an evening of tribute and fireworks Saturday on the National Mall in Washington. Trump used the nation’s Independence Day as an occasion to assail those who do not support him and did not mention the horrific death toll from the pandemic.Pat Lee of Upper Dublin, Pennsylvania, and two friends, none in masks, gathered near the event in Washington.“POTUS said it would go away,” Lee said of the pandemic, using an acronym for president of the United States. “Masks, I think, are like a hoax.”In another worrying sign, the World Health Organization said member states reported more than 212,000 confirmed cases of Covid-19 around the world on Saturday, the highest single-day increase since the start of the pandemic. The Geneva-based organization said more than 60% of the confirmed cases reports it received were in the Americas, which includes the United States and Brazil.Faced with rising infections, many US communities canceled parades and fireworks and cautioned people against hosting large gatherings.Texas, which reported a record daily increase of 8,258 confirmed coronavirus cases Saturday, is retreating from what had been one of the country’s swiftest reopenings. Much of the state began mandating face coverings Friday, with a $250 fine for scofflaws.In Florida, which reported 11,445 confirmed infections on Saturday, bars statewide are shut down and some regional attractions, such as Zoo Miami and Jungle Island, have closed. Officials in South Florida — including in Miami-Dade County and the Florida Keys — also closed beaches through the weekend.Other beaches remained open. At St. Pete Beach on the Gulf of Mexico, parking spaces were scarce and hundreds clustered under umbrellas and in cabanas on the sand. Keisha Pereira came to the beach from Osceola County — more than 100 miles (160 kilometers) inland — with her daughter and two other children.“We’re going to stay with each other,” she said. “I feel pretty safe outside.”The holiday weekend coincided with a big step back this week for California’s efforts to reopen the state’s economy. Gov. Gavin Newsom ordered a three-week closure of bars and many indoor establishments in counties where some 30 million people live.In several California regions, economic woes prompted campaigns to convince state residents to travel within its borders. But public health experts and mayors of popular beach towns Santa Cruz and Half Moon Bay pleaded with people to stay home for the holiday.Crista Luedtke said demand has been “bonkers” since reopening the 14-room Boon Hotel and Spa that she owns in the Sonoma County town of Guerneville. Guests must stay at least two nights and are assigned lounges near the pool.“Tourism is not dangerous,” Luedtke said. “I think people not following the rules is dangerous.”In Britain, pubs and barbers reopened Saturday for the first time in months. It did not overwhelm emergency services as many had feared, but one senior police officer said Sunday it was “crystal clear” that drunk people struggled, or ignored, social distancing rules.Rafal Liszewski, a store manager in central London, voiced concerns about the swelling crowds on Saturday.“Quickly everything got out of control and by 8-9 p.m. it was a proper street party with people dancing and drinking,” he said. “Barely anyone was wearing masks and nobody respected social distancing .... to be honest, with that many people on one street, it was physically impossible.”In Australia and northeast Spain, authorities ordered lockdowns for specific counties or communities to stomp out local outbreaks.In the Bolivian city of Cochabamba, the relatives of one apparent virus victim left his coffin in the street for hours to protest the difficulties in having him buried. Police Col. Iván Rojas said the demand “is collapsing the police personnel and funeral workers” in the city of 630,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-holiday-fuels-worries-about-skyrocketing-coronavirus-cases/story-3FU7eXSL32WAgOV7bbNhgO.html
05-07-2020||World||Rocket fired toward US Embassy in Iraq injures child||The Iraqi military said Sunday that a rocket aimed at Baghdad’s fortified Green Zone, home of the U.S. embassy, struck a residential house and injured a child.Iraqi officials said the embassy’s recently installed C-RAM air defense system may have attempted to intercept the rocket as the system was operational late Saturday. A recent spate of rocket attacks have struck close to the U.S. embassy and targeted American troops in Iraqi bases. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity in line with regulations.The rocket was launched from the Ali Al-Saleh area of Baghdad and landed next to a house close to a local TV channel late Saturday, the military statement said. A child suffered head injuries and the house was damaged.Iraqi security forces say they also thwarted another attack in the Umm al-Azam area aiming to hit Camp Taji, north of Baghdad, a training base used by U.S.-led coalition forces.In March, two Americans and one British soldier were killed following a barrage of rockets on Camp Taji.The latest uptick in attacks comes shortly before Iraq embarks on strategic talks with the U.S. in which the presence of American forces in the country is expected to top the agenda.The U.S. has criticized the federal government for being unable to reign in Iran-backed militia groups it believes are orchestrating the attacks. Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi has pledged to protect American installations from attacks, U.S. officials said.Iraqi security forces last week raided the headquarters of the powerful Iran-backed paramilitary Kataib Hezbollah and detained 14 men suspected of being responsible for rocket attacks targeting the Green Zone. Thirteen detainees were later released and one remains in custody.The move drew praise from the U.S. but condemnation from Iran-backed political factions in Iraq.The U.S. embassy began testing the new air defense system late Saturday, the Iraqi officials said. It drew condemnation from Deputy Speaker of Parliament Hassan al-Kaabi, who called on the government to take action against the “illegal” move which would “provoke the Iraqi people,” according to a government statement.____Associated Press writer Qassim Abdul-Zahra in Baghdad contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rocket-fired-toward-us-embassy-in-iraq-injures-child/story-dGBUFnSyRrcLQ2JsG87D3I.html
05-07-2020||World||Hong Kong’s Covid-free streak may end as two test positive: Report||Hong Kong’s three-week stretch of no new local Covid-19 cases may have been broken after two people tested positive for the virus on Saturday, Radio Television Hong Kong reported, citing unidentified people.A 59-year-old man is in stable condition at Princess Margaret Hospital after testing positive for coronavirus, RTHK said. The results of a second check to confirm the infection have yet to be announced, according to the report. The last locally transmitted case in Hong Kong was reported June 12.The other new suspected locally transmitted case is a nurse who works at a clinic in Cheung Sha Wan, RTHK cited sources as saying.Visitor arrivals to Hong Kong fell 99.9% on year in May to 8,139 due to the border-control policies, according to data from the city’s Tourism Board.The financial hub of around 7.5 million people -- roughly the same population as New York City -- has been successful in keeping the coronavirus in check, with 1,259 cases as of July 4 and just seven related deaths. Most residents continue to wear protective masks in public, even as life slowly returns to normal.Hong Kong further relaxed social-distancing measures in mid-June, allowing public gatherings of up to 50 people. The city’s government is in talks with Guangdong provincial authorities for a plan to ease cross-border travel restrictions, including lifting the 14-day mandatory quarantine for qualified people.The neighboring city of Macau is also easing social restrictions. The special administration region of China will permit 3,000 applications for exemption from mandatory quarantine every day from July 6 for people entering the mainland through its border with Zhuhai for business purposes or special needs.Under the new rules, Macau residents with the exemption will be allowed to visit nine cities in China’s Greater Bay Area, including Guangzhou and Shenzhen, according to a Zhuhai government statement Sunday. At present, the only Chinese city they are permitted to travel to is Zhuhai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-s-covid-free-streak-may-end-as-two-test-positive-report/story-vVAwshQ5W3zxq810QdH2OJ.html
05-07-2020||World||Man in famous 9/11 photo dies from Covid-19 in Florida||A man photographed fleeing smoke and debris as the south tower of the World Trade Center crumbled just a block away on Sept. 11, 2001, has died from coronavirus, his family said.The Palm Beach Post reported that Stephen Cooper, an electrical engineer from New York who lived part-time in the Delray Beach, Florida area, died March 28 at Delray Medical Center due to COVID-19. He was 78.The photo, captured by an Associated Press photographer, was published in newspapers and magazines around the world and is featured at the 9/11 Memorial Museum in New York.“He didn’t even know the photograph was taken,” said Janet Rashes, Cooper’s partner for 33 years. “All of a sudden, he’s looking in Time magazine one day and he sees himself and says, ‘Oh my God. That’s me.’ He was amazed. Couldn’t believe it.”Rashes said Cooper was delivering documents near the World Trade Center, unaware of exactly what had happened that morning, when he heard a police officer yell, “You have to run.”The photo shows Cooper, who was 60 at the time, with a manila envelope tucked under his left arm. He and several other men were in a desperate sprint as a wall of debris from the collapsing tower looms behind them.Cooper ducked to safety into a nearby subway station.“Every year on 9/11, he would go looking for the magazine and say, ’Look, it’s here again,” said Jessica Rashes, Cooper’s 27-year-old daughter. “He would bring it to family barbecues, parties, anywhere he could show it off.”Susan Gould, a longtime friend, said Cooper was proud of the photo, purchasing multiple copies of Time and handing them out “like a calling card.” She said Cooper shrank a copy of the photo, laminated it, and kept it in his wallet.“Stephen was a character,” Gould said.Suzanne Plunkett, the Associated Press photographer who snapped the shot, wrote that she’s been in touch with two of the people in the photo, but Cooper was not among them.“It is a shame I was never aware of the identity of Mr. Cooper,” Plunkett wrote after his death in an email to The Palm Beach Post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-in-famous-9-11-photo-dies-from-covid-19-in-florida/story-Wrsy5XIeuzF1WTt79YqpAN.html
05-07-2020||World||US dips under 50,000 new coronavirus cases||The United States has dipped under 50,000 new coronavirus cases for the first time in four days, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University, but experts fear celebrations for the July 4th Independence Day weekend will act like rocket fuel for the nation’s surging outbreak.Johns Hopkins counted 45,300 new coronavirus infections in the US on Saturday after three days in which the daily count reached as high as 54,500 new cases.The lower figure on Saturday does not necessarily mean the situation in the US is improving, as it could be due to reduced reporting on a national holiday.The United States has the most infections and virus-related deaths in the world, with 2.8 million cases and nearly 130,000 dead, according to the university.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageExperts say the true toll of the pandemic is significantly higher, due to people who died before they were tested and missed mild cases.To show just how steep the current infection curve is in the US, the country was reporting under 20,000 new infections a day as recently as June 15.Despite warnings by health experts to limit gatherings, President Donald Trump went ahead with a speech at Mount Rushmore in South Dakota on Friday and an evening of tribute and fireworks Saturday on the National Mall in Washington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-dips-under-50-000-new-coronavirus-cases/story-1Ick3M8v9fI3RpkUtEansL.html
05-07-2020||World||Mercedes to recall 660,000 vehicles in China for oil leak||Mercedes-Benz will recall more than 660,000 vehicles in China later this year for a possible oil leak.A seal between a high-pressure fuel pump and a low-pressure fuel pipe could weaken over time, allowing oil to leak when the engine starts in cold weather, according to a notice published last week on the website of China’s State Administration for Market Regulation.China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported the recall Sunday.The recall of 668,954 vehicles will begin on Dec. 18. It includes several models made between February 2013 and June 2017, including C-class, E-class, V-class, GLK-class, CLS-class, SLC-class, GLC SUV and VS20 VITO vehicles.Most of the vehicles were made in China by Beijing Benz Automotive Co. About 12,500 were built by Fujian Benz Automotive Co., and around 36,000 were imported.Dealers will replace faulty parts free of charge.The announcement follows another recall that began last month of 4,653 imported Mercedes G-class sedans that had incorrect child-safety lock labels, Xinhua said.Those vehicles were manufactured between Feb. 14, 2018, and Sept. 24, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mercedes-to-recall-660-000-vehicles-in-china-for-oil-leak/story-b1ZiymVIhq3woVYI0iF4NM.html
05-07-2020||World||In China vs US, Pakistan has taken a side. It serves the army||Ever since the world started pointing fingers at Beijing for the spread of coronavirus, Pakistan has gone out of its way to express solidarity with China. Even to the extent of refusing to let its 1,000-odd students stranded in Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak, return to Islamabad in February. It is no secret that Beijing had been soliciting support from all its friends, or clients, as some analysts describe the relationship between China and Pakistan. Islamabad, indebted to China for more than one reason, had gone a step further. China was being panned by countries across the world, particularly the United States, over what was widely-perceived to be Beijing’s gross negligence, which led to the spread of the disease that has infected 11 million people across the world and killed nearly 530,000.In the cacophony that followed as countries took sides, Pakistan was understandably the loudest voice in support of China despite some uneasiness in foreign policy circles of Islamabad.Before the world was able to visualise the impact of the pandemic, Pakistan was in a comfortable position on the foreign policy front, particularly the China-US matrix. It was effectively leveraging its influence over the Taliban to extract concessions from the US in the global terror financing watchdog Financial Action Task Force. Washington was soft pedalling on Pakistan’s failure to comply with the FATF Action Plan and had allowed it extra time at the Paris Plenary in February. The reprieve, by any standards, was a fair indicator of the Pakistan Foreign Office’s successful handling of a tricky situation.Much of this effort by Pakistani diplomats to navigate the sensitivities in Washington appeared to come undone as the Pakistani establishment rushed to comply with signals from Beijing that wanted Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government to continue to back them up. The worldly-wise officials at the Foreign Office and, some at the Prime Minister’s Office, were the first ones to spot the change in Washington’s approach. The officials, including the US-educated Special Advisor on National Security Moeed Yusuf and British-educated Zulfi Bukhari, realised the impossibility of balancing relations with Washington and Beijing in the face of the establishment’s inflexible and decades-old mindset characterised by suspiciousness of the West.Also Watch l Trump slams China for Covid-19; vows to defeat ‘radical left’ The Pakistan military’s tunnel vision and stranglehold over key foreign policy aspects have prevented the country from benefiting from the available expertise at home and evolving a pragmatic and non-confrontational foreign policy. At a time when world opinion is sharply against Beijing, Pakistan has chosen to be the devil’s advocate.Like when Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi put out a statement on his phone conversation with Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, the foreign ministry had to make a pointed reference to underline Pakistan’s commitment to the “One-China policy” and express support to China on its “core interests including Hong Kong, Taiwan, Tibet and Xinjiang”.In Pakistan, the army has been in a pivotal position irrespective of the regime in power. It also, maybe, doesn’t have anything to lose if Pakistan is again clubbed with the likes of North Korea. In fact, it has been argued by its critics that the army’s clout over politics and civilian life tends to proportionately increase with Pakistan’s marginalisation, as does the access to material riches for its leadership.The army was the biggest beneficiary of the billions that the United States poured into Pakistan in the name of support for the war on terror.When that well seemed to be drying up, it found a willing donor in Beijing for whom the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor became a flagship project for its ambitious Belt and Road Initiative. It could also lead Pakistan into a debt trap.Thousands of Pakistanis paid with their lives for the establishment’s shortsighted strategy of arming and nurturing terrorists and turning terror into an instrument of foreign policy.What woes the new strategy of trying to milk China and the CPEC will bring to the Pakistanis, only time will tell. The more erudite officials of the Foreign Office can visualise the implications for Pakistan, such as the heightened possibility of graduating to the FATF blacklist if it does not deliver on its action plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-china-vs-us-pakistan-has-taken-a-side-it-serves-the-army/story-jXuXxFjSF1vr8naQtQPHDN.html
05-07-2020||World||Robots use UV rays to kill virus that causes Covid-19: All you need to know||The world is racing towards finding a cure for the coronavirus disease, which has ravaged through the world infecting millions. In just seven months, the disease it causes has affected all but a handful of countries.But before a vaccine is ready, many tech experts have pooled their resources and knowledge together to find solutions to at least destroy the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19.Prominent among them is Amazon which launched a robot which claims to eliminate the virus using ultaviolet rays. The robot was unveiled in May this year across retail businesses, airports and hospitals to which require frequent cleaning.So how does this robot work?The machine looks like a hotel luggage cart with wheels attached to it. It is fitted with nearly 10 ultraviolet tubelights which target and disinfect the aisles and other places frequently touched by people.The robot rolls down the aisles and areas of other buildings to ensure no corner is left untouched.In a blog post, Amazon said that the fleet of robots perform more than 8,000 hours of cleaning every day.Is Amazon the only one to come up with this solution?No. Tech sites across the world have covered other such notable investions which are helping in checking the spread of the coronavirus disease.A US-based company has built the LightStrike robot to disinfect large areas using UV light. The company claims that its machine can get rid of active coronavirus within two minutes.The robot is not on sale, but the company is offering it on rent to various companies.LighStrike uses a xenon lamp built by the company to fire intense light rays at exposed surfaces. It claims that these light waves within a spectrum can kill viruses and bacteria.UV light and Covid-19Many companies and institutes around the world have researched on ultraviolet (UV) light and its impact on Covid-19. According to Health Europa, the leading health website in the European Union, UV rays are used as a form of disinfectant and has a range of 200 to 300 nanometres.Though it warns of high cost involved in using high-poweredd UV rays to kill Sars-CoV-2 virus, the website lists some of the recent research where transparent conductors are used, thereby bringing the cost down considerably.The World Health organisation (WHO) has, meanwhile, warned people to not use UV rays to disinfect hands or other areas of your skin. Theese rays can cause skin irritation and can even damage people’s eyes. So, according to WHO, cleaning your hands with alcohol-based hand rub or washing your hands with soap and water are the most effective ways to remove the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/robots-use-uv-rays-to-kill-virus-that-causes-covid-19-all-you-need-to-know/story-NSJJE3PXwTvq1QqscQGE7L.html
05-07-2020||World||Israel, Palestinians face new restrictions amid coronavirus surge||Israel ordered thousands of people into quarantine after a contentious phone surveillance program resumed as Palestinians in the West Bank returned to life under lockdown after both areas saw surges in coronavirus cases.A statement Sunday from Israel’s Health Ministry said “many” messages had been sent to Israelis following the renewed involvement of the Shin Bet domestic security agency. The Israeli daily Haaretz reported that more than 30,000 people were notified they must enter quarantine since Thursday.After imposing strict measures early on during a first wave of infections, Israel and the Palestinian territories appeared to have contained their outbreaks, with each reporting only a few dozen new cases a day in May. But an easing of restrictions led to a steady uptick in cases over the past month.“We wanted to continue and open the economy as much as possible but with the amount of infections, which appeared like a very high cliff, it forced us at this point to get involved more aggressively,” Israeli Defense Minister Benny Gantz told Israeli Army Radio.Israel is now reporting more than 1,000 new cases a day, higher than its peak during the previous wave and it is set to reimpose restrictions in response, limiting occupancy in bars, places of worship and event spaces to 50 people. It is requiring citizens wear masks and has urged more stringent social distancing.With its contact tracing apparatus struggling to keep up with the mounting caseload, Israel last week redeployed the Shin Bet to use its sophisticated phone surveillance technology to track Israelis who have come in contact with infected people and then notify them that they must enter home quarantine. The measure is typically used to thwart attacks by tracking Palestinian militants.The contentious tactic was used when the outbreak first emerged earlier this year, and while civil rights groups challenged it in the country’s Supreme Court, the court threatened to halt its use unless it was put under legislative oversight. The Israeli Knesset has since done so twice using temporary legislation, most recently on Wednesday.While officials have defended the practice as a life-saving measure, civil rights groups attacked it as an assault on privacy rights. Analysts say the measure may act as a dragnet that could needlessly force some into quarantine.Israeli media reported that of the thousands ordered into home quarantine, many Israelis complained that they struggled to appeal quarantine orders because the Health Ministry’s hotline was overwhelmed and ill-equipped to handle such a deluge.Israel appeared to have put the pandemic behind it in May, with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu proudly urging Israelis to go out, grab a coffee or a beer and “have fun.” Critics have charged that amid the dwindling cases, Israel let down its guard, reopened too quickly and failed to capitalize on its gained time to improve its contact tracing capabilities to contend with a second wave.Netanyahu, who was largely seen as having capably handled the first wave, has suffered in public opinion polls from his approach this time around.Since the start of the outbreak, Israel has seen more than 29,000 cases and 330 deaths. More than 17,000 people have recovered.In the West Bank, residents have been ordered since Friday to remain at home unless they need to purchase food or medicine. Movement between cities and towns is heavily restricted. The lock down is expected to last five days.Palestinian authorities fear that if the outbreak spirals out of control it could overwhelm its under-resourced health care system.In the past two weeks, Palestinian health authorities have reported more than 1,700 confirmed coronavirus cases in the West Bank city of Hebron and hundreds more in Bethlehem and Nablus.The West Bank has reported more than 3,700 cases since the outbreak began. More than 400 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-palestinians-face-new-restrictions-amid-coronavirus-surge/story-GLORdnOJgUscaGmfxH97aM.html
05-07-2020||World||Crunch, crunch: Africa’s locust outbreak is far from over||The crunch of young locusts comes with nearly every step. The worst outbreak of the voracious insects in Kenya in 70 years is far from over, and their newest generation is now finding its wings for proper flight.The livelihoods of millions of already vulnerable people in East Africa are at stake, and people like Boris Polo are working to limit the damage. The logistician with a helicopter firm is on contract with the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization, helping to find and mark locust swarms for the targeted pesticide spraying that has been called the only effective control.“It sounds grim because there’s no way you’re gonna kill all of them because the areas are so vast,” he told The Associated Press from the field in northwestern Kenya on Thursday. “But the key of the project is to minimize” the damage, and the work is definitely having an effect, he said.For months, a large part of East Africa has been caught in a cycle with no end in sight as millions of locusts became billions, nibbling away the leaves of both crops and the brush that sustains the livestock so important to many families.“The risk of significant impact to both crops and rangelands is very high,” the regional IGAD Climate Prediction & Applications Center said Wednesday in a statement.For now, the young yellow locusts cover the ground and tree trunks like a twitching carpet, sometimes drifting over the dust like giant grains of sand.In the past week and a half, Polo said, the locusts have transformed from hoppers to more mature flying swarms that in the next couple of weeks will take to long-distance flight, creating the vast swarms that can largely blot out the horizon. A single swarm can be the size of a large city.Once airborne, the locusts will be harder to contain, flying up to 200 kilometers (124 miles) a day.“They follow prevailing winds,” Polo said. “So they’ll start entering Sudan, Ethiopia and eventually come around toward Somalia.” By then, the winds will have shifted and whatever swarms are left will come back into Kenya.“By February, March of next year they’ll be laying eggs in Kenya again,” he said. The next generation could be up to 20 times the size of the previous one.The trouble is, only Kenya and Ethiopia are doing the pesticide control work. “In places like Sudan, South Sudan, especially Somalia, there’s no way, people can’t go there because of the issues those countries are having,” Polo said.“The limited financial capacity of some of the affected countries and the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic have further hampered control efforts. Additionally, armed conflict in Somalia rendered some of the locust breeding areas inaccessible,” ICPAC expert Abubakr Salih Babiker and colleagues wrote in correspondence published in the journal Nature Climate Change this month.Since “more extreme climate variability could increase the likelihood of pest outbreaks and spread,” they called for a better early warning system for the region and urged developing countries to help.The World Bank earlier this year announced a $500 million program for countries affected by the historic desert locust swarms, while the FAO has sought more than $300 million.The pesticide spraying in Kenya “has definitely borne fruit,” said Kenneth Mwangi, a satellite information analyst with ICPAC. There’s been a sharp decline from the first wave of locusts, and a few counties that had seen “huge and multiple swarms” now report little to none. Areas experiencing the second wave are notably the farthest from control centers, he said.It’s been more challenging in Ethiopia, where despite the spraying, new locust swarms arrived from Somalia and parts of northern Kenya. “Unfortunately both waves have found crops in the field,” Mwangi said.But without the control work, Polo said, the already dramatic swarms would be even more massive.He and colleagues target the locusts in the early mornings before they leave their roosting spots and start flying in the heat of the day. The work has gone on since March.“These plagues are part of nature,” Polo said. “They actually rejuvenate the areas. They don’t kill the plants, they eat the leaves. Everything grows back.“They don’t harm the natural world, they harm what humans need in the natural world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/crunch-crunch-africa-s-locust-outbreak-is-far-from-over/story-qHT3o14svbxzcNUTT14a3L.html
05-07-2020||World||UK PM Johnson to phase out Huawei’s 5G role within months: Report||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to begin phasing out the use of Chinese tech giant Huawei’s technology in Britain’s 5G network as soon as this year, The Daily Telegraph reported on Saturday. Officials are drawing up proposals to stop installing new Huawei Technologies equipment in the 5G network in as little as six months, and to speed up the removal of technology that is already in place, the newspaper reported.The move comes after the nation’s spy agency GCHQ raised new security fears over Chinese technology. A report prepared by GCHQ’s National Cyber Security Centre concludes that new US sanctions on Huawei will force the company to use untrusted technology that could make the risk impossible to control, the newspaper said. The sanctions have had a “severe” impact on the firm that significantly changes GCHQ’s calculations, the report said. The report is expected to be presented to Johnson this week. Johnson’s spokesman said earlier this week that officials will soon complete a review of the implications of the latest U.S. sanctions, which are aimed at cutting off Huawei’s access to US chipmakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-johnson-to-phase-out-huawei-s-5g-role-within-months-report/story-qNmVBS3Xd9o6RYz9OohHYL.html
05-07-2020||World||Croatia votes in close parliamentary race as coronavirus spikes||Amid a spike of new coronavirus cases, voters in Croatia cast ballots on Sunday in what is expected be a close parliamentary race that could push the latest European Union member state further to the right.The ballot is expected to produce no clear winner as neither the ruling conservatives nor their main liberal opponents appeared set to win a majority in the 151-member parliament.This means that a newcomer right-wing party led by a popular folk singer could play a key role in the future government. Miroslav Skoro’s Homeland Movement has polled third despite public outrage over some of his staunchly hard-line and nationalist views.Skoro’s party is believed to have chipped away votes from the ruling Croatian Democratic Union, a conservative party that has dominated the political scene in Croatia since the independence in 1991.The HDZ is bidding for reelection while faced with a renewed surge in virus cases that followed reopening of the country’s borders and easing of lockdown rules. Croatia is struggling to salvage its main source of revenue — tourism along the Adriatic Sea coast.A country of 4.2 million people, Croatia has kept the outbreak largely under control, reporting around 113 deaths and some 3,100 confirmed infections. But Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic was criticized over an outbreak at a tennis tournament organized by top-ranked Novak Djokovic in the coastal town of Zadar.Plenkovic’s main opponents are Restart coalition led by the center-left Social Democratic Party, the main liberal group. They say the government is plagued by corruption and voters should choose a new beginning if they want the country to move forward.Restart could also ally with a new green-left alliance further on the left, if they gain enough seats. The group led by Mozemo, or We Can, party is strong mostly in the capital Zagreb but not so much in other parts of Croatia.Some 3.8 million people are eligible to vote but analysts say virus fears could keep many at home. Voters have been advised to take own temperature and stay away if they have a fever. Those who vote should bring their own pen and wear a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/croatia-votes-in-close-parliamentary-race-as-coronavirus-spikes/story-KxWIDl7C2vFg2bOTUPw6rI.html
05-07-2020||World||China braces for more storms; 121 dead or missing this year||A wide swath of southern China braced Sunday for more seasonal rains and flooding that state media said has already left more than 120 people dead or missing this year.The National Meteorological Center raised the weather alert to yellow Sunday morning, the third highest of four warning levels, for more than half a dozen provinces and the cities of Shanghai and Chongqing. Heavy to torrential rains were forecast into Monday afternoon.Footage on state broadcaster CCTV showed flooded streets and farmland in Anhui province. To the south in Jiangxi province, more than 8,000 people have been evacuated and 54 houses collapsed after rainstorms in recent days, the network said.Nationwide, flooding-related disasters have destroyed 17,000 homes, caused 41.6 billion yuan ($5.9 billion) in economic losses and left 121 people dead or missing so far this year, the official People’s Daily newspaper said in a social media post, citing the Ministry of Emergency Management.The National Meteorological Center said some parts of Anhui, Hubei, Hunan and Zhejiang provinces could see 100 to 230 mm (4 to 9 inches) of rain. It also issued a yellow alert for rain in two northeastern provinces, Heilongjiang and Jilin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-braces-for-more-storms-121-dead-or-missing-this-year/story-sElBOgV354UwePPqVOwipN.html
05-07-2020||World||Qureshi moved to Rawalpindi for Covid-19 treatment, China wishes him speedy recovery||Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi was admitted to Combined Military Hospital in Rawalpindi for further treatment for coronavirus infection, Geo News reported on Saturday, citing sources.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian has wished him a speedy recovery from the illness.“Please stay safe. I wish you a quick recovery,” he tweeted tagging Qureshi’s post.A day earlier, Qureshi announced he tested positive for Covid-19 and had gone into isolation. “This afternoon I felt a slight fever and immediately quarantined myself at home. I have now tested positive for Covid-19,” he said in a tweet.“By the grace of Allah, I feel strong and energetic. I will continue to carry on my duties from home. Please keep me in your prayers,” the foreign minister added.Qureshi has joined a long list of lawmakers who have contracted the virus.As per media reports, Muttahida Qaumi Movement Pakistan (MQM-P) leader and Federal Minister for Information Technology and Telecommunications Syed Aminul Haq had tested positive for the coronavirus, almost two weeks ago. PML-N spokesperson Marriyum Aurangzeb said she had also contracted the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/qureshi-moved-to-rawalpindi-for-covid-19-treatment-china-wishes-him-speedy-recovery/story-sakTKSs3kDSbUtpS4mwoNP.html
05-07-2020||World||Woman dies after she was hit by car on highway amid protest||A 24-year-old woman died Saturday of her injuries after she and another woman were hit by a car on a closed highway in Seattle while protesting against police brutality, authorities said.Summer Taylor of Seattle died in the evening at Harborview Medical Center, spokeswoman Susan Gregg said.Taylor and Diaz Love, 32, of Portland, Oregon, were hit by the car that barreled through a panicked crowd of protesters on Interstate 5 early Saturday morning, officials said.Dawit Kelete of Seattle drove the car around vehicles that were blocking I-5 and sped into the crowd about 1:40 a.m., according to a police report released by the Washington State Patrol. Video taken at the scene by protesters showed people shouting “Car! Car!” before fleeing the roadway.Love is in serious condition in the intensive care unit, Harborview, Gregg said.Love was filming the protest in a nearly two-hour-long Facebook livestream captioned “Black Femme March takes I-5” when the video ended abruptly; with about 15 seconds left, shouts of “Car!” can be heard as the camera starts to shake before screeching tires and the sound of impact are heard.A graphic video posted on social media showed the white Jaguar racing toward a group of protesters who are standing behind several parked cars, set up for protection. The car swerves around the other vehicles and slams into the two women, sending them flying into the air.The driver, who was alone, fled the scene after hitting the protesters, Trooper Chase Van Cleave told The Associated Press. One of the protesters got in a car and chased the driver for about a mile. He was able to stop him by pulling his car in front of the Jaguar, Van Cleave said.Troopers arrived, and the driver was put in custody, Washington State Patrol Capt. Ron Mead said.Kelete was described by offices as reserved and sullen when he was arrested, according to court documents. He also asked if the pedestrians were OK, the documents say.Kelete was booked into the King County Correctional Facility on Saturday morning on two counts of vehicular assault. Bail was denied.A judge found probable cause to hold Kelete on an investigation of vehicular assault. He faces a second court hearing on Monday at which the judge will determine if he can be released on bail, according to court documents.It was not immediately clear if Kelete had an attorney who could speak on his behalf.Officials were trying to determine the motive as well as where he got onto the interstate, which had been closed by the state patrol for more than an hour before the women were hit. Mead said they suspect Kelete drove the wrong way on a ramp. Trooper Rick Johnson said the driver went through a barrier that closed the freeway before striking the women.Troopers did not know whether it was a targeted attack, but impairment was not considered a factor, Mead said.Kelete has a Seattle address. He is listed in public records as a student who attended Washington State University between 2011 and 2017 majoring in business and commerce. His enrollment status could not be confirmed because the university was closed Saturday.The Washington State Patrol said Sunday evening that going forward it won’t allow protesters to enter I-5 and would arrest pedestrians on the freeway.Seattle has been the site of prolonged unrest following the May 25 police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis, which sparked nationwide protests. Dozens of people were arrested this past week in connection with protests as demonstrations continue after authorities cleared the “Capitol Hill Occupied Protest” zone Wednesday morning.Protesters had shut down the interstate for 19 days in a row, Mead said at a press conference.The State Patrol responded by closing sections of the interstate to keep drivers and protesters safe.“In a time that requires care and flexibility, we are exercising the safest means possible to avoid injuries or worse to motorists, protesters, WSDOT personnel and our troopers by closing the roadway and separating protesters from vehicular traffic,” Chief John Batiste said in a statement on June 27, responding to complaints about the road closures.Mead emphasized that the freeway is “simply not a safe place” for pedestrians, and said he hoped protesters would cease what he termed “unlawful behavior” in blocking the interstate.“My hope is, as a result of this tragedy, protesters will reconsider their desire to be on the interstate because I cannot guarantee their safety, plain and simple,” Mead said.Seattle Mayor Jenny Durkan said the city stands beside the friends and family of the victims.“No one should risk their life for demanding better from our city, state and country,” Durkan said on Twitter.Protesters were on the freeway for more than an hour before the car drove around the blockade around 1:36 a.m., Mead said.The state patrol tweeted out two pictures of the driver’s car with significant damage to its bumper and windshield.Seattle police tweeted that they were assisting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/woman-dies-after-she-was-hit-by-car-on-highway-amid-protest/story-4weWFJUflrC9pfbp9INz6L.html
05-07-2020||World||‘Don’t see no white militia’: Armed protesters march through Confederate memorial in Georgia||A predominantly Black group of heavily armed protesters marched through Stone Mountain Park near Atlanta on Saturday, calling for removal of the giant Confederate rock carving at the site that civil rights activists consider a monument to racism.Video footage of the Independence Day rally posted on social media showed scores of demonstrators dressed in black - many in paramilitary-style clothing and all wearing face scarves - quietly parading several abreast down a sidewalk at the park.In Stone Mountain, Georgia earlier today pic.twitter.com/F2Autd4YtIThe protesters all carried rifles, including military-type weapons, and some wore ammunition belts slung over their shoulders. Although African Americans appeared to account for the bulk of the marchers, protesters of various races, men and women alike, were among the group.One video clip showed a leader of the demonstrators, who was not identified, shouting into a loudspeaker in a challenge to white supremacists who historically have used Stone Mountain as a rallying spot of their own.“I don’t see no white militia,” he declared. “We’re here. Where ... you at? We’re in your house. Let’s go.”John Bankhead, a spokesman for the Stone Mountain Memorial Association, said the protesters were peaceful and orderly.“It’s a public park, a state park. We have these protests on both sides of the issue from time to time. We respect people’s First Amendment right,” Bankhead told NBC affiliate station WXIA-TV.“We understand the sensitivities of the issue here at the park ... so we respect that and allow them to come in as long as it’s peaceful, which it has been.”Stone Mountain, which reopened for the holiday weekend following a weeks-long closure over the coronavirus, has faced renewed calls for its removal since the May 25 death of George Floyd, an unarmed Black man, at the hands of Minneapolis police.Floyd’s killing helped revive a long-simmering conflict between groups seeking to do away with Confederate statues and sculptures, which they see as pro-slavery symbols, and those who believe they honor the traditions and history of the Deep South.Nine stories high and spanning the length of a football field, the bas-relief Stone Mountain sculpture carved into a granite wall overlooking the Georgia countryside some 25 miles (40 km) east of Atlanta remains the largest such monument to America’s Civil War Confederacy.It features the likenesses of Jefferson Davis, who was president of the 11-state Confederacy, and two of his legendary generals, Robert E. Lee and Thomas “Stonewall” Jackson. (Reporting by Steve Gorman in Eureka, California; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/don-t-see-no-white-militia-armed-protesters-march-through-confederate-memorial-in-georgia/story-ah0NlUIYSSgTDsyBOjHXpM.html
05-07-2020||World||China says Beijing’s coronavirus outbreak wanes||Chinese officials have reported eight new confirmed Covid-19 cases as a recent outbreak in Beijing appears to have largely run its course.China’s capital had two new cases, the seventh straight day of single-digit increase. Authorities have confirmed 334 infections during the city’s outbreak, which was detected about three weeks ago and is the largest in the country since March. No deaths have been reported.Beijing government spokesperson Xu Hejian said at a news conference Saturday that the situation “keeps improving and is completely controllable.” The six cases outside Beijing were people arriving from abroad. Three were in Gansu province in the country’s northwest.China has reported 83,553 confirmed cases and 4,634 deaths since the pandemic began. Its case count does not include people who test positive for the coronavirus but show no symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-beijing-s-coronavirus-outbreak-wanes/story-Mkra7yjNsWxA5BPQFSA2DP.html
05-07-2020||World||Japan floods leave some 20 dead, many in nursing homes||Deep floodwaters and the risk of more mudslides that left about 20 people confirmed or presumed dead hampered search and rescue operations on Sunday in southern Japan, including at elderly home facilities where more than a dozen perished and scores are still stranded. Rescue helicopters plucked more people from their homes in the Kumamoto region. Up to 10,000 defense troops, the coast guard and fire brigades are taking part in the operation. Large areas along the Kuma River were swallowed by floodwaters with many houses, buildings and vehicles submerged almost up to their roofs. Mudslides smashed into houses, sending people atop rooftops waiving at rescuers. At a flooded elderly care home in Kuma Village, 14 residents were presumed dead after rescuers reached them on Saturday, officials said. Three others had hypothermia. The rescue continued Sunday for dozens of other residents and caregivers who were still at the riverside care facility Senjuen, where about 60 people were trapped when floodwaters and mud gushed in, officials said. In Hitoyoshi City, the deluge poured into houses near the main train station. “The water rose to the second floor so fast and I just couldn’t stop shivering,” a 55-year-old woman who was visiting her relatives told the Asahi newspaper. She and her relatives ran upstairs, swam out of the window and eventually took refuge on the roof to wait for their rescue. More than 75,000 residents in the prefectures of Kumamoto and Kagoshima were urged to evacuate following pounding rains on Friday evening and into Saturday. The evacuation was not mandatory and many people opted to stay home because of concerns over catching the coronavirus, even though officials say shelters are adequately equipped with partitions and other safety measures. Flooding also cut off power and communication lines, further delaying the search and rescue. Nearly 6,000 homes in Kumamoto were still without electricity Sunday, according to the Kyushu Electric Power Co. The rainfall that exceeded 100 millimeters (4 inches) per hour has since subsided but the Japan Meteorological Agency has kept mudslide warnings in place across Kumamoto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-floods-leave-some-20-dead-many-in-nursing-homes/story-SjDLZGtkB9sL7Sm9oJ887L.html
05-07-2020||World||Modern day humans inherited DNA linked to Covid-19 from Neandarthals, claims study||A new study has claimed that genes linked to the coronavirus disease were passed on to humans by the Neandarthals who existed 60,000 years ago.The study has been carried out by a pair of Swedish geneticists Svante Paabo and Hugo Zeberg. Germany’s Max Planck Institute, Japan’s Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology and Sweden’s Karolinska institute are affiliated with the project.The frequency of contracting the infection is higher in the people from south Asia (nearly 30 per cent) than in Europe (nearly eight per cent), the study said, because the piece of genome is prevalent in south Asia.The piece of genome that the study found is responsible for the infection, is common in those living in Bangladesh. More than 63 per cent of the population carry at least one copy of Chromosome 3, which was studied by the researchers in this case.The presence of this particular gene set is there in only four per cent of East Asians, and is completely absent in Africa, the study showed.According to another study published in Nature, modern Asian and European human genomes are made up of 2–3 per cent Neanderthal DNA. This is the result of inter-breeding that happened thousands of years ago, that study said.An abstract published on the study said that in the current pandemic, it is clear that gene flow from Neanderthals has tragic consequences. The study has not been published in any scientific journal yet.Meanwhile, global Covid-19 cases have crossed the 11 million mark - a yet anothet grim milestone in the spread of the disease that has killed more than half a million people in seven months.The number of cases is more than double the figure for severe influenza illnesses recorded annually, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO).Many hard-hit countries are easing lockdowns put in place to slow the spread of the coronavirus while making extensive alterations to work and social life that could last for a year or more until a vaccine is available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/modern-day-humans-inherited-dna-linked-to-covid-19-from-neandarthals-claims-study/story-5YvQ0l6jjCZscTSJ1tl7II.html
05-07-2020||World||To protest difficulties in burying Covid-19 victim, kin leave coffin in the street||The rising toll of Covid-19 deaths is overwhelming the Bolivian city of Cochabamba, where desperate relatives of one apparent victim of the new coronavirus left his coffin in the street for several hours on Saturday to protest difficulties in getting him buried.Neighbor Remberto Arnez said the 62-year-old man had died on Sunday and his body had been in his home ever since, “but that’s risky because of the possible contagion.”Follow latest updates on coronavirus here After a few hours, funeral workers showed up and took the coffin to a cemetery.Police Col. Iván Rojas told a news conference that the city is collecting “about 17 bodies a day. This is collapsing the police personnel and funeral workers” in the city of some 630,000 people.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “The crematorium oven is small, that is where the bodies are collecting,” said national Labor Minister Óscar Mercado, who told reporters that officials were preparing 250 new burial plots in the city’s main cemetery.The Andean nation has reported 36,818 confirmed cases of Covid-19 and 1,320 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/to-protest-difficulties-in-burying-covid-19-victim-kin-leave-coffin-in-the-street/story-bvgVNwXeE32VeNihqWFoaJ.html
05-07-2020||World||Tokyo first female governor favored to win reelection for handling virus||Tokyo Gov. Yuriko Koike is poised to be reelected in Sunday’s polls, buoyed by public support for her coronavirus handling despite a recent rise in infections that has raised concerns of a resurgence of the disease.The first woman to head the Japanese capital, Koike. 67, is also viewed as a potential candidate to succeed Prime Minister Shinzo Abe when his term ends in September 2021. For now, she says she’s focused on protecting the lives of the 14 million people in Tokyo, a megacity with a $1 trillion economy.“Fighting against the coronavirus for the residents of Tokyo is my first and foremost responsibility,” she said on the eve of the election. In her campaign message online, Koike pledged to balance disease prevention and the economy under Tokyo’s “new normal.”Tokyo’s infections started to rebound in late June to reach 131 confirmed cases on Saturday, topping 100 for a third straight day and hitting a two-month high since early May. New daily cases have also spiked in recent weeks nationwide to about 19,700 with 977 deaths.Koike’s challengers include popular actor-turned-politician Taro Yamamoto and veteran lawyer Kenji Utsunomiya. Yamamoto wants to cancel the Tokyo Olympics and use the funds to help people hurt by the coronavirus crisis, while Utsunomiya, known as the Bernie Sanders of Japan, is calling for better welfare support for a more inclusive and diverse society.Results are expected soon after polls close Sunday night. A recent poll by the Mainichi newspaper has Koike leading her opponents by a wide margin.Among other things, Koike says Japan should have its own version of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. She also tried to gain public understanding for a simpler version of the Tokyo Olympics after the Games were postponed to next year due to the pandemic.Though Koike has not fully delivered on promises to Tokyo residents to relieve congestion on commuter trains, ensure adequate availability of child and elder care facilities and end overwork, even her critics have lauded her handling of the pandemic. That’s in sharp contrast to Abe, who has been criticized for doing too little, too late.As the pandemic deepened in the spring, Koike often upstaged fellow conservative Abe, whose support ratings have plunged due to his handling of the crisis and its severe impact on the economy, on top of a slew of scandals.A former TV newscaster, Koike is stylish and media savvy. She earned the nickname “migratory bird” for hopping between parties and forming new alliances -- at least seven times -- a rarity among Japanese politicians famous for their loyalty to party factions.___Follow Mari Yamaguchi on Twitter at https://www.twitter.com/mariyamaguchi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tokyo-first-female-governor-favored-to-win-r-eelection-for-handling-virus/story-UygSXmWAx3YtcKdeQep2gL.html
05-07-2020||World||US CDC reports 2,789,678 coronavirus cases, 129,305 deaths||The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) revised its count of coronavirus cases and deaths to 57,718 new cases and 661 deaths on Saturday, taking the total to 2,789,678 cases and 129,305 deaths. It had earlier reported 52,492 cases 749 deaths. CDC did not respond to requests for clarification on Saturday. The CDC reported its tally of cases of the respiratory illness known as Covid-19, caused by a new coronavirus, as of 4 pm ET on July 3 compared with its previous report a day earlier.The CDC figures do not necessarily reflect cases reported by individual states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-cdc-reports-2-789-678-coronavirus-cases-129-305-deaths/story-FU2oxx2GenCrDuuDm1oaON.html
05-07-2020||World||WHO reports record daily increase in global Covid-19 cases, up more than 212,000||The World Health Organization reported a record increase in global coronavirus cases on Saturday, with the total rising by 212,326 in 24 hours.The biggest increases were from the United States, Brazil and India, according to a daily report. The previous WHO record for new cases was 189,077 on June 28. Deaths remained steady at about 5,000 a day.Global coronavirus cases exceeded 11 million on Friday, according to a Reuters tally, marking another milestone in the spread of the disease that has killed more than half a million people in seven months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-reports-record-daily-increase-in-global-covid-19-cases-up-more-than-212-000/story-e9lPFgKHXrXpi0Z6iJS0UO.html
05-07-2020||World||Siberian tiger kills zookeeper in Zurich||A female Siberian tiger attacked and killed a 55-year-old zookeeper at Zurich’s zoo on Saturday, the authorities said.Rescue crews were unable to save the woman, who died on the spot. A park visitor reported the attack and zoo staff lured the five-year-old tiger named Irina away from the victim and into a stall, police and the zoo said.Circumstances of the attack were still under investigation.The tiger enclosure in Zurich also holds a four-year-old male called Sayan, according to the zoo’s website.Irina, who was still alive after the incident, originally came from a zoo in Odense, Denmark, a year ago and replaced a female who died from complications after a fight with Sayan.“This is a young animal that so far has behaved entirely naturally as a tiger does,” Zoo Director Severin Dressen told reporters, adding that it was unclear why the tiger and the zookeeper were in the enclosure at the same time.Witnesses to the incident and zoo staff were receiving counselling.The Zurich zoo reopened a month ago after being closed due to the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/siberian-tiger-kills-zookeeper-in-zurich/story-0WK0ibETHM26GZN9YcyRLL.html
05-07-2020||World||US holiday weekend adds to Covid-19 worries as case counts grow||Florida has reported a record number of coronavirus cases, the latest sign that the virus is surging in many parts of the United States, casting a pall over Fourth of July celebrations.Officials and health authorities warned people to take precautions or simply stay home on Independence Day, as confirmed cases are climbing in 40 states. The US set another daily record Friday with more than 54,000 newly reported infections, according to numbers kept by Johns Hopkins University. The daily toll reported Saturday also passed 50,000.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The US has more than 2.8 million confirmed cases — about a quarter of worldwide infections, according to the tally, which is widely thought to understate the true toll, partially because of asymptomatic cases and limited testing.Florida reported 11,445 confirmed infections on Saturday, bringing the statewide total to more than 190,000.Alabama this week also set a record for infections reported in a day, with more than 1,700 confirmed cases recorded Thursday, and state health officials worried that the holiday weekend could lead to the type of spike that followed Memorial Day weekend.“I’m really, really worried about the Fourth of July,” said Dr. Don Williamson, a former state health officer who now heads the Alabama Hospital Association.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “I think that will likely determine the trend for Alabama for the rest of the summer.” The sobering updates came as local officials and health experts across the country tried to minimize opportunities for the virus to continue spreading on a holiday weekend typically spent swimming, eating at backyard gatherings or crowding elbow-to-elbow to view parades and fireworks shows.Many communities cancelled those events and cautioned people against gathering on their own.In Florida, bars statewide are shut down and some regional attractions, such as Zoo Miami and Jungle Island, have closed. Officials in South Florida — including in Miami-Dade County and the Florida Keys — closed beaches through the weekend.Other beaches in the state remained open. At St. Pete Beach on the Gulf of Mexico, parking spaces were scarce Saturday afternoon and hundreds of people clustered in groups under umbrellas and in cabanas on the sand.Pinellas County Sheriff’s deputies patrolled on ATVs, telling folks they should stay with their own families or groups — and away from others.Keisha Pereira came to the beach from Osceola County — about 100 miles (160 kilometers) inland — with her daughter and two other children and said the group planned to stay away from others. She brought along hand sanitizer and masks in case they go anywhere other than the beach.“We’re going to stay with each other,” she said. “I feel pretty safe outside.” In several of California’s tourism-focused counties, economic woes prompted campaigns to convince state residents to travel within its borders. But public health experts and mayors of popular beach towns Santa Cruz and Half Moon Bay have pleaded with people to stay home for the holiday.Crista Luedtke said demand has been “bonkers” since reopening the 14-room Boon Hotel and Spa that she owns in the Sonoma County town of Guerneville. Guests must stay at least two nights and are assigned chaise lounges near the pool.“Tourism is not dangerous,” Luedtke said. “I think people not following the rules is dangerous.” The holiday weekend coincides with a big step back this week for California’s efforts to reopen the state’s economy. Gov. Gavin Newsom ordered a three-week closure of bars and many indoor establishments in counties that are home to about three-quarters of the state’s population.Local efforts to discourage holiday gatherings are in stark contrast to President Donald Trump’s weekend agenda, including a fireworks display Friday night at Mount Rushmore in South Dakota and Saturday’s “Salute for America” celebration set to include a presidential speech on the White House South Lawn and an enormous fireworks display that could pack people into downtown Washington in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-holiday-weekend-adds-to-covid-19-worries-as-case-counts-grow/story-3nfc0LhzHWBCkxvtoBjf1N.html
05-07-2020||World||China reports eight new coronavirus cases in mainland||China reported eight new coronavirus cases in the mainland for July 4, compared with three cases a day earlier, the health authority said on Sunday.Six of the new infections were imported cases, according to a statement by the National Health Commission, while the capital Beijing reported two new cases. There were no new deaths.China reported seven new asymptomatic patients, up from four a day earlier.As of Saturday, mainland China had 83,553 confirmed coronavirus cases, the health authority said. China’s death toll from the Covid-19 remained 4,634, unchanged since Mid-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-reports-eight-new-coronavirus-cases-in-mainland/story-fLH6dC1ENWL5HIuMhV0hFJ.html
05-07-2020||World||Armed men gun down 40 people in brutal attacks in Mali’s villages||Unidentified armed men massacred 31 civilians in simultaneous attacks on several Mali villages this week, then killed nine soldiers responding to the assault as violence surges in the country’s conflict-wracked centre.An Islamist insurgency that erupted in the north of the vast West African country in 2012 has swept to its centre, inflaming ethnic tensions along the way. Clashes between the ethnic communities of Fulani, nomadic herders, and Dogon traditional hunters have increased in recent months, with community-based militias - initially formed for defence - now launching attacks.Armed uniformed men travelling in pick-up trucks attacked four Dogon villages on Wednesday, one local official said by telephone, speaking on condition of anonymity for security reasons.The attack left at least 30 dead, including women, children, and the elderly, while others were missing, the official added. “From 3 to 9 pm, nobody came to our rescue,” said Youssouf Tiessogue, an elder from Gouari, one of the villages attacked.Deploring the army’s “inaction,” he said: “It is always late and never confronts the bandits even if we tell them where they are.” A senior government official called the attacks “barbaric”. Officials did not immediately blame any group. A military unit was dispatched to the area, and helped bury 31 bodies on Wednesday.On Thursday, the army received information about a new attack and sent the unit to Gouari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/armed-men-gun-down-40-people-in-brutal-attacks-in-mali-s-villages/story-rbKnKRvmqOKZehBhivC6TM.html
05-07-2020||World||WHO revises timeline as global Covid-19 cases surpass 11 million||The World Health Organization (WHO) has updated its account of the early stages of the Covid-19 crisis to say it was alerted by its own office in China, and not by China itself, to the first pneumonia cases in Wuhan.The development comes as the number of coronavirus cases globally crossed 11 million, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker. The total number of fatalities has gone past 525,000.On April 9, WHO published an initial timeline of its communications. In that chronology, WHO had said only that the Wuhan municipal health commission in the province of Hubei had on December 31 reported cases of pneumonia. The UN health agency did not specify who had notified it.It shows that the WHO office in China on December 31 notified its regional point of contact of a case of “viral pneumonia” after having found a declaration for the media on a Wuhan health commission website on the issue.Meanwhile, the WHO said the number of cases worldwide is more than double the figure for severe influenza illnesses recorded annually.Spain’s Catalonia region on Saturday locked down an area with around 200,000 residents near the town of Lerida following a surge in cases. The move came as the summer holiday started in Spain and the country began readmitting foreign visitors from 12 countries outside the EU. It had already opened its frontiers to people from the EU’s visa-free Schengen zone and Britain on June 21.Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro on Friday watered down a law requiring the wearing of face masks in public places to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The Brazilian leader used his veto power to remove articles obliging people to wear masks in shops and churches.Australia’s Victoria state recorded 108 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, forcing authorities to lock down nine public housing towers and three more Melbourne suburbs.China rebuffs study, says G4 flu is not newSHANGHAI: China’s ministry of agriculture and rural affairs said the G4 strain of the swine flu virus is not new and doesn’t infect or sicken humans and animals easily, rebuffing a study published this week. That study, by Chinese scientists and published by the US journal PNAS, warned the new swine flu virus could become a potential “pandemic virus”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-revises-timeline-as-global-covid-19-cases-surpass-11-million/story-BshZe9rvAmQ4zToIvUn51J.html
05-07-2020||World||‘US was doing great until it was hit by China’s Covid-19’, says Donald Trump||Launching another scathing attack on China, US President Donald Trump addressed the second ‘Salute to America’ on America’s 244th Independence Day, saying that the country was doing great until it got hit by a virus that came from China.“The power of tariffs being imposed on foreign lands that took advantage of the United States for decades enabled us to make great trade deals where there were none. Tens of billions of dollars are now paid to the US treasury by the same countries but then we got hit by the virus that came from China,” Trump said.Also read: Can one be reinfected with Covid-19? No evidence yet, say expertsHe further said, “We’re producing gowns, masks, and surgical equipment...It was almost exclusively made in foreign lands, in particular, China where ironically this virus and others came from.”“China’s secrecy, deceptions, and cover-ups allowed it to spread all over the world and China must be held fully accountable.”Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Speaking on the coronavirus vaccines, Trump said, “We are now unbelievably doing well and are testing on vaccines, treatments and therapeutics. I want to send our thanks to scientists and researchers around the country and the world who are at the forefront of our historic effort to rapidly develop and deliver life-saving treatments and ultimately a vaccine. We are unleashing our nation’s scientific brilliance and we will likely have a therapeutic and vaccines solution long before the end of the year.”He said that the country has till now tested almost 40 million people and, hence, the country is showing “results that no other country is showing because no other country is testing like we have...we have the finest testing facilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-was-doing-great-until-it-was-hit-by-china-s-covid-19-says-donald-trump/story-NosnzgWa6TvvcAFLXq9WEJ.html
05-07-2020||World||Trump marks July 4 with a pledge to defeat the ‘Radical Left’||President Donald Trump marked Independence Day by promising to defeat the “radical left” and boasting of his handling of the coronavirus, even as cases spike in the USWashington’s mayor urged people to stay away from the evening’s fireworks display and military flyover to avoid spreading the disease.Trump, speaking from the South Lawn of the White House, reprised themes from a speech he delivered in South Dakota the day before, by lashing out at those protesting statues of certain historical figures and other symbols they say celebrate racial injustice.“We are now in the process of defeating the radical left: the Marxists, the anarchists, the agitators, the looters and people who in many instances have absolutely no clue what they are doing,” Trump said, echoing remarks he gave at Mount Rushmore. “We will never allow an angry mob to tear down our statues, erase our history, indoctrinate our children or trample on our freedoms.”Trump has spent weeks demonizing a movement to re-examine the racial record of historic figures after the killing of George Floyd, an unarmed Black man, while in Minneapolis police custody. Those efforts have led to the removal, or calls for the removal, of statues, including Confederate generals and slave owners, from public and private facilities.Blaming ChinaTrump, lagging in national polls ahead of the November election, used the event to rally his supporters by reciting what he says are some of his achievements, stoking cultural wars and blaming China for the spread of the coronavirus.“China’s secrecy deceptions and cover up allowed it to spread all over the world,” Trump said in his 30-minute remarks. “China must be held fully accountable.”Trump, who has come under widespread criticism for his handling of the coronavirus, said the US is doing “unbelievably well” in finding remedies for the virus and is doing “deep testing” on vaccines. He praised the numbers of virus tests being administered in the US“We’ve made a lot of progress, our strategy has moved along well,” Trump said.New coronavirus cases have set daily records in the US recently while in Europe cases have fallen sharply in response to government-led measures to slow the spread.Concern over the coronavirus pandemic caused many to stay away from the event, leaving the National Mall with a fraction of the audience that normally attends Washington’s annual fireworks displays. New Covid-19 cases rose 1.7% in the US, surging in southern and western states, although cases have fallen off in the nation’s capital and surrounding areas.Guests at the White House were asked to socially distance, while District of Columbia Mayor Muriel Bowser, a regular Trump antagonist, urged residents to celebrate at home.The president hosted invited military families and administration staffers at the White House, pulling back from the 2019 event held at the Lincoln Memorial.Trump has sought to revamp the annual Fourth of July celebration in the nation’s capital into a bigger spectacle, with a larger fireworks show and muscular display of military equipment, mirroring events like the annual Bastille Day parade in France.Trump stood to watch a flyover of vintage and modern military aircraft, including members of the Blue Angels and Thunderbirds. Some 10,000 fireworks were expected to be launched, making this year’s show among the largest in recent history, according to the Interior Department.At Mount Rushmore on Friday night the president portrayed a dark vision of a “new far-left fascism” seeking to erase the nation’s history.Ridership ExpectationsEarlier this week the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority said in a statement that all indications were that crowds gathering to watch the fireworks “will be much lighter than in past years.” For many years the fireworks show has been paired with a free concert on the west lawn of the US Capitol.Bowser, who last year criticized Trump’s amped-up Independence Day event as self-serving and costly, encouraged city residents to steer clear.“We of course know that the White House has already announced its plans, and the National Park Service will conduct the fireworks to celebrate the nation’s birthday,” Bowser said at a news conference last week. “We will continue to support those activities in the way that we have traditionally. But we hope that the crowds that come in non-pandemic years won’t materialize this year.”The federal government said that a supply of at least 300,000 cloth face masks would be available and distributed to those attending the celebration on the National Mall. More than 100 hand-washing stations were available, and attendees were encouraged to stay at least six feet away from others.White House officials defended the decision to hold Saturday’s event. Adviser Kellyanne Conway told reporters on Wednesday that “we need to celebrate independence.”“It’s really a day to celebrate our military and veterans,” Conway said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-marks-july-4-with-a-pledge-to-defeat-the-radical-left/story-c0XSn7PsvcI0tTvBOhe4QJ.html
05-07-2020||World||Iran files lawsuit against United States over sanctions amid Covid-19 fight||Iran has filed a lawsuit in the International Court of Justice against the United States over effects of sanctions on Iran’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, Leila Joneidi, Iran’s presidential aide for legal affairs, said on Saturday.The continuous US sanctions against Iran at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic are an indication of “inhuman” move and against human rights, Joneidi was quoted as saying by Tehran Times daily.The official made the remarks during a visit to the Pasteur Institute in the capital Tehran.US President Donald Trump pulled Washington out of the Iranian nuclear deal, also known as the JCPOA, in May 2018 and reimposed heavy sanctions against Iran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-files-lawsuit-against-united-states-over-sanctions-amid-covid-19-fight/story-7RBDysmz6TD4VyoNyxR90I.html
05-07-2020||World||WHO halts hydroxychloroquine and combination of HIV drug trials among hospitalised Covid-19 patients||The World Health Organisation on Saturday has halted its trials of the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine and combination of HIV drug lopinavir/ritonavir for the treatment of hospitalised Covid-19 patients after they failed to reduce the death rate, Al Jazeera reported.“These interim trial results show that hydroxychloroquine and lopinavir/ritonavir produce little or no reduction in the mortality of hospitalised Covid-19 patients when compared to the standard of care. Solidarity trial investigators will interrupt the trials with immediate effect,” the WHO was quoted as saying in a statement.The WHO has added that this decision will now affect the other studies where the drugs are being used for non-hospitalised or as prophylaxis.Meanwhile, the WHO has reported a total of 212,326 new cases of coronavirus globally in 24 hours.The agency further stated that 5,134 deaths have been reported in past 24 hours, taking the total toll to 523,011.The WHO had declared the Covid-19 outbreak a pandemic on March 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-halts-hydroxychloroquine-and-combination-of-hiv-drug-trials-among-hospitalised-covid-19-patients/story-3pihI4hVqp8kk3tkhyi4pI.html
05-07-2020||World||Egypt’s top court upholds 15-yr sentence for activist behind nation’s 2011 uprising||Egypt’s highest criminal court Saturday upheld a 15-year sentence for one of the leading activists behind the country’s 2011 uprising who was convicted of taking part in clashes between protesters and security forces.The Court of Cassation also confirmed a fine of 6 million Egyptian pounds, or $372,000, against Ahmed Douma, a secular activist, over the same violence-related charges.Douma was one of 230 people sentenced in 2015 by the Cairo Criminal Court to life in prison. All defendants were tried in absentia except Douma, who was serving a three-year-sentence for breaking a draconian law regulating protests.Douma appealed the life sentence and the Court of Cassation ordered his retrial, ultimately leading to the reduced sentence of 15 years.Saturday’s verdict is final.The case concerns clashes in Cairo in December 2011, during which a fire gutted parts of a library housing rare manuscripts and books. Other government buildings, including the parliament, were damaged during the protests.The nearly weeklong clashes that left some 40 people dead erupted after mostly young activists took to the streets to protest the post-Mubarak political transition overseen by the military. The clashes brought international attention when riot police were filmed beating, stripping and kicking female demonstrators in Tahrir Square.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/egypt-s-top-court-upholds-15-yr-sentence-for-activist-behind-nation-s-2011-uprising/story-6FUuCbpWjZEUFjdosXGIgP.html
05-07-2020||World||Pakistan will complete CPEC project at all costs, says PM Imran Khan||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan vowed on Friday that his government would complete the ambitious China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) at “any cost” as the USD 60 billion project is a manifestation of the all-weather friendship between the two countries.Addressing a meeting held here to review progress on the CPEC projects, Khan said it is an excellent project for Pakistan’s socio-economic development and the “gigantic multi-faceted initiative would guarantee a bright future for the nation”, the Dawn newspaper reported.Lauding the performance of the CPEC Authority, he said measures must be taken to improve its working as well as capacity.“The corridor is a manifestation of Pakistan-China friendship and the government will complete it at any cost and bring its fruit to every Pakistani,” Khan said.Khan’s statement came a day after Chinese Foriegn Minister Wang Yi discussed the CPEC projects with his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi during a phone conversation.Wang called for the two countries to speed up the projects under the CPEC to help Pakistan’s economic recovery. He also hoped that the Pakistani government would provide more protection for Chinese companies and citizens working in the country.The CPEC, which connects Gwadar Port in Pakistan’s Balochistan with China’s Xinjiang province, is the flagship project of China’‘s ambitious multi-billion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).A Chinese official last month admitted that the majority of the projects under the BRI are either adversely or partially affected by the coronavirus pandemic.About a fifth of the projects under the BRI, which aims to boost trade and investment across Asia, Africa and Europe to further China’‘s global influence, had been “seriously affected” by the pandemic, according to Wang Xiaolong, director-general of the foreign ministry’‘s international economic affairs department.About 40 per cent of the projects were “adversely affected”, and a further 30-40 per cent were “somewhat affected”, Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post quoted Wang as saying.The projects which were disrupted included the CPEC, it said.The CPEC is a collection of infrastructure and other projects under construction throughout Pakistan since 2013. Originally valued at USD 46 billion, the projects were worth USD 62 billion as of 2017.India has protested to China over the CPEC as it is being laid through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.The BRI was launched by Chinese President Xi Jinping when he came to power in 2013. It aims to link Southeast Asia, Central Asia, the Gulf region, Africa and Europe with a network of land and sea routes.The BRI is seen as an attempt by China to further its influence abroad with infrastructure projects funded by Chinese investments all over the world.The initiative also led to allegations of smaller countries reeling under mounting Chinese debt after Sri Lanka gave its Hambantota port in a debt swap to China in 2017 on a 99-year lease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-will-complete-cpec-project-at-all-costs-says-pm-imran-khan/story-y7HRWlOgxQwqRhwebv0G8O.html
05-07-2020||World||TikTok distances itself from China in response to India’s 59 app ban||Social media app TikTok distanced itself from Beijing after India banned 59 Chinese apps in the country, according to a correspondence seen by Reuters.In a letter to the Indian government dated June 28th and seen by Reuters on Friday, TikTok Chief Executive Kevin Mayer said the Chinese government has never requested user data, nor would the company turn it over if asked.TikTok, which is not available in China, is owned by China’s ByteDance but has sought to distance itself from its Chinese roots to appeal to a global audience. Along with 58 other Chinese apps, including Tencent Holdings Ltd’s WeChat and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd’s UC Browser, it was banned in India this week following a border clash with China.“I can confirm that the Chinese government has never made a request to us for the TikTok data of Indian users,” Mayer wrote, adding that data for Indian users is stored in servers in Singapore. “If we do ever receive such a request in the future, we would not comply.”The letter was sent ahead of a likely meeting next week between the company and the government, one source familiar with the matter told Reuters.One Indian government source told Reuters this week the ban was unlikely to be revoked soon. Lawyers have said a legal challenge was unlikely to be successful, given India has cited national security concerns for the ban.The ban, which upset India’s growing legion of TikTok stars, has also given a lift to local rivals such as Roposo, which added 22 million new users in the 48 hours after the ban took effect.TikTok has committed to spend $1 billion in the region. Since its launch in 2017, it has become one of the fastest- growing social media apps. India is its largest market by user, followed by the United States. In the letter, Mayer played up the company’s investment in the region, highlighting more than 3,500 direct and indirect employees and content available in 14 languages.“The privacy of our users, and the security and sovereignty of India, are of utmost importance to us,” Mayer wrote. “We have already announced our plans to build a data centre in India.”The correspondence was first reported by the Wall Street Journal and other media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tiktok-distances-itself-from-china-in-response-to-india-s-59-app-ban/story-4abePFmBPTn6PzLKGKYUGI.html
05-07-2020||World||US ‘loves’ India, Donald Trump tweets back at ‘friend’ Narendra Modi||President Donald Trump thanked “my friend” Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his greetings on the 244th anniversary of the American Independence Day.“Thank you my friend. America loves India!,” Trump tweeted.  Thank you my friend. America loves India! https://t.co/mlvJ51l8XJModi had earlier tweeted, “ I congratulate @POTUS, @realDonaldTrump and the people of the USA on the 244th Independence Day of the USA. As the world’s largest democracies, we cherish freedom and human enterprise that this day celebrates.”The two leaders are known to share an easy and increasingly close relationship, and often refer to each other as “friends”.Trump attended the July 4 American Independence Day celebrations in South Dakota. US Ambassador to India Kenneth I Juster also extended wishes to the Americans on the occasion of the country’s 244th Independence Day.“From all of us at the U.S. Mission in India, we wish our United States of America a very Happy 244th Birthday! #IndependenceDay #4thofJuly,” Juster tweeted on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-loves-india-donald-trump-tweets-back-at-friend-narendra-modi/story-mJZhohpC6rXXt3enJXv26J.html
05-07-2020||World||Amritsar’s Partition Museum shortlisted for UK prize||The Partition Museum in Amritsar has been shortlisted for the 2020 Museums + Heritage Awards for its 2019 collaborative exhibition ‘Jallianwala Bagh 1919: Punjab Under Siege’ with the Manchester Museum, organisers of the exhibition said on Saturday.The joint project has been short-listed under the category of ‘International Project of the Year < £1M’. The London-based Museums + Heritage Awards celebrate the very best within museums, galleries and heritage visitor attractions for over 10 years.The award function will take place virtually on September 22 out of London, a joint statement from the Partition Museum and the Manchester Museum said.The co-curated exhibition was the first time that two museums in cities affected by colonialism, Amritsar and Manchester, came together to re-examine the massacre that eventually brought about the end of the British empire.The exhibition included archival and audio-visual material which shared the narrative of the massacre through eyewitness accounts, photographs and official documents. It coincided with the centenary of the massacre in April 2019, and the bicentenary commemorations for the Peterloo massacre.“We are very excited to be shortlisted by the Museums + Heritage Awards Committee for our collaborative exhibition with the Manchester Museum. We continue our work to remember and commemorate local histories”, said Mallika Ahluwalia, curator of the Partition Museum.The museum in Amritsar was founded by the Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust and inaugurated in August 2017 as the first and only partition museum in the world, housing oral histories, donated personal artefacts and archival material, dedicated to those who lost their lives or loved ones in the largest mass migration in human history.Created through donations, the Partition Museum was awarded the Media, Arts and Culture Award at the second annual UK-India Awards 2018 in London. The Manchester Museum, part of the University of Manchester, opened in 1890 and is the UK’s largest university museum with a collection of about 4.5 million items from every continent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amritsar-s-partition-museum-shortlisted-for-uk-prize/story-fxY57NPr8cLalfIlOLtDyL.html
05-07-2020||India||Kerala imposes safety rules for 1 yr||ThiruvananthapuramThe Kerala government tightened measures on Sunday to check the spread of Covid-19 cases by making wearing of facemask and observance of social distancing mandatory for one year. The government backed the measures, saying people had begun to take safety rules casually after relaxations. However, traders in the state said the tightening of norms may prove to be counterproductive for businesses.Fine for those not wearing a mask has been increased to Rs 10,000 or to a two-year jail term. These measures will be in force for one year unless notified otherwise, said a statement from the government.“We don’t want to lower our guard at the critical juncture. After norms are eased, some people are behaving like pre-Covid days; we want to check this. As long as the virus is in our backyard, we have to follow three basic norms, social distancing, masks and hand hygiene,” state health minister K K Shailaja said.The government amended the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Ordinance 2020 on Saturday to give it more teeth. Earlier, the fine for not wearing a mask was Rs 2,000. The amendment has also made social distancing mandatory for at least one year and restricted the number of participants for wedding parties to less than 50. For all social gatherings, protests and rallies, a written sanction of authorities will be needed, said the statement. Spitting in public places has been made an offence punishable with a fine or jail term. In shops and other business establishments, the amendment limits the presence of people to a maximum of 20, depending on the size of the trading area. Even at work places, masks are mandatory and wearing them casually will also invite a fine. Business establishments have been asked to avoid air-conditioning and closed enclosures and told to maintain office temperature in the range of 25 and 27 degree Celsius.While Indian Medical Association’s Kerala chapter, which wanted stricter norms, welcomed the move, traders and businessmen were guarded in their reaction.“Containment measures are welcome but at the same time the government will have to ensure proper atmosphere for traders. Even at worst-hit areas in Tamil Nadu and Mumbai these norms are not extended to one year,” said MP Prashanth, a trader in Chalai market in Thiruvananthapuram.The decision came in the backdrop of a steady rise in coronavirus disease cases in the state. On Sunday, Kerala reported 225 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 5,429. One person succumbed to the infection, taking the toll up to 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-imposes-safety-rules-for-1-yr/story-kKefI2WMNEk9ytOGE9mRjM.html
05-07-2020||India||Three arrested in Bhopal for assault on journalist||The police in Bhopal arrested three people on Sunday on charges of assaulting a journalist on Saturday night, when the journalist objected to their act of drinking and causing a nuisance in his locality, police said.While the Opposition launched an attack on the state government for poor law and order situation in the state capital as only four days back two students including an engineering student were murdered by a group of miscreants when the two refused to give them money for liquor, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and home minister Narottam Mishra spoke of stringent action against the accused. The victim-- Dhanjay Pratap Singh, a resident of Ayodhya Nagar in Bhopal, working with a vernacular daily, sustained a fracture in one of his arms when the accused attacked him with iron rods. He was hospitalised after the attack where his condition was said to be stable, police said.The accused were identified as Mohit Saxena, a resident of Azad Nagar, Anmol, a resident of Awadhpuri and Chirag Walis, a resident of Ayodhya Nagar in Bhopal and they were booked under Sections 452 (House-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 294 (obscene acts and words in public), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention).Earlier, on Thursday night five miscreants including two minors killed two students including an engineering student in Navjivan Colony in Bhopal, after the students allegedly refused to give money to the accused for liquor.According to police, the students- Yogesh Lodhi and Karan Sondhiya with another friend were standing on the road and talking to each other in Navjivan colony when the accused including Virendra Bharti, Akhilesh Mehra and Bharat Vishwakarma met the two minors asked them for money to purchase liquor. When Yogesh and Karan refused to give the money, the accused who were already in an intoxicated state attacked the two with sharp-edged weapons.Later, local residents informed the police. Yogesh and Karan were rushed to hospital where they died in Hamidia Hospital on Friday during treatment. All the five accused were arrested on Saturday.Additional director general (ADG) of police in Bhopal, Upendra Jain said, “In both the incidents police acted swiftly and arrested the accused. Patrolling has been intensified by the police in the capital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-arrested-in-bhopal-for-assault-on-journalist/story-PKBK0OAzCkHrMJHtaS94cK.html
05-07-2020||India||CBSE scales up teacher training programmes despite pandemic||Even as the Covid-19 epidemic has created hurdles in most teaching-learning activities, there is one aspect where its impact has been rather successfully negated — the training of teachers.The country’s premier education board — the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) — has, in the past three months, trained over 200,000 teachers, which, according to a senior official, is no less than a record.“In the past also, the CBSE has actively carried the exercise to train teachers. However, with Covid-19, the entire exercise was moved online. Often in the past, with regular schools on, at times, there were factors that had to be considered regarding the availability of teachers for these training sessions. However, now, there has been a greater reach and the number of teachers trained in latest techniques has crossed two lakhs (200,000) in the April to June period,” said the senior official.To deal with the changes due to the Covid-19 pandemic, as well as to keep pace with other countries, the CBSE has been actively trying to modernise the curriculum and its teaching methodologies.For instance, in July, the board held training for educationists in Augmented Reality, an immersive technology.According to a circular issued by Biswajit Saha, the CBSE’s director (trainings and skill education), immersive technology, such as Augmented Reality (AR), is going to be one of the most significant technologies of the future.He said the CBSE will continue to hold training sessions for teachers. In the next phase, the CBSE will introduce AR and digital safety programmes for 30,000 students in each category, Saha said. This month, the board has also launched an online course in experiential learning for teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-scales-up-teacher-training-programmes-despite-pandemic/story-VhT2mdXGqs8spfQT7bVmGM.html
05-07-2020||India||Rain brings mercury down in Delhi-NCR, more to follow||Rain and thunderstorms on Sunday morning brought relief to residents of Delhi and its satellite towns in the national capital region (NCR) from heat and humidity, and weather scientists predicted more wet weather over the coming days. Several weather stations in Delhi experienced moderate category rains with Safdarjung receiving 34.8 mm, Lodhi Road 38.2 mm and Delhi Ridge 46.6 mm, according to the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC) of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Delhi-NCR will receive more rains over the next three to four days as a monsoon trough is passing very close to the national capital, IMD scientists said. “There is a lot of moisture because of easterly winds and there was intense heating for the last three to four days with maximum temperatures of over 40 degrees C. We are expecting some thunderstorm activity and light rain for a few days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of RWFC.Delhi’s maximum temperature on Sunday was 34.4 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal.Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi received 7% deficient rains in the week from June 24 to July 1. The monsoon arrived in Delhi on June 24, three days in advance.There is also a low-pressure area over Kutch and its neighbourhood; widespread rainfall activity is likely over Gujarat during the next three days. Very heavy to extremely heavy rain is also likely over Saurashtra and Kutch during the next two days.Under the influence of a low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal off the Odisha-Gangetic West Bengal coasts and associated cyclonic circulations, fairly widespread to widespread and very heavy rain is likely over Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar during next two-three days, IMD said in its Sunday bulletin.Widespread and heavy rains are also expected in many parts of central and northwest India during the next four to five days.IMD’s bulletin has cautioned that moderate to intense thunderstorm and lightning strikes are very likely over Saurashtra and Kutch, south Gujarat region, east Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand during the next 12 hours. HT reported on Sunday that since May 15, nearly 315 people in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh lost their lives to electrocution from lightning strikes.IMD scientists said intense rains in June led to more farmers being out in the field planting paddy. “This year the number of lightning incidents and lightning deaths is more frequent over Bihar and eastern UP because the region is seeing intense monsoon rain quite early in the monsoon in June. In previous years this region usually didn’t receive such rains in June. Because of good rainfall this year in June, farmers are out in the field farming. Paddy field water also attracts electricity and farmers on the field act as conductors of electricity from the thunderstorm,” said Sunitha Devi, a member of the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ thunderstorm working group, had said on Saturday.The country has received 11% excess rains from June 1 during monsoon with 10% excess over east and northeast India; 19% excess over central India; 11% excess over peninsular India; in northwest India, the monsoon has been 7% deficient . A good monsoon, which accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall, is critical to the fortunes of the agricultural sector, on which at least 700 million people in India are dependent for a livelihood. The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-brings-mercury-down-in-delhi-ncr-more-to-follow/story-dS57y0h73YKFhzGxT7gZHJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Bunker, 2 kg explosives found in demolished house of Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey||A day after Uttar Pradesh police demolished the palatial house of gangster Vikas Dubey, a bunker and two kg of explosives, along with six country-made pistols, 25 live rounds and shrapnels were found there.Kanpur inspector general (IG) Mohit Agarwal said Dubey had built a bunker inside the house, stocked with items on which he and his men could have survived for days in case of a prolonged siege. In addition, explosives and a cache of arms were found buried in the house. Police had taken the decision to pull down the house following inputs that the criminal had hidden firearms on the premises, he said.Station house officer, Bithoor, Kaushalendra Pratap Singh, one of the seven policemen injured in the shootout at Bikru village in Kanpur on July 3, said he had been asked by station officer, Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari to accompany the raiding team. Tiwari was suspended on Saturday. Kanpur shootout accused arrested: Watch Vikas Dubey’s aide’s claim on cameraOn reaching Bikru village, the police team left their vehicles on the road and walked about 100 metres, said Singh, who is under treatment at a hospital. They found a heavy earthmoving machine blocking the road. The team, he said, somehow reached close to Dubey’s house.“Suddenly, firing began from all the directions. We looked for safe places. But the majority of our men went down in the first hail of bullets,” he said.Gangster Vikas Dubey’s aide says cop tipped off his boss about police raidThe police officer added that the remaining policemen fired back but were constrained by the fact that while the criminals could see them, policemen could not see the criminals.“Two of my constables Ajay Sengar and Ajay Kashyap were injured. My priority at that time was to save them and take them to safer ground as others had fallen,” he said. Singh was injured when he was taking the constables away.Kanpur shootout probe: More policemen under scanner for links with accusedRam Kumar Dubey, the father of gangster Vikas Dubey, said he was unaware of the shootout in which eight policemen were killed. Ramkumar had been living in Vikas’s new house that was demolished on Saturday. When asked if Vikas Dubey was present during the shootout, he said he didn’t know that either. He said if his son had done anything wrong, the state government should punish him. Otherwise, he had faith in the court where the truth would come out. “We will see the case in court,” he said at Bikru village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bunker-2-kg-explosives-found-in-demolished-house-of-kanpur-gangster-vikas-dubey/story-m3I3n8SA7EnCGEorIbVnoJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand forest officials rescue deer, crocodile in two separate ops||Uttarakhand forest officials rescued a spotted deer and a crocodile in Garhwal and Kumaon regions in two separate operations over the weekend , officials said.In Garhwal region, a spotted deer had fallen into a well in Malhan range of Dehradun forest division on Sunday afternoon.Uday Gaur, range officer Malhan said that the forest officials were informed by the beat watcher that a spotted deer had fallen into an empty well.“Around 1:10 pm we were informed by our beat watcher that a deer had fallen into a well while it was running. The place where it had fallen is close to a residential area, but we are lucky that the well was empty. A rescue team rushed to the spot and quickly blindfolded the deer and rescued it,” said Gaur.The deer ran towards the forest as soon as it was rescued from the well, the officer said.In the Kumaon region’s Sitarganj area in Udham Singh Nagar district, a five-foot-long crocodile was rescued from a house late on Saturday night. Later it was released in a local dam, an official said.“We were informed by villagers at about 11 pm on Saturday that a crocodile had been spotted in a house. We rushed to the house and rescued the crocodile,” said Dhirendra Pant, deputy ranger, Barakoli range in Terai-East forest division in Kumaon.The crocodile was spotted in the house of one Dalchand Rathore, a villager of Baghora village in Sitarganj. It created panic among family members and neighbours immediately informed forest officials. They rushed to the spot and rescued it after half-an-hour. Later they released it in Nanak Sagar dam.Dalchand said, “A nullah flows at the rear of my house. It is nowadays overflowing due to rain. The crocodile might have entered the house from there.”Nitish Mani Tripathi, divisional forest officer (DFO), Terai East forest division, said, “Water level of rivers and nullahs is the reason for spotting crocodiles in the villages. In monsoon, rivers and nullahs swell with rainwater due to which crocodiles enter human habitations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-forest-officials-rescue-deer-crocodile-in-two-separate-ops/story-D51QsImRAVwp1TzPXYEy5I.html
05-07-2020||India||With 895 new Covid-19 cases, 21 deaths, Bengal registers highest single-day spike||West Bengal registered 895 new Covid-19 cases and 21 deaths on Sunday, marking the highest single-day spike since the pandemic began. So far, 757 people have died of the coronavirus disease in Bengal and the number of active cases stood at 6,658 on Sunday.Till Saturday, the total number of cases in Bengal was 21,231, according to the daily bulletin the state government released in the evening. This has risen to 22,126 cases. Till Sunday, 14,711 people have been discharged from hospital after being cured.This is the first time that the single-day spike crossed the 800-mark. On Saturday the state reported 743 new cases. Out of the 895 new cases, 244 cases were reported from Kolkata while the adjoining districts of North and South 24 Parganas registered 214 and 118 cases.On June 29, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, “The number of cases in Kolkata is apparently high because patients from the districts are also getting admitting to hospitals in Kolkata.”To contain the spread of the coronavirus infection the state government has asked the civil aviation ministry to stop flights from six cities from July 6 to July 19.Flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad will not land in Kolkata till July 19. “It is informed that no flights shall operate to Kolkata from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad from 6th to 19th July 2020 or till further orders whichever is earlier. Inconvenience caused is regretted,” read a statement issued by the Kolkata airport authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-895-new-covid-19-cases-21-deaths-bengal-registers-highest-single-day-spike/story-fMC2b5dSLoVH0JMbXDzWbN.html
05-07-2020||India||For grooms in Odisha’s Rourkela, Covid-19 turns marriages costlier||Grooms coming to the steel city of Rourkela for marriages would have to stay in quarantine for 14 days before they can marry while the Puri district administration restricted entry of outsiders to the district till July 31 amid a surge in Covid-19 casesThe Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation has stopped entry of labourers from outside the state till July 31.As the Covid cases in Odisha crossed 9,000, several districts in the state have now imposed additional restrictions on inter-district visit in addition to weekend shutdowns as the number of local cases in the state went up quickly. Over the last two days the number of local cases (outside quarantine centres) have been around 30 per cent of the total reported cases. With 66 new Covid-19 cases reported from Sundergarh district in the last 24 hours, Rourkela city in the district decided to introduce stricter quarantine norms for returnees and travellers coming to the city, said additional district magistrate Aboli Sunil Naravane. “Every person coming to Rourkela will have to spend 14-days in home or institutional quarantine,” she said.“As there has been a rise in Covid-19 in several districts, people coming from 14 Covid hotspot areas of the state will have to remain in 14-day quarantine (home, institutional or paid) as per advice of doctors. After their arrival in Rourkela, people will have to register themselves at the registration counter at BPUT(Biju Patnaik University of Technology),” said Naravane.Similarly, the administration has stopped entry of people into Puri district. Puri district collector Balwant Singh said visitors without valid permission will not be allowed to enter the district. In case of any emergency only those with valid permission will be allowed to enter the district.Officials said the additional measures were necessary to keep the spectre of community transmission at bay. Of the 469 cases reported in the state on Sunday, more than 32 per cent cases were local contacts. Even the positivity rate(positive cases to total samples tested) has gone up to 9 per cent in the last three days from 5-6 per cent over last month. At least 19 of the 30 districts in the state have resorted to weekend shutdown to check community transmission.But despite the restrictions, officials said more and more people are violating Covid guidelines of maintaining social distancing norms and wearing masks. On Saturday, five persons including a groom and his hotelier father in Ganjam district were arrested for a marriage procession involving over 150 people while BJP MP from Bhubaneswar Aparajita Sarangi was booked for violating social distancing norms while distributing leaflets about her achievement report on completion of first year as MP.In the southern Odisha district of Rayagada, a migrant family of three that returned from Andhra Pradesh last month ended up infecting 87 others as they did not adhere to the social distancing norms. The family -- a man, his wife and their daughter - had returned to their village Bijaypur. During their home quarantine, the family members allegedly did not adhere to prescribed norms and came in contact with several people in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-grooms-in-odisha-s-rourkela-covid-19-turns-marriages-costlier/story-rxp1e65oMc4F9sDNd7C5UN.html
05-07-2020||India||Ghaziabad factory fire kills eight; local cops, owner faulted for ‘illegal’ operation||Seven women and an 18-year-old man were charred to death while eleven others were injured in a major fire in an illegal factory manufacturing party poppers at Bakharwa village in Modinagar town of Ghaziabad on Sunday evening. The officials of the fire department said a mass of hydrocarbons and manufactured items stocked at the complex somehow caught fire at around 4pm on Sunday.The department officials, requesting anonymity, said the factory had no permission to operate and teams of forensic experts had been roped in to ascertain the exact cause of fire.The district magistrate said there was laxity on the part of the local police post.“The CM has taken cognisance of the incident and asked us to conduct an immediate inquiry. We have found laxity on the part of local police post in-charge as he was prima facie expected to have knowledge about the operation of the factory,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey told reporters at Bakharwa village.Senior superintendent of police Kalanidhi Naithani said: “The factory was illegal as we have found no documents or records of its operation or permission.”Fire department officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said manufactured items stocked at the complex caught fire around 4pm. Forensic experts were roped in to ascertain the exact cause of fire. All the 11 injured are women.Modinagar fire tragedy claims 7 lives, CM Adityanath seeks reportUP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed the district magistrate and senior superintendent of police to rush to the spot and submit a report by Sunday night. He also ordered a compensation of Rs 4 lakh for the families of the deceased.“The CM has announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the family of the deceased. I have also directed for a magisterial inquiry. An FIR will also be lodged against the person who was operating the factory and he will be sent to jail,” added Ajay Shankar Pandey.The villagers alleged that the factory was operated illegally by one Nitin Chuaudhary and his partner, Momeen, and the operations of the factory continued unabated despite a police raid conducted about a fortnight ago.“There were no safety measures in place here and the factory didn’t have a licence. It was operating illegally. 25 to 30 women were employed here as workers and even children used to work here. There was a raid at the factory several days ago but it continued operations. The local police had information of the operation of the factory,” said Bupender Kumar, a villager.Following the incident, Ghaziabad administration and police officials rushed to the spot.Later, angry villagers blocked the way of ambulances called to ferry the injured and the dead and shouted slogans against the administration.“Villagers were demanding strict action as the factory operated illegally. My aunt was working here for the past one year in order to support her family including four children. She was given a job for Rs 4,500 per month. She went for work at 8am and later we found she died in a fire. About 15 days ago, cops had raided the factory, but operations continued. The land belongs to a villager and the factory is operated by someone else,” said Sahil, nephew of a victim woman.“After the fire started, many women got stuck in the factory and an earthmoving machine had to demolish the walls to pull them out. The factory owner was manufacturing party candles (poppers) here, while some work of packing the items was also given to villagers at their homes. The owner had also roped in boys aged 15 to 19 years for distribution of goods to nearby areas,” he added.Fire breaks out at multi-storey building in KolkataSanjay Kumar, another villager whose wife Geeta sustained severe burn injuries at the factory, said she had been working at the factory for the past one month and was paid Rs 200 per day.“Since I do wall painting work, which was suspended during the lockdown, I sent her to work at the factory. Her hands and face suffered burn injuries in the fire. At present, she is the only one who is supporting the entire family including me and our three children,” he added.Modinagar MLA Dr Manju Siwach also reached the spot. “The factory was manufacturing poppers which are used for birthday celebrations. The work was going on illegally and explosive chemicals which were also stored, caught fire,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghaziabad-factory-fire-kills-eight-local-cops-owner-faulted-for-illegal-operation/story-yXPeWz7BkHjTunj6wDWApL.html
05-07-2020||India||‘I’m happy that so much is happening in this phase!’||Along with his recent digital success, lot is happening on musical front for actor-singer Namit Das. He lately released a cover ‘Zaroorat Hai’ and is all set to come up with his next cover soon. Currently he is busy working on his musical album with his band. Earlier, Namit has composed three songs for Mira Nair’s upcoming series, ‘A Suitable Boy’ that he shot for in Lucknow last year.Telling more about his musical ventures, he said, “I have recently released a cover version which is getting quite a good response and then another cover will be released soon. Next along with my band members I will start working on my album but for that we need to meet and have a real jam session. I think it will probably be possible only after a month when we all be together face-to-face doing live music. Covers can be done online but for the album we need to be together to create real music.”Most of the songs for the album have already been written and composed. “A few songs which we have previously sung in live shows will also be added in the album but of course they all will be in a new avatar. We want to bring in the poetry of ’60s-70s – like nazm of Faiz Ahmed Faiz, ghazal of Jigar Muradabadi which has been composed by my grandfather, then one of the song is based on saint Kabir’s couplet and maybe the song ‘Jigar me dard paaya ja raha hai’ in a different form too can be included,” he said.His next OTT series is all set to release on his birthday. Sharing more about his upcoming shows, he said, “It’s always special to have some of your work being launched on your birthday. The series is a psychological thriller about six friends and with a flashback story. My character is of an extremely mysterious guy. After my ‘atrangi’ (different colours) shades as Jawahar in ‘Arya’ this is going to be another very interesting character to play so I’m really excited about my new series, ‘Mafia’.”The adaptation of ‘A Suitable Boy’, in which he plays the role Haresh, a suitor, is expected to release next month. “It will first release in London and then it will be launched in India on a big platform. I am happy that so much of work is happening in this tough phase,” says the ‘Sumit Sambhal Lega’ actor. Namit has composed three songs in folk genre for the project but is not sure how many of them will be used in the series.With Covid-19 cases refusing to come down Namit is playing very safe. “Not much has changed since the lockdown phase. Only, that we can walk, run and cycle outside. I am not venturing out much except essentials. Besides, I go to my meet father (noted singer Chandan Das) and mother to help them with regular stuff. Sometimes I go out for cycling near my house only but with full precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-m-happy-that-so-much-is-happening-in-this-phase/story-KnNuXll00BQi2moLsAY9II.html
05-07-2020||India||‘Crisis or no crisis, good work always leaves a mark’||Lucknow’s Piiyush Singh feels crisis or no crisis, good work never fails to leave a mark. The film producer and award organiser Piiyush, who was in his home town recently, said, “We have been living in unprecedented times. And, one has to continue to strive to survive. Thankfully for the entertainment industry, there was a way to stay afloat and release our projects via OTT platforms that turned out to be a new lease of life for all of us. So, projects that were all complete and needed a little or no post-production work got to see the light of the day.”He believes that content is and will be a king always. “Me and my team are glad to be associated with films that offer riveting content with talented cast.” Piiyush feels that earlier it was a co-incidence that all his films have a strong storyline and performers like legendary actor Pankaj Kapur, Nandita Das, Manoj Bajpayee, Abhay Deol, Dhanush and Manav Kaul. But later, it was more of finding right actors for their subjects. “With time these actors who are great in their space of work , trust as a production house that targets content driven projects. Like, my recently released film, ‘Bhonsle’ was a subject that was introduced to us by Manoj (Bajpayee) himself. After a meeting with his director-friend Devashish Makhija, we along with Manoj were on the board as producers.” The filmmaker is on cloud that their last offing had none other than Amitabh Bachchan. “Yes, ‘AB aani CD’, was a beautiful script and had great star cast with Marathi legend Vikram Gokahle and Amit sir. After our first Hollywood project, ‘The Extraordinary Journey of the Fakir,’ that also won Audience Award for Best Comedy at Barcelona Sant-Jordi International Film Festival last year, we knew that now things will be on a roll for us. It was presented under our banner Golden Ratio Films (GRF), that was founded by me and Abhayanand Singh,” he said.Talking about his upcoming projects, Piiyush said, “Our next release will be ‘Jail 50’ with Pankaj Kapur, Abhay Deol, Piyush Mishra followed by film ‘Seher’ again with Pankaj sir and that was extensively shot in Lucknow last year. After three months of post-production, the film will be all set to release.” Feeling proud that his home town has turned into a film-makers hub, he said, “Of course it gives immense pride in seeing how Lucknow is catering to entertainment industry with quite a number of films, series and shows were being shot here. For me, the reason is mainly its people who are extremely helpful and go an extra mile to help anyone and everyone. I too try to always give back to my city by helping youngsters who wish to make it big in the industry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/crisis-or-no-crisis-good-work-always-leaves-a-mark/story-n1gFFa0JShGkJ5YNy5uiPJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Gaitri Issar Kumar takes over as Indian high commissioner to the UK||Gaitri Issar Kumar of the 1986 batch of the Indian Foreign Service has taken over as India’s high commissioner to the United Kingdom – the third woman envoy in the key post since independence, after Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit and Ruchi Ghanashyam.Soon after taking over, Kumar held virtual meetings with Tariq Ahmad, minister in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office; Richard Moore, FCO political director, and leading members of the Indian community such as industrialist Swraj Paul and Raj Loomba, the mission said on Saturday.Paul tweeted: “India has a great foreign service & very bright women diplomats starting from Mrs Pandit & have had the pleasure of knowing few. Said goodbye to Ruchi Ghanashyam & welcome Gaitri Kumar. Wish you a great stay, you will enjoy this assignment”.Pandit was the high commissioner from 1954 to 1961, while Ghanshayam, who retired in May after a tenure in London she described as a ‘roller-coaster ride”, took over in December 2018. Kumar was the Indian ambassador to Belgium, the EU and Luxembourg before joining in London.Kumar takes over at a time when the Boris Johnson government currently dealing with the pandemic will soon focus more on Brexit-related issues as the end of the transition period on December 31 draws near. More trade with India in the post-Brexit UK has been a key aim.The ceremonial event at Buckingham Palace when Kumar will present credentials to Queen Elizabeth is expected later in the year due to restrictions imposed by the coronavirus pandemic. The queen has been in the Windsor Castle since March.The event with a royal touch involves new envoys being collected from their residence or high commission/embassy in a state landau (horse-drawn carriage), and travelling through the streets of London led by a second carriage in which the marshal of the diplomatic corps travels.Diplomatic audiences with the queen have barely changed since Victorian times. There are more than 170 ambassadors and high commissioners based in London at any given time. Each has an audience with the queen shortly after taking up his or her role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaitri-issar-kumar-takes-over-as-indian-high-commissioner-to-the-uk/story-XqN9uWsJEgkvsERL0as4uJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Karnataka sees 1,925 new Covid-19 cases, Bengaluru accounts for 60% of patients||Karnataka for the third consecutive day saw another record spurt in cases with 1,925 new people being infected with Covid-19 taking the total tally to 23,474 which also includes 372 deaths and 9,847 people being discharged after successful treatment. State capital Bengaluru alone accounted for 1,235 of the new cases. With Sunday’s numbers, Bengaluru accounts for more than 60% of the state’s 13,251 active cases.Even as more instances of hospitals turning away patients -- citing lack of availability of beds -- continued across the state, Medical Education Minister Dr. K Sudhakar, however, put up a brave face and claimed that things were “under control in both Bengaluru and the entire state. There is no need to panic. Unfortunately, some sections of the media are creating the impression that this is a deadly disease leading to fear and depression among people.”Admitting that some private hospitals were turning away people by claiming that they did not have beds, Sudhakar said, “The private hospitals had promised to hand over 2,734 beds but in reality have handed over only 116 beds. According to our information, 898 patients who had walked into private hospitals are being treated. We expect them (private hospitals) to keep their word and hand over the rest of the beds and we will take action if they don’t. From tomorrow, revenue minister R Ashoka and political secretary to CM Vishwanath who have been tasked by the CM to look into the matter will take action.”Warning hospitals of criminal cases if they turn away patients despite having beds, the minister also promised that Covid-19 test results would be provided within 24 hours. The remark came after some people complained of the inordinate delay in providing test results. “We have 80 - government and private combined - testing labs in the state which can process 20,000 samples a day. We will ensure that the capacity is properly utilized,” he said.Senior Congress leader and former Union Minister of State for Finance Janardhan Poojary has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to a hospital in Mangalore for treatment according to his son Santhosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-sees-surge-of-1-925-new-covid-19-cases-bangalore-accounts-for-60-of-patients/story-jsvvw32z1YBcRllA8vFgQK.html
05-07-2020||India||‘People behaving like pre-Covid days’:Kerala backs tightening of rules, traders sceptical||The Kerala government on Sunday tightened measures to check the spread of Covid-19 cases by making wearing of facemask and observance of social distancing mandatory for one year. The government backed the penal measures saying people had begun to take safety rules casually after relaxation in restrictions came into force with the stage of Unlock-1. However, the traders in the state said the tightening of norms may prove to be counterproductive for businesses.Fine for those not wearing a mask has been increased to Rs 10,000 or to a two-year jail term. These measures will be in force for one year unless notified otherwise, said a statement from the government.“We don’t want to lower our guard at the critical juncture. After norms were eased some people are behaving like pre-Covid days, we want to check this. As long as the virus is in our backyard we have to follow three basic norms, social distancing, masks and hand hygiene,” said state health minister K K Shailaja explaining the rationale behind the extension.Kerala records 225 new Covid-19 casesThe government had amended the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Ordinance 2020 on Saturday to give it more teeth. Earlier, the fine for not wearing a mask was Rs 2000. The amendment has also made social distancing mandatory for at least one year and restricted the number of participants for wedding parties to less than 50. For all social gatherings, protests and rallies, a written sanction of authorities will be needed, said the statement. Spitting in public places has also been made an offence punishable with a fine or jail term. In shops and other business establishments, the amendment limits the presence of people to a maximum of 20, depending on the size of the trading area. Even at work places, masks are mandatory and wearing them casually will also invite a fine. Business establishments have been asked to avoid air-conditioning and closed enclosures and told to maintain office temperature in the range of 25 and 27 degree Celsius.‘Sitting on an active volcano’: Kerala minister worried about Covid-19 community transmissionsWhile Indian Medical Association’s Kerala chapter, which had called for stricter norms, welcomed the move, the traders and businessmen were guarded in their reaction.“Containment measures are welcome but at the same time, the government will have to ensure a proper atmosphere for traders. Even in the worst-hit areas in Tamil Nadu and Mumbai, these norms have not been extended to one year,” said M P Prashanth,a trader in Chalai market in Thiruvananthapuram.The state gold and silver merchants’ association also said such measures will send wrong signals. The tightening of measures follows the number of Covid infections going past the 200 mark for the past three days. With 225 fresh cases on Sunday, the total number of infections in the state went up to 5,429. However, the number of total recoveries stands at 3,174 leaving 2,228 active cases. With one more death registered in the last 24 hours, the death toll has gone up to 26. Though a majority of fresh cases are imported--either expatriates or people arriving from other states-- the number of secondary infections are also on the rise.In state capital Thiruvananthapuram alone, at least 22 secondary infections were reported on Sunday, forcing the authorities to enforce a total lockdown. Earlier in the day, state tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran said the situation in the state capital was really serious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-behaving-like-pre-covid-days-kerala-backs-tightening-of-rules-traders-sceptical/story-O5vPXiu7OrAoGsFwvuKhWJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Hours before marriage, woman killed by stalker inside beauty parlour in MP||A 33-year-old woman was allegedly killed by a stalker who slit her throat in a beauty parlour at Jaora in Ratlam district Sunday morning hours before her marriage, police said.The woman, Sonu Yadav, a resident of Shajapur district and her family reached Jaora in the morning where her marriage was to be solemnised with one Gaurav, a resident of Nagda in Ujjain, at a resort. Jaora is about 300 km northwest of Bhopal. Ruchi Yadav, cousin of the deceased said the victim was getting her make-up done when the accused called.“The accused introduced himself as one Rahul and said he wanted to talk to my cousin who told him that she was in the beauty parlour. He disconnected the phone and within five minutes reached the parlour on a bike. He barged into the parlour and before we could understand anything he slit her throat with a knife and fled the spot. We rushed to a nearby hospital in an auto-rickshaw but doctors declared her dead.” Superintendent of police (SP), Ratlam district Gaurav Tiwari said, “The main accused knew the deceased for three years and they had conversation through phone calls and messages. The woman was a divorcee and it was her second marriage to be solemnised.”Refusing to disclose the identity of the main accused till he is arrested and also the name of accomplice the SP said, “In the CCTV footage two persons were seen reaching the beauty parlour on a bike. One of them entered the parlour while another was keeping a watch outside. The second person seen outside was arrested later while the main accused is still absconding. The man arrested told us during interrogation that the main accused was upset with the marriage of the woman and told him three days back that if she didn’t marry him he would kill her. The main accused is bachelor and unemployed while the accomplice is married and is engaged in some job at a shop.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hours-before-marriage-woman-killed-by-stalker-inside-beauty-parlour-in-mp/story-TkT1MUIlCPyYIvUF84Co2L.html
05-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Complete lockdown in Chennai, other districts to be eased from Monday||The complete lockdown that was earlier announced in Chennai and some other districts of Tamil Nadu is all set to ease, as relaxation will come into effect from tomorrow. On Saturday, state Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced relaxations in lockdown in Chennai from July 6. He also said that all grocery and vegetable shops would remain open for 12 hours.“Relaxations in Chennai lockdown will come in effect from July 6. Vegetable and grocery shops will be allowed to open from 6 am to 6 pm, textile, hardware shops from 10 am to 6 pm and restaurants from 6 am to 9 pm,” he had said.Earlier, the state government announced a 12-hour strict lockdown in four cities on June 19 in Tiruvallur, Chennai, Kancheepuram, and Chengalpattu.Currently, the state has 1,07,001 cases. Of them, 60,592 have recovered, while 8671 people lost their lives due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-complete-lockdown-in-chennai-other-districts-to-be-eased-from-monday/story-FrG3uoIbJnM5UCBuxXfUbI.html
05-07-2020||India||Pro-khalistan group websites blocked, SFJ’s Pannun is govt’s next target||The Centre on Sunday blocked 40 websites linked to the banned pro-Khalistan group - Sikhs For Justice (SFJ)-- being used to propagate an anti-India sentiment across the world and for enticing Sikh youth to join militancy, people familiar with the development said. The ministry of information technology took down the websites on a recommendation from the ministry of home affairs after it was found that SFJ, primarily operating from the United States, was aggressively using the medium for its agenda. The outfit has already been banned by the government in July 2019 while its leader - Gurpatwant Singh Pannun has been declared an “individual terrorist” under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act on Wednesday. Both MHA and IT ministry refused to divulge the details of websites that have been blocked, one of the key websites associated widely with the group –www.referendum2020.org-- through which support from Sikh youth for a separate Khalistani state is sought by SFJ, could not be accessed as it has been blocked by the department of telecommunications. According to a gazette notification issued last year while banning SFJ, “The outfit is involved in anti-national and subversive activities in Punjab and elsewhere, intended to disrupt the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India.”The central government’s order had stated that SFJ was in close touch with the militant outfits and activists, and was supporting violent forms of extremism and militancy in Punjab and elsewhere to carve out a sovereign Khalistan out of the territory of Union of India.“SFJ is encouraging and aiding the activities for secession of a part of the Indian territory from the Union of India and supporting (the) separatist groups fighting for this purpose in India and elsewhere by indulging in activities and articulations intended to disrupt the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India,” the notification had said. Key Sikhs For Justice operative sent to NIA remand till June 29The declaration to ban the group was upheld by the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Tribunal headed by Delhi High Court chief justice DN Patel. In its judgment, issued on January 6 this year, the tribunal said, “The notification dated July 10, 2019 issued by the Union of India under the Act, declaring Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) to be an unlawful association is hereby confirmed. The reference is answered in the affirmative.”It is in the judgment that a mention to the website, www.referendum2020.org, “which is replete with pro-Khalistani posts and anti-India insinuations” is found.Agencies are trying to get an Interpol red notice issued against Pannun. Indian officials have claimed that Pannun is getting support from Pakistan for his anti-India activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pro-khalistan-group-websites-blocked-sfj-s-pannun-is-govt-s-next-target/story-0Q74ZUaRkbdjEKpGz6r9JO.html
05-07-2020||India||Taj Mahal will not reopen for tourists tomorrow after Covid-19 cases soar in Agra||The iconic Taj Mahal in Agra will not open for tourists from July 6, tomorrow, with 55 new cases of Covid-19 being detected within the last four days in the city. The Agra district administration has decided to keep all monuments, including the Taj Mahal closed in the larger interest of safety of people. There are also 71 live containment zones in Agra with a high concentration of Covid-19 cases, which make the reopening of historical monuments difficult as they are likely to attract crowds.Union Culture Minister Prahlad Patel, a couple of days ago had declared that all Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) protected monuments will reopen from July 6 for tourists. The Archaeological Survey of India office in Agra and district administration had also begun preparing for the opening, but the final call was due to be taken by the district administration at a meeting on Sunday evening.“55 new Covid-19 positive cases have been traced in the last four days in Agra. There are 71 live containment zones in the city and the monument of Taj Mahal is within the Tajganj area which has both containment and buffer zones. Similarly, the monuments of Sikandra, Itimad-ud-daula, Fatehpur Sikri and Agra Fort are to be considered within buffer zones,” District Magistrate of Agra, Prabhu N Singh said after Sunday’s meeting. “The opening of these monuments will bring in tourists and may become a reason for the spread of coronavirus. In a meeting held between a district level Covid-19 team and the members of Archaeological Survey of India on Sunday, a decision was taken in public interest not to open the monuments of Agra as of now,” the District Magistrate said. Monuments in Agra including the Taj Mahal have remained closed since March 17, even before the nationwide lockdown was imposed. Hotels were asked to open but did not get much business with the Taj Mahal, the main tourist attraction of the city closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-will-not-reopen-for-tourists-tomorrow-after-covid-19-cases-soar-in-agra/story-VVvb8rNfY2xZVed2QJINoJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Gangster Vikas Dubey’s aide says cop tipped off his boss about police raid||An aide of Vikas Dubey has told the Uttar Pradesh police that the gangster behind the killings of eight policemen in Kanpur district was informed about the raid at his house by a policeman, a senior official said on Sunday.Daya Shankar Agnihotri, one of the accused in the killings, was arrested earlier in the day after a gunfight in Kalyanpur area near Kanpur.The senior official said Agnihotri revealed the information during the interrogation. The 48-year-old Dubey, who has 60 cases of murder and kidnapping among others, is the main accused in the killing of the policemen early on Friday.Agnihotri told the police Vikas Dubey got a call from the Chaubeypur police station, informing him that a team from three police stations led by Devendra Mishra, the circle officer of Bilhaur, would come to his village past midnight.Agnihotri also said that at least 25 people were present with Dubey when the police team approached his house in Kanpur’s Bikru village.Dubey’s men had fired indiscriminately on the police team out to nab him, killing Mishra, three sub-inspectors and four constables in an ambush that the police said was a “well-planned conspiracy”.Officials have said Agnihotri suffered a bullet wound in his right leg in the retaliatory firing by the police team.He is one of the 18 aides of Dubey named in the first information report (FIR) lodged in connection with the killing of the policemen.Inspector general of police, Kanpur, Mohit Agarwal said Agnihotri was the right-hand man of Dubey and carried a bounty of Rs 25,000 on his head at the time of his arrest.Agnihotri has three criminal cases against him, including two of attempt to murder.Police have seized a gun and cartridges from Agnihotri’s possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gangster-vikas-dubey-s-aide-says-cop-tipped-off-his-boss-about-police-raid/story-jSYA5em28l0AFuYAOtCkSL.html
05-07-2020||India||Mizoram hit by 4.6 magnitude earthquake, seventh to hit NE state in less than 3 weeks||An earthquake of 4.6 magnitude hit Mizoram’s Champhai district on Sunday afternoon, the seventh one to jolt the northeastern state in less than three weeks, officials said. The earthquake occurred around 5.26 pm and the epicentre was 25 km south-southwest of Champhai, according to the National Centre for Seismology. The depth of the earthquake was 77 km, it said. This was the second earthquake to hit Champhai district, located on the India-Myanmar border, in the last three days and seventh one to rock the state since June 18. An earthquake of 4.6 magnitude hit the district on Friday afternoon. Besides Champhai, a series of quakes also hit Saitual and Serchhip between June 18 and June 24. In the worst-hit Champhai, a total of 138 buildings, including those of churches and the government, were affected in the earlier quakes, according to officials. Of these, 118 houses were in Khawbung rural development block and 20 others in Champhai rural development block. However, there were no casualties. Champhai district was the epicentre of the first earthquake of 4.6 magnitude on June 18. The neighbouring Saitual district was hit by another earthquake of 5.1 magnitude on June 21. Another earthquake of 5.3 magnitude rocked Champhai on June 22. On June 23, an earthquake of 3.7 magnitude hit the Serchhip district. Another earthquake of 4.1 magnitude hit the Champhai district again on June 24. Officials also said at least six aftershocks of light intensity were experienced between June 23 and June 24 in Khawbung and neighbouring villages in Champhai district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-hit-by-4-6-magnitude-earthquake-seventh-to-hit-ne-state-in-less-than-3-weeks/story-xvjC2Sk0mKPFHXxevJBYIO.html
05-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi’s coronavirus cases crosses 99K-mark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s Covid-19 tally crosses 99K-mark, over 2,000 new cases in last 24 hoursDelhi’s coronavirus case tally inched closer to one lakh-mark on Sunday after 2,244 cases were reported in the last 24 hours. The cumulative tally for national capital reached 99,444, while 63 deaths were recorded, pushing the total death toll to 3,067.Read more. ‘Must be held accountable’: Trump bashes China for Covid-19 in July 4 speechAs the United States celebrated its 244th birthday in an unusually somber manner reflecting the mood of a country in the throes of deadly coronavirus disease outbreak, President Donald Trump once again blamed China for it and held out hopes of a vaccine by the end of the year.Read more. Govt blocks 40 websites of banned pro-Khalistan group Sikhs For JusticeThe Centre on Sunday blocked 40 websites linked to pro-Khalistan gourp Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) for ‘a campaign for registering supporters for its cause’. “Sikhs For Justice(SFJ), an unlawful organization under the UAPA, 1967, launched a campaign for registering supporters for its cause. On recommendations of MHA, MeitY, has issued orders under sec 69A of the I.T. Act, 2000, for blocking 40 websites of SFJ”, a home ministry order read.Read more. Bungalow that Priyanka Gandhi will vacate allotted to BJP MP Anil BaluniDays after cancelling the government accommodation allotted to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, Centre has given its nod to BJP MP Anil Baluni to move into the bungalow at 35 Lodhi Estate in New Delhi.Read more. ‘Sitting on an active volcano’: Kerala minister worried about Covid-19 community transmissionsKerala reported more than 200 new Coved 19 cases for the third straight day on Sunday taking the tally of coronavirus cases in the state to 5,429. While the number of active cases at 2,228 may not seem to be very high, the authorities have sounded an alarm since fears of the disease entering the community-spread stage in some regions have risen due to inability to trace contacts of some positive cases.Read more. Watch: Helicopter sprays pesticides in Jodhpur to ward off locustsRajasthan administration is now using helicopters to spray pesticides in parts of Jodhpur to ward off swarms of locusts. Rajasthan is the worst affected state by locusts which devour summer crops. Earlier, drones had also been used to spray pesticides in the fields to tackle the locust menace in the area. Watch the full video for all the details.Watch here. Rahul Dravid took note of him and said he was destined for big things: Carlos Brathwaite banks on Sharmarh Brooks to shine in EnglandSharmarh Brooks could be the anchor West Indies requires in the three-match Test series against England starting on July 8 - it will also mark the return of international cricket after a gap of more than three months due to Covid-19 - believes former West Indies T20 captain Carlos Brathwaite.Read more. Airtel to take on JioMeet with its own video conferencing appBharti Airtel is planning to launch its own video conferencing app to take on the recently launched JioMeet and others like Zoom, Microsoft Teams and Google Hangouts. Reports state that this app will be for start-ups and enterprises.Read more. Finding a soulmate is Step 1. Making it last is the real testMost people would say that wasn’t her soulmate then, because aren’t soulmates supposed to stay together? Aren’t they supposed to have the kind of love, connection of minds, mutual respect and understanding that, by definition, last?Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-s-coronavirus-cases-crosses-99k-mark-and-all-the-latest-news/story-F6rzoCWyubQKCCwn4qTxgK.html
05-07-2020||India||With record spike of 725, Gujarat Covid-19 tally now 36,123||Gujarat reported its highest single-day spike of 725 new coronavirus positive cases on Sunday, pushing the state’s overall tally to 36,123, the health department said.Coronavirus claimed the lives of 18 more patients, taking the death toll in the state to 1,945, it said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWith 486 patients getting discharged, the number of recovered cases in the state grew to 25,900.The state now has 8,278 active cases, of which the condition of 72 patients is critical, the department said in its statement.Gujarat’s Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 36,123, new cases: 725, deaths: 1,945, discharged: 25,900, active cases: 8,278 and people tested so far: 4,12,124.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-record-spike-of-725-gujarat-covid-19-tally-now-36-123/story-ZOiYM9mwKCVRMFdpAutD5J.html
05-07-2020||India||With a spurt in Covid 19 cases, not wearing a mask in Kerala will invite Rs 10,000 fine||As coronavirus cases increase steadily in Kerala, a worried state government has tightened measures and not only made facemask and social distancing mandatory for one year but also increased the fine for not wearing a mask to a whopping Rs 10,000 or a two-year jail term. These measures will be in force for one year unless notified otherwise, said a statement from the government.The government amended the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Ordinance 2020 to give it more teeth. Earlier, the fine for not wearing a mask was Rs 2,000. The amendment has also made social distancing mandatory for at least one year and restricted the number of participants for wedding parties to less than 50. For all social gatherings, protests and rallies, a written sanction of authorities will be needed, said the statement. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesSpitting in public places will also be made an offence punishable with a fine or jail term. In shops and other business establishments, the amendment limits the presence of people to a maximum of 20. Even at work places, wearing masks has been made mandatory and wearing them casually will invite fine.The tightening of measures follows the number of Covid infections going past the 200 mark for the past three days. With 225 fresh cases on Sunday, the total number of infections in the state went up to 5,429. However, the number of total recoveries stands at 3,174 leaving 2,228 active cases. With one more death registered in the last 24 hours, the death toll has gone up to 26. Though a majority of fresh cases are imported--either expatriates or people arriving from other states-- the number of secondary infections are also on the rise.‘Sitting on an active volcano’: Kerala minister worried about Covid 19 community transmissionsIn state capital Thiruvananthapuram, at least 22 secondary infections were reported on a single day. Earlier in the day, state tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran said the situation in the state capital was really serious and the government would enforce complete lockdown if it didn’t improve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-a-spurt-in-covid-19-cases-not-wearing-a-mask-in-kerala-will-invite-rs-10-000-fine/story-UM3F2q4Hhz0Xz5OFRW0MmI.html
05-07-2020||India||Maharashtra logs 6,555 new Covid-19 infections, state count over 2.06 lakh||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 6,555 new Covid-19 cases and 151 deaths, taking the state’s coronavirus count to 2,06,619, the state health department said.With the addition of 151 fatalities, the death toll in the worst-hit state by the Covid-19 pandemic has now mounted to 8,822. The number of active coronavirus patients stands at 86,040, the health department’s data indicated.Capital Mumbai detected 1,287 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the city’s coronavirus count to 84,524. At least 69 people have succumbed to the coronavirus infection in the financial capital of the country.ALSO READ | 12 new infections in Mumbai’s Dharavi take slum colony’s tally to 2,323Twelve new Covid-19 cases have emerged in Mumbai’s Dharavi on Sunday, taking the total number of coronavirus patients to 2,323, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.A day earlier, on Saturday, the slum colony Dharavi recorded only two fresh Covid-19 cases, the city’s civic agency had said. The area has recorded a small rise in coronavirus cases for the first time since the first week of April after a brief respite in the middle of June.According to a senior BMC official, no fresh deaths were reported in Dharavi in the past 24 hours. The death toll in the slum dwelling currently remains unchanged at 86.With a record single-day surge of 24,850 coronavirus infections and 613 deaths, India’s Covid-19 caseload surged to 6,73,165, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 19,268 on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry.The country has so far recorded over 20,000 cases of the viral infection for the third consecutive day.According to the Johns Hopkins University in the United States, which has been compiling Covid-19 data globally, India is the third worst-hit nation by the pandemic and at the eighth position in terms of the death toll due to the viral disease.Of the 613 deaths reported in the last 24 hours in the country due to the infectious disease, 295 are from Maharashtra, 81 from Delhi, 65 from Tamil Nadu, 42 from Karnataka, 24 from Uttar Pradesh, 21 from Gujarat, 19 from West Bengal, 12 from Andhra Pradesh, nine from Bihar, eight from Jammu and Kashmir, seven from Rajasthan, five each from Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab and Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-logs-6-555-new-covid-19-infections-state-count-over-2-06-lakh/story-ne1YfovweuyQWBozV988gP.html
05-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey, UP’s most wanted man, may have fled UP before borders were sealed: Cops||Police suspect that Vikas Dubey, the prime accused in the massacre of eight policemen in an ambush in Kanpur early Friday may have slipped out of Uttar Pradesh before the state’s borders were sealed,UP’s Director General of Police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy had sounded an alert in all 75 districts of the state for the arrest of Dubey and the search for the gangster was intensified.Later, a reward of Rs 1 lakh was announced for his arrest. Fifty dedicated teams and over 3,000 police personnel across the state have been deployed in a massive manhunt to nab him. But the gangster has remained elusive.Police officials associated with the investigation said the recovery of an abandoned SUV parked by the roadside in Auraiya and the tracking of Dubey’s last cell phone location in the same area hinted that he, along with some of his accomplices, had sneaked into Madhya Pradesh by road via Etawah and Jhansi districts.“There are multiple shortcuts and interior roads from Auraiya that lead to the Madhya Pradesh border,” a senior police official in Kanpur said.He expressed the apprehension that Dubey left the state after the attack on the policemen early on Friday, much before the state police sounded an alert and sealed the borders.He said vehicle checks at the state borders were initiated at least five-six hours after the incident which was more than enough to leave the state.There is a possibility that Dubey may have moved to other states after entering Madhya Pradesh, he added.When asked about the possibility of Dubey having fled the state, the DGP said several types of inputs were being received that hinted that he either moved to Madhya Pradesh or Nepal. But nothing substantial had emerged so far to clearly pinpoint Dubey’s exact location, he said.The DGP said police had recovered an abandoned SUV in Auraiya registered in the name of his close aide Amit Dubey. Local authorities were further verifying whether Dubey and his other aides were travelling in the vehicle and escaped after ditching it by the roadside.He said that Vikas Dubey’s domestic help and close aide Daya Shankar Agnihotri were arrested in Kanpur.Crucial details had been obtained from Agnihotri about the incident as well as those associated with Dubey, the state police chief said.He also said the police were raiding all possible hideouts and scanning mobile phone records, as well as rigorously questioning his friends and relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-up-s-most-wanted-man-may-have-fled-up-before-border-were-sealed-cops/story-bUNZRSI4UDc11Bf2RiSF9K.html
05-07-2020||India||Assam govt admits to community spread of Covid-19 in Kamrup Metro, may extend lockdown||The Assam government on Sunday admitted that community spread of Covid-19 has taken place in the state’s biggest city, Guwahati and the rest of Kamrup Metro district and the ongoing total lockdown to control the pandemic might be extended.The development comes a day after 777 Covid-19 positive cases, the single biggest spike in a day, was reported from Kamrup Metro taking the district’s tally for 10 days between June 24 and July 4 to 2,741 cases---nearly one-fourth of the total 11,001 cases in the state.“In the last 10 days we have recorded 2,741 positive cases in Guwahati and the rest of Kamrup Metro. Almost all of these cases are from community transmission,” state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said while addressing a press conference on Sunday.“We have formally entered the Covid-19 pandemic since June 24 and can no longer blame Karnataka, Mumbai, Tamil Nadu or Delhi (from where returnees came back during May and June) for Covid-19 spread in our state,” he added.Following a surge in cases without any travel or contact history, the Assam government had imposed a 14-day total lockdown in Kamrup Metro from June 28, allowing only pharmacies to operate.But with the number of cases not coming down in the first 7 days, Sarma indicated that the lockdown might get extended after the 14-day period on July 12 depending on the existing scenario.“Extension of lockdown in Kamrup Metro depends on the number of cases. We might have to extend it by another week. There will be a need to find a balance between allowing economic activity and risking lives of people,” he said.“We had to announce total lockdown from June 28 due to special circumstances and the present situation in Kamrup Metro shows the government move was timely and needed,” Sarma added.Covid-19 patients were kept in government hospitals till now, but the surge in the number of cases has forced the government to consider keeping some in private hospitals. Sarma indicated that the government might take over a few private hospitals in Guwahati to admit patients.The minister informed that a plasma bank has become operational in Guwahati Medical College Hospital and a doctor who has recovered from Covid-19 was the first donor. The health department has also started administering Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug, to Covid-19 patients with serious complications.“Till Sunday, we have conducted 455,223 tests across the state and with 13,471 tests per million, Assam is placed fourth after Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu among all states in the country. As part of our community surveillance, we have conducted nearly 82,000 tests till now,” Sarma said.On Sunday, Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna announced a fresh set of lockdown guidelines for Kamrup Metro for the period between July 5 and July 12 allowing opening of grocery shops and the sale of fruits and vegetables.All standalone grocery shops in the district will be allowed to open between 11 am and 4 pm from July 6 to July 10 and house-to-house sale of fruits and vegetables allowed from 8 am to 2 pm on July 6 and July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-govt-admits-to-community-spread-of-covid-19-in-kamrup-metro-may-extend-lockdown/story-5VmLGg90FfDVIK0vqzfSKO.html
05-07-2020||India||‘Sitting on an active volcano’: Kerala minister worried about Covid-19 community transmissions||Kerala reported more than 200 new Coved 19 cases for the third straight day on Sunday taking the tally of coronavirus cases in the state to 5,429. While the number of active cases at 2,228 may not seem to be very high, the authorities have sounded an alarm since fears of the disease entering the community-spread stage in some regions have risen due to inability to trace contacts of some positive cases.Reflecting the heightened state of alert in the state, tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran stated that the Thiruvananthapuram district could potentially be “sitting on an active volcano” while expressing the fear centered around the beginning of community transmissions of the deadly contagion.“It’s like we are sitting on top of an active volcano which can burst anytime. Just because there has been no community spread till now doesn’t mean it will not occur,” the minister was quoted as having said by news agency PTI.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesSurendran said that the state government had decided to further raise the number of tests by conducting more antigen tests in the district to better understand the patter of the spread of the virus.Kerala reported one more death due to the virus taking the toll to 26. While the majority of fresh cases are among the returnees to the state-- either from abroad or from other states, there is also a rise in the number of secondary infections, which is the main cause of worry.Surendran said the restrictions in containment zones would be tightened further and food delivery boys will be tested following reports of a policeman and a food delivery boy testing positive.To add to the Covid 19 containment challenges in the capital district, two people jumped quarantine from a state facility in Varkala on Sunday morning before they were nabbed. This is not the first such instance in the state and the government has specifically warned people against jumping quarantine, which is suspected to be one of the reasons triggering the second wave of infections seen earlier in the state.Kerala woman again turns Covid 19 positive after recovery, state medical board to study her caseOn Saturday, Kerala’s COVID-19 tally had crossed the 5,000 mark with 240 fresh cases- the highest single day spike so far. Thiruvananthapuram had reported 16 of those.Experts from the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kerala chapter had asked the state government to enforce a strict lockdown in containment areas and restrict movement of people to avert community spread.The CM had also impressed upon the need for stricter curbs given the uniform spread of the disease within the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitting-on-an-active-volcano-kerala-minister-worried-about-covid-19-community-transmissions/story-qtWpdFiJVZHadehFMlzkqI.html
05-07-2020||India||Govt blocks 40 websites of banned pro-Khalistan group Sikhs For Justice||The Centre on Sunday blocked 40 websites linked to pro-Khalistan gourp Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) for ‘a campaign for registering supporters for its cause’.“Sikhs For Justice(SFJ), an unlawful organization under the UAPA, 1967, launched a campaign for registering supporters for its cause. On recommendations of MHA, MeitY, has issued orders under sec 69A of the I.T. Act, 2000, for blocking 40 websites of SFJ”, an home ministry order said.  Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), an unlawful organization under the UAPA,1967, launched a campaign for registering supporters for its cause. On recommendation of MHA, MeitY has issued orders under sec. 69 A of the I.T. Act, 2000, for blocking 40 websites of SFJ@AmitShah @HMOIndiaThe Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) is the nodal authority for monitoring the cyber space in India.Last year, the home ministry had banned the SFJ for its alleged anti-national activities, according to news agency PTI.The SFJ pushed for Sikh Referendum 2020 as part of its separatist agenda. The US-based organisation had declared July 4 as the inaugural day for registration of referendum on Khalistan.Also Watch l Punjab CM hails Centre’s decision to ban pro-Khalistan group Earlier this week, the Centre had declared nine Khalistani terrorists, including SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, who has been spearheading a campaign under the banner of “Referendum 2020” for a separate Khalistani state, as ‘individual terrorists’ under recently amended fourth schedule of UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Amendment Act).Others designated as individual terrorists under UAPA are Babbar Khalsa International’s UK chief Paramijit Singh, Canada-based head of Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) Hardeep Singh Nijjar, Germany-based members of Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) Gurmeet Singh Bagga and Bhupinder Singh Bhinda, and Pakistan-based terrorists – head of BKI Wadhawa Singh, Lakhbir Singh (International Sikh Youth Federation), Ranjeet Singh (Khalistan Zindabad Force) and Paramjit Singh (Khalistan Commando Force).(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-blocks-40-websites-of-banned-pro-khalistan-group-sikhs-for-justice/story-XGpEigOtBauJegATFLmLpK.html
05-07-2020||India||Bungalow that Priyanka Gandhi will vacate allotted to BJP MP Anil Baluni||Days after cancelling the government accommodation allotted to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, Centre has given its nod to BJP MP Anil Baluni to move into the bungalow at 35 Lodhi Estate in New Delhi.Officials aware of the development told Hindustan Times that the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs has allotted the type 6B bungalow to the BJP spokesperson. “Once the notice is served to vacate the bungalow it can be allocated within two months. The rental of the house starts from the day of the allotment and Mr Baluni can move in within two months. Usually if any repairs are needed CPWD asks for time for the maintenance work,” a senior ministry official said.The ministry of housing and urban affairs on Wednesday cancelled the government accommodation provided to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at 35, Lodhi Estate, on the grounds that she is no longer protected by the Special Protection Group (SPG) and so was not eligible to continue living in that bungalow.Also Watch l ‘Political harassment’: Ahmed Patel slams govt on Priyanka Gandhi bungalow row According to the current norms, there are no provisions for allotment or retention of government accommodation to those with Z+ security unless exceptions are made based on recommendations given by the home ministry.The allotment of central government bungalows is done through the General Pool Residential Accommodation (GPRA) Act under the administrative control of the directorate of estates.“Usually MPs are allotted type V bungalows but can also be allotted type 6A or B depending on the approval,” the official added. Baluni, who is also the BJP national media head, currently stays at 20, Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Road, a Type 6 B bungalow.Priyanka Gandhi has been asked to vacate the bungalow by August 1. Hours after the notice was served on Wednesday, she paid her dues till June 30 for the house. The ministry said that Priyanka Gandhi had accumulated dues of RS 3,46,677 towards the accommodation until June 30.Gandhi is now planning to move to Lucknow in February to the late Sheila Kaul’s house. The Congress party claims it was renovated months back for her with plans of working on the Uttar Pradesh state elections that are due in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bungalow-that-priyanka-gandhi-will-vacate-allotted-to-bjp-mp-anil-baluni/story-1tL3OMbJMcfLvGjpB8zh7O.html
05-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh reopens 16 RTO check posts on borders||Chhattisgarh government has decided to reopen 16 regional transport department ( RTO) check post on the borders of the state , which were closed by BJP government in 2017. The order in this regard has been issued by the state government on Saturday and state transport department has been asked to start deploying employees and flying squads at these check posts at the borders.It is worth mentioning that, on August 10, 2017, the then BJP government shut all 16 barriers claiming that after introduction of GST, the barriers are of no use. “ We have reopened these 16 check posts in 10 district because the government has been facing loss in Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue and there were many vehicles which used to enter in the state without any record and hence it has also been opened in the view of security,” Mohammad Akbar, transport minister, told Hindustan Times.The check posts that will reopen are Patekorha, Chhote Manpur and Manpur in Rajnandgaon district; Chilfi in Kabirdham; Khamharpali and Bagbahara in Mahasamund; Kevchi in Bilaspur; Dhanvar and Ramnujgunj in Balrampur; Ghuritola and Chanti in Korea; Rengarpali in Raigarh; Shankh and Lavakera in Jashpur; Konta in Sukma and Dhanpunji in Jagdalpur.“ We will get about 200 crore per year from these check posts,” the minister added.The opposition BJP attacked Congress-led government and said that through reopening check posts, the Congress government is encouraging corruption.“Weclosed these check posts in 2017 because there was massive corruption going on and minister Nitin Gadkari instructed us to close these barriers… But now Congress government has started it again, which suggests that they are encouraging corruption. On the other hand, there were security issue too , another reason why it was shut,” former transport minister and BJP leader, Rajesh Munat said.“Before attacking the Congress government in Chhattisgarh, they should check their government in Madhya Pradesh where these check posts are operating. The BJP has no issue hence they mislead people,” Akbar said responding on BJP’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-reopens-16-rto-check-posts-on-borders/story-G5trMxegIq7phWfLypPuuJ.html
05-07-2020||India||12 new infections in Mumbai’s Dharavi take slum colony’s tally to 2,323||Twelve new Covid-19 cases have emerged in Mumbai’s Dharavi on Sunday, taking the total number of coronavirus patients to 2,323, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.A day earlier, on Saturday, the slum colony Dharavi recorded only two fresh Covid-19 cases, the city’s civic agency had said. The area recorded a small rise in coronavirus cases for the first time since the first week of April after a brief respite in the middle of June.According to a senior BMC official, no fresh deaths were reported in Dharavi in the past 24 hours. The death toll in the slum dwelling currently remains unchanged at 86.The congested slum area has about 551 active cases at present, a significant dip from the number recorded towards the end of last month.Spread across an area of roughly 2.5 square km, Dharavi is known as the largest slum cluster of Asia with a population of an estimated 6.5 lakh.The Union health ministry, recently, had said that due to proactive measures and containment strategies adopted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, the Covid-19 growth rate in Dharavi had dipped to 1.02% in June. In the month of May, the growth rate for the Covid-19 disease in Dharavi was about 4.3%, a dip from the earlier 12% in April.An estimated 1,704 patients have been discharged in Dharavi after recovering from the coronavirus infection.On Friday, the average doubling rate of coronavirus cases for seven days in the area was 140 days and the average growth rate of cases was 0.55 per cent.Maharashtra on Saturday crossed two lakh Covid-19 positive cases with 7,074 new cases in the last 24 hours.The total number of cases went up to 2,00,064 in the state, which has the highest number of coronavirus patients in India, followed by Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-new-infections-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-take-slum-colony-s-tally-to-2-323/story-ttFv0WoMLOEooJFnFm9kEJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Modinagar fire tragedy claims 7 lives, CM Adityanath seeks report||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered senior officials to oversee relief work at Bakharwa village in Modinagar town in Ghaziabad, where a major fire at a factory killed seven people on Sunday evening. He has also asked for an official report by Sunday night.“Seven persons including women have died and three persons were severely injured in the fire incident. According to locals, about 20-25 persons were working when the fire broke out. The identification of the seven persons is being done. We are also trying to find the owner of the factory,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural).Also Read: 7 dead in explosion at factory in UP’s Modi NagarFollowing the incident, the fire department officials rushed to the spot, they were assisted in their relief and rescue operations by the villagers.“There were no safety measures in place here and the factory didn’t have a license to operate. It was running illegally. Many women were employed here as workers along with children. There was a raid at the factory some time ago but it continued operations. The local police had information of the operation of the factory,” said Bhupender Kumar, a villager.Fire breaks out at multi-storey building in KolkataAccording to cops, the factory was involved in the manufacturing of party poppers used for birthday celebrations. The cops are also trying to find out if any chemicals were stored in the factory while attempting to establish the exact cause of fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modinagar-fire-tragedy-factory-running-illegally-alleges-local-cm-adityanath-seeks-report/story-WjmzeH1bcsl0Bwf7Cjx6dI.html
05-07-2020||India||Kanpur shootout probe: More policemen under scanner for links with accused||Some more policemen are under investigation after the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force found that they had been in touch with Vikas Dubey, the prime accused in the shootout in which eight police personnel were killed at Bikru village in Kanpur on July 3, according to a senior police officer.These policemen are in addition to Chaubeypur station officer Vinay Tiwari who was suspended on Saturday for his allegedly suspicious role in the failed raid.Inspector general of police, Kanpur, Mohit Agarwal said, “Three policemen were in touch (with Dubey) and a parallel investigation is going on to unearth this nexus.”Also read: How did gangster Vikas Dubey get information about Kanpur raid? “Services of the police personnel in league with him will be terminated and they will face a criminal trial,” he said. Another official, who did not wish to be named, said the entire staff of the Chaubeypur police station in Kanpur was under suspect.But what has startled the investigators is the enormity of support the gangster had on caste-lines from some police personnel, according to those privy to the probe.Two senior police officers of deputy SP rank, one of them currently posted as a circle officer, a number of sub-inspectors and constables have also been questioned.The deputy SP posted in Kanpur was asked why did he not follow the routine procedure of invoking the Gangster’s Act for registering Dubey’s gang at the district level after another shootout, which Vikas Dubey’s men allegedly carried out in Kalyanpur.The officer was questioned in the context of a murderous assault on Vikas Dubey’s brother Anurag Dubey in Kalyanpur. Anurag’s wife Rita had lodged an FIR naming Vikas, his closest aides Pawan Tiwari, Aman Tiwari and two others with the police on April 18, 2018.“The officer kept mum on repeated questions about why he went soft on him (Dubey). The reaction of others was no different,” said an official involved with the investigation.Sub-inspectors and constables were a bit more forthcoming on this issue and said Vikas Dubey used to take good care of men from a particular caste.“Otherwise, he was abusive with all the policemen he spoke to over the phone or in person. Woh seedhe gaali dekar baat karta tha (he used to abuse cops right from the start),” the policemen said, adding that they were afraid of him.They preferred to extend support rather than be in his bad books, said an official.The caste support that Vikas Dubey allegedly enjoyed from some policemen was the reason that despite 60 known criminal cases against him and a career in crime spanning 28 years, he did not figure on the list of top 10 criminals of Kanpur, those privy to the probe said. The police never registered his gang’s name at the district level, they added.Before the shootout on July 3, Vikas Dubey had spoken to a sub-inspector who is now being investigated, said a senior officer.“A number of examples show that not only the mid-level officers and the constabulary but senior police officers also remained soft due to the caste factor. He survived all these years because of his activities on caste lines. It involved not only the police personnel but also politicians, businessmen and so on,” said an official who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-shootout-probe-more-policemen-under-scanner-for-links-with-accused/story-7hn2UgEDrcKqokXqPmFMWN.html
05-07-2020||India||After CM Nitish Kumar, Bihar Dy CM Sushil Modi tests Covid-19 negative||Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and legislative assembly speaker Vijay Kumar Chaudhary tested negative for coronavirus among the several high profile people who had come in contact with a BJP functionary who tested positive for the disease on Saturday. Four of the 88 contacts of the BJP MLC have, however, tested positive.“Swab samples of the deputy CM and the assembly speaker have tested negative. However, four samples of security personnel and personal staff of politicians have tested positive for the virus,” said a senior health department official, who requested anonymity.“The sample of deputy chief minister has tested negative through the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR), which is a confirmatory test for Covid-19. Earlier, his antigen test, done on CB NAAT machine, which is processed in an hour, was also negative,” the officer said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesWhen asked about the need to conduct RT PCR test after testing through CB NAAT machine, the officer said the former had greater sensitivity capable of detecting even the mildest strain of the virus.“In case of top leaders, including the CM and the deputy CM, we did not want to take any chance,” said the officer.As per the health ministry’s advisory, RT PCR is done when a sample tests positive on CB NAAT.Shailendra Kumar Ojha, private secretary to deputy chief minister, also confirmed that Sushil Modi had tested negative.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had tested negative late Saturday evening. “All 16 samples from the chief minister’s residence have tested negative,” the health department functionary said.Kumar, Modi, Chaudhary, besides some other ministers and politicians had come in contact with Covid-infected BJP leader during the swearing-in ceremony of nine MLCs at the Bihar legislative council on July 1.The infected BJP leader, his wife, son and a personal assistant were among the five people admitted to the Covid-19 isolation ward at AIIMS-Patna on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-cm-nitish-kumar-bihar-dy-cm-sushil-modi-tests-covid-19-negative/story-qDfU9muuoFCRtWPqyxbcLO.html
05-07-2020||India||Three Uttarakhand women washed away in swelled Kosi river, two bodies retrieved||Three women were washed away in Kosi river in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district on Sunday morning, said officials.The incident occurred in Garampani area of the district when the women were crossing the river after fetching fodder from the nearby forests. All three women have been identified as Kamla Devi, 30; Lalita Devi, 30 and Lata Devi, 26 - all residents of Chamadia village of the district.The water in the river has risen due to the intermittent rains in the upstream region in the past few days due to which the flow of the river has become fast.A team of state disaster response force (SDRF) and local police rushed to spot on the information by the locals and started the search operation. So far, they have retrieved two bodies while the search for the third woman (Lata Devi) is on, the officials said.“For reaching the forests they had to cross the Kosi river. When they were returning from the forest, the water level in the Kosi river had risen. There is no bridge in the area hence they decided to cross it anyway and got washed away,” said Richa Singh, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Koshya Kutoli, Nainital.Singh said that it is likely that these women had grass on their heads and lost their balance in the strong flow of the river and got swept away.“Some people saw them getting washed away and informed the police and officials about it. A team of the SDRF, police and other officials rushed to the spot and started the rescue and search operation. So far, bodies of two women have been retrieved,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-uttarakhand-women-washed-away-in-swelled-kosi-river-two-bodies-retrieved/story-Rk9jOvXbEtHMZn3CS7zMyK.html
05-07-2020||India||Cache of 30 kgs of gold seized from diplomatic baggage in Kerala’s capital||The Customs and Preventive Department on Sunday seized at least 30 kgs of gold from an air cargo consignment bound for the United Arab Emirates consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Customs officials said it was the biggest seizure in the recent past that too from diplomatic baggage meant for employees of the consulate general’s office.The raid was carried out after customs obtained permission from the Ministry of External Affairs since most consignments to diplomatic missions enjoy immunity under the Vienna Convention. “We had definite intelligence about this. A search is going on and the quantity may go up. We have detained one person and are on the lookout for two more,” said Sumit Kumar, Customs Commissioner in-charge of Kerala and Lakshadweep region.ALSO READ | Despite Covid-19 pandemic, gold smuggling in Kerala continues unabatedThe consignment came through a chartered flight. Customs suspect that the smuggling syndicate was using some of the lower level employees to make use of immunity to smuggle gold. Usually such consignments pass without any check. “We have to make it very clear that the consignment was booked in the name of some lower-level officials not in the name of the consular general of the friendly country. Our preliminary investigation shows the smuggling syndicate was using some of them,” he said.The gold was hidden inside some household equipment to avoid detection and it will be worth several crores of rupees. The commissioner said exact details will be revealed after checking some more baggage and the quantity of gold may go up. He said this will be the largest seizure in the recent past.After gold prices skyrocketed there has been a big spike in smuggling also. At least, 15 kgs of the yellow metal were seized from chartered flights from the middle-east countries in last two weeks-- Kozhikkode International Airport topped in seizures.Officials said often smuggling syndicates think that frisking norms are likely to be lax in the time of Covid-19 and there won’t be any tight checking on chartered flights but they are mistaken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cache-of-30-kgs-of-gold-seized-from-diplomatic-baggage-in-kerala-s-capital/story-hrjfz5IsRInFhfKvlhJetJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Explosive to kill wild boars goes off in Kerala, woman injured||A 60-year-old woman was injured when an explosive meant to target wild boars in farmlands exploded near here, police said on Sunday.Janu suffered minor injuries in her hand when she came into contact with the explosive while cleaning a vacant plot near Panoor, along with a group of women as part of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme on Saturday.A case has been registered under various provisions including Sections3 and 5 of the Explosives Act in this connection.The woman was treated as an outpatient at a hospital.The explosive was suspected to be used to trap wild boars, police said adding investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explosive-to-kill-wild-boars-goes-off-in-kerala-woman-injured/story-KTr4ur75nmkDg82dDvO4JM.html
05-07-2020||India||India, Afghanistan sign 5 pacts for developing educational infra in Afghan provinces||India and Afghanistan on Sunday signed five agreements for developing educational infrastructure in four Afghan provinces, with the move seen as a reiteration of New Delhi’s support to Kabul at a time when the war-torn country’s peace process is facing challenges.The five memorandums of understanding (MoUs) were signed under the high impact community development projects (HICDP) programme being implemented by India to further strengthen the bilateral development partnership, said a statement from the Indian embassy in Kabul.Since 2001, India has undertaken projects worth $3 billion in Afghanistan, including $1 billion pledged in 2016 under the “new development partnership” scheme over the period of five years. These projects are part of India’s commitment to assist Afghanistan emerge as a “peaceful, united, prosperous and pluralistic nation”, the statement said.The projects to be taken up under the five MoUs include the construction of classrooms, a higher education building and a road within the campus of Albironi University. The projects are spread across the four provinces of Nooristan, Badakhshan, Farah and Kapisa.Since 2005, the Indian government has committed $200 million to support more than 550 high impact community development projects across Afghanistan. Of these, more than 400 projects have already been completed while the rest are in various stages of implementation. These are usually smaller grassroots projects that involve a lower financial outlay but have a direct impact on local populations.The ceremony in Kabul for the signing of the MoUs was presided over by the Afghan minister of economy, Mustafa Mastoor. Tripartite agreements were signed between the Indian government, the Afghan ministry of economy and the implementing ministries, such as the ministry of education.Two MoUs were signed by Indian ambassador Vinay Kumar and ministers Mustafa Mastoor and Abdul Tawab Balakarzai, while three were signed by Kumar and ministers Mastoor and Rangina Hamidi.“The government of India remains committed to take forward the India-Afghanistan Development Partnership based on the national priorities of the government and people” of Afghanistan, the statement said.Despite an agreement signed by the US and the Taliban in February, Afghanistan has witnessed a surge in terrorist violence even as it grapples with the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The intra-Afghan dialogue, a key component of the peace process, is yet to get underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-afghanistan-sign-5-pacts-for-developing-educational-infra-in-afghan-provinces/story-lrCdMSCtOMQzWBL4OCRVAM.html
05-07-2020||India||15 arrested in Bengal after 3 alleged murders, political clashes in 2 districts||Police in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas and Birbhum districts have arrested 15 people in connection with the alleged murders of three people since Friday night. Aswini Manna, a Trinamool Congress leader in the Moipith-Boikunthapur panchayat area of South 24 Parganas district was lynched, allegedly by supporters of a Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist), a small Left party, early on Saturday. Hours later, the body of Sudhansu Jana, a SUCI worker, was found hanging in his house which was torched along with some other houses and shops, allegedly by TMC workers.Though SUCI has very little presence in the rest of Bengal, it is a powerful force in the region where the violence took place.Eleven people from both parties have been arrested for the violence, a district police officer said on condition of anonymity. Among those arrested is Pintu Pradhan, a leader of the TMC’s youth front.Local TMC leaders did not comment on the arrests saying police were doing their duty.Tarun Naskar, former SUCI legislator from the local Joynagar assembly seat, said his party workers had been protesting against nepotism by TMC panchayat leaders involved in distribution of relief and compensation among people affected by cyclone Amphhan.“In the 2018 panchayat polls we won 11 gram panchayat seats against one won by the TMC and seven by the CPI(M). But TMC leaders threatened our candidates and forced them to switch sides so that they could form the board. We were planning to bring a no-confidence motion against the board. On Thursday, we lodged a police complaint about relief-related corruption against the panchayat pradhan. This led to the attack,” said Naskar. In Birbhum district, the body of Sishir Bauri, a TMC worker, was found in the Khayrasole area on Friday night. His family lodged a police complaint against six local TMC workers. Four of the accused were arrested, said an officer of Khayrasole police station. TMC leaders alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was behind the murder. BJP district president Shyamapada Mondal denied the allegation. “It is a fact that many people in this area voted for us in the Lok Sabha polls but the murder is a fallout of internal dispute in the TMC,” he said. In North 24 Parganas district, Champa Das, a councillor of Barrackpore municipality was shot in the leg outside her home in Ishapore on Saturday evening. She told the police the names of some known criminals as suspects but no arrest was made till Sunday afternoon. The bullet was lodged in the councillor’s leg and she underwent an operation in a private hospital in Kolkata on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-arrested-in-bengal-after-3-alleged-murders-political-clashes-in-2-districts/story-ZjJDZsOInt7JfD1ng2SYsM.html
05-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Ganga canal, dating back to British era, to be turned into water sports hub||To promote adventure and water sports, the Uttarakhand government will develop the British era Ganga canal stretch in Roorkee as a hub of water sports in the Himalayan state.Water sports activities such as river rafting and kayaking will be organised at the old Ganga canal which is adjacent to the new Ganga canal near the Dhanauri-Roorkee stretch.According to the cabinet minister for irrigation, tourism, culture, Satpal Maharaj, the use of the old Ganga canal stretch which was once the main Ganga canal built by the British is apt since it is suitable for water sports activities.“We need to promote adventure sports for which the state has vast potential. Adventure sports will provide a wide array of employment opportunities, revenue and infrastructure for these sports which can be utilized by our sportspersons. They can excel in these sports which also find a place in national and international sporting events,” Satpal Maharaj said.As the operation and management of the Ganga canal is still in the purview of the Uttar Pradesh government due to non-resolution of handing over of the properties to Uttarakhand, since the hill state was carved out of the former in 2000, Maharaj said that permission in this regard has been sought from the UP government.“We have written to the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department minister Mahendra Singh to permit the Uttarakhand government to use the old Ganga canal stretch for adventure sports. As and when permission is granted we will start work on fast track to develop the old Ganga canal for adventure sports purposes,” said Maharaj.On illegal encroachments coming up on the closed Ganga canal, the cabinet minister said that he has directed the irrigation department officials to ensure the removal of all such encroachments.Roorkee already has kayaking and canoeing options but with the development of the old Ganga canal, it would be easier to build infrastructural facilities according to international standards.Welcoming the state government’s initiative, assistant professor Dr Ajay Malik from Gurukul Kangri University’s physical education department said that rafting related aqua sports have become a major medal clincher in the Olympics, Asiad and other global sporting events. “So this initiative bodes well for the Himalayan state. Besides, it is good that the state government is exploring these non-conventional sports also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-ganga-canal-dating-back-to-british-era-to-be-turned-into-water-sports-hub/story-vYMc0n2UE3hbMTSUblp7vL.html
05-07-2020||India||Jharkhand launches immunization drive for 44K kids of migrant workers||Lathmin Tirkey, 27, a migrant labourer who went to Varanasi from Jamdai village in Ranchi’s Namkum block in October last year to work at a brick kiln unit, delivered a baby in February this year at workplace but her infant was deprived of her first immunization.A day after the birth of the baby, a relative of Tirkey took her to a health centre there for the newborn’s first vaccine. “But, we returned empty handed as there was no health staff at the centre,” Tirkey said.She returned to her job two days later and did not get time to get her baby immunized. She did not even have the MCP (mother-child protection) card.She returned to her home in Namkum in mid-June after she became jobless due to lockdown since March 25. After completing her mandatory 14-day quarantine, she got her baby its first vaccine here at a health centre in Namkum and also got an MCP card.Tirkey’s baby is not alone. As many as 44,000 children up to five years of age of migrant workers who returned to Jharkhand, were deprived of immunization during the period they stayed outside the state.More than five lakh migrant workers, who worked in different parts of the country, have returned to Jharkhand since May 1. In a bid to ascertain the immunization status of children of migrant workers, the state health department launched a massive door-to-door intensive health survey last month. The health staff visited more than 50 lakh households in 28,000 villages and urban slum areas to identify the kids of migrant workers.The survey started on June 18 and ended on June 25. “The survey had three objectives such as identifying people suffering with respiratory problems, cough or fever for Covid-19 test, people above 40 years of age suffering from various diseases which increases vulnerability to Covid-19. The third objective of the survey was to know the status of immunization among children of migrant workers who returned to Jharkhand,” said Akay Minz, state programme officer (SPO) for National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand.The survey found 55,215 people with complaints of respiratory, cough and fever complications, while 3,39,573 people above 40 years of age had complaints of blood pressure, diabetes, obesity, cancer and leprosy.“We also identified 44,191 children of migrant workers, who either missed doses of immunization or did not have a single vaccine after birth,” Minz said. “Parents were either ignorant about immunization or they had no time to take their children to a health centre due to work pressure at work place, particularly in the unorganized sector,” she said.Anjali Kohya, a migrant worker who also went to Varanasi from Sodag village in Ranchi’s Namkum block, said, “I worked at a brick kiln unit along with my husband Birju Khoya. Our two children stayed with us at the workplace. Since we came to Varanasi in October, we could not give a vaccine to our two-year-old son in Jharkhand. We tried it in Varanasi but did not find the location of the health centre. Due to pressure at the workplace, we struggled to find extra time to locate a health centre there.” Khoya’s son got the immunization at her village in Namkum on Thursday.The Jharkhand health department has now launched a major campaign to immunize these deprived children. A senior official in the state health department, who monitors immunization said they have set a target to immunize 8.30 lakh children between the age group of zero to five this year. “We are assessing the achievement figure so far, as the immunization drive was affected due to Covid-19 pandemic. Community health centres were closed from March 21 to May 1. However, immunization exercise was on in government medical college hospitals and private hospitals,” said the officer who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-launches-immunization-drive-for-44k-kids-of-migrant-workers/story-XyhTJsAQikJWYU41e1h6kO.html
05-07-2020||India||Kerala woman again turns Covid 19 positive after recovery, state medical board to study her case||A woman in Kerala has again tested positive for Covid 19, a few days after reportedly getting cured from the disease in the month of June. She had recently returned to the state from the United Arab Emirates. While the experts have called it worrisome, they have ruled it out as a case of re-infection. According to them, it is more likely to be a case of resurgence of viral remnant. In another possibility, they suspect the woman may not have recovered fully last month.Viral remnant is a condition where the virus remains dormant even after recovery but doesn’t show infectious tendencies due its weakened state. The experts add that the resurgence of the virus in the woman calls for a detailed study.“We have checked the case history of the patient. She had tested positive in the month of May and turned negative in the third week of June after treatment. She was quarantined after her return to Kerala in the last week of June. She tested positive two days back,” said Kottayam district medical officer Dr Jacob Varghese.He said either she was not fully cured or it could be a case of viral remnant. Experts say such cases are one in thousands and can’t be considered a regular phenomenon of the viral disease.“We have to examine her previous clinical records and positivity thoroughly. Chances of re-infection are unlikely. In some cases there are delayed remissions and in other cases they remain asymptomatic though infected,” said state health secretary Rajan Kobragade, adding that the state medical board will study the case in detail.Kerala CM writes to PM Modi seeking trial in Italy of marines who killed 2 fishermenIn Pathnamthitta, a girl student who had tested positive upon her return from Delhi remained asymptomatic throughout her positivity period and in another case, a woman turned negative after 19 continuous tests. The World Health Organization (WHO) has prescribed a 14-day incubation period but the state had extended it to 28 days and insisted on three consecutive negative tests for discharge, but it tweaked it after the number of cases increased. Now, a patient can be discharged after the first negative result.Another such case was reported in Idukki, again an expatriate who had returned from Abu Dhabi. But after checking his medical history, doctors found he had never tested positive in the UAE, despite claiming to have undergone treatment and turned negative later. His antibody test at Abu Dhabi airport was negative but he tested positive on his arrival at Cochin airport. He is currently undergoing treatment at the government medical college hospital in Ernakulam.India’s first Covid-19 vaccine races to meet mid-August target“It is a new virus and its features and behaviour are still under study. Cases of re-infection have not been validated anywhere. Kottayam case needs an in-depth study,” said public health expert V Ramankutty.He added that highly-populated countries like India will have to live with the virus for some time, resulting in the eventual development of herd immunity. The fight against Covid-19 can be made easier if those infected develop an adequate level of immunity through development of antibodies, said experts. Kerala has reported 5,204 cases, out of which, 3,050 have recovered, leaving 2,129 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-woman-again-turns-covid-19-positive-after-recovery-state-medical-board-to-study-her-case/story-085gfWmc5Z0Hc2bprAOPvO.html
05-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 998 fresh Covid-19 cases in Andhra take state tally to 18,697 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Andhra adds 998 new Covid-19 cases, state’s tally jumps to 18,697, 14 more dieAndhra Pradesh detected 998 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the Telugu state’s total number of coronavirus cases to 18,697, the state health department said on Sunday. Read more.Steady growth in domestic air travel, daily fliers cross 75k mark on July 4Civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri on Sunday declared that over 75,000 passengers travelled on domestic flights on July 4, the highest daily traffic, seen 41 days after the resumption of domestic flights on May 25. Read more.How did gangster Vikas Dubey get information about Kanpur raid? Police explore caste angleThe police in Kanpur are investigating how gangster Vikas Dubey got the information about the raid at his house in which eight policemen were killed. The investigation has revealed that the cops helped Dubey on caste lines. Read more.Dil Bechara: Release date of Sushant Singh Rajput’s final film trailer announced, see new posterThe trailer of Dil Bechara, Sushant Singh Rajput’s swansong, will be out on Monday (July 6). Casting director-turned-filmmaker Mukesh Chhabra, who is making his directorial debut with the film, shared the news via a new poster. The poster also features female lead Sanjana Sanghi. Read more.‘Ben, like Virat, does everything at 100 mile an hour’: Former England captain on similarities between Kohli and StokesFormer England captain Nasser Hussain has backed Ben Stokes to come out with flying colours as the all-rounder gets set to captain the national team for the first side. Stokes will be leading England in the first Test against West Indies starting Wednesday, in the absence of Joe Root – who will be with his wife for the birth of his child – and Hussain is hopeful the all-rounder will able to emulate India’s Virat Kohli and his captaincy. Read more.Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge: 5 things you need to knowThe Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge was announced by the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY) and MyGov in partnership with Atal Innovation Mission, Niti Aayog for Indian tech entrepreneurs and startups. Read more.Paraglider soars high in sky while sitting on sofa, watching TV. Video is amusingly scaryIf after reading the title you find yourself saying ‘that is a joke,’ then believe us we are not kidding. However bizarre it may sound, this is something which actually happened and now a video of the incident has sparked chatter among people. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-998-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-take-state-tally-to-18-697-and-all-the-latest-news/story-TFv6ZzY3lqyDxyQMh0mP2N.html
05-07-2020||India||‘Fear all around’: Covid-19 leaves wellness sector in bad health||Fifteen years ago, I pushed a white salon door in a neighbourhood market to enter a space the size of a small kitchen, and reached a hairdresser after trampling over the feet of four others. Her name was Renila Lepcha, and we began to talk hair, by appointment, to each other in a rocky Hindi accent in a south Delhi locality every two months. Familiarity bred a ritual. “Trust me,” she would say, to which I would reply, “always do!” and she would get her scissors out and make the hair on top of my head look like a nuclear cloud to give it volume. So far, we had accepted this ritual for what it was: an unspoken commitment between a hairdresser and a satisfied client that this would continue, unless one of us changed the neighbourhood.The pandemic has changed every convention of everyday life. It has specified two metres to be the distance that must separate two human beings in order to be safe. Worldwide, this has hobbled the salon industry. In India, it hit its skilled workforce (including the barber on the street) with the closing down of salons; re-opening them in June still shows a grim picture. According to the Beauty & Wellness Sector Skill Council (B&WSSC), which works under the aegis of the union ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship, the industry employs nearly 70 lakh people, which means that when the salons were forced shut amid the Covid-19 lockdown in March, something like the entire population of Bulgaria saw their earnings either shrink or disappear.***Monica Bahl, CEO, B&WSSC, also says this sector employs an economically vulnerable population – a migrant workforce and is women-dominated. “Our challenges to stay afloat are more than many other in the tertiary sector. It is not product based, it’s service based. A shampoo or a dish can be sold via distributors and a customer can opt for a no-touch-delivery service but ours is a touch-and-feel industry. You can demand and maintain a two-metre distance between two clients in a salon but a hair stylist can’t possibly attend to a client from two metres away.”Post ‘Unlock 1’, hair salons are officially back but are they ‘on’? The potential of infection between people in an enclosed space and whether salons are equal to the task of maintaining hygiene even with the most stringent of sanitation in the time of an epidemic is keeping clients away.There are also unanswered questions; trivial though they may seem, but not, when a misstep may mean life or death. Can blow-drying, almost an ‘essential’ service at salons, for instance, lead to an increased flow of virus-carrying particles? Is the PPE gear really being disposed of after each use? Is anyone doing random checks to ascertain this?There is a Free Online Certification Program on precautionary measures, health, safety and hygiene guidelines uploaded on the B&WSSC website for industry professionals. Of an industry strength of 70 lakh, the total registered for online certification – they allow three tries -- since the lockdown is 1,17,657; total pass-outs : 98,170. Passing it is not difficult; I did on first try.Hygiene priorities, however, seem to be very much an individual salon owner’s call. “Before the lockdown we had an approximate number of 40 visitors per salon each day in Mumbai whereas in Delhi we had approximately 50 visitors. Post lockdown we have seen a decrease in the number of visitors by 50% to 60 %,” says Sumit Israni, managing director of the high-end, pan-India brand, Geetanjali Salons and Studios. After ‘Unlock 1’, around 15 to 30 sanitiser bottles are used in each salon as per the size; pre-lockdown, it used to be 5 to 7. On a much smaller scale, at Hair & Glow, Delhi, Renila says sanitising is “sufficient”. “Earlier, on a good day”, the salon serviced 15 clients a day. After the easing of the lockdown, it gets no more than three.***The question of safety over aesthetics is actually a cul de sac. A year ago would you think it’s possible to watch opera from a car seat? But it’s happening in Europe. Hair is important even for those who are balding, says Mumbai stylist Placid Braganza, who runs a 15-member team hair salon in Mumbai. The Delhi government re-opened the salons in the first week of June; Mumbai’s salons re-opened by June-end.Placid says his lockdown experience has taught him that he needs to concentrate on his teaching career as a possible Plan B.“A hair cut makes you look groomed. You might be locked up in your home, but due to social media or work from home via video-calls, can you say you are invisible? Looking groomed is key messaging. It says you are on top of your game, even now.” But there is fear all around, he admits, no matter what gear you are wearing.Elias Canetti, who explores the psychology of crowds in his book, Crowds and Power, says that clothes, in a state of fear, gives insufficient insecurity. It is easy to fear their “tear…imagine skin as smooth, defenceless, naked, the flesh of a victim”. Is social distancing the new ostracism? Can fear make you look at your hair, skin and those you know differently? Can a virus decide the boundary of your being? Re-order who can touch you and who can’t? The future of one of the world’s oldest professions is at stake. The barber-surgeon was considered part of the medical profession in Europe in the Middle Ages; besides haircuts, he gave leech-treatments to soldiers injured in battle.***Australia and Japan deemed haircut an essential service during the pandemic. China lifted its lockdown in March. A South China Morning Post video in March shows hairdressers doing the ‘Long-distance Haircut’ using trimmers and scrubbers attached to long rods to trim and wash hair. Regular customers, the video noted, were keen to try this out.A video that did well in India was well-known hair stylist Jawed Habib’s DIY lockdown tutorial on Youtube. Sangeeta Rathi, a business strategist with an MNC, gave her son a trim after watching it. Friends and neighbours followed suit. Paper scissors were brought out to give a young child or a partner, haircuts; the more fastidious ordered on shopping sites the best trimmer and scissors that money could buy. Appointments given to local salon boys, who had started doing home visits service by May, were cancelled. Even in June, client number per day at these salons is in single digits.In April, Delhi-based academic Rama Paul’s sons emerged from the washroom with a “seminary cut” given by mum; in June they checked into the new-era salon where hairdressers “looking like astronauts” in PPE gowns gave them a professional snip. The family also started going to a branded salon instead of their regular one; the logic being they would be more conscious of a bad review, and hygiene standards would be better. Khokon Acharjee, a retired bank employee of Kolkata, called in a barber that his friends were using at home. If a hairdresser was a barber from the common pool, he seemed a safer bet.Aarti Khurana, who has been doing Insta Lives as a tarot card reader, called home a hairdresser recommended by a friend. She was desperate enough to let in a professional wearing PPE gear “stitched by his mom; he washes it everyday”. On the flip side this also shows that people are testing the limits of everyday courage and choosing to put their lives in the hands of virtual strangers in the face of a still unfathomable disease.“I don’t want to turn paranoid. That’s not me. Covid is here to stay. If you sanitise multiple times and both wear masks, it should be fine,” says Aarti. She paid R2,500 for hair colour, R1,500 for the haircut. The IANS reports a survey by Redquanta, which says salon visits are among the top three activities that people missed the most during the ongoing pandemic. “He charged me Bandra salon rates but I was filled with gratitude just to have him turn up so well covered. After he left, I immediately had a bath,” says Aarti.Convenience is the “new non-negotiable” in the service industry, says Ayush Bansal, a Mumbai gym owner. He calls his hairdresser, Nadeem, a friend. “Everyone is looking for end-to-end services sitting at home,” he says. “If you can get groceries, you can get a hairdresser as well.” His change of hairdressers in the past years maps this transition. He started to patronise Nadeem, who works in a salon five minutes from his home in Juhu over Michelle, his first regular hairstylist, as her salon was a 20-minute drive away at Pali Hill. Nadeem could soon become history with Ayush having started to use hairdressers with Urban Clap.The new rule for every segment of society is that don’t be overdressed, everyone understands you are at home, says actor Meeta Vashisht, who did a virtual press meet for her new film, Your Honour. “I just had to make sure my hair looked good for the camera, how it looks from the back really doesn’t matter. Recently, on Insta I just wore clothes one wears at home and did a spoof. It had 13,000 likes. When I put my hair up and dressed up to spoof a hit song in a movie, it had half the views.”All this, however, may not bode well for hairdressers. “Fear is impacting every business in the world, including ours,” says Jawed Habib, who runs 900-plus salons in 120 cities of India. “Clients are walking in like inspectors and asking if the shop is safe. If the shop is open, it must be! We want to be safe too. People are just getting essentials done now – a quick hair cut, or the covering of greys, or a repair job and they are out of the salon.” He suggests that the Council instead of “just focusing on rules and norms should also talk of support”. So far, the Andhra Pradesh government is one of the few state governments offering help to the fraternity. In June, it announced that it will soon launch a one-time financial assistance scheme of R10,000/beneficiary for traditional hairdressers, tailors and launderers.The Nagaland government has also offered a one-time R10 K to all returnees, irrespective of industry. Three hundred from the hair salon industry returned home this month.The industry employs around 70 lakh; women workforce is around 47%. The pandemic has also forced many migrants, especially from the North-east who are a sizeable population in the beauty and wellness industry to return home. According to Madhumita Saikia, president, Assam Aesthetician Association, 2,500 hair industry personnel from Assam have returned home in June; 300 to Nagaland, 60 plus to Manipur, 150 to Mizoram; Sikkim and Meghalaya having blocked re-entry to all migrants.Renila Lepcha of Darjeeling is staying put in Delhi. She is waiting for her husband, a chef, stranded in Russia, and also for her regular clients. She won’t be meeting any of them soon. “I trust you”, was told to her only once every two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fear-all-around-covid-19-leaves-wellness-sector-in-bad-health/story-lwIogOQgd14kfazFuVw70H.html
05-07-2020||India||How did gangster Vikas Dubey get information about Kanpur raid? Police explore caste angle||The police in Kanpur are investigating how gangster Vikas Dubey got the information about the raid at his house in which eight policemen were killed. The investigation has revealed that the cops helped Dubey on caste lines.This was the reason that despite 60 known criminal cases and a career spanning 28 years, Dubey did not figure in the top 10 criminals of the city.At present, around 30 policemen are under investigation after the UP Special Task Force (STF) and investigators found they were in touch with Dubey.“All the workers of the local police station are under our scope of investigation on how Vikas Dubey got information about police movement,” Kanpur IG Mohit Agarwal said on Sunday.“Services of cops in league with him will be terminated and they will face criminal trial,” he added. Another official said that the staff of entire Chaubeypur police station was suspect.Also Watch l Kanpur shootout accused arrested: Watch Vikas Dubey’s aide’s claim on camera What has really startled the investigators is the enormity of support the gangster had on caste-lines from the police. Two senior police officers of Deputy SP rank, one of them is currently posted as a circle officer, a number of sub-inspectors and constables have been questioned.One of the deputy SPs was asked why he did not follow the routine procedure of invoking gangster act, registering his gang at district level after the 2019 shootout, which Dubey’s men carried out in Kalyanpur and a case of attempt to murder was registered.The questioning was in context of murderous assault mounted on the gangster’s brother Anurag Dubey in Kalyanpur. Anurag’s wife Rita had lodged an FIR naming Vikas, his closest aides Pawan Tiwari, Aman Tiwari and two others on April 18, 2018.“The officer kept mum; he chose not to answer to the question on why did he go soft on him. The reaction of other was no different,” said an official involved with the investigation. The sub-inspectors and constables were bit more forthcoming on this issue and said Dubey used to take good care of men from a particular caste.“Otherwise he was abusive to all the policemen he used to speak to over the phone or in person. Wo seedhe gaali dekar baat karta tha (he used to abuse cops right from the start),” the cops told, adding that they were afraid of him and preferred not to be at odds with him.Before Friday’s shooutout, Dubey had spoken to a sub-inspector, now being investigated, over the phone, said a senior officer.“A number of examples are available now that show the not only the mid level officer, constabulary and senior police officers remained soft due to the caste factor. He survived all these years because of his activities on the caste-lines. It involved not only the cops but politicians, businessmen and so on,” said an official who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-did-gangster-vikas-dubey-get-information-about-kanpur-raid-police-explore-caste-angle/story-zdhHmUMpG3qehlZhhXCdpN.html
05-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Tehri Garhwal district turns tide with 99% recovery in Covid-19 cases||In a remarkable turnaround, Tehri Garhwal district in Uttarakhand has scripted a significant recovery in Covid-19 cases with just three active cases left on Saturday out of a tally of 421.Tehri Garhwal was one of the districts in the state with a high number of Covid-19 cases after it reported the first incident in the third week of May.The number of Covid-19 cases in the district began to rise after over 32,000 migrant workers returned home from other parts of the country. Out of a total of 421 Covid-19 cases, 416 have recovered successfully while two have died.Over 100 days after the first Covid-19 case was reported in Uttarakhand, the infection rate in the hilly districts was observed to be higher than the plain districts with the highest infection rate being reported from Tehri Garhwal district 11.56% on June 24.Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Social Development for Communities, a Dehradun-based think tank, who has been analysing Covid-19 data in the state said that Tehri Garhwal district has shown improvement over the weeks.“Tehri Garhwal district has done wonders. It reported over 420 Covid-19 cases and 416 of them have recovered. Other districts could learn from the strategies followed by the district administration. I appeal to health authorities that there should be research on how the Tehri Garhwal handled cases and reached a recovery rate of almost 99%. We might be able to learn something good from this small district,” said Nautiyal.Amit Singh Negi, secretary for health in the state during a review meeting with the chief minister on Saturday said, “The total active cases in the state have reduced and are now less than 500. The rate of infection in Uttarakhand is at 4.68% and the average rate in the country is 6.73%. Of the total positive cases in the state, 89% were found in urban areas and 11% in rural areas. The position of the state has been improving continuously on a lot of parameters.”He added that sampling has also increased steadily. The state has a doubling rate of 57.39 days while the country’s doubling rate is 23.52 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-tehri-garhwal-district-turns-tide-with-99-recovery-in-covid-19-cases/story-5fVkA6shuVUyCmZcI2uZ9K.html
05-07-2020||India||Covid-19 recovery rate in 21 states, UTs higher than national average of 60.77%: Health ministry||Twenty-one states and UTs, including Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, have a Covid-19 recovery rate higher than the national average of 60.77 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday as India’s case count mounted to 6.73 lakh and the death toll rose to 19,268.Collective and focused efforts for containment and management of Covid-19 by the government of India along with the states and union territories have led to the number of recovered Covid-19 patients to rise to 4,09,082 so far, it said.Presently, there are 2,44,814 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country, the ministry’s data updated at 8 am showed.The recovered cases exceeded the active cases by 1,64,268 as of Sunday, the ministry said.During the last 24 hours, a total of 14,856 Covid-19 patients have been cured.“This takes the national recovery rate amongst Covid-19 patients to 60.77 per cent,” the ministry said.“There are 21 states and UTs with a recovery rate more than the national average,” it stated.These 21 states and UTs are Chandigarh (85.9 per cent), Ladakh (82.2 per cent), Uttarakhand (80.9 per cent), Chhattisgarh (80.6 per cent), Rajasthan (80.1 per cent), Mizoram (79.3 per cent), Tripura (77.7 per cent), Madhya Pradesh (76.9 per cent), Jharkhand (74.3 per cent), Bihar (74.2 per cent), Haryana (74.1 per cent), Gujarat (71.9 per cent), Punjab (70.5 per cent), Delhi (70.2 per cent), Meghalaya (69.4 per cent), Odisha (69.0 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (68.4 per cent), Himachal Pradesh (67.3 per cent), West Bengal (66.7 per cent), Assam (62.4 per cent), and Jammu and Kashmir (62.4 per cent).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recovery-rate-in-21-states-uts-higher-than-national-average-of-60-77-health-ministry/story-8MPiseyPK6vzZYXiQ30eIJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Andhra adds 998 new Covid-19 cases in highest spike, tally jumps to 18,697||Andhra Pradesh detected 998 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the Telugu state’s total number of coronavirus cases to 18,697, the state health department said on Sunday.At present, there are 10,043 active cases in Andhra Pradesh. With the fresh 14 fatalities, the death toll due to coronavirus has now risen to 232 in the state. The coronavirus curve in the southern state has been rising steeply for the past one week, recording a surge in positive patients. A day earlier, on Saturday, an addition of 765 fresh cases pushed the Covid-19 tally in Andhra Pradesh to 17,699.ALSO READ | India records biggest one-day jump of 24,850 Covid-19 cases, 613 deathsAndhra Pradesh reported 765 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the overall tally of infections in the state to 17,699, the government said.The state also saw 12 coronavirus-related deaths, taking the toll to 218. The 12 deaths were the highest in a day in the state till Sunday, when it was topped by 14 fatalities.According to a government bulletin, 311 patients recovered from the infection and were discharged taking the number of recoveries to 8,008. On Sunday, the number of patients who have been cured rose to 8,422 in the state.Kurnool and Srikakulam reported three coronavirus deaths each, Visakhapatnam and Chittoor two each and Kadapa and Vizianagaram one each, the latest bulletin said.Kurnool, which leads the state in the number of positive cases at 2,354, also tops with the death toll at 76 and in the number of recoveries as well at 1,147.Anantapuramu is the second district in Andhra to register over 2,000 Covid-19 positive cases with a total of 2,099. It is also second in terms of recoveries with 1,139 people cured.With a record single-day surge of 24,850 coronavirus infections and 613 fatalities, India’s Covid-19 caseload soared to 6,73,165, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 19,268 on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-adds-998-new-covid-19-cases-state-s-tally-jumps-to-18-697-14-more-die/story-tD60oKxpYp7J7BIDAAKmOI.html
05-07-2020||India||Steady growth in domestic air travel, daily fliers cross 75k mark on July 4||Civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri on Sunday declared that over 75,000 passengers travelled on domestic flights on July 4, the highest daily traffic, seen 41 days after the resumption of domestic flights on May 25. Puri noted that the Saturday figures were a great improvement on the 30,000 fliers, who boarded flights on May 25, after two months of suspension of air travel since March 25 following the outbreak of coronavirus disease in the country.“Domestic operations began with about 30K flyers on 25th May. Yesterday we crossed the 75K mark which indicates a slow & steady rise in number of domestic flyers,” Puri’s tweet said.Puri noted the steady increase in traffic and stated that a total of 1,560 domestic flights were operated on July 4 carrying 76,104 fliers. The footfalls at airports had also increased to 1,53,547 on the day.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesPuri’s tweet follows an attempt by his ministry to further remove impediments to domestic air travel by easing the attached conditions. In an order released on June 29, the ministry allowed anyone who had not tested Covid 19 positive in the last three weeks to travel by air. Passengers only need to make a self-declaration in this regard and those who have been cured from the disease are expected to produce a certificate confirming their cure or discharge before they are allowed to board an aircraft. The ministry said the decision had been taken in the view of the high number of recoveries taking place. The earlier condition barred air travel for people if they had tested positive in the last two months.The rise in domestic air travel coincides with a 14-day-long suspension of flights to Kolkata from Covid hotspots of Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad between July 6 and July 19 on the request of the West Bengal government. The move is aimed to contain the rapid rise of positive cases in Bengal, said the state government.An average 65 domestic flights took off and touched down in Kolkata every day since June 2, said news agency PTI. During the pre-Covid period, the Kolkata airport operated around 200 domestic and 35 international flights regularly.Punjab allows staggered arrival of flightsAccording to the new rules for air travel that came into effect on May 25, vulnerable persons, such as very elderly, pregnant ladies, passengers with health issues are advised to avoid air travel. However, this doesn’t apply to air ambulance services.Physical check-in at airport counters has been done away with and only passengers with confirmed web check-in are allowed to enter the airport. Passenger manifest sent electronically to each passenger is treated as a boarding pass. Passengers are required to show their Covid 19 status in the Aarogya Setu App. Fliers are required to wear protective gear, especially the face mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/steady-growth-in-domestic-air-travel-daily-fliers-cross-75k-mark-on-july-4/story-iZkopUxbLeaDshoSz97PBP.html
05-07-2020||India||I-T dept amends TDS form, mandates deductors to give reasons for non-deduction of tax||The income tax department has amended the TDS form, making it more comprehensive and mandating deductors to state reasons for non-deduction of tax. As per the amended form, banks will also have to report Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) for cash withdrawals above Rs 1 crore. Through a notification, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has amended Income Tax Rules to include TDS on e-commerce operators, dividend distributed by mutual funds and business trusts, cash withdrawals, professional fees and interest. Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said with this notification, the government has revised the format of forms 26Q and 27Q, where details of TDS amount deducted and deposited on various resident and non-resident payments are required to be filled. Form 26Q is used for quarterly filing of TDS returns on any payment other than salary to Indian residents by the government or corporates operating in India. Form 27Q is used for quarterly filing of TDS returns electronically on any payment other than salary to non- residents, including NRIs and foreigners. Except for government deductors, it is mandatory for all other deductors to mention their PAN in the form. Kumar said “the new forms are more comprehensive and require payers to report not only those cases where TDS is deducted, but also cases where TDS is not deducted for any reason. Separate codes have been provided to cover different situations of deduction of TDS at lower rate/ non-deduction of TDS.”  The revised forms and rules also seek to incorporate reporting for new sections of TDS inserted in the Income Tax Act, such as Section 194N for cash withdrawals, Section 197A permitting non-deduction of TDS in various situations, among others.  In the 2019-20 budget, the government had introduced a TDS levy of 2 per cent on cash withdrawals of more than Rs 1 crore from a bank account in one financial year to discourage business payments in cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-t-dept-amends-tds-form-mandates-deductors-to-give-reasons-for-non-deduction-of-tax/story-9V74PEDZ9NzCRO7rt2WFxM.html
05-07-2020||India||Indian drug firms recall products in US market||Indian drug firms like Lupin, Marksans Pharma, and Alembic Pharmaceuticals are recalling products in the US market, as per the latest enforcement report by the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA). While Lupin and Marksans Pharma are recalling diabetes drug, Aurobindo and Alembic are recalling psychiatric medication in the US market. As per the latest enforcement report, the US based-arm of Lupin is recalling 6,540 bottles of Metformin Hydrochloride extended-release tablets USP, 500 mg, due to CGMP (Current Good Manufacturing Practice) deviations. The drug has been manufactured at Lupin’s Goa-based manufacturing plant.Also read: US firm Gilead in talks with Indian drug companies to produce remdesivir Similarly, Marksans Pharma is recalling 11,279 bottles of the diabetes drug Metformin Hydrochloride extended-release tablets, which it had supplied to US-based Time-Cap Labs, Inc. The US health regulator said it detected N-Nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) impurity above the acceptable intake level in product of both the companies. NDMA has been defined as a probable human carcinogen. Further, Aurobindo Pharma USA Inc, a unit of Hyderabad-based Aurobindo Pharma, is recalling 1,440 bottles of Clozapine tablets in the US market. The company is recalling the product, which is used to treat certain mood/mental disorders, across the US due to a consumer complaint of 50mg tablets being present in bottles of Clozapine 100mg. Similarly, Alembic Pharmaceuticals is recalling 19,153 bottles of Aripiprazole tablets in the US for labelling mix up. The product is used in treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. All the ongoing voluntary recalls have been classified as class II recalls. As per USFDA, a class II recall is initiated in a situation in which use of, or exposure to, a violative product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences or where the probability of serious adverse health consequences is remote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-drug-firms-recall-products-in-us-market/story-JY1jpawOmTHmzidOQgYv1I.html
05-07-2020||India||Goa port town councillor dies of Covid-19||The dreaded Covid-19 disease claimed the life of councillor of the Mormugao Municipality Pascoal D’Souza, who passed away after battling the infection for over a week at Goa’s dedicated Covid-19 Hospital on Saturday night, the family said. D’Souza was the brother of State President of the Nationalist Congress Party José Philip D’Souza, a former revenue minister in the Goa Government. “Deeply pained by the passing away of Mormugao Councillor Pascoal D’Souza. He was truly a leader of masses and always worked to help the needy. My condolences to his brother Jose Phillip D’Souza and family and supporters of Pascoalbab. May almighty give them strength to bear the loss,” Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat tweeted.The death takes Goa’s Covid-19 toll to seven. Three of them died in the last two days. Vasco da Gama town and its suburbs are the worst affected areas in the state that has so far recorded 1,576 cases of which 529 have been detected in the port town itself and neighbouring suburbs and slums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-port-town-councillor-dies-of-covid-19/story-dpZ2jcRpHP7A8yV2bzv1MN.html
05-07-2020||India||36 more BSF personnel test positive for Covid-19, force’s count climbs to 1,348||Thirty six more Border Security Force (BSF) personnel tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and 33 others have recovered from the viral infection, a statement from the BSF said on Sunday. At least 526 security personnel are currently suffering from the infectious disease in the border guarding force. The force now has 1,348 coronavirus cases and out of these 526 personnel are under treatment.So far, 817 BSF personnel have been cured and discharged from medical camps.On Saturday, 79 personnel of the two border security forces-- the BSF and the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) -- tested positive for coronavirus.ALSO READ | India records biggest one-day jump of 24,850 Covid-19 cases, 613 deathsThe about 2.5-lakh personnel strong Border Security Force (BSF) reported 45 fresh Covid-19 cases and 39 recoveries a day earlier, officials said.There have been five deaths so far from the disease in the force, given the task of guarding India’s borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh. The fatalities include a BSF soldier who was killed in a road accident and his Covid-19 positive report came later.The 90,000 personnel strong mountain-warfare trained force — the ITBP has recorded two deaths due to the coronavirus disease. The maximum numbers of new Covid-19 cases in the two forces are of those security personnel who are joining their units and are under mandatory quarantine of 14 days before they resume active duty, a senior official said. India’s count of the coronavirus disease touched 673,165 with the highest single-day spike of 24,850 new cases and 613 deaths, data from the Union health ministry indicated on Sunday.The country’s death toll due to the disease has climbed to 19,268 and there are 244,481 active cases of Covid-19 in the country, according to the health ministry’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/36-more-bsf-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-force-s-count-climbs-to-1-348/story-Z1inzYVrCKQHzx2GTCPclO.html
05-07-2020||India||BSF alerts units along Bangladesh border against spurt in human trafficking during Covid-19||The Border Security Force (BSF) has sounded an alert all along the 4,096 km long India-Bangladesh front to check cross-border human trafficking instances that may witness a spurt in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the linked lockdown, officials said on Sunday. The force has noticed some innovative methods to push the poor and vulnerable from across the border by luring them with job opportunities in cities like Kolkata, Guwahati, some other towns in north-east India and as far as Delhi and Mumbai, a senior officer of the BSF said. At least five Bangladeshi nationals were apprehended by the BSF in less than two weeks, between June 19-29, from railway wagons that entered India via Petrapole in the North 24 Parganas district of West Bengal. The wagons either contained bags of chilli or were empty, the officer said.The age group of the five males ranged between 12-25 years and their preliminary questioning by the force personnel revealed that they were trafficked by touts from the other side with help from local trafficking syndicates on this side, the officer said.  It is understood that job loss due to the Covid-19 lockdown and less work opportunities due to the ongoing pandemic were the reasons that these gullible people got lured and trafficked across the border, they said. While the border front under the 913 kms long south Bengal front of the BSF is prone to maximum instances of trans-border crimes, human trafficking and smuggling of cattle and narcotics, attempts to illegally push humans have been noticed at few other locations of this border since the outbreak of coronavirus, they said. The force has, therefore, alerted all its border posts to keep an enhanced vigil against human trafficking instances that, as per multiple intelligence inputs, is expected to witness a spurt owing to the loss of job opportunities and lockdown imposed in both the countries to contain the spread of the coronavirus infection, they said. “We are coordinating with our counterparts BGB (Border Guard Bangladesh) on these issues and it is our joint effort to ensure that the sanctity of the border is intact and crimes are check effectively,” a BSF officer said in Delhi. He said the force has initiated joint patrolling with the BGB troops in vulnerable and crime-prone patches of this entire border and they are sharing intelligence inputs and information with their counterparts. “The BSF and BGB have the best of relations at present. The two countries have a shared history and we are working to make the relations better,” the officer said. The force has also asked its border units to mount additional surveillance on cattle smuggling crimes which is expected to rise in view of Eid celebrations at the end of this month. The ongoing monsoon season and the rivers in spate help smugglers in pushing cattle from the Indian to the Bangaldeshi side using the water current, officials said. A first-of-its-kind trick was recently seen in the Malda district of West Bengal after BSF troops recovered a live calf that was being smuggled across the riverine border by concealing it in a carcass. Also, cattle tied on a raft made of banana trunks have been intercepted quiet a number of times after they were pushed by smugglers in border rivers to be collected on the other side by conduits. The border force has deployed an increased number of boats and ditches are being dug in the border areas to create an obstacle for cattle, they said.  More than 200 BSF troops have been injured between January 2018 and June this year while checking these crimes and in attacks by smugglers at the border, latest data has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-alerts-units-along-bangladesh-border-against-spurt-in-human-trafficking-during-covid-19/story-zvq5jmoEd4L2D73NTQ5AtM.html
05-07-2020||India||West Bengal’s Chandrodaya Temple reopens for devotees after more than 3 months||The gates of Chandrodaya Temple, Mayapur, world headquarters of the ISKCON, reopened for devotees on Sunday, more than three months after they were shut in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.The ‘darshan’ of the deities began from 9 am and around 100 devotees came inside the premises through sanitiser tunnel, ISKCON (International Society For Krishna Consciousness) Mayapur spokesman Subrata Das told PTI.The temple will be open from 9 am to 7 pm every day.“We are expecting 200 visitors today. We expect the numbers to go up next week onwards,” he said.All the visitors were entering from the main gate and ‘Gammon gate’ and not allowed without masks.The temple premises, restaurants, toilets were being sanitised at frequent interval every day.The temple was closed since March 23.“Since the safety of our devotees and visitors is of paramount importance to us we took a little more time to open the temple for devotees,” Sri Madhava Gauranga Das, Vice Chairman of Mayapur Administrative Council said explaining the reason why the ISKCON, Mayapur authorities opened the gates for devotees one month after the West Bengal government allowed places of worship to open.However, authorities of ISKCON, Kolkata don’t have any immediate plans to open the Albert Road temple premises in the city, ISKCON Kolkata spokesman Radha Raman Das said when asked.Authorities of Dakshineswar Kali Temple, Tarapith Kali Temple, Kalighat Temple, Belur Math among others had opened the gates for devotees with several Covid-19 precautionary measures in place during the past one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-s-chandrodaya-temple-reopens-for-devotees-after-more-than-3-months/story-ZY5RKC3HJxynY1WYKB2NkJ.html
05-07-2020||India||With surge in Covid-19 cases, Devendra Fadnavis urges govt to pay heed to Kalyan Dombivli||The Maharashtra government should pay immediate attention to the spread of Covid-19 in Kalyan–Dombivli amid the rapidly increasing cases in the area, Devendra Fadnavis, the leader of the opposition in the Legislative Assembly said on Sunday.Fadnavis was on a visit to the Covid-19 hospitals to make a review of the overall situation. He visited the Holy Cross Covid-19 hospital in Kalyan (West).The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 555 new cases on Saturday, taking the total number of positive Covid-19 cases to 8,604. July has already seen a rapid increase in the number of coronavirus patients with 400-500 cases recorded every single day. “In the coming days the Covid-19 cases in Kalyan Dombivli will be out of control. With less manpower, the civic body will not be able to look after the patients with the existing infrastructure. The state should check if extra manpower can be provided to the civic body,” Fadnavis said.Speaking about the recent decision of the Maharashtra government on 27 villages he said, “The state should have considered establishing a civic body for the entire 27 villages, without dividing it. The state should plan well and then implement the decision on 27 villages or it will be a major disaster in future.”In the wake of the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) civic polls to be held later this year, last month the Maharashtra government had passed a notification to form a separate municipal body for the 18 villages while remaining nine village will remain with KDMC. The villagers of these nine village though are unhappy with the notification and have demanded to be separated from KDMC. These 27 villages were added into KDMC before the previous civic polls held in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-surge-in-covid-19-cases-devendra-fadnavis-urges-govt-to-pay-heed-to-kalyan-dombivli/story-LeqNWWI2vkB2JhYq8FqLVN.html
05-07-2020||India||Covid-19: 1,000 bed hospital in Delhi built in record 12 days, ICU named after Col B Santosh Babu||A 1,000 bed hospital, including 250 ICU beds, dedicated to treating patients of coronavirus disease outbreak has been built in record time of 12 days in the national capital, Union home minister Amit Shah said in a tweet on Sunday.“Visited the 1,000 bed Sardar Patel Covid Hospital, which has 250 ICU beds, along with @rajnathsingh ji. DRDO built it in record time of 12 days with assistance from MHA, MOHFW, Armed Forces and Tata Trust. Armed Forces Medical Services team will run it and DRDO will maintain,” Shah tweeted. Paying a tribute to the men killed in the Galwan clash last month, the ICU ward in the hospital has been named after Col B Santosh Babu and the other two medical wards have been named after Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh and Naib Subedar Satnam Singh. The union home minister visited the facility with defence minister Rajnath Singh a day after Delhi’s virus case tally clocked 97,200 cases. This facility has been made functional in addition to among several other facilities, including a 10,000 beds centre at the campus of Radha Soami Satsang Beas in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur which will start admitting patients from Sunday.The cases in Delhi have averaged at 2,628 a day over the past week compared to 3,400 daily cases the week before, according to public health experts.Delhi, due to a timely expansion of its treatment capacity, is also in a comparatively better situation in its fight against coronavirus, despite the high number of cases. A total of 16,265 hospital beds are vacant in the city as of Saturday, as per the health bulletin.There are 448 containment zones in the city as of Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-1-000-bed-hospital-in-delhi-built-in-record-12-days-says-amit-shah/story-pu8fUJMBrCGDljGaNWgpsI.html
05-07-2020||India||PM’s Ladakh visit raised morale of armed forces at the border, says ITBP DG||The morale of the Indian armed forces is “very high” and the troops are ready to sacrifice their lives for the nation like in the past, ITBP chief S S Deswal said on Sunday as the military standoff with China continued in Ladakh.The ITBP Director General (DG) said the recent visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Ladakh and his address to troops in Nimu “have raised the morale of all the forces at the border”.“The complete national leadership, political leadership and the forces and jawans...they are dedicated to the nation.“They are dedicated to border security and the morale of all forces, be it the Indian Army, Air Force or ITBP, is very high,” Deswal told reporters on the sidelines of an event to inaugurate an over-10,000-bed COVID care centre here.Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal inaugurated the facility for which the mountain-warfare trained force is the nodal agency.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the national capital and volunteers of the religious sect of Radha Soami Beas have joined hands to run the “Sardar Patel COVID care centre” located in south Delhi’s Chattarpur area.Deswal said armed forces personnel have sacrificed their lives in the line of duty in the past and they are ready to dedicate their lives to the nation in the future as well.Talking about the facility, he said the team of doctors and paramedics of the force is “capable” of handling a large number of patients as it has the experience of running the country’s first coronavirus quarantine centre created by the ITBP in the Chhawla area of the national capital as also of treating police personnel infected with the virus at the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) referral hospital in Greater Noida.The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) is primarily tasked with guarding the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China on the country’s eastern flank and its troops are present, along with the Army, to counter the Chinese forces during the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan valley area and other locations.The force has inducted about 30 fresh companies (around 3,000 personnel) to bolster its numbers at various locations along the LAC in view of the standoff with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-s-ladakh-visit-raised-morale-of-armed-forces-at-border-says-itbp-dg/story-ZfLPCwbM7XhTlxiUQzwAjP.html
05-07-2020||India||Assam crosses 10,000-mark, over 21,000 cases in Karnataka: Covid-19 state tally||In another sharp rise in Covid-19 cases, India has reported 24,850 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, taking the national Covid-19 tally to 673,165. As per the latest data shared by the Ministry of Health, 409,082 people have recovered from the deadly contagion across the country - over 60% of the total infections in the country. The Covid-19 death toll in India stands at 19,268.Assam has reported a total of 10,668 Covid-19 cases and has joined states with over 10,000 coronavirus cases. Karnataka continues to report a surge in Covid-19 cases as total infections breached the 20,000-mark in the state.Also read: India records biggest one-day jump of 24,850 Covid-19 cases, 613 deaths With over 2 lakh cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally followed by Tamil Nadu which has reported over 1 lakh cases till date.   Here’s taking a look at the statewise situation of Covid-19 infections across the country. MaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 200,064 on Sunday. Over 108,082 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 8,671 have died.Tamil NaduWith 107,001 coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu is the state with second-highest coronavirus cases in the country and has witnessed 1,450 coronavirus fatalities. The number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the state stands at 60,592.DelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 97,200 on Sunday. As many as 68,256 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi while 3,004 have succumbed to the infection.GujaratThe state has seen Covid-19 cases reach 35,312 on Sunday. The state has seen 25,406 people recover from coronavirus while 1925 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 26,554 while the number of recoveries has touched 18,154. The state’s death toll stands at 773.TelanganaThe state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 22,312 coronavirus cases. While 11,537 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 288 in the state.Karnataka The South India state has witnessed 21,549 coronavirus cases till date while three hundred and thirty-five people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion in the state. Nearly 9,244 patients have recovered from the disease in Karnataka. West BengalAs many as 21,231 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 14,166 recover from coronavirus while 736 people have been killed.RajasthanThe state has reported 19,532 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 447 while 15,640 patients have recovered.HaryanaThe coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 16,548 while the death toll stands at 260. Over 12,257 people have recovered from the contagion in Haryana.Situation in other statesOver 14,600 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. Andhra Pradesh has 17,699 Covid-19 patients. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar has crossed 11,000, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir stands at 8,246. In Odisha, cases have jumped to 8,601 while Assam has reported over 10,000 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 6,109, and the number of cases in Kerala is 5,204. Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand is over 3,000 cases.States with less than 3,000 casesNagaland, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases.Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Mizoram, Chandigarh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have reported 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya is the lone state with less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-crosses-10-000-mark-over-21-000-cases-in-karnataka-covid-19-state-tally/story-dKRvTJysOyax8MkopCueyJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Atma nirbhar Bharat call to help country capitalise on its inherent strengths: Venkaiah Naidu||The call for a self-reliant India is not aimed at encouraging “protectionism or isolationism”, but for adopting a pragmatic development strategy to enable the country recognise and capitalise on its inherent strengths, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said on Sunday. Speaking at the virtual launch of ‘Elyments’ mobile app, Naidu said the “atma nirbhar Bharat” campaign was aimed at giving a new boost to the economic potential of the country by strengthening infrastructure, using modern technologies, enriching human resource, and creating robust supply chains.Naidu said it was quite appropriate that  Prime Minister Narendra Modi  announced the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge’ on Saturday as it would encourage Indian IT specialists to prepare apps for various uses to enhance quality of life.The vice president noted that more than a thousand IT professionals, who are also the volunteers of the Art of Living, have together created the app.Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar was also part of the virtual launch.On the the YouTube link of the launch event, the developers said on Elyments, “People will be able to connect globally and shop locally”. Data of users is stored in India and user’s data will never be shared with a third party without user’s consent, the write up said.It allows free audio-video calls and a private chat connection.The vice president said such initiatives by the Indian tech industry and professionals were truly praiseworthy as they not only demonstrated India’s prowess in technology but also were a step towards a self-reliant India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atma-nirbhar-bharat-call-to-help-country-capitalise-on-its-inherent-strengths-venkaiah-naidu/story-9YWkOmKcKYzQp9OCZeCx9L.html
05-07-2020||India||Kanpur encounter accused received call from police station before cops came to arrest||The main accused in the Kanpur encounter case, Vikas Dubey, had received a phone call from the police station before the police came to arrest him following which he had called other accomplices and fired bullets on the police personnel, claimed Daya Shankar Agnihotri, an accomplice of Dubey. Earlier today, the police arrested Daya Shankar Agnihotri, an alleged accomplice of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey in Kalyanpur.“He (Vikas Dubey) received a phone call from the police station before the police came to arrest him. Following this, he called around 25-30 people. He fired bullets on police personnel,” said Agnihotri. “I was locked inside the house at the time of encounter, therefore, saw nothing,” he added.Dubey is the main accused in the Kanpur encounter case, in which a group of assailants allegedly opened fire on a police team that was trying to arrest a criminal in the city late on Thursday night. Eight policemen were killed in the incident.In another development, a photo of Vikas Dubey has been put up at check-post near the India-Nepal border in Rupaidiha, Bahraich district. According to sources, Dubey’s last location was traced in Auraiya and it is suspected that he might have gone to Madhya Pradesh or Rajasthan, crossing the Uttar Pradesh border. The Uttar Pradesh Police has contacted the police of both the states. Even after 55 hours, UP Police and ATS have not yet discovered anything in this regard, sources informed. Review of all the old cases of Dubey has been commenced, the Director-General of Police (DGP) has asked for the current status of these reports while it is being monitored by the Police Headquarters, sources added.In March, the STF had sent a list of 25 felony criminals to the police headquarters, which did not have Dubey’s name. Vikas has run away with CCTV recordings of a dozen cameras installed at his home, said sources. The sources have also stated that the names of about 20 policemen have come out in Dubey’s call details in which there is evidence of constant contact with two policemen beside one police personnel from Chaubepur Police Station. According to police sources, Vinay Tiwari, station house officer at Chaubepur Police station tried to save Dubey. Tiwari did not want the backup police party to reach the spot, so he delayed the rest of the team from going to the spot, sources said.Tiwari was on a constant phone conversation with Dubey, he did not want any action to be taken, sources informed. Under pressure from CO Devendra Mishra, the SHO became a part of this operation.Vinay Tiwari had already told Dubey about the pressure coming from CO following which CO Devendra was killed ruthlessly, said sources. Meanwhile, Chhatrapal Singh, Operator, Shivli Power Sub-station, Kanpur said, “On 3rd July, I had received a call from Chaubeypur Power Station to cut power in Bikaru village (site of Kanpur encounter) as a power line was damaged there.”Following which the power was cut from this sub-station, at present, the Kanpur police is also questioning the operator of this sub-station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-encounter-accused-received-call-from-police-station-before-cops-came-to-arrest/story-vHxcU3NXnw6jKa9zxFSkCO.html
05-07-2020||India||Karnataka to build Rs 200 crore pilgrim complexes at Tirumala||The Karnataka government will soon build a massive pilgrim amenities complex and marriage hall at Tirumala, the hill abode of Lord Venkateswara, at an estimated cost of Rs 200 crore, a temple official said here on Saturday. The state would soon submit a blueprint for the construction of the Rs 200 crore mega complexes to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) that governs the hill shrine, the official told PTI. Consequently, based on the designs, TTD would construct the complexes with the given fund and after completion, they would be handed over to the Karnataka government, he said. Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa would lay the foundation stone for the mammoth complexes on the hills some time next month, he said. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy is likely to take part in the programme, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-build-rs-200-crore-pilgrim-complexes-at-tirumala/story-TRd6jf9jo9QX0dThm7BDiK.html
05-07-2020||India||Tamil Nadu on intense lockdown today as part of efforts to curb Covid-19 spread||An intense lockdown, without any relaxations, was imposed across Tamil Nadu on Sunday as part of the state government’s efforts to curb the spread of coronavirus, with roads remaining deserted and shops downing shutters.The state government had earlier announced that on all the four Sundays in July, intense lockdown will be in force across Tamil Nadu and only health care services, including pharmacies and hospitals, will be functional.People remained indoors in different cities in the state, even as no commercial activities were witnessed, reports reaching here said. Shops, including those selling vegetables and groceries were closed in many parts and there was no movement of vehicular traffic on key roads in different parts of the state. Police personnel were posted in various junctions as part of total implementation of the lockdown. Earlier, the government had announced implementing intense lockdown from June 19 to July 5 in Chennai and its neighbouring districts--Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet.The said districts will however, see relaxations in the curbs starting Monday, with the government allowing extension of business hours of vegetable shops, provision stores and restaurants, which can only serve takeaways.Tea shops, closed since June 19, could resume functioning, while barring malls, all kinds of showrooms and others, including textiles and jewellery, can be back in business, Chief Minister K Palaniswami had said on Saturday.IT firms and private units can also resume activity with various safety precautions in place.However, curbs would continue in Madurai and nearby areas till July 12.Tamil Nadu has the second highest number of virus cases in the country behind Maharashtra, and its cumulative tally stood at 1.07 lakh as of Saturday.The virus load is more pronounced in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet and Madurai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-on-intense-lockdown-today-as-part-of-efforts-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19/story-6tmlCFDh4Ct4ArOJPL9mDK.html
05-07-2020||India||Power demand slump narrows to 2.6% in July beginning||Power demand slump has narrowed to 2.6 per cent in the beginning of July from 9.6 per cent in June, showing improvement in commercial and industrial activities in the country. The peak power demand had declined by about 25 per cent in April and 8.82 per cent in May this year due to lower commercial and industrial demand during the Covid-19 induced lockdown.   The government had imposed the lockdown from March 25. Experts have expressed hope that power demand would reach normal levels by August this year. Unlock 2.0 is expected to bring economic activities to almost normal levels, which would be reflected in power demand data. The government had started easing the lockdown from April 20, 2020. According to power ministry data, peak power demand met was recorded at 170.54 GW on July 2, which is just 2.61 per cent lower than 175.12 GW in July 2019.  The peak power demand met was 166.78GW on July 1, 168.34GW on July 3 and 160.83 GW on July 4.  The peak power demand met in June dipped 9.6 per cent at 164.94GW compared to 182.45 GW in June 2019. Peak power demand met is defined as the highest energy supply during the day across the country. In May, the peak power demand met stood at 166.42 GW, 8.82 per cent less than 182.55 GW in the year-ago period. In April, it stood at 132.77 GW, about 25 per cent lower than 176.81 GW recorded in the corresponding month a year earlier. Many lockdown relaxations from May 4 to 31 perked up industrial and commercial demand. Rising temperatures due to the intense heat wave also led to an increase in power demand. The data also showed that the slump in power consumption narrowed in June to 9.74 per cent from 14.86 per cent registered in May and 23.21 per cent recorded in April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-demand-slump-narrows-to-2-6-in-july-beginning/story-Bm6xBQLNOcmnsk5qkOpz1L.html
05-07-2020||India||PFI national chairman holds government office in Kerala, sparks row||The Popular Front of India (PFI), which is under the scanner for alleged anti-national activities and fanning violence during the anti-CAA protests, is in the news lately after its national chairman Mohammed Abdul Salam Ovungal, 47, better known as OMA Salam, was reported to hold a state government office in Kerala.Working as a senior assistant with the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), Salam is currently posted at the Manjeri (Malappuram) SEB circle office, documents with the Hindustan Times show which was later clarified by the SEB headquarters in Thiruvananthapuram.Is it possible for a government official to be part of an outfit marred by many controversies? Senior officials of the SEB say a strict no to it, adding that nobody has made any complaints in this regard and no criminal case is pending against him, at least in Kerala. Though the SEB vigilance department had made some inquiries in this regard last year but it was dropped later. The state service rules stipulate that a government employee should not be an active member of any organisation other than the service-related recognised trade unions.“There are around 36,000 employees with the state electricity board. Usually, during the joining period, there is a verification of personal details and credentials. If any case or complaints surface later, we have an internal mechanism to check it and take action against the erring,” said a senior SEB official who did not want to be named.Salam joined the SEB in 2000, his records also show he made some seven foreign trips in the last six years or so under “personal trips” by seeking permission from the SEB. There are many allegations against the PFI, including one where it is alleged that it used to get regular funding from some West Asian countries - some of the foreign trips of its functionaries are also under the intelligence radar now.Salam was elected as the chairman of the PFI in February at its general assembly meet held in Puthanathani in Malappuram district. A PFI insider said he was active in the organisation since it was floated in 2006.“He is working in our office. Since I joined the Manjeri department office last month I have no other details about him,” said deputy chief engineer of Manjeri region P Ramani. Salam was not reachable for his comments.The PFI was launched in Kerala in 2006 after merging three Muslim outfits floated after the Babri Masjid demolition in 1992 - the National Development Front of Kerala, Karnataka Forum for Dignity and Manitha Neethi Pasari of Tamil Nadu. Now, the PFI claims it has units in 22 states. Majority of the PFI leaders are from Kerala and some of them are former members of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI).The PFI calls itself a neo-social movement committed to empowering people belonging to the minority communities, Dalits and other weaker sections of the society. In a short span of time, it became popular among Muslim youth. “Live with pride in India” is its guiding principle. On the lines of the RSS, the PFI has uniforms and often conducts drills at public places. In 2013, the Kerala government had banned its freedom parade - which it conducts on the Independence Day - after the police found its cadres were carrying stars and emblems on the uniform.Every year on February 17, it conducts unity marches at all its district headquarters. It has cadre training centres in many districts and usually associates with many human rights organizations to get a sombre outlook, police officials said. It’s religious school ‘Sathya Sarani’ in Manjeri was in the news after parents of some Hindu and Christian girls alleged that it was a conversion hub. Akhila Ashokan alias Hadiya Jehan, a dentist who embraced Islam and later married a Muslim youth, was reportedly converted here.In Kerala, the PFI was mired in many clashes and political murders. It was allegedly involved in at least 30 political murders in the past decade. In 2015, 13 of its workers were awarded life-term for chopping the palm of a college professor, TJ Joseph, who prepared a question paper which was alleged to be blasphemous. Two years ago, six PFI activists were held in connection with the murder of an ABVP leader in Kannur and nine were arrested for allegedly killing SFI leader Abhimanyu at Maharajas College in Ernakulam. After last year’s protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act turned violent in many parts of the country, there was a demand to ban the organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfi-national-chairman-holds-government-office-in-kerala-sparks-row/story-DtXw2ail3rasTkFKjPT7RL.html
05-07-2020||India||Woman PSI in Gujarat arrested for taking Rs 20 lakh bribe||A woman police sub-inspector (PSI) has been arrested for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 20 lakh from a rape accused for not charging him under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act, police said on Sunday.Shweta Jadeja, who was the in-charge of Mahila police station in Ahmedabad-West, had allegedly demanded Rs 35 lakh from the brother of Kenal Shah, against whom she was investigating a rape case registered in 2019, a police official said.She demanded the money for not booking Shah under provisions of the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) Act, where the police can send an accused to a jail outside his native district, he said.As per the First Information Report (FIR) lodged by the city crime branch, Jadeja accepted Rs 20 lakh through a middleman and demanded an additional Rs 15 lakh from the rape case accused.The complainant gave Rs 20 lakh to Jadeja in February, and she was forcing him to pay the remaining amount, the FIR said.She was arrested on Friday and a case was registered against her under the Prevention of Corruption Act, the official said.She was on Saturday produced before a sessions court where police sought her remand for seven days.The court, however, granted three-day remand to the police for further investigation, public prosecutor Sudhir Brahmbhatt said.“The main point is the police need to recover Rs 20 lakh accepted by the accused. So far, the investigation has revealed the bribe money was accepted by a middleman,” the prosecutor said.Shah is the managing director of a crop solution company in Ahmedabad and is facing two separate rape cases under Indian Penal Code Section 376, one of which was being investigated by Jadeja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-psi-in-gujarat-arrested-for-taking-rs-20-lakh-bribe/story-8oXtnyhwM3tVy6aLDvf5FL.html
05-07-2020||India||Sudan national dies before boarding repatriation flight at Hyderabad airport||A 62-year-old Sudan national, who was a part of a repatriation flight, died before boarding a flight at RGI airport here on Sunday.The woman has been identified as Heyeeba Mohammed Taha Ali, police said.According to airport sources, “A 62-year-old woman passenger, part of a repatriation flight, after completing all formalities, died near the boarding gate while boarding a Badr Airlines flight J4-226/227 at RGI airport in Hyderabad today.”The flight was scheduled from Sudan-Hyderabad-Muscat.“Today at 7 am, one Sudan national, Heyeeba Mohammed Taha Ali (62), arrived at the airport to board a flight back to Sudan on a wheelchair. At the boarding gate, she collapsed. Immediately, she was shifted to Apollo Hospital where she died. She was a cancer patient and had undergone treatment at Virinchi Hospital, Banjara Hill in last seven months,” RGIA police station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudan-national-dies-before-boarding-repatriation-flight-at-hyderabad-airport/story-l6J22ZCXFxY9VrSwAGeb1H.html
05-07-2020||India||PM Modi, President Kovind discuss national, international issues at Rashtrapati Bhavan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday discussed issues of national and international importance at Rashtrapati Bhavan.After the meeting, the Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted a picture of President Kovind with PM Modi and posted about the brief meeting. This comes after PM Modi’s visit to Ladakh earlier this week wherein he addressed the soldiers after the brutal face-off with China on June 15 which killed 20 Indian army personnel. Prime Minister @narendramodi called on President Kovind and briefed him on the issues of national and international importance at Rashtrapati Bhavan today. pic.twitter.com/yKBXCnfboEDuring the visit, the prime minister on Friday told soldiers that modernisation of the armed forces is a priority and that the spending on border infrastructure has almost tripled.“Now the spending on border infrastructure in the country has almost tripled. This has also led to speedy development of border areas including construction of bridges and laying of roads,” he said. “One of the biggest advantages of this is that now the goods reach you in a short time. The country is strengthening its armed forces at every level today,” he added.PM Modi hailed the soldiers for their bravery and courage and said they are serving the country under challenging circumstances.“Your courage is higher than the heights where you are serving today. When the safety of the country is in your hands, then there is a belief. Not only me, but the entire nation believes in you. We all are proud of you,” he said.“India is manufacturing modern weapons today. We are bringing modern technology from around the world for the armed forces,” the prime minister stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-president-kovind-discuss-national-international-issues-at-rashtrapati-bhavan/story-1Wdvqe6mbS9Xzl2R8HL0sM.html
05-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: At 200.8mm, Mumbai sees second-highest 24 hour July rain in 5 years and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At 200.8mm, Mumbai sees second-highest 24 hour July rain in 5 yearsIncessant downpour over the weekend allowed Mumbai to record its second-highest 24-hour rain in the month of July in over the past five years. Read moreIndia records biggest one-day jump of 24,850 Covid-19 cases, 613 deathsIndia’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached 673,165 with the biggest single-day increase of 24,850 new cases and 613 deaths, data from the Union health ministry on Sunday showed. Read morePakistan have beaten India so much that they’d ask us for forgiveness after the match: Shahid AfridiIn yet another bold statement, former captain Shahid Afridi has claimed that Pakistan’s domination over their arch-rivals was such that Indian cricketers would seek forgiveness from Pakistan. Read moreSmriti Irani’s motivational quote impresses many. ‘Very true,’ say peopleUnion Minister Smriti Irani took to Instagram to share a motivational quote on life lessons and now it has left many impressed, including actors Sonu Sood, Divya Dutta, and Ronit Bose Roy. Read moreThe Way We Were: Fragmented tales from a beautiful mindIn June 2006, a 63-year-old man walked out of his rambling old house in Ambala, Haryana, and never returned. To this day, no one knows what happened to him. Read moreApple’s Chinese App Store removes 4,500 games in just 3 daysApple has removed more than 4,500 mobile games from the Chinese App Store in three days thanks to a change in licensing restrictions in China. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-at-200-8mm-mumbai-sees-second-highest-24-hour-july-rain-in-5-years-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dcSjFYSoZxccKBSvAp237M.html
05-07-2020||India||4 Maoists including two women shot dead in encounter in Odisha’s Kandhamal||A police team shot dead at least four Maoists including two women in an encounter in a forest in Odisha’s Kandhamal district early Sunday morning.Inspector general of police (anti-Maoist operations) Amitabh Thakur said a team of Special Operation Group and District Voluntary Force policemen of Kandhamal district went on a combing operation at Sirla forest near Tumudibandh area of Kandhamal district on early Sunday morning ran into the Maoists in the forest. In the encounter that followed, the police killed four Maoists and seized a huge cache of weapons.Police launched a search operation late Saturday night near Sirla reserve forest area after a tip off about presence of armed Maoists.“While the search operation was going on, the police team saw a large group of Maoists camping in the jungle area. Police party tried to approach them but they came under heavy fire from the Maoists. When the police asked them to surrender they continued to fire and also lobbed grenades. When police fired back, the Maoists escaped taking cover of dense forest,” said Thakur. There were around 35-40 armed Maoists in the camp when the encounter started, he said.When the firing stopped, the police found the bodies of four Maoists of Bansadhara Ghumsar Nagabali division which is active in that area. Their identities are being verified. Police also seized six sophisticated weapons from the area including three SLR rifles, one INSAS rifle along with magazines.This is the first killing of Maoists by police in Odisha this year. In August last year, police in Malkangiri district had killed Rakesh Sodhi, a platoon commander with a bounty of Rs 8 lakh on his head during an encounter. A policeman was killed and another critically injured in that encounter. On Thursday, security forces had busted a Maoist camp inside a forest in Kandhamal district and seized explosives and other materials from there. The SOG personnel seized over 15 kilogram of explosives, 28 detonators and tiffin carriers meant to be used as Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) from the camp located near Samarbandh village under Phiringia police station area.Other articles such as bags, shoes, documents and Maoist literature were also found in the camp. The Maoists, however, had fled from the camp before the security personnel could reach there.For the last six months, Maoists are on the backfoot in Andhra-Odisha border areas in Koraput and Malkangiri districts after building of a bridge that connects the Swabhiman Anchal (the area qhich used to be cut-off from the mainland and acted as safe havens for the Maoists) to the mainland of Malkangiri. As their influence wanes on southern Odisha borders, they are trying to intensify their activities on Ganjam-Kandhamal-Kalahandi borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-maoists-killed-during-encounter-with-police-in-odisha-s-kandhamal/story-VkGU6SzZampIQD50AAM7XJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Built in 10 days, world’s ‘largest’ Covid-19 care facility to admit patients from today||India’s biggest Covid-19 treatment facility with 10,000 beds at the campus of Radha Soami Satsang Beas in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur will start admitting patients from Sunday.The Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and Hospital (SPCCCH) will function as an isolation centre for mild and asymptomatic patients of the coronavirus disease. It was created by the South Delhi District administration with the support of the Union ministry of home affairs in just 10 days.“This facility has been created to provide stress-free and mindful isolation to the patients,” a government release said.It has been linked to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital and Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital. And its referral tertiary care hospitals are Lok Narayan Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.Covid-19 patients from all over Delhi will be admitted at the centre through respective district surveillance officers.Here are the details of the centre:* The centre is 1,700 feet long, 700 feet wide or roughly the size of 20 football fields and has 200 enclosures with 50 beds each.* The hospital, which will be cooled by 18,000 tons of air-conditioners, has mud floor covered by carpets and then topped with vinyl sheets for easy cleaning.* Relatives of patients won’t be allowed inside the gates. * The Delhi government has provided administrative support and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) will be the nodal agency operating the centre. Volunteers from the religious sect of Radha Soami Beas will also help run the centre.* ITBP will run the first 2,000 beds at present with the help of its 170 doctors and specialists and more than 700 nurses and paramedics. * Ten per cent of the centre’s beds will have oxygen facility in case a patient develops severe breathlessness and requires tertiary hospital care.* The facility is divided into three sections: the largest for the patients, another for nurses and doctors, and the third will serve as the command section. There will be 116 sections of 88 beds each for patients.* Every patient will have a bed, a stool, a chair, a small plastic cupboard, a dustbin and utensils, and will be given a toiletry kit.* Individual phone and laptop charging facility will be available for each bed. Patients can also bring their laptops but for any video or audio application, they will have to use headphones.* Patients will have access to a recreational centre along with a library, board games, skipping ropes, etc.* Food will be served to the patients by volunteers who will roll them on trolleys along the rows of beds.* There are 600-odd toilets at the centre with 70 portable toilets, including three special ones for disabled people, stationed outside. * The government has installed hydrants for the underground reservoir facility that has a capacity of 1.7 lakh litres for uninterrupted water supply at the centre.* Authorities will use an e-hospital app that is being developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) to handle the admission and discharge of patients. A team will work on 400 computers at the centre.* Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (MTNL) has been asked to provide landline and internet connection at the facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/built-in-10-days-world-s-largest-covid-19-care-facility-to-admit-patients-from-today/story-RA7Z1ZQxszBVAQDftCWBcL.html
05-07-2020||India||Goa councillor dies of coronavirus infection||A 72-year-old councillor of the Mormugao Municipal Council in Goa died due to Covid-19 in the wee hours on Sunday, a state health department official said.Pascoal DSouza, who did not belong to any political party, tested positive for coronavirus last month following which he was admitted to Margao-based ESI Hospital, a specially designated facility for Covid-19 patients.He succumbed to the viral infection on Sunday, the official said.D’Souza represented a ward in Mangor Hill area, which has been declared as a containment zone after more than 200 people there tested positive for coronavirus.The municipal council elections in Goa are not fought on party lines.With the councillor’s death, the overall toll in the coastal state has reached seven.Till Saturday, the state reported 1,684 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-councillor-dies-of-coronavirus-infection/story-65IrSnNsksSAZyhnjTZOhJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh government to buy cow-dung at Rs 1.5 per kg, scheme begins from July 20||The Chhattisgarh government will procure cow-dung at Rs 1.5 per kilogram from July 20 under the scheme ‘Gaudhan Nyay Yojana’ launched on June 25.A committee headed by Agriculture Minister Ravindra Chaubey was formed to fix the rate of procuring the rate of cow-dung.“On Saturday, the committee decided to procure cow-dung at Rs 1.5 kg with the aim of preserving and improving cow shedding, promoting the production of vermicompost and improving the rural economy,” said a Commissioner (agriculture production) M Geeta.The officer further said that the cow dung will be collected door-to-door by Gaudhan Samiti.“The committee also recommended that fortnightly payments should be made to cattle owners and farmers for the procurement,” said officer adding that there are about a crore cattle in the state.On June 25, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel launched ‘Gaudhan Nyay Yojana’ claiming that there has been a tradition of open grazing in Chhattisgarh, which results in loss of crops. He also said that the stray cattle cause road accidents, loss of life and property in cities. The chief minister further highlighted the fact that the cows are abandoned after they stop giving milk and hence to make cow rearing a profitable business, the government has decided to procure cow dung from farmers and cattle owners.The government also directed urban administration department to make complete arrangements to prevent stray animals from roaming in the cities. The department will be responsible for purchasing cow dung and production of vermicompost.“The purpose of this scheme is to promote cattle rearing in the state and to benefit the cattle owners, who are mostly farmers. The government tried to strengthen the rural economy of the state through the ‘Narva, Garuva, Ghuruwa, Badi’ scheme in which we have developed cowsheds in 2,200 villages of the state. In the next two-three months, about 5,000 more cowsheds will be developed in the state. This scheme is an incremental step forward,” said the chief minister.The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, claimed that the scheme is not practical and its implementation is not possible.“In Chhattisgarh, the farmers never sell cow-dung to anyone. I don’t know what is government talking about? Secondly, if the government is procuring it, there is no infrastructure. And where is the budget? This scheme is not practically possible in the state,” senior BJP leader and former minister Ajay Chandrakar told HT.On June 20, Chhattisgarh government launched the ‘Roka-Chheka Abhiyan’ in all the villages in the state, which seeks to revive traditional agricultural methods and to save kharif crops from open grazing by stray cattle.Roka-Chheka is one of the popular traditional agricultural methods of Chhattisgarh, which the state government has decided to make more organised and effective from this year. The programme aims to ban the open grazing of stray cattle after the sowing season is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-government-to-buy-cow-dung-at-rs-1-5-per-kg-scheme-begins-from-july-20/story-bNlg7pcLuVVX3nhm2bRWpI.html
05-07-2020||India||World’s largest Covid Care facility with 10,000 beds inaugurated in Delhi||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal inaugurated the 10,000-bedded Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and Hospital (SPCCCH) at Radha Soami Satsang Beas on Sunday. The facility is created on an emergent basis by the South Delhi District Administration with full support of the ministry of home affairs in record time of 10 days.This the world’s largest Covid care facility which will function as an isolation centre for mild and asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients. At least 10% of the beds have oxygen facility in case the patient develops severe breathlessness and requires tertiary hospital care.Operationally, the SPCCCH has been linked to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital. The referral tertiary care hospitals are Lok Nayank Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.ITBP will be running the first 2,000 beds at present with their 170 doctors/specialists and more than 700 nurses and paramedics. This facility, having large number of beds, to the tune of 10,000 in one single campus, requires speed of management as well as analysis and operations that makes it imperative to explore extensive use of IT. Therefore, the e-Hospital software of NIC is being used to manage all medical operations, right from admission to treatment, investigation, progress, referral and discharge through software. The patients will be admitted from all over Delhi through respective District Surveillance Officers.Most of the basic infrastructure such as beds, matresses, linens, etc. has been donated by various civil society organisations and non-governmental organisations. This facility has been created to provide a stress-free and mindful isolation to the patients. A recreational centre has been made available to the patients along with a library, board games, skipping ropes, etc. They will be provided 5 healthy meals a day along with immunity boosting chawanprash, juices, hot kadha etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-s-largest-covid-care-facility-with-10-000-beds-inaugurated-in-delhi/story-JS0yy17MTSVheVwgrukkPN.html
05-07-2020||India||Kanpur firing accused Vikas Dubey knew about raid, aide tell cops after arrest||An aide of Vikas Dubey has told the police the gangster behind the killings of the eight policemen in Kanpur Dehat district was informed about the raid at his house by a policeman, a senior official said on Sunday.Daya Shankar Agnihotri, one of the accused in the killings, was arrested earlier in the day after a gunfight in Kalyanpur area near Kanpur city.The senior official said Agnihotri revealed the information during the interrogation. The 48-year-old Dubey, a hardened criminal who has 60 cases of murder and kidnapping among others, is the main accused in the killing of the policemen.Agnihotri told the police Vikas Dubey got a call from the Chaubeypur police station informing him that a team from three police stations led by Devendra Mishra, the circle officer of Bilhaur who was among eight killed in the incident, will come to his village past midnight.Agnihotri also said that at least 25 people were present with Dubey when the police team approached his house in Kanpur Dehat’s Bikri village.Also read: ‘Was our ancestral home’, says mother of Kanpur firing accused on razed houseA sub-inspector, who is under the scanner after the failed raid, has been suspended. Officials probing the case questioned Chaubeypur station officer (SO) Vinay Tiwari for nine hours. He was later suspended and shifted to Lucknow.Chaubeypur, about 14km from Bikru, is the place where an attempt to murder case was registered against Dubey on Wednesday by a villager. Dubey’s men had fired indiscriminately on the police team out to nab him, killing Mishra, three sub-inspectors and four constables in an ambush that the police said was a “well-planned conspiracy”. Officials have said Agnihotri suffered a bullet wound in his right leg in the retaliatory firing by the police team. He is one of the 18 aides of Dubey named in the first information report (FIR) lodged in connection with the killing of the policemen. Police had announced a reward of Rs 25,000 to find him.According to news agency ANI, Agnihotri opened fire at the police team going to arrest him on Saturday night. Police have recovered a gun and cartridges from Agnihotri’s possession, it reported.Officials had said on Saturday they will seize illegal properties and money in Dubey’s bank accounts under the gangster act, following which Lucknow Police seized the vehicles parked at his residence in the state capital of Uttar Pradesh.Police have also increased the prize money for the arrest of Dubey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-firing-case-police-nab-vikas-dubey-s-aide-after-gunfight/story-R6qAqmBWeY3a2MXz5h8YsK.html
05-07-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor performs Pratham Aarti, Amarnath Yatra to begin on July 23||Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, GC Murmu, peformed “Pratham Aarti” of the ice stalagmite at the holy cave shrine of Amarnath in south Kashmir on Sunday morning.He was accompanied by his principal secretary and chief executive officer of Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) Bipul Pathak, additional CEO AK Soni, Division Commissioner Kashmir Pandurang K Pole and other senior officials.“The LG along with senior officials reached the cave shrine early Sunday morning and performed Pratham Aarti,” said an official of the SASB.Prasar Bharati, India’s official broadcaster, showed the aarti live. It will do so till August 3.“Happy to share that the Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board in association with Prasar Bharati will bring the live telecast of Aarti from the Holy Cave of Shri Amarnathji on various Doordarshan channels,” Prasar Bharti CEO Shashi Shekhar had tweeted on Saturday. The aarti will be shown live at 3 am and 7 pm.The chief secretary of Jammu and Kashmir BVR Subrahmanyam on Saturday had said that this year’s Amarnath Yatra in south Kashmir Himalayas would have to be undertaken in a restricted manner, so that the SOPs for Covid-19 are strictly adhered to.“Given the constraints, a maximum of 500 yatris will be allowed per day by road from Jammu. Therefore, arrangements will have to be limited to this number,” he had said while chairing a meeting of the sub-committee constituted by the Supreme Court.The curtailed yatra (pilgrimage) is likely to be held from July 23 to August 3 this year from the shorter Baltal route.On June 5, the top officials of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) performed “Pratham Pooja” in the state’s winter capital Jammu on the occasion of Jayestha Purnima signifying commencement of the annual pilgrimage.The “Pratham Pooja” at SASB’s Chaitanya Mahaprabhu Ashram was conducted by Principal secretary to J&K Lieutenant Governor and CEO of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board, Bipul Pathak, ACEO AK Soni.Last year, the yatra was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. In 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days.Thousands of pilgrims either trek the traditional and longer 45-km-long Pahalgam route or the shorter 16-km Baltal route to the holy shrine every year.One of the holiest pilgrimages in Hinduism, the Amarnath Yatra attracts pilgrims from India as well as across the world. There have been terror attacks on the route of the yatra in the past. The last attack took place in 2017 on a bus from Gujarat in Anantnag district that left seven pilgrims dead.Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir high court has sought to know from the government about arrangements and various safety precautions on Amarnath Yatra in view of Covid-19 pandemic.On Friday, advocate Sachin Sharma had moved an application before the high court that was heard by Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Vinod Chatterji Koul.The division bench issued notice to the government. Additional Advocate General (AAG) Aseem Sawhney accepted notice on behalf of the government. Monika Kohli who is assisting the court as Amicus Curiae also accepted the notice.The court asked the AAG to place before it the proposal and decision of the government with regard to the yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-lt-gen-performs-pratham-aarti-amarnath-yatra-to-begin-on-july-23/story-VAe9uDtBliW0u4JIgtgCNL.html
05-07-2020||India||Manipur launches web portal to share Covid-19 related stories||In a move to share Covid-19 related stories and track volunteering activities in the State, a web portal (manipurcovidstories.org) was launched in Imphal at a function held at Chief Minister’s Secretariat in Imphal on Saturday.The web portal features crowd-sourced stories collected from people who have been Covid-19 positive and recovered, volunteers who have worked at quarantine centres, selfless work carried out by individuals, NGOs, Civil Society Organisations and medical professionals, among others.The stories are segregated in the form of texts, photo features and videos. The website will be managed by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Manipur and conceptualised and designed by Fluorescence Communications.Also read: India records biggest one-day jump of 24,850 Covid-19 cases, 613 deathsFormally launching the web portal, Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh while speaking through a video message, said, “The platform will act as a source of positivity and showcase such stories that will reflect the perseverance and determination of the people of Manipur in fighting the global pandemic in the tiny state.“He also appealed to the people of Manipur to share their inspiring stories about the fight against Covid-19 pandemic through this website. He further appreciated the efforts of all those who have been involved in the fight against the deadly virus due to which, so far, there hasn’t been any case of fatality due to coronavirus.Various state cabinet ministers, such as Th Biswajit Singh, Karam Shyam, Losii Dikho, Awangbow Newmai, along with chief secretary Dr J Suresh Babu, DGP LM Khaute, principal secretary (health) V Vumlunmang and the directors of the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) and the Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS), among others were present during the function.The total number of Covid-19 cases in Manipur has increased to 1,325 with 9 new cases while the total number of active cases stands at 658, according to official sources.“In the last 24 hours, 28 persons were discharged from Covid-19 care centres of Meitram(16), Senapati (8) and Thoubal (4) after they were found Covid-19 free on a Real-Time PCR test,” said Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of the health department.“The cumulative number of positive cases is 1,316. The number of active and recovered cases is 658 and 667 respectively. The recovery rate is 50.33 percent,” he added.As on Saturday, a total of 2,91,947 persons were screened while 54,483 were tested for Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-launches-web-portal-to-share-covid-19-related-stories/story-XXDgnyyFaOdKXOpPo4iRqK.html
05-07-2020||India||Manipur district put under complete lockdown after ‘sudden spurt’ in Covid-19 cases||After reports of a sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last 48 hours, Jiribam district in Manipur has been put under “complete lockdown”.State Chief Secretary Dr J Suresh Babu, who is the chairperson of state executive committee of the state disaster management authority, issued an order in this regard on Saturday evening.“There shall be complete curfew in the entire Jiribam district until further orders or till July 15 whichever is earlier,” the order of the chief secretary said. “Only the personnel of essential services permitted by the Deputy Commissioner, Jiribam will be allowed.”Effecting the lockdown and curfew in the whole of Jiribam district, which borders Assam’s Cachar district, the order allows “only inter-state good carrying vehicles” to pass the Jiribam gate, which is located about 220 km west of Manipur’s capital Imphal. It is one of the key points to enter the state.“Passenger coming by vehicles at Jiribam gate after the midnight of July 5 will not be allowed to pass and will be put in institutional quarantine at Jiribam,” the order added.The order of the Chief Secretary came after a meeting of the State Consultative Committee on Covid-19 which was chaired by state Chief Minister Nongthombam Biren Singh.The decision to lockdown the whole of the district was taken after 28 police personnel stationed in the district headquarter tested positive for Covid-19.This followed the Covid-19 positive result of an assistant sub-inspector posted in Jiribam.All the personnel have been sent to Covid-19 care centres, and state health authority has traced 180 people who came in close contact with the infected police personnel.Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner of Jiribam District had declared 17 areas as containment zones. An order has also been issued in this regard on Saturday.However, Manipur’s Covid-19 recovered cases surpassed the number of active cases on Saturday for the first time since the government began evacuation of stranded people of the state from other states in early May. Manipur has so far recorded 1,325 cases of Covid-19. While 667 patients have recovered, the total number of active cases stand at 658. The recovery rate in the state is 50.33 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-district-put-under-complete-lockdown-after-sudden-spurt-in-covid-19-cases/story-xeQemUzfOBUap9QTiFBW5K.html
05-07-2020||India||‘Was our ancestral home’: Mother of Kanpur firing accused on razed house||A day after she urged police to shoot and kill her son, the mother of Vikas Dubey, the prime accused in the killing of eight police personnel in Kanpur on Saturday said that she is “unhappy” over the razing down of the notorious gangster’s hideout in Bikru village, the scene of the brutal crime.The house demolished by the Kanpur administration was her ancestral house, said Sarla Devi.Dubey is main accused in the Kanpur encounter case, in which a group of assailants opened fire on a police team which was trying to arrest the history-sheeter Dubey in the city late on Thursday night in which 8 policemen including a DSP were killed. Also read| Kanpur shootout: UP police raise prize money for arrest of Vikas DubeyThe district administration today demolished the house and visuals showed cars and other vehicles in the premises of the building complex being crushed by machines.“I am saddened by this action. It was our ancestral house. The house was built by my husband and father-in-law and not by my son Vikas Dubey. The administration could have demolished Vikas’s properties, not ours,” Sarla Devi told ANI.“I have not met my husband in the last 4 months and I am living here in Lucknow with my young son. Vikas should surrender to the police. We are facing problems because of him. Police is asking questions to us and our relatives,” she added.Also read: UP cops out on raid were killed by their own weapons, says autopsy reportSarla Devi had on Friday said that Dubey should surrender himself before the police. “If he continues to remain at large, police may kill him in the encounter. I say kill him even if you (police) manage to catch him. Strict punishment should be given to him,” Devi said.Meanwhile, Vikas’ father Rajkumar Dubey said that he is not aware of the Thursday’s night incident.“I am not aware of the incident. I am on medication. My son was doing his work. From the last few days, he was in a government job of constructing bridges and providing job to labourers. He is also involved in Panchayat related works,” Rajkumar Dubey, father of Vikas said.Meanwhile, Kanpur IG Mohit Agarwal said that police will seize illegal properties and money in Dubey’s bank accounts under the Gangsters Act.Earlier the IG Kanpur had announced that Rs 50,000 cash for anybody providing any information regarding the whereabouts of Dubey.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath earlier announced Rs 1 crore each ex-gratia for the families of the policemen who were killed in the Bikaru village encounter at the police line. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-our-ancestral-home-mother-of-kanpur-firing-accused-on-razed-house/story-Tf6bi3AggkzmTsFlVg0d2M.html
05-07-2020||India||India records biggest one-day jump of 24,850 Covid-19 cases, 613 deaths||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached 673,165 with the biggest single-day increase of 24,850 new cases and 613 deaths, data from the Union health ministry on Sunday showed. The country’s death toll due to the disease has reached 19,268 and there are 244,4814 active cases of Covid-19 in the country, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.The number of recoveries stands at 409,082 with 14,856 people cured of the viral disease in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate is now 60.76%, slightly down from Saturday’s 60.80%. This is the third consecutive day when coronavirus disease cases have increased by more than 20,000. There are 14 states in the country which have reported more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases and Maharashtra remained the worst-hit on Sunday.Maharashtra has 200,064 Covid-19 cases and a death toll of 8,671. The state’s first lakh cases took 96 days, while the second took just 22 days. Amit Deshmukh, medical education minister, has said the state’s health infrastructure is ready to tackle the rising number of cases. Deshmukh has also said that July and August are crucial and the government expects the decline in cases to begin in a month.Tamil Nadu has crossed the 100,000-mark with 10,7001 infections and 1,450 deaths as the state government announced relaxations for Chennai while extending curbs for Madurai and nearby regions till July 12 after 17 days of intense lockdown in the state capital and suburban areas. The state capital of Chennai, which is under tightened restrictions from June 19 to help fight mounting Covid-19 cases, would see an easing of curbs from Monday.In Delhi, the number of Covid-19 cases is inching towards the 100,000-mark. The Union health ministry dashboard showed there were 97,200 cases and 3,004 deaths in the national capital so far.In the northeast region of the country, Assam’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 11,000-mark on Saturday with the detection of 1,202 new cases, the single biggest spike in a day.State data showed that the figure jumped from 9,777 cases to 11,001 with Guwahati, which along with the rest of Kamrup Metro district is under a 14-day total lockdown since June 28, registering 777 infections—the biggest daily spike for the state’s largest city.However, according to the Union health ministry, there are 10,668 cases of the coronavirus disease for the state.India has the fourth-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world after the United States, Brazil and Russia.The number of coronavirus cases worldwide is 11,240,943, according to Johns Hopkins University’s tracker. And, 530,137 people have died globally due to the infection, according to the data compiled by the American university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-biggest-one-day-jump-of-24-850-covid-19-cases-613-deaths/story-lkKezDUWH9pOlTcYYus4hO.html
05-07-2020||India||Over 97 lakh samples tested for Covid-19 across India, 2.4 lakh on Saturday alone||The number of samples tested for Covid-19 across India till July 4 is 97,89,066 of which 2,48,934 samples were tested on Saturday alone, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) stated on Sunday. Earlier this week, the government said that many bottlenecks have been removed and various steps have been taken to ramp up India’s Covid-19 testing as a result of which the country will soon touch the milestone of testing one crore samples for coronavirus. On Wednesday, the government announced a significant step through which Covid-19 testing can now be done on the prescription of any registered practitioner and not exclusively by a government doctor. The move will ensure more testing of people for coronavirus.According to the ICMR, the daily testing capacity is also growing rapidly across the country. Around 1.5 lakh tests per day were conducted on May 25 which rose to more than three lakh tests per day now.India’s Covid-19 tally on Sunday touched 673,165 with over 60 percent of patients recovering from the deadly contagion across the country. In a record single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, India’s reported 24,850 cases in the last 24 hours. As many as 409,082 people have recovered or have been discharged from the hospitals. India’s Covid-19 death toll stands nears 20,000 at 19,268.Maharashtra sits at the top of the Covid-19 tally with over 2 lakh coronavirus cases while in Tamil Nadu the number of cases has crossed the one lakh mark. In the national capital, Covid-19 cases near the one lakh-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-97-lakh-samples-tested-for-covid-19-across-india-2-4-lakh-on-saturday-alone/story-blHBcIGf0XR3Al7q0ESqpO.html
05-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: Govt puts six states on high alert as locust swarms migrate from Somalia and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Six states on high alert as govt warns of more locust swarmsOperations to control infestation are continuing in six states -- Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, and Haryana. The locust invasions have caused “minor crop losses”, according to a status update till July 3. Read more here. May I have a word, please?We’re only halfway through 2020 and already it’s changed how we speak. It’s pushed the US-based Merriam-Webster Dictionary to make its fastest update in history. Read more here. When Aishwarya Rai put family before career, turned down Will Smith’s film to return to IndiaAishwarya Rai was offered three films by Will Smith but she turned down all of them due to time constraints. Here’s what she said about the Hollywood actor.Top 10 things you can do to boost WiFi and improve internet speedAt a time like this, it is vital we know how best to boost the WiFi connection we have at home so as our Internet speeds increase and we can make the best use of the connection we are paying for. Read more here. Before Ganguly India were a ‘nice’ side: Hussain on Dada’s impactFormer England captain Nasser Hussain, who fought many battles against Ganguly’s India, spoke about his impact on Indian cricket recently. “I have always said, and this is a generalisation, but I have always said about Ganguly, that he made India a tougher side. Read more here. Amit Trivedi on music, nepotism and working with Sushant Singh RajputAmit Trivedi talks to Ruchi Kaushal of Hindustan Times about music, films and nepotism. The Kai Po Che and Kedarnath singer also opens about working closely with Sushant Singh Rajput and how heartbroken he is on his passing away. Watch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-govt-puts-six-states-on-high-alert-as-locust-swarms-migrate-from-somalia-and-all-the-latest-news/story-IQIFHseuFesTViKdiDUSQK.html
05-07-2020||India||CRPF trooper injured in IED blast on Srinagar-Pulwama road||One personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was injured in an IED blast in Gangoo area of Pulwama, in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. The injured jawan has been identified as GD Pardeep Dass.The IED blast was carried out by terrorists, news agency ANI reported. It took place on the Srinagar-Pulwama road when the Road Opening Party of the CRPF was being deployed in the area.News agency PTI quoted a police officer as saying that the CRPF personnel suffered injuries in his hands due to the blast, but his condition is stable.ANI further reported that during the search operation, police found one more IED planted in the area and it was defused. The area has been cordoned off.This is the second attack on CRPF in the last four days. A CRPF jawan and a civilian were killed in Sopore on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-trooper-injured-in-ied-blast-on-srinagar-pulwama-road/story-TBlSd0ZsNu753t599DEflJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Chinese PLA’s rear defences in Ladakh’s Galwan valley face an icy challenge||China’s People’s Liberation Army, which had amassed a large number of troops 5 km from the standoff points in Galwan, may need to shift around its soldiers after its rear positions on the Galwan bank have been flooded due to a sharp rise in water levels, people familiar with the developments told Hindustan Times.A senior military commander said the water level of the icy-cold, snow-fed Galwan river that originates from the Aksai Chin region had risen sharply due to an increase in temperature. “With snow melting at a rapid pace, any position on the river bank is dangerous,” the senior army officer said, pointing that satellite and drone imagery had indicated flooding of Chinese tents located on the river bank at rear positions.Top generals of the Indian and Chinese armies have held three rounds of talks to work out a plan to disengage, de-escalate and eventually move back to their positions before the standoff between rival patrols near Pangong Tso started 60 days ago on the night of May 5. There were also broad agreements on initiating such an exercise. But there has been little forward movement to show for on the ground - the June 15 violent scrap took place 10 days after the first agreement to disengage - leading both sides to prepare for a long haul.But the military commander said it would be tough for China to hold on to current PLA positions in Galwan, Gogra, Hot Springs and Pangong Tso. These, he said, are untenable in the long run, he said, a reference to the view that the standoff could continue well into the winter months if Beijing does not restore status quo ante along the Line of Actual Control.Also read: India increases tech surveillance on Ladakh LAC with Israeli Heron dronesIndia, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared during his visit to Ladakh this week, seeks peace but will stand up to defend its territorial integrity under all circumstances and the choice of how the standoff ends simply rests with Beijing.For now, despite the occasional public posturing in Beijing, there is no evidence on ground that China is looking at de-escalating any time soon. To the contrary, there are reports that the People’s Liberation Army was laying fibre optic cables at its locations in the Galwan valley. There is also a report with the army that the PLA is seeking to build a tunnel in the finger area of Pangong lake.These inputs confirm the Indian assessment in the early days of the standoff that the situation could go on for a long time, much longer than the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days.This is an eventuality that the military has been prepping for. “We are rather prepared for all eventualities,” said a senior army officer.Apart from moving in weapons such as the Indian army’s M-777 ultra-light howitzers, T-90 missile firing tanks and the top-of-the-line shoulder fired anti-tank missile systems, the military has also been deploying the air force’s C-17 heavy-lifters, Apache attack helicopters and C-130J special operations aircraft as well as the India’s Navy’s P-8I surveillance aircraft. For Pangong lake, the navy is also flying in steel boats with gun mounts to match PLA’s heavy patrol boats used by China to dominate the fingers on the north bank of the salt water lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-pla-s-rear-defences-in-ladakh-s-galwan-valley-face-an-icy-challenge/story-Tj0nAmgnrN4p6cdbmRxapO.html
05-07-2020||India||Assam Raj Bhavan Campus turns to containment zone after new Covid-19 cases reported||In view of detection of Covid-19 positive patient at Raj Bhavan Campus in Guwahati, the area with following boundary description has been declared as a containment zone on Saturday.Kamrup Metropolitan District Deputy Commissioner Biswajit Pegu has issued an order declaring Raj Bhavan Campus as a containment zone. He has directed the Circle Officer, Guwahati Revenue Circle to seal the area immediately.The boundary of the containment zone is said to be till Hotel Belle View in North, Bonkowar Nagar in South, Borthakur Clinic in East and MG Road in West, stated the notice.According to the Union Health Ministry, Assam has reported 9,673 coronavirus cases in the state, including 3,310 active cases, 6,349 cured/discharged/migrated and 14 fatalities as of July 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-raj-bhavan-campus-turns-to-containment-zone-after-new-covid-19-cases-reported/story-EoFXgqot8Hk0aLDMt83S5M.html
05-07-2020||India||‘God’s will’: How the 12-day-long Rath Yatra was held without devotees||As Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Goddess Subhadra were ushered back into the 12th-century Jagannath Temple in Puri from the elaborately-decorated chariots on Saturday afternoon, Binayaka Das Mohapatra broke into a smile despite sweating profusely on a humid day. The Daitapatis, one among the 120 categories of servitors of the temple, are the ones who take out the three deities from the main temple to the chariots on the day of annual Rath Yatra and then again take them back to the sanctum sanctorum in a ceremony called Niladri Bije, that marks the end of the 12-day long festival. “It was Lord Jagannath’s miracle that the Rath Yatra could finally happen despite all the roadblocks. It was the Lord who facilitated his own Yatra during such a pandemic,” Das Mohapatra, a 70-something Daitapati of the temple, said.“Had the Yatra not happened it would have been catastrophic. That the entire festival happened without the participation of the single devotee is an example of the miracle,” he added.He was referring to the Supreme Court’s June 18 order and its subsequent reversal by the top court on June 22 about holding the festival.On June 18, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court headed by chief justice SA Bobde had stalled the festival viewing that the possible congregation of 10-12 lakh people in Puri on Rath Yatra day may not be appropriate in the interests of public health and safety of citizens. However, the same bench on June 22 allowed the festival to go on following the filing of more than 20 intervention petitions on the condition that no devotees be allowed.Considered as part and parcel of the social, religious and cultural ethos of the people of Odisha, the annual sojourn of Lord Jagannath and his siblings to the Gundicha Temple in their chariots is inconceivable without devotees.Eminent Jagannath scholar Surendra Mishra said the Rath Yatra is perhaps the only festival where the deity himself comes out on the road to meet his devotees.“In popular literature, Jagannath is revered as the first ruler and he was considered as king even Odisha has not become a separate state. What makes Jagannath so appealing to the poor and rich Odias is despite being a God, he is like an ordinary mortal who takes birth and dies,” Mishra said.“So to think of the Rath Yatra without devotees is unimaginable. But that’s what happened this year and it’s nothing short of a miracle,” he said.Several women devotees broke down after getting to know that they would have to watch it on television.But at least three months before that there was a cloud of uncertainty over the festival as the doors of the temple were shut to devotees on March 20 as part of Odisha government’s plans to shut down all religious places to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. Though the construction of the three rathas or chariots for the annual Rath Yatra was supposed to start on April 26 on the day of Akshaya Tritiya festival, it could not begin till May 9 due to the lockdown restrictions over religious activities. It was finally allowed by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on the grounds that it was a construction activity but with several preconditions that only Covid-19 negative Maharanas or carpenters who make the chariots would be allowed.“By the time the construction activity started, we were at least 10 days late and had a little over 40 days to finish the construction. Moreover, there were social distancing conditions to be followed during a physical activity like chariot construction when it is difficult to adhere to it,” said an official of the temple administration.“After ensuring that the 200-odd carpenters who would do the construction, tested negative, we ensured that they remained in isolation till the very end. As work was delayed, chariot construction continued till 10pm in the night,” the official added.Incidentally, the temple managing committee had decided that if the Rath Yatra is not held even after the construction of the chariots over fears of the spread of the coronavirus disease, the Rathas will be dismantled and the timber used as firewood in the temple kitchen.The first challenge, however, came on June 5 during Snana Purnima, the festival preceding the Rath Yatra when the deities had their ritualistic bath. Apprehending a turnout of thousands of devotees, 38 platoons of police cordoned the area around the temple to prevent the entry of anyone except the 800 servitors and few temple officials.The 800 servitors, who poured water on the deities, had undergone Covid-19 test to rule out any chances of spreading the infection.“This must be the first time in the history of the temple that the Snana Purnima was held without the presence of devotees,” said Rama Chandra Das Mohapatra, a senior servitor and member of the temple managing committee.But the successful conduct of the Snana Purnima notwithstanding, there was still uncertainty over the festival.A little-known outfit, the Bharatiya Bikash Parishad, first approached the Orissa High Court which said heavy-duty machines or elephants can be used to pull the chariots instead of hundreds of devotees. It then knocked the doors of the Supreme Court seeking direction to the Odisha government for cancelling or deferring the Rath Yatra arguing that the festival will grossly violate guidelines.On June 18, a three-judge bench of the top court headed by chief justice Bobde stalled the festival saying the Lord would not forgive them if Rath Yatra was held.Incidentally, senior advocate Harish Salve, who represented the Odisha government, supported the Bharatiya Vikash Parishad and argued that the moment there is a festivity, people will gather.Adding to the uncertainty was the state cabinet’s cryptic resolution on the evening of June 18 to abide by the top court’s order while calling it a “leela of Lord Jagannath”.Puri’s king Gajapati Dibya Singh Dev who was in favour of holding the Rath Yatra without the presence of any devotee said he initially felt dismayed but had no other way than to follow the Supreme Court order. “There was hardly any time as the SC was going on vacation after June 19 and any reversal of the order of the three-judge bench had to be done by the same bench. I thought it was not possible in such a limited time,” said the Gajapati, who wrote to chief minister Naveen Patnaik arguing that the coronavirus pandemic was not a situation which rendered it impossible to conduct Ratha Yatra in Puri.“If the Ratha Yatra is not held this year in Puri, it will hurt the religious sentiments of countless devotees around the world who watch the sacred Yatra live every year on electronic media,” he wrote.As dozens of intervention petitions, including one by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra, started getting filed in the top court seeking reversal of the June 18 order, the Puri district administration got 1,143 more servitors tested for Covid-19 of which one tested positive. The servitor who tested positive was shifted to a Covid-19 hospital.“While isolation of the servitors during the festival is a pre-requisite, in Puri, Daitapatis, the class of servitors who come into action only during the Rath Yatra has been practising it ever since the Yatra started centuries ago,” Balwant Singh, Puri’s district collector, said.“By the time the festival got over, at least 8,000 persons involved with Rath Yatra were tested for Covid-19, some of them twice. For a population of 2.5 lakh in Puri town, the number of tests conducted is very high, around 32,000 per million population,” Singh said.Durgaprasad Das Mohapatra, a senior Daitapati, said beginning from the Snana Purnima ritual till the day the deities return to the main temple, they don’t step out of their homes and no one comes to meet them.“For a month, we and our families remain in virtual isolation. During this year’s Rath Yatra, we were tested twice for Covid-19 - once before Snana Purnima and again before the Bahuda Yatra when the deities come back to the main temple,” said Das Mohapatra.Just a day before the Rath Yatra, the government announced a 41-hour curfew in the temple town restricting the entry of the people to Puri. It also mobilised 50 platoons of force and restricted entry of unauthorised persons into the Grand Road. As per the Supreme Court order, about 500 servitors who had tested negative for Covid-19, pulled each of the chariots.Chief minister Patnaik did not visit Puri and instead watched the live telecast of the Rath Yatra on TV from his office.“Not a leaf moves without his will,” Patnaik said while offering his prayers from his office.Soon after the Rath Yatra was over, the Puri administration imposed a restriction on outsiders coming to the district till July 31 for non-essential activities. However, residents of Puri can go out of the district.Officials said with 291 cases reported in the district so far, the administration took the step to control the infection.Madhavi Sahu, an ardent devotee of Jagannath, said it was perhaps the Lord’s wish to have the festival conducted without any devotees.“The God perhaps ordained it that way,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/god-s-will-how-the-12-day-long-rath-yatra-was-held-without-devotees/story-BgJ4sSn3aEFJcB1kyJQlaL.html
05-07-2020||India||Goa registers 108 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths in deadliest day yet||Goa registered 108 new cases of the coronavirus disease on Friday - its highest in a single day so far. The state also recorded two fresh fatalities due to the disease marking the worst 24-hour period Goa has witnessed so far since the pandemic began.The deaths have left state authorities puzzled. One of them was a 45-year-old man who died within two days of reporting to a health care centre asking to be tested after developing mild fever. “It is a surprising case and a surprising course of events. The patient reported to the health centre with a mild fever for a test and since his symptoms were mild and not requiring hospitalisation, he was sent home until his test results came. But by the time the results came in and we sought to communicate it to the family he had already passed away,” health secretary Nila Mohanan said.The other person was a 75-year-old woman who succumbed after days of treatment at a dedicated Covid-19 hospital.Six people have succumbed to the disease in Goa so far while the infection tally stands at 1,684. Eight hundred fifty five people are currently under treatment. The previous single-day spike in cases in Goa was recorded on Thursday when it recorded 95 new infections. This is the first time Goa has recorded more than a 100 cases in a single day. Of the active patients, around 85 are symptomatic and are being treated at Goa’s dedicated Covid-19 Hospital. Meanwhile, health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the Goa government plans to commence plasma therapy for patients after getting permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“Considering the rise in cases in our state, I had an interactive session to discuss plasma therapy in the state. We will be writing to ICMR with our proposal to conduct plasma banking and plasma therapy. We will also be hiring an MD and trained technicians on a contractual basis to run the Plasma transfusion medicine department,” Rane said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-registers-108-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-in-deadliest-day-yet/story-79Z4Kd96CqZJamuIdCETdM.html
05-07-2020||India||Groom among 5 held for flouting Covid-19 norms during wedding procession in Odisha||Odisha Police have arrested five persons including groom for gross negligence and violation of Covid-19 guidelines during his marriage procession in Berhampur.“A case has been registered for violation of Covid-19 guidelines for organising a marriage procession with more than 50 guests in the premises of a hotel. They disregarded the compulsory use of mask and flouted social distancing norms,” DIG Central Zone Satyabrata Bhoi said.The incident happened on July 2.“The case has been registered at Gopalpur PS under section 188/269/270 IPC, R/W Sec- 3 Epidemic Disease Act, and 34 IPC. Two vehicles used in the procession have also been seized. the arrested persons will be produced in the court,” he added.The District Collector has sealed the hotel for violating the Covid-19 norms.Following the incident, the chief minister’s office tweeted: “Odisha is in a crucial phase in the fight against COVID-19, hence, it is very essential that we all obey guidelines and regulations issued by State Government to contain the spread of COVID-19. Violation of the same would lead to strong action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/groom-among-5-held-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-during-wedding-procession-in-odisha/story-LTOLyy68NunmRg0xsPC7BN.html
05-07-2020||India||No kanwariyas to be allowed in Odisha as local Covid-19 cases spike||The Odisha government on Saturday announced it will not allow kanwariyas to collect water from any Shiva temple during the month of Shravan as the Covid-19 situation turned grim with around 28% of the cases reported from the local community.Special relief commissioner Pradeep Jena said the Shiva devotees would not be allowed to carry water from any religious place or any other sources. They will also not allowed to walk on any public road and pour water in any temple during Shravan beginning July 6.Kanwar Yatra is an annual pilgrimage as Shiva devotees walk to the River Ganga at different places such as Haridwar, Gaumukh and Gangotri. They carry the holy water back to the local Shiva shrines in their areas. The state government order came as 140 of the 495 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported on Saturday were local indicating onset of community transmission. For the first time, Odisha reported five Covid-19 deaths in a single day, taking the toll to 34.Ganjam district, where Covid-19 cases have gone past 2,000, reported 216 cases, prompting the state government to send two IAS officers as additional district magistrates and six OAS officers to control the deteriorating situation there. But despite the government guidelines on no social gathering, people in Ganjam continued to flout the order forcing the district administration to seal an upscale hotel in Gopalpur that allowed a wedding to be held in its premises without adhering to the norms of social distancing and wearing of masks. The district administration levied a fine of Rs 50,000 on Hotel Mayfair and sealed it for seven days. The Regional Transport Office also impounded the vehicle in which the groom was going to the hotel.Police arrested the groom, his father, two brothers and uncle for violating Covid-19 guidelines. The matter came to light after a video of the wedding procession with participants dancing together without maintaining social distancing and wearing masks went viral.Meanwhile, the spread of the virus in medical institutions went on unabated with reports of 38 new cases in Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre and six in SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack. The cancer centre has already reported more than 62 cases and SCB Medical College and Hospital 11 cases.Odisha has 8,106 cases of the coronavirus disease and 29 fatalities so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-kanwariyas-to-be-allowed-in-odisha-as-local-covid-19-cases-spike/story-3LFGKgkhxg5QaGkjSmCQ8H.html
05-07-2020||India||Coronavirus: 14 antigen test kit makers approach govt for approval||Fourteen manufacturers of rapid antigen kits, which quickly detect the presence of the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19, have approached the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to get their kits validated.These kits help in speedier diagnosis, with the current gold standard RT-PCR tests taking at least 5-6 hours. The samples have to be sent to laboratories for testing adding to the time it takes for patients to get the results.Seven of other companies that have approached ICMR for validation of their are Indian, including HLL Lifecare Limited that helped Government of India in procuring supplies of PPE kits and ventilators for Covid-19 response.The South Korean company SD Biosensor, one of whose kits has already been validated by ICMR and is currently in use, has approached the body with another rapid test.The rest of the kits are manufactured by companies from Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Belgium. Apart from the one kit that has been approved so far, ICMR has received three others already, with five of the kits still in transit, according to an ICMR document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-14-antigen-test-kit-makers-approach-govt-for-approval/story-swvbaoYQrcFGE92LrYNraP.html
05-07-2020||India||Coronil: Plea in Delhi court for FIR against Ramdev||A Delhi court on Saturday asked the city police to file an Action Taken Report (ATR) after a city lawyer moved a plea seeking the registration of an FIR against yoga guru Baba Ramdev, Acharya Balkrishna, Patanjali and the trustees of Divya Yog Mandir Trust for falsely claiming that they had found a cure for Covid-19 and launching the “coronil kit”.Chief metropolitan magistrate Sumeet Anand issued a notice to the city police on the basis of the plea by an advocate Tushar Anand who had has contended that on June 23, Baba Ramdev launched the coronil kit, claiming that it would cure a Covid-19 patient within seven days.The plea, filed through advocates Lalit Valecha and Manu Prabhakar, stated that the company promoted by the yoga guru falsely claimed that it had found a sure-shot cure for the Covid -19 virus.The complaint stated that Patanjali only had the requisite permission to make an immunity booster and their claim of AYUSH Ministry permitting them to make the cure is false. Appearing for the petitioner, his counsels told the court that he had first filed a complaint at the Vasant Vihar police station on June 24 seeking the registration of FIRs against Ramdev, Acharya Balkrishna, their company, and all the trustees of the Divya Yog Mandir Trust. However, no action was taken, they said.Advocate Valecha said that the police could not avoid their duty of registering the FIR if a cognizable offence is disclosed in the complaint.“The registration of an FIR is mandatory under Section 154 of the Indian Penal Code, if the information discloses the commission of a cognizable offence and no preliminary inquiry is permissible in such a situation,” he said.Following this, the court sought the opposing counsel’s response and posted the matter for July 15.Patanjali spokesperson did not respond to HT’s calls, text messages or email.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronil-plea-in-delhi-court-for-fir-against-ramdev/story-tz2wj7wPgwPN5AoKe8YYVJ.html
05-07-2020||India||KG kids homebound in first year of schooling, parents worried||It’s a gap year the parents hadn’t foreseen. Children set to enter kindergarten in 2020-21 are likely to lose a crucial year, the most crucial in the first decade of schooling.This is the stage at which three- and four-year-olds typically learn to socialise with a large group of peers, spend hours away from home, write the alphabet, learn the numbers, sing rhymes in groups, play, fight and make up, share toys and snacks.Classes are out of the question amid the Covid-19 pandemic and for this age group, remote learning is not as effective — their attention spans are short, the material calls for repetitive actions under direct supervision (how do you teach a child to write a through a computer screen?).So instead of structured play and supervised study, your tots may be spending the year watching educational videos on laptops, either alone or with a parent. In states like Maharashtra, where online classes have been discontinued for levels below Class 2, some schools are offering edutainment sessions via Facebook Live, where adults tell the kids that A is for Apple and it’s bad to tell a lie.“I encourage my child to attend because at least it’s something,” says the parent of a four-year-old who was supposed to start KG at Mumbai’s Villa Theresa School this month. “But they’re reciting the same nursery rhymes my daughter moved on from while in nursery, and that worries me. For her, A is now for Astronaut.”Given the short attention spans and high degrees of restlessness, the videos and online lessons are also becoming hard for the children to focus on, and differentiate one from another.“Initially, Advita adjusted and responded well. Her school did two 45-minute sessions with a 30-minute break in between. Activities ranged from colouring to storytelling sessions to learning the alphabet and numbers, with a little general knowledge and puzzle-solving thrown in. But after a while, not being able to go out and play made her irritable and restless,” says Manasvi Sareen, a software engineer from Delhi whose daughter is four.LONELY ONLIESWith so many urban families opting for a single child — mainly so they can make the most of available resources, from time to paying attention to money — a key fallout of the disrupted year for kindergarteners will be the lack of opportunity to socialise.Many parents are willing to juggle work, housework and schooling from home to help with the handwriting lessons, the learning of numbers and the storytelling, craft and puppetry sessions.“Academics aren’t a core concern. But the social isolation makes me worry,” says Rupa Kujur from Delhi, mother of three-year-old Arhan. “Missing out on regular school life means the child is missing out on experiences which cannot be made up for in online sessions.”Harsha Sambaraju, a techie in Hyderabad and father of three-year-old Himansh, worries too. “These early friendships, lunch-hour etiquette, little sports activities in the playground, these are key things my son is missing,” he says.FRESH SLATESEveryone agrees that online education is not ideal for this age group, but most are in agreement that it must continue. “In the absence of precedents to follow, we have to make the most of the situation,” says Aashrita Dass, principal of La Martiniere Girls’ College, Lucknow.Some schools are trying new kinds of activity-based learning. “We’re focusing on communication and gross motor skills. Teachers ask kids to count grains of dal and put them in a bowl and do gentle yoga sessions too,” says Divya Bhatia, principal of Amity International School in Saket, Delhi.The connection with children must be maintained as best it can be, most educationists agree. “We’re looking at a gap of at least six months, during which we cannot let the children be deprived of all structured stimulation and connection,” says Swati Popat Vats, president of the Mumbai-based non-profit Early Childhood Association, “because then they would likely suffer an irreversible loss in terms of cognitive and socio-emotional development.”Innovation will be key, if this is not to be a zero year for the children. Vasireddy Amarnath, who runs Slate, The School in Hyderabad, says they have introduced 30 different Montessori modules to their online learning syllabus to try and get the most out of this time of remote learning.“The school will send videos of these teaching modules to parents, who can help their kids learn and practise them every day at a convenient time. Yes, this is not a replication of or substitute for the classroom. But it’s a chance to enhance learning capabilities,” Amarnath says.WHAT NEXT?Indranil Chakraborty from east Kolkata has a two-year-old son and he’s already worried he won’t be able to go to kindergarten next year, in 2021-22. “Even if the schools are reopened, it will be a risk. As of now my wife and I are trying to gauge from the internet how kindergarten schools teach through playing. We will try to create a similar atmosphere at home, but without other kids.”Lucknow homemaker Varsha Singh is planning to keep her child out of nursery, regardless of what unfolds in the unlock schedules. But it worries her, she says, that her son could be five before he spends a day in a classroom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kg-kids-homebound-in-first-year-of-schooling-parents-worried/story-nV0Ldb1P76AV8VacwcvzCP.html
05-07-2020||India||China says it has border dispute with Bhutan too||China on Saturday officially stated for the first time it has a boundary dispute with Bhutan in the eastern sector, a development with significant implications for India as the region borders Arunachal Pradesh, which is also claimed by Beijing.The Chinese foreign ministry, in a statement issued to Hindustan Times, said the China-Bhutan boundary has never been delimited and there “have been disputes over the eastern, central and western sections for a long time”. The statement in Mandarin further said “a third party should not point fingers” in the China-Bhutan border issue – an apparent reference to India.Also read: US supercarriers in South China Sea, ambitious Beijing stretched on multiple frontsBhutan and China have held 24 rounds of talks between 1984 and 2016 to settle their border issue and, according to discussions in the Bhutanese parliament and other public records of these meetings, the discussions have only centred on disputes in the western and central sections of the boundary.People familiar with developments in Thimphu said on condition of anonymity that the eastern section has never figured in the border talks. “The two sides had said things had been narrowed down to the central and western sections and there was even talk of a package deal to settle the issue. If the Chinese position on the eastern section was legitimate, it should have been brought up earlier,” said one of the people cited above.An expert from Bhutan who has tracked the talks added: “This is an entirely new claim. There are signed minutes of the meetings from both sides narrowing the disputes to only the western and central sections.”There was no immediate reaction to China’s claim from Indian officials. However, China’s claim came against the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assertion during a visit to Ladakh on Friday that the “era of expansionism” is over – which was perceived as a signal to Beijing about New Delhi’s determination to defend its frontiers.Without elaborating on the actual areas of dispute, the Chinese foreign ministry’s statement said: “The boundary between China and Bhutan has never been delimited. There have been disputes over the eastern, central and western sectors for a long time, and there are no new disputed areas.“China always stands for a negotiated package solution to the China-Bhutan boundary issue,” added the statement, provided by the foreign ministry after HT reached out for a response to reports about China objecting to a grant request for Sakteng wildlife sanctuary in eastern Bhutan’s Trashigang district at a virtual meeting of the Washington-based Global Environment Facility (GEF) in June. The sanctuary, located in the easternmost part of Bhutan, covers 650 sq km.Also read: China opens border dispute with India ally BhutanAt the meeting, Chinese representative Zhongjing Wang claimed the sanctuary was located in an area disputed between Bhutan and China. Aparna Subramani, an Indian official serving as an executive director in the World Bank and representing Bhutan at the meeting, said the Chinese claim was not “unchallenged”.A majority of GEF’s council subsequently approved funding for the project while the Chinese representative abstained and didn’t join the decision. Official documents issued by GEF showed Sakteng sanctuary as part of Bhutan’s territory.The Chinese representative’s attempts to formally record his country’s objections through an amendment of GEF’s documents did not receive consensus. Bhutan’s views were also made part of the record: “Bhutan totally rejects the claim made by the Council Member of China. Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary is an integral and sovereign territory of Bhutan and at no point during the boundary discussions between Bhutan and China has it featured as a disputed area.”In addition to registering its position at GEF, Bhutan’s foreign ministry issued a demarche or formal diplomatic representation to the Chinese embassy in New Delhi on the matter, people familiar with developments said.Apart from India, Bhutan is the only other country with a land boundary dispute with China. Beijing and Thimphu currently don’t have diplomatic relations, though the Chinese envoy in New Delhi informally looks after relations with Bhutan.Experts believe China’s move is aimed at opening new fronts to increase the pressure on India amid the stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Sangeeta Thapliyal of the School of International Studies at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, a leading expert on the Himalayan region, said: “Bhutan’s Trashigang is at a tri-junction with India and China and opposite West Kameng district in Arunachal Pradesh, and this area has never been raised in Bhutan-China border talks. This is aimed at pressuring India and Bhutan and also challenging India’s relationship with Bhutan.“China is seeking to open up more theatres and this is a continuation of the policy to pressure India through the Himalayas. This is clearly a form of signalling by China amid the border stand-off.”The India-Bhutan Friendship Treaty of 2007 enjoins both sides to “cooperate closely with each other on issues relating to their national interests”, and experts believe the Chinese move, like the intrusions in Doklam in 2017 that also triggered a standoff, is aimed at driving a wedge between New Delhi and Thimphu.The Bhutan-China border talks have focused on differences over 495 sq km in Jakurlung and Pasamlung valleys in the central section and 269 sq km in western Bhutan, including the Doklam plateau.The so-called “package deal” offered by China to Bhutan reportedly involved Beijing giving up its claim in the central section and part of the western section in exchange for access to around 100 sq km in Doklam, which would bring China closer to India’s vulnerable “chicken’s neck” or the Siliguri corridor.Tenzing Lamsang, editor of The Bhutanese newspaper, said the eastern section now being claimed by China “is very much Bhutanese with a large Bhutanese population and traditional Dzongs (medieval fortresses) and two Bhutanese districts since time immemorial”. The Chinese claim would only “undermine the boundary talks”, he tweeted.The Chinese foreign ministry’s statement said the country has been in communication with Bhutan on the border issue through bilateral channels. “There is a ministerial boundary-talks mechanism and an expert group on boundary issues at the department level,” it said.“Both sides agreed to seek a fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution in the spirit of friendly consultation and mutual understanding and accommodation. Pending the final settlement of the border issue the two sides are committed to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-says-it-has-border-dispute-with-bhutan-too/story-TlhVkk7TwAS97DiASzBSBK.html
05-07-2020||India||NIA planning to file closure report in Italian mariners’ case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) plans to close its case against Italian marines for killing two Indian fishermen off the Kerala coast in 2012, two officials familiar with the matter said on Saturday.This comes after the Centre on Thursday asked the Supreme Court to dispose of the matter related to the jurisdictional issues of the case as it has agreed to accept a UN tribunal’s ruling that the two marines cannot be prosecuted. The five-member arbitral tribunal, under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, said India is entitled to compensation in the case but said the marines deserve immunity and that India is “precluded from exercising its jurisdiction”.Also read: India to follow UN court order in Italian Marines case, Supreme Court toldThe officials cited above said they will file a closure report in the case in a few weeks after getting a go-ahead from the Union home ministry. “The case is more or less null and void now,” an official said on condition of anonymity.The official added that the report will be filed before the court of additional sessions judge-1 at New Delhi’s Patiala House Courts, which was designated for the case when it was filed in April 2013.The marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, moved the Supreme Court against a May 2012 judgment of the Kerala high court, which held the state government had the jurisdiction to try them. The high court ruled the marines enjoyed no state immunity since their act of shooting was neither in the defence of the vessel nor the state. The matter is pending before the Supreme Court, which granted the marines conditional bail and allowed them to return to Italy in 2016.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has opposed the withdrawal of the case against the marines and asked the Centre to explore the possibility of a review petition.Also read: Kerala CM writes to PM Modi seeking trial in Italy of marines who killed 2 fishermenThe two fishermen were killed after the marines fired upon them from an oil tanker they were deployed at to guard against pirates. The ship was intercepted and brought to Kochi, where the marines were arrested and charged with murder.The officials cited above said NIA assigned a deputy superintendent-rank officer to complete its probe in the case when it took over the matter. NIA finalised a charge sheet against the marines in November 2013, when the probe report was submitted to the home ministry.The ministry gave the sanction to prosecute the marines in January 2014 under the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against Safety of Maritime Navigation and Fixed Platforms on Continental Shelf Act and for murder and attempt to murder. The ministry in February 2014 withdrew the charges under the Act, which provides for a death penalty, the officials said.NIA was then asked to go ahead with its charge sheet related to murder, attempt to murder and causing damage to the boat of the fishermen.A second official said six other crew members of the oil tanker were summoned to India to record their statements, but Italy refused to send them. “So we had to record their statements through audio and video means on November 11, 2013. We had also collected other evidence including post mortem reports, forensic evidence and statements of witnesses on Indian fishing boat,” said the second officer. “At every step, Italy tried to delay the proceedings.”India informed the tribunal that Italy was delaying the trial. During the final arguments in the case at The Hague on July 8 last year, India’s representative, G Balasubramanian, told the tribunal, “Given the status of work of investigating agencies in this process of criminal prosecution, the case has been practically ready for trial for some time. It is Italy which is not allowing the prosecution to progress further.”The tribunal said the marines enjoyed immunity since they were exercising official functions in their capacity as Italian state officials and ordered India to stop criminal proceedings against them.International law expert Zulfiqar Memon called it a failure. “It shows that the life of poor Indian fishermen has no value when compared to the accused who happen to be citizens of a powerful European nation who are protected under immunity,” said Memon. He added the compensation cannot undo the irreversible damage the killings caused. “We must ask ourselves, as to what extent we have actually gone to seek justice for our citizens as compared to what Italy has done for its.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-planning-to-file-closure-report-in-italian-mariners-case/story-rgHb4I8RpbE61A6eCOgaZO.html
05-07-2020||India||Terrorist dead, two soldiers injured in Kulgam encounter||An unidentified militant was killed and two soldiers injured in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Saturday.Officials from the Indian Army, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Jammu and Kashmir police launched a search operation in Arreh village in the district following information about the presence of militants in the area, Gurinderpal Singh, Kulgam’s superintendent of police, said.During the operation, the militants opened fire on the security personnel. A militant was killed in retaliatory firing, Singh said. There are two to three militants present in the village, people familiar with the matter said.The encounter has come a day after police and CRPF personnel on Friday killed a local militant Zahid Dass in Malbagh on the outskirts of the city. His accomplices, however, managed to escape under the cover of darkness. One CRPF jawan was also killed in the encounter.On Thursday, Kashmir inspector general Vijay Kumar said that security forces have prepared a list of top militants and commanders who will be neutralized in the coming months. Many top commanders of different militant outfits have been neutralised over the last few months, Kumar said, adding that about half of those killed belonged to the Hizbul Mujahideen outfit.In last six months, over 100 militants have been killed in different encounters. According to police data, there has been a nearly 50% decline in local recruitment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-dead-two-soldiers-injured-in-kulgam-encounter/story-1pBRJsEl4sOjFGU8xAsr8J.html
05-07-2020||India||Can one be reinfected with Covid-19? No evidence yet, say experts||Can people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) get reinfected? There is no evidence of reinfection, say experts, but since the disease is just a little over six months old, it will take years to get data on how long a recovered patient will remain protected against reinfection.Monkeys infected with the coronavirus were protected from reinfection for up to 28 days, according to a study from China published in the journal Science on Friday. Six rhesus macaques were infected with Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, in their windpipe (trachea) developed mild to moderate symptoms and recovered within two weeks. When four of the six monkeys were reinfected 28 days after the first infection, the monkeys showed a stronger immune response , producing more neutralising antibodies which protected them against short-term reinfection.Also read| Coronavirus: 14 antigen test kit makers approach govt for approval“There is experimental evidence from monkeys that once infected, there is resistance to reinfection. In humans, reinfection has not been observed in recovered patients, despite many months since the first wave of infections. We do not know that this is necessarily attributable to antibodies, but rise of antibodies is correlated to disappearance of the virus. So, in a nutshell, there is a reason to believe that recovery from infection is associated with gaining at least short-term immunity; antibodies contribute to such immunity, and antibodies are not the full story,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Delhi.Studies have found that levels of neutralising antibodies that bind to the new coronavirus viral proteins to directly prevent infection remain high only for a few weeks after infection, after which it begins to fall. Antibodies last at higher levels for longer in people who had severe disease, compared to those with mild or asymptomatic disease, which has led to concerns that those with mild disease may not have lasting protecting against Covid-19.This follows a pattern similar to other coronavirus diseases, such Sars (severe acute respiratory syndrome). Most recovered patients lose their neutralising antibodies within a few years, but those with severe disease had antibodies 12 years after infection.What is known about Sars-CoV-2 infection is that no reinfection has been reported since the pandemic started in China in December 2019. “As of now, no evidence of reinfection has been validated, and theories on when antibodies in people with mild and asymptomatic disease disappear are pure guesswork. The few reported cases of reinfection from Korea and some other countries were misrepresentation. They found traces of viral genetic material (RNA) in nasal swabs, which may have been a remnant of natural infection before recovery. RNA doesn’t cause disease or spread infection. When the viral load is low and there is no transmission, it is of no epidemiological significance as the person doesn’t get sick or infect others,” said Dr T Jacob Jon, virologist and professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.Also read: ICMR’s credibility hit, say expertsThe levels of neutralising antibodies needed to prevent reinfection or reduce Covid-19 symptoms in a second illness is also unclear. “We do not know how long protection lasts and measuring antibodies does not necessarily fully cover the immunity. Cell-mediated immunity seems important too. Most mutating viruses need repeat vaccination. This is mutating slower than expected but yes, it seems unlikely that there will be a one-time only vaccine,” said Dr Agrawal.A comparison of the immune responses of 37 asymptomatic patients to an equal number of severely ill patients in China showed asymptomatic people reacted less strongly to infection, 40% of asymptomatic patients losing their IgG protective antibodies—the slower-forming antibodies associated with long-term immunity—within a few weeks or months after recovery, within two to three months after the infection compared to 12.9% of the symptomatic patients, reported a study published in Nature Medicine on June 18.It’s still unknown if the lack of antibodies months or years later will put people at risk of reinfection, but testing for them helps understand the spread of infection. “Sero-surveillance definitely helps predictions and policy. For the person tested, given that reinfection is not seen, it is likely that those who have antibodies are already recovered and have lower risk. However, this is not proven and antibody positivity does not equal immunity in many diseases. This may be resolved by testing for neutralising antibodies but it is equally possible that even those without neutralising antibodies may have antibody-independent immune resistance acquired during prior infection,” said Dr Agrawal.The bottom line? “If I were tested, I would be hoping for a positive test,” said Dr Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-one-be-reinfected-no-evidence-yet-say-experts/story-7opoQHzOx5Px6fSyfpoFuO.html
05-07-2020||India||PM Modi lauds BJP state units for ‘putting nation first’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi underlined on Saturday the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s commitment to selfless service, and said it is not just an “election-winning machine” but a means of serving people. “We consider power as a means of service. We have never considered power as a means of personal gain. Selfless service has been our motto and part of our values,” Modi said in a virtual address to BJP workers.Modi, who took stock of the work of the BJP state units amid the Covid-19 pandemic, said commentators see political organisations from an electoral point of view. For the BJP, the organisation means service, support for everyone, and happiness and prosperity for all, he added. Jagat Prakash Nadda, the party chief, had tasked the BJP workers with feeding 50 million families during the Covid-19 lockdown. Modi appreciated the efforts of the party workers in reaching out with aid despite the infection risk. He said it has always been the nation first for the BJP. “The idea behind the genesis of the Jana Sangh and the BJP was to make our country happy and prosperous and it is with this inspiration that we came into politics.”Modi called for the need to document the party’s work in helping people, saying it will serve as an inspiration and also be a reference for how service was provided on a large scale, overcoming challenges. “A challenge was turned into an opportunity,” he said.Modi said a multilingual digital booklet showcasing the work undertaken from the district to the national level should be launched on late Jana Sangh leader Deen Dayal Upadhyaya’s birth anniversary on September 25.“At a time when all were trying to save themselves, you went out to help those in need. In many cities, our workers knew there is danger but yet to fulfil their responsibilities kept working. Many of our workers died,” he said.He called selfless service, balance, restraint, consensus, positivity, harmony, and dialogue the BJP’s mantras and urged his colleagues to consider the experience gained while undertaking the work as a chance to understand the society. “At the time of elections, we go to people and hear all kinds of feedback. But this time when you went to people, your experience would have been different. ...you will see you will have felt that society has given you so much love and respect. This is the love and energy that did not allow you to tire. We need to understand the power of society. It has to be imbibed.”Responding to Modi’s comments, Congress spokesman Jaiveer Shergill said: “Death of 100 plus migrant labourers [during the lockdown] due to complete apathy of the central government’s East India Company approach of charging railway tickets from crores of labourers struggling to go home, raising 838% and 230% duty on diesel and petrol in biggest economic recession proves the BJP is the servant of politics and not the servant of people. The BJP believes in the use and throw policy towards the voters.”Political commentator Abhay Deshpande said the references in Modi’s remarks are aimed at blunting the discontent towards the government. “In Maharashtra, for instance, the BJP is in the opposition but is claiming to have distributed food packets to lakhs of people. It has made itself visible, even if there was not much done on the ground. This, in a way, is an attempt to tone down the anger that the migrant workers or people, in general, would have towards the government following the lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-lauds-bjp-state-units-for-putting-nation-first/story-rozNDUPxG4qSMMJJ4dlL5N.html
05-07-2020||India||August 15 deadline for Covid-19 vaccine has dented ICMR’s credibility: Experts||Dr Balram Bhargava’s July 2 directive to lead researchers of several institutions chosen as test sites to complete clinical trials soon so as to have the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine ready on August 15 has dented the credibility of India’s apex medical research body that he heads, say top scientists, government officials, and public health experts, who are not buying the research’s agency argument that the letter was an effort to speed up vaccine trials.“It is good to be ambitious and aspirational but it should not be done at the cost of due diligence for ensuring the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. I would Iike to believe that it is a typographical error of saying 2020, instead of 2021. If not, the implications are serious as the proposed vaccine can only be ready by August 15 by fudging data or incomplete documentation. There is no other way,” said K Sujatha Rao, former secretary, ministry of health and family welfare.Also read: Can one be reinfected with coronavirus? No evidence yet, say expertsDr Bhargava’s letter to the heads of 12 hospitals doing human trials for Covaxin vaccine asked them to secure necessary approvals for human trials by July 7 with a warning that “non-compliance will be viewed very seriously”.Despite the statement from ICMR on July 4 that described the letter as an attempt to cut red tape, and which did not mention anything about a deadline, senior scientists in government say the incident has tarnished the credibility of an institute setting standards and guidelines for clinical research since 1911, and also of scientific research in India.“It has lowered the credibility of ICMR, and along with that of India’s scientific community, regulatory system government, and the potential vaccine (itself)... its reputation is dented before it is even ready. It’s bad enough to have (Baba) Ramdev declaring a Covid-19 cure by press release, now we have ICMR appearing to ask investigators to bypass scientific protocols. ICMR should, like Caesar’s wife, not just be above reproach but should also be perceived as infallible. That reputation has taken a beating,” said Dr T Jacob John, virologist and former professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.“Bharat Biotech will lose all the credibility it has earned all these years with hard work,” added Rao, referring to ICMR’s Hyderabad-based partner which is working on the vaccine.The vaccine strain of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, was isolated in ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, and transferred to Bharat Biotech on May 9.Also read| Covid-19 vaccine: No necessary process will be skipped, says ICMRIn a statement on Saturday, ICMR said the safety and interest of people of India was its topmost priority. “After intense characterisation and review of all data from BBIL (Bharat Biotech India Ltd), ICMR is supporting the clinical development as the vaccine candidate appears to be promising. Based on in-depth scrutiny of the available data from pre-clinical studies, the Drugs Controller General of India has accorded permission to conduct phase 1 and 2 clinical trial,” it said.The pre-clinical study has not been published. “In the larger public health interest, it is important for ICMR to expedite the clinical trials with a promising indigenous vaccine... ICMR’s process is exactly in accordance with the globally accepted norms to fast-track the vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential wherein human and animal trials can continue in parallel,” ICMR added in the statement.“It’s obvious to everyone with a smattering of scientific knowledge that three phases of clinical trials cannot be done in 42 days. At best, you can get early data in a month on whether the vaccine is safe, well tolerated and can produce an immune response against the virus, which gives clues to whether it will work or not. You cannot have it ready for mass use simply by fixing a deadline,” said a senior scientist, who did not want to be named because he works in a government institute.Interestingly, ICMR’s Saturday statement refers only to the first two phases of the trial for which it received regulatory approval from the Drug Controller General of India on June 30. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “It (the July 2 letter) is an internal circular not meant to be shared. I suspect it was issued to impress upon his supervisors in the ‘topmost level of government’ that he was driving his team hard to meet the August 15 deadline. The prime minister announced Isro’s human spaceflight mission Gaganyaan on Independence Day in 2018, but Isro kept quiet. Political announcements should be left to the government, scientists should focus on science,” added a senior bureaucrat, requesting anonymity.“The message is clear: all of us want a vaccine and we want a vaccine that is safe and effective. Pregnancy takes nine months; it is biology. Anything before that has risks,” tweeted Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, a Delhi-based vaccinologist and public health specialist.Dr Bhargava did not respond to repeated calls and texts seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-s-credibility-hit-say-experts/story-5Dv4aHKYDNU5XtXPQvStsN.html
05-07-2020||India||Six states on high alert as govt warns of more locust swarms||More swarms of crop-eating locusts are likely to migrate from Somalia to the summer breeding areas along the India-Pakistan border, the agriculture ministry has said in a statement, prompting officials in six most “at-risk” states to be on high alert. Operations to control infestation are continuing in six states -- Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, and Haryana -- by locust circle offices. The invasions have caused “minor crop losses”, according to a status update till July 3.The UN’s Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) has said locust invasions from Africa, the worst in 70 years, pose a “serious” risk to the country’s agriculture.Also read: Interministerial group set up to tackle locust invasion across statesCurrently, immature pink locusts and adult yellow locusts are active in Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Sikar, Jaipur, and Alwar of Rajasthan and Tikamgarh (Madhya Pradesh), according to the update.An inter-ministerial empowered group has ramped up resources to protect the country’s robustly progressing kharif or summer-sown crops. It has hired five technology firms to provide five advanced drones each of up to 50kg each, apart from helicopters hired from Pawan Hans Ltd. Till July 3, control operations have been carried out in 1,32,777 hectares in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. State governments have carried out containment in another 1,13,003 hectare. One hectare equals 2.5 acre.“The use of drones is something new and is evidently very effective. India should maintain enough production and supply of malathion, the main pesticide effective against locust, throughout the summer months,” said Pramod Vajpayi, a former entomologist with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Also read: FAO sounds high alert for India for next 4 weeks over locustSo far, 12 drones have been deployed in Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Bikaner, and Nagaur. Drones are effective for covering tall trees and inaccessible areas. One drone can douse crops with pesticides in 16-17 hectare area in one hour. In one of the largest operations so far, in the intervening night of 2nd and 3rd July, containment activities were carried out at 19 places across seven districts--Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Sikar, Jaipur, and Alwar of Rajasthan and Tikamgarh, an official, requesting anonymity, said.Desert locusts can fly hundreds of kilometres a day and one square-km swarm can eat as much crop food as 35,000 people in terms of weight in a single day, according to the FAO Desert Locust Information Service manual. If unchecked, locust infestations can cause a considerable drop in food output. The Horn of Africa has been witnessing large breading by locusts since 2019 due to frequent cyclones possibly linked to climate change and swarms have invaded several regions from there, according to FAO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-warns-of-more-locust-swarms-in-six-states/story-5hqSMV3c3iVWY2OANhIUtJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Hold agricultural hackathons to boost economy: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday directed the agriculture ministry to hold agricultural hackathons twice a year to solve problems in the farm economy by harnessing information technology solutions, an official statement said. At a review via videoconferencing of agricultural research activities, Modi asked these hackathons to be organised for efficient solutions to on-ground problems faced by farmers, including for farm management, farm tool designs, and crop protection, said an official, requesting anonymity.Hackathons are events where software developers, domain experts, and programmers come together to collaborate for developing problem-solving software products.Modi also held discussions with senior officials of the department of agricultural research and extension as well as the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, the top farm research body.“The Prime Minister directed that start-ups and agri-entrepreneurs need to be promoted to ensure innovation and use of technology in agriculture and allied sectors. He highlighted the need to leverage information technology to provide information on demand to the farmers,” the statement said. Such hackathons should “meet design needs for tools and equipment that can reduce drudgery in farming activity, given that a large number of farmworkers are women”, the statement quoted Modi as saying.Scientists, who took part in the review, made presentations on India’s preparedness for climate-change-induced agricultural impacts, such as heatwaves, droughts, cold waves, and submergence due to heavy rains. They showcased various varieties developed to withstand these shocks, according to the statement. The country has seen a rise in agricultural start-ups. “Agritech startups are helping farmers monitor crop and soil conditions using internet of things sensors. Many are using artificial intelligence to forecast sowing time as well as realtime weather inputs,” said Avi Anand, the director of Agritex Ecosystems, a Bengaluru-based startup.In addition to the senior officials from the Prime Minister’s Office, the secretaries from departments of agriculture, animal husbandry, and dairy and fisheries were also present in the videoconference review.Modi stressed the need to adopt organic and natural farming practices on a cluster-based approach. He lauded efforts to develop crop varieties focusing on specific requirements for agro-climatic zones and stressed the need to provide strong market linkages for better returns to farmers, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hold-agri-hackathons-to-boost-economy-pm/story-FvGymZcknoJm6z6zmEvFiK.html
05-07-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: No necessary process will be skipped, says ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday that its attempt to speed up the development of a potential coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine was aimed at cutting red tape, a remark that came after its plan of a mid-August launch invited condemnation from experts for setting an impractical target not in line with rigorous scientific standards.Experts said the premier biomedical research body’s clarification on Saturday that the move was meant to cut red tape did not address how the accelerated timeline could be achieved. The timeline appeared unrealistic even by the best global standards and involved potential risks, they said.ICMR said on Friday it was attempting to launch the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine on August 15, triggering disbelief in the scientific community. The plan was disclosed in a letter by ICMR to 12 institutes where human trials are to be held for the vaccine, Covaxin, ordering them to secure necessary approvals from internal committees and recruit people for clinical tests by July 7 with a warning that “non-compliance will be viewed very seriously”.The vaccine has been jointly developed by ICMR and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech (BBIL), with the latter itself previously indicating that a vaccine could take more time. In a report on Wednesday, Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Krishna Ella said that if clinical trials of Covaxin met safety and efficacy standards, the vaccine could be available for mass use by early 2021.On Saturday, ICMR said: “The letter by DG-ICMR to investigators of the clinical trial sites was meant to cut unnecessary red tape, without bypassing any necessary process, and speed up recruitment of participants... ICMR is committed to treat the safety and interest of people of India as a topmost priority.” This statement mentioned neither the August 15 deadline, nor the July 7 one . The statement followed widespread condemnation for ICMR for appearing to abandon clinical trial safeguards and putting the lives and safety of people at risk in its rush to produce an indigenous vaccine by Independence Day, a feat that is impossible if scientific protocols for trial and data review are followed.In the letter, dated July 2, ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said that the first indigenous vaccine being developed by India was one of “the top priority projects which is being monitored at the topmost level of the Government”.“ln view of the public health emergency due to Covid-19 pandemic and urgency to launch the vaccine, you are strictly advised to fast track all approvals related to initiation of the clinical trial and ensure that the subject enrolment is initiated no later than 7 July 2020. Kindly note that non-compliance will be viewed very seriously,” said the ICMR-DG.In the statement issued on Saturday, the apex research organisation said: “ICMR’s process is exactly in accordance with the globally accepted norms to fast-track the vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential wherein human and animal trials can continue in parallel.” “Our trials will be done following the best practices and rigour, and will be reviewed, as required, by a Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB)... ICMR is committed to treat the safety and interest of people of India as a topmost priority,” it said.Bharat Biotech chairman Krishna Ella, who was copied on Dr Bhargava’s letter, declined to comment on ICMR’s timeline of clinical trials, but said previously that if clinical trials of Covaxin were successful, the vaccine would be ready for mass use by early 2021. Bharat Biotech is among seven Indian firms working on Covid-19 vaccines and was the first to get the regulatory nod to begin Phase 1 and Phase 2 human trials on Monday to test the vaccine for efficacy and safety.“In the larger public health interest, it is important for ICMR to expedite the clinical trials with a promising indigenous vaccine. Faced with the unprecedented nature of the Covid-19 pandemic, and the consequent dislocation of the normal life, all other vaccine candidates across the globe have been similarly fast-tracked. ICMR’s process is exactly in accordance with the globally accepted norms to fast-track the vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential wherein human and animal trials can continue in parallel,” the ICMR statement said.Trials for vaccines can take several years. Several countries have allowed the development processes to be fast-tracked to tackle the unprecedented health emergency but even the leading efforts are estimated to conclude the development process only by the end of the year.Clinical trials involve inoculating people with an experimental vaccine to test whether it is safe and effective, a process that, on average, takes at least 10 years.Experts say ICMR’s timeline for Covaxin is scientifically implausible even by the global fast-tracked standards, as the vaccine is yet to begin human clinical trials. Globally, 18 experimental Covid-19 vaccines are in various phases of human trials.“There is no sensible scientific way that makes it possible to announce that a potential vaccine will be ready without three months of phases 1 and 2 trial data to indicate whether it will work at all. Even with fast-tracking and planning phase 3 trial in anticipation of the first two phases being successful, the trial can begin only after data from the first two trials is analysed and certified, which takes at least three months. You need at least six months for preliminary data on how effective and safe the vaccine is; how can you do it in six weeks?” asked Dr T Jacob John, virologist and former professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.A researcher, who works with the government and did not wish to be named, said: “Never ever has such an end timeline to develop a vaccine or drug been given for a new antigen. Science depends on clinical outcomes; it doesn’t follow deadlines. The definitive language in the letter is problematic.”ICMR’s Saturday letter had a response to such criticism too. “While issues raised in public domain from time-to-time by commentators are welcome, as they form an important part of feedback loop, the best of India’s medical professionals and research scientists should not be second guessed for their professionalism or adherence to the highest scientific rigour.”Dr Bhargava did not respond to repeated calls and text messages seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-necessary-process-will-be-skipped-icmr/story-hJAq5PUlmQmRoNGIElIaLL.html
05-07-2020||India||Tejashwi Yadav as Bihar CM face? Allies unsure||Trouble appears to be brewing in the mahagathbandhan, or grand alliance, in Bihar over its chief ministerial candidate for the assembly elections later this year.The Congress has suggested a state-wide survey to identify the face of the alliance after some of its leaders voiced their opposition to Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav’s name.At a virtual meeting between former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and Bihar Congress leaders, veteran Nikhil Kumar and legislative party leader Sadanand Singh expressed strong opposition to the move to project Tejwashwi as the CM face, according to people familiar with the development.The RJD had projected 30-year-old Tejashwi as the chief ministerial candidate of the grand alliance last year. The announcement came after the RJD’s national council meeting passed a resolution in Patna on December 10, 2019.The ruling Janata Dal (United)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) combine has already decided to fight the 2020 assembly polls under chief minister Nitish Kumar’s leadership. Elections are due in the 243-member Bihar assembly in October-November.A Congress leader, who attended the meeting, said on the condition of anonymity that both Nikhil Kumar and Sadanand Singh argued that the move will further alienate upper castes who “despise RJD supremo Lalu Prasad and his son Tejashwi for their strong bias against forward castes”.The Congress party’s Bihar in-charge, Shaktisinh Gohil, then suggested that a state-wide survey should be conducted, and insisted that the grand alliance should go by the popular choice, the leader said.The issue has earlier been flagged by three constituents of the grouping — Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) leader and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief Upendra Kushwaha and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) president Mukesh Sahani. They have repeatedly been speaking publicly against the move to project Tejashwi as the CM face, saying the RJD took the decision unilaterally.At its meeting on Friday, the Congress rejected suggestions to go it alone in the assembly elections with the leadership insisting that there is no time left for such a move.“There was also a proposal to make the alliance broader by including the Left parties in it. Some leaders suggested that Congress, RJD and Left parties should come together and keep the other three parties – RLSP, HAM and VIP – out given that there is a big question mark on their ability to transfer votes to other constituents as seen in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections,” another leader said.Gohil, however, said it is important for all constituents to keep aside their “egos and self interests” and put up a united fight based on ideological commitment.He said the meeting also stressed the need for immediate settlement of seat-sharing and other issues among the alliance partners. “Talks on these issues should not stretch to the last minute, all parties should be flexible in their approach and the alliance should exhibit great political chemistry on the ground,” Gohil added.Senior leader Kishore Kumar Jha said the Congress should deal with the RJD on “equal terms” as far as seat-sharing is concerned. “We should not agree to less than 100 seats this time. If other allies are to be accommodated, both RJD and Congress should share the burden,” he said.At the meeting, another leader, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, claimed that Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan is in touch with him and that he is unhappy in the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA).However, Bihar LJP leader Hula Pandey rejected the claim. “We have always seen that whoever we support goes on to form the government in Bihar. Since there is no one left to help Congress, they are thinking that if Ram Vilas ji goes with them, they can form the government. They (Congress) are just daydreaming,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejashwi-as-cm-face-allies-unsure/story-D22ssJu9aLj6vUCf16wIgJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey’s house demolished||Officials on Saturday razed the house of a dreaded criminal whose accomplices have shot dead eight policemen and suspended a sub-inspector who is under the scanner after the failed raid in a village in Kanpur Dehat district.For the demolition drive, the Kanpur district administration used the same earthmover machine that criminals used to block police vehicles arriving Bikru village, 45km from the district headquarters, on Thursday night for a raid against gangster Vikas Dubey, 48.Dubey’s men sprayed a volley of bullets on the policemen from the roofs of his house and structures nearby after they got off their vehicles, killing a deputy superintendent, three sub-inspectors and four constables in an ambush that the police said termed a “well-planned conspiracy”. The criminals looted their weapons and escaped in the dark.Kanpur inspector general Mohit Agarwal said the fortified one-storey house, built in 2013 over four bighas in the middle of the village, was a “hub of criminals”. The palatial house had a 12-foot boundary wall protected by barbed wire.“Most of the villagers have said that he [Dubey] grabbed people’s land using muscle power, and built his house. He used to extort money from people,” Agarwal said. He said the police were gathering details of Dubey’s other properties, including benami ones. “Dubey will be arrested soon,” Agarwal added.Two SUVs parked in Dubey’s garage were taken out and destroyed along with two tractors parked in the courtyard. The demolition began early morning amidst heavy police presence.Dubey’s father, Ram Kumar, was living in the house. He was taken to Lucknow. Dubey used to stay on the second floor, which has four rooms.Dubey’s wife she lives in Gomti Nagar, Lucknow, with their younger son. The elder son is studying in the UK.After the shootout, Dubey could have taken away the digital video recorder (DVR), which stored the feed from CCTV cameras installed at his house, according to officials.He used CCTVs to keep a watch up to the main road that leads to his house. During a search of his house on Friday, police investigators could not find the DVR.The police were also investigating as to who snapped the power supply to the village when the police reached for a raid. An official said there was a total blackout at the time.In a related development, officials probing the case questioned Chaubeypur station officer (SO) Vinay Tiwari for nine hours. He was later suspended and shifted to Lucknow.Chaubeypur, about 14km from Bikru, is the place where an attempt to murder case was registered against Dubey on Wednesday by a villager. The team that went to raid Dubey’s village past Thursday midnight set off from the police station in Chaubeypur.“In view of the allegations levelled against the SO, he has been suspended, and all the allegations are being thoroughly looked into. If his involvement or that of any other personnel of the police is found in this incident, then they will be sacked from the department, and also sent to jail,” Agarwal said at Chaubeypur police station.He did not specify on the allegations against Tiwari.Officials said the criminals used the weapons snatched from the policemen to fire at them. A police spokesperson said the weapons snatched in Bikru included an AK-47 rifle, an INSAS rifle, a Glock pistol and two .9mm pistols.Doctors took out AK-47 cartridges from the body of a constable, according to the post-mortem report. The doctors also retrieved pieces of .315 and .312 bore bullets, which were fired from rifles and single or double barrel guns, the police said.The maximum seven bullets hit a sub-inspector, the forensic experts said.Deputy superintendent Devendra Mishra was shot in the head, chest and legs from close range as doctors found carbon deposits around the wounds, said officials who are part of the investigation.Superintendent of police, rural, Brajesh Shrivastava said the bullets and their pieces recovered during the autopsy were being sent for forensic analysis.About 25 police teams have spread out across Uttar Pradesh and other states to apprehend Dubey, who is facing 60 criminal cases, and his associates, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-gangster-s-house-demolished/story-ruwgIfK6QoPl6AjRAkhnNN.html
05-07-2020||India||Drunk cop’s car hits a woman, runs her over trying to escape||Two separate cases of road accidents caused by alleged drunk drivers, including a Delhi Police sub-inspector, were reported from east Delhi’s Ghazipur and Chilla village. Both the accidents resulted in two women being injured. In both cases, the two women were hit and dragged under the cars for a few metres by the errant drivers. Both the drivers were caught by locals at the spot. While one of the women was discharged, the other woman, a 60-year-old hit by the police officer’s car, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Her condition is serious, senior police officers said. The footage of the accident was captured on a CCTV camera and widely circulated on social media.The first accident took place around 6.30pm in a narrow lane in Chilla village near Mayur Vihar. The video footage shows a woman falling on the car’s bonnet and then on the ground. Around the same time, she gets stuck between a motorcycle on the opposite lane and the car. As passersby try to rescue her, the car driver is seen trying to flee the spot and ends up dragging the woman under his car for a few metres before coming to a halt. The police identified the woman as Hajiran, 55.“My mother-in-law had gone to buy vegetables when the accident took place barely 50 metres away from our house. Despite being crushed and dragged under the car, she was not very injured. She was admitted to Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital and discharged last night itself. She is fine now,” Hajiran’s son-in-law Wasim said.Deputy Commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said the driver Bhanu Pratap, a water supplier, was arrested. His medical report confirmed that he was driving under the influence of alcohol. Pratap was later released on bail, he said. In the second accident, the police said Noor Jahan,60, was sitting on a chair outside her home in Ghazipur Dairy Farm when an allegedly speeding car driven by an inebriated sub-inspector hit her around 7.15pm on Friday.The woman was dragged for a few metres under the Swift Dzire car, the woman’s son Illiyas stated in the police complaint.“I was standing close to my mother along with some neighbours when the speeding car hit and dragged her. We stopped the car and pulled my mother from under the car after lifting it. The car driver misbehaved with us and abused us when we asked his name,” Illiyas stated.DCP Singh said that the car driver was a sub-inspector(SI) posted to the Delhi Police’s police control room (PCR) unit. “SI Joginder Kumar was off-duty and on his way home in Ghazipur when the accident took place. His medical report confirmed he was inebriated at the time of the accident. We registered a case and arrested him,” the DCP said, adding the injured woman’s condition is being monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cop-among-two-held-for-drink-driving-accidents/story-TQvij3tiD3hAMPlyTZolVM.html
05-07-2020||India||Since May 15, lightning strikes have killed 315 in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar||Weather conditions that are forming certain kinds of clouds and bountiful rains in the region that are encouraging paddy farmers to be out in the field planting the crop have together resulted in a quiet tragedy in east Uttar Pradesh and Bihar that has gone almost unnoticed during the Covid-19 crisis -- death from lightning strikes. There were 26 deaths on Thursday in Bihar alone from such strikes (or flashes as they are called scientifically). On Friday, 15 people were killed in lightning strikes in different districts of the state. Another 21 people lost their lives and over 40 were injured due to lightning amid heavy rain and thunderstorms in seven districts of Bihar on Saturday. And at least 253 more people have lost their lives to lightning strikes and 49 have been injured in the past one and half months with 90% of the deaths recorded in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, according to data from the National Disaster Management Authority. The injured are undergoing treatment in local hospitals. Most of the casualties are farmers and labourers who were doing agriculture-related work in fields. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has expressed grief over the loss of lives. He has announced an ex-gratia of four lakh rupees each to the next of the kin of the deceased. Kumar has ordered free treatment of injured persons.Also read: Lightning strikes, takes 21 more lives in Bihar, CM asks people to stay indoorsA mix of meteorological and behavioural factors are leading to a very high number of deaths in Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh this year, say India Meteorological Department scientists. Every year at least 2000 to 3000 deaths in India occur due to lightning strikes and torrential rains in India. But this year there is a lot of convective or thunder cloud formation in the region along with extremely heavy and widespread rains, unusual for June. Bihar has received 66% excess rains from June 1 to July 2 with 77% excess rains in the week of June 24 to July 1. East Uttar Pradesh received 72% excess rains in the same period with 79% excess only in June 24 to July 1 week.The convective clouds result in lightning of the cloud to ground type (the rarest form of lightning according to scientists, and also the one that does the most damage). “There is a lot of convective activity there because the monsoon trough was passing near the Himalayan foothills and now there is a cyclonic circulation over east UP. Cloud to ground lightning (the kind which usually causes damage) is nothing but current passing from cloud to ground. Such discharge happens when certain kinds of convective clouds form. These clouds may be forming over east UP and Bihar the most now because of surface heating and weather systems bringing intense rain there. But we have to see if people in these states are taking adequate precautions against electrocution,” said DS Pai, senior scientist, IMD Pune.That may not be happening. Other scientists say that intense rains have led to more farmers being out in the field making the most of the monsoon for their paddy crop.Also read| Severe lightning strikes likely in Jharkhand on July 4, 5: State govt“This year the number of lightning incidents and lightning deaths is more frequent over Bihar and eastern UP because the region is seeing intense monsoon rain quite early in the monsoon in June. In previous years this region usually didn’t receive such rains in June. Because of good rainfall this year in June, farmers are out in the field farming. Paddy field water also attracts electricity and farmers on the field act as conductors of electricity from the thunderstorm,” explained Sunitha Devi, member of Ministry of Earth Sciences’ thunderstorm working group.In 2018, at least 100 people died due to thunder squalls in west UP, Rajasthan and Haryana following which the ministry of earth sciences formed a working group that developed a model to assess how many lightning flashes may occur and how strong the wind is likely to be during thunderstorms.IMD’s working group can forecast approaching thunderstorms two to three days in advance but cannot pinpoint the location of lightning strikes that much ahead of time; its nowcast feature predicts the location of lightning and thunder about 3 hours in advance.“Thunderstorms occur in different parts of the country. Marathwada for example is known to record the highest number of fatalities. Fatalities are not high in the pre monsoon months of April- May -- a major season for thunderstorm and lightning -- probably because people are not working on their fields. Lightning severity is more over Bihar and adjoining Uttar Pradesh due to the presence of humid air topped with comparatively drier air in the mid and upper levels, aiding more tall clouds. Over peninsular region and north east India, moisture depth and content being higher, clouds will start raining out, before growing tall. The lightning severity from such clouds are less,” added Sunitha Devi.Such tall clouds are prone to cause lightning strikes or flashes, another expert explained. “In monsoon season hydrometeoric (water or ice particles) concentration is more so there is more charge build up. If it’s a very tall cloud then charge neutralisation happens within the cloud also called intra cloud lightning. If cloud height is tall but not extremely tall there is more charge separation and cloud to ground lightning.Kharif crops are planted in this season. Paddy field acts as ionic fluid and many farmers get electrocuted at once,” said Soma Sen Roy, also from the working group.According to a paper titled “The major lightning regions and associated casualties over India” published in Springer Nature in February, the maximum casualties are reported in Madhya Pradesh (313 deaths), Maharashtra (281 deaths) and Orissa (255 deaths) on an average every year. On Saturday, IMD warned that intense thunderstorms and lightning are likely over south-east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, east Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, east Vidarbha and Odisha during the following 12 hours.Due to the convergence of strong moist westerly and southwesterly winds from the Arabian sea along the west coast and a cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat and its neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels, fairly widespread to widespread and very heavy rain is most likely over Gujarat during the next 4 to 5 days and over Konkan and Goa during the next 2 days. Some extremely heavy rainfall is also very likely over Konkan during the next 24 hours; over Gujarat during July 4 to 6 and Saurashtra and Kutch during next 4 days, IMD said in an alert on Saturday.(with inputs from Avinash Kumar from Patna)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/since-may-15-lightning-strikes-have-killed-315-in-up-and-bihar/story-s6IV2iiSCxnFte4NQTgV9L.html
05-07-2020||India||Defence projects may be exempt from green nod||The Centre is considering removing defence projects from the Union environment ministry’s purview, officials aware of the matter said. This means such projects like building of roads in areas of strategic importance will not be appraised for their environmental impact and will no longer require environmental and forest clearances if a proposal to the effect is accepted, they added.Projects of strategic importance currently need prior environmental and forest clearances although their details are not put in the public domain because of security concerns. The details of regular projects are publicised and people are allowed to submit their feedback. Public hearings are also held for people affected by such projects to get an opportunity to understand them and give their consent.R P Gupta, the environment ministry secretary, underlined there is no formal policy yet and the idea of exempting defence projects from prior clearances is at a conceptual stage. “We are waiting for a formal decision. All defence projects will be covered. The feeling in some quarters is that information on strategic projects should not get into the public domain,” said Gupta.Also Read: Defence Ministry approves purchase of 33 new fighter jets including 21 MiG-29s from RussiaThe proposal comes even as India is seeking to reinforce its border infrastructure , particularly along the frontier with China. This infrastructure development is seen to be among the reasons for recent tensions with China, which escalated when 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash with Chinese troopers in Ladakh on June 15. “The new guidelines are in draft stage...,” said a defence ministry spokesperson, without offering more details.Environmental activists are concerned that a policy of exempting defence projects from green clearances could lead to environmental degradation in ecologically fragile and biodiversity-rich border areas mainly in the Eastern and Western Himalayas. They say it means defence projects along disaster-prone areas, coasts, dense forests in Arunachal Pradesh and Kashmir will not be scrutinised.Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher with New Delhi’s Centre for Policy Research, said this will send out signals that sectors like mining or highways can argue their way out of environmental scrutiny citing strategic or national interest. “There are already minimal public disclosures of the environmental scrutiny of defence projects. This decision would mean ecological expertise will not be a part of safeguarding critical defence infrastructure including naval bases or high altitude stations located in biodiverse habitat.”Also Read: Assured by Russia of speedy completion of defence contracts, says Rajnath SinghActivists also cite the example of the 880-km Chardham all-weather highway for the pilgrimage to four religious sites in Uttarakhand. As per the Border Roads Organisation’s submission to the National Green Tribunal in 2018, the highway is of “strategic importance” even as it covers areas that are extremely fragile and prone to landslides.Citizens of Green Doon (CGD), a civil society organisation, moved NGT in 2018 saying the highway has not undergone an environmental impact assessment (EIA) and pleaded that its cumulative impact be assessed first.The environment ministry, in its response to the organisation’s petition, submitted that only new national highways and expansion of those longer than 100 km need to get prior environmental clearance. The highway has been broken into several parts, each shorter than 100 km. NGT formed an expert panel for a rapid EIA and to come up with an environmental management plan after studying issues like slope stabilisation and disaster management. Unhappy with the panel’s terms of reference, CGD moved the Supreme Court last year.The Supreme Court in August 2019 formed another high-powered committee with representatives from ministries of defence and environment as well as the Wildlife Institute of India. The committee was asked to do a cumulative EIA of the highway and consider whether revision of the project is needed to minimise its adverse impact on the environment. The committee is yet to submit its report.Mallika Bhanot, a member of Uttarakhand-based Ganga Ahvaan, a civil society organisation, said the Chardham project entails road widening along fragile Himalayan stretches in violation of the Union road transport ministry’s 2018 circular, which proposed narrow roads in the hills to prevent extensive environmental damage. According to Bhanot, the construction is underway and some slope cutting was done recently even after the Supreme Court’s high powered committee took charge.“A small section of the highway, under this project comes in the vicinity of border roads. Thus it is important to make roads that are safe for the movement of pilgrims and for the military too.”Bhanot said since the road widening has started, tree felling, slope instability; have activated several landslides along the Chardham route and created fatal bottlenecks. “Such a road thus will be unsafe for movement, disastrous in future and counterproductive to border security.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-projects-may-be-exempt-from-green-nod/story-uXefbXOEP28YxNbB7LTsrO.html
05-07-2020||India||On Leh visit, PM Modi’s 15-minute conversation with 14 Corps commander||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a 15 minute one-to-one conversation with XIV Corps Commander Lt General Harinder Singh at the force’s Nimu Headquarters outside Leh on Friday, even as India has decided it will closely monitor the promised disengagement and withdrawal of the Chinese PLA from East Ladakh for the next 10 days before deciding on any further action.Military commanders and government officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that China’s public posture on a withdrawal isn’t playing out on the ground, with the PLA’s rear positions on the Galwan bank have been flooded due to sharp rise in river water levels. “We have satellite and drone imagery to show that Chinese PLA tents five kilometres in depth have been flooded by the icy rising waters of the Galwan. With snow melting at a rapid pace, any position on the river bank is dangerous. Even though China is engaging in more public posturing on the withdrawal, the current PLA positions in Galwan, Gogra, Hot Springs and Pangong Tso are untenable in the long run,” said a senior military commander.With the Indian Army deployed in full strength all along the LAC in East Ladakh, the Indian Navy’s steel patrol boats will be introduced for defence of Pangong Tso by next Wednesday. The top of the patrol boats are being cut so that they can be transported from Mumbai in a C-17 heavy transporter to Leh for deployment. The steel boats with gun mounts are being introduced to match the PLA’s heavy patrol boats, which were used by China to capture the fingers on the north bank of the salt water lake.Also read| ‘Malicious, unsubstantiated’: Indian Army on reports of PM Modi’s ‘fake hospital visit’With three senior military commander level meetings and two senior diplomatic level parleys between India and China, the next 10 days are critical -- it is expected that during this period , PLA will start to withdraw from the contested positions and restore status quo ante.Sitting under camouflage netting at Nimu with artillery and anti aircraft guns deployed, PM Modi was briefed in full about PLA’s operational deployment and the status of the four contested points by Northern Army commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi. The PM then had a one-on-one conversation with Gen Harinder Singh, giving the latter clear cut instructions.“India will not initiate any military operation on its own but will stand up PLA and retaliate to any move from the Chinese side all along the 3488 km line of actual control. Our troops are in far better position in East Ladakh and we will wait for full PLA withdrawal , not just symbolic removal of some vehicles and troopers ,” said a senior official.During PM Modi’s visit, the entire military brass, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Rawat, Army Chief Gen Manoj Naravane , Gen Joshi and Gen Singh discussed the Ladakh situation threadbare. They were told that there should be let up in upgrading border infrastructure, right up to the Depsang Plains and Daulet Beg Oldi (DBO).Also read| Indo-China stand-off: Global support for India growsThe PM has no words of criticism for the Indian Army, Air Force or ITBP, but only pumped up the troopers with wholesome praise and the promise of full backing, said another senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lt-gen-singh-discuss-lac-stand-off/story-PuZ96zdkDon3gZTbsYXIiM.html
05-07-2020||India||Aspersions about how our personnel are treated are unfortunate: Indian Army||The Army on Saturday said “malicious and unsubstantiated” accusations were made in some quarters regarding the status of the facility visited by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to the General Hospital at Leh on Friday.In a statement, the public relations officer (defence) said, “It is unfortunate that aspersions are being cast on how our brave Armed Forces are treated. The Armed Forces give the best possible treatment to their personnel.”The statement comes in the wake of comments made on social media platforms, which raised questions about the facility. The comments questioned why there was no medical equipment visible in the pictures that were shared. Some even suggested that the beds were put up in a conference room. Modi on Friday made a surprise visit to Leh in Ladakh, where India and Chinese forces were involved in a face-off on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. After addressing the soldiers, Modi also interacted with those recuperating at the medical centre.“It is clarified that the said facility is part of the Crisis Expansion capacity of 100 beds and is very much part of the General Hospital complex. The Covid-19 protocol had necessitated some wards of the General Hospital to be converted into isolation facilities. Hence, this hall which otherwise was normally used as a Training Audio Video Hall was converted into a ward ever since the hospital was also designated as Covid treatment hospital,” the statement said.The army also clarified that the injured soldiers were kept there since their arrival from the Galwan Valley, the scene of the June 15 clash, to ensure quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aspersions-about-how-our-personnel-are-treated-are-unfortunate-army/story-DInKXUSTohL4aL3iBzAWKM.html
05-07-2020||India||Lucknow girl’s encounter with Gordon Ramsay!||Producer-writer Noopur Sinha is surely going places. Her latest TV show, ‘Gordon Ramsay: Uncharted,’ saw her work closely with the popular British chef. As the creative producer of the show, which was extensively shot in India earlier this year, Noopur is super thrilled with the final product, “I never thought I would go halfway around the world, and then return to my own country to shoot with the most celebrated chef! We shot India based episodes at gorgeous coastal region of Kannur and in a coffee estate in Coorg in January, this year. I must say that Gordon love India and local food and he is an expert at making it, so the challenge for us was to introduce him to Indian food he wasn’t familiar with,” said the Lucknowite over the phone from Los Angles, US.Talking more about her experience of shooting with him in India she said, “We took him to the land of spices, Kerala, so he could know more about the 3000-year history of Indian spices that make our food so complex and delicious. It was fun to see Gordon sample extremely spicy food — his British palate couldn’t handle our Indian spices!”Gordon learnt to make black ‘pandi’ (pork) curry and was given the challenge of harvesting dangerous fire ants to make the tribal ant chutney of the region, she adds.Noopur’s first encounter with the Michelin star chef happened in Durban, South Africa. “He’s older than most of the team members but we have a tough time keeping up with him! He’s always up for any crazy adventure — he jumped out of helicopters, eaten a tarantula spider, done bull-racing and many more crazy activities on our show. I remember, a hippopotamus was swimming in the lake just 20 feet away from us…and the hippo even charged at us! We all thankfully survived.”The rich art and culture of Lucknow inspired Noopur to film making and she started her career with the singing reality show Saregamapa and then produced food shows with chefs like Ajay Chopra and Ranveer Brar. “I’ve produced a variety of content - digital series, TV, short films etc - while working in Hollywood/ Los Angeles. Currently, I’m involved as festival producer for the prestigious Indian Film Festival of Los Angeles that brings the best of Indian independent cinema to a wider global audience.”Her first feature film ‘Shoebox’ which she co-wrote with Faraz Ali (director) was 25 ‘Film Bazaar Recommends’ films at the NFDC Film Bazaar organised in Goa. “I am also the executive producer of the film and we’re currently finishing the film to premiere it at international film festivals. The story is close to my heart and is based on many of my childhood experiences in Lucknow, even though we shot the film and based it in Allahabad (now Prayagraj),” she said. As the shoot is set resume she is all geared up, “Due to Covid spread, we had to halt our shooting midway through the season, but thankfully we have been given permission to shoot again! We are now shooting more episodes in Europe this month, and then more in US, Caribbean, South East Asia and others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow-girl-s-encounter-with-gordan-ramsay/story-mNfbqEtaqcEFJf7MgyrOLO.html
05-07-2020||India||Rajasthan police officer booked for seeking Rs 2 crore bribe, another top cop in crosshairs||Rajasthan’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) booked an additional superintendent of police from the special operation group, Satpal Midha for allegedly demanding Rs 2 crore as bribe on behalf of additional director general of police (ADGP), SOG-ATS, Anil Paliwal from an official of credit cooperative society, in lieu of settling a case, officials said on Saturday.“In the beginning of June, the victim had approached the ACB and filed a complaint that Midha and his few other colleagues were demanding Rs two crore for not registering an FIR against the complainant in a case of cheating,” said Saurabh Srivastava, ADG, ACB.An investor had filed a complaint with the SOG against the victim’s cooperative society two months ago, alleging he was duped into depositing Rs 25,000 in the co-operative society.“The complaint was being investigated by Midha. In June, the accused addl SP demanded Rs 2 crore as a bribe on behalf of ADGP Paliwal,” added Srivastava.Srivastava further said that between June 2 and June 30, the accused and his subordinates made the victim meet a person in Tammanah towers, located in Vaishali Nagar area of the city, introducing him as Anil Paliwal. Interestingly, there are eight to ten shops in the building owned by people with the surname Paliwal.In second major restructuring in 2 days, Rajasthan reshuffles 66 IPS officersSrivastava said the victim expressed his inability to pay the hefty amount demanded and finally approached the ACB, following which an investigation was launched into the case and evidence against Midha obtained.He added that a case was lodged against Midha under section 7 (public servant, attempts to obtain bribe from any person) and 7A (for himself or for any other person) of Prevention of Corruption Act and section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.Three more die of Covid-19 in Rajasthan; state reports 204 new casesOfficials privy to developments claimed that the accused police officer and his subordinates are likely to be called for questioning by the ACB before proceeding further.Addl SP Midha and ADGP Paliwal didn’t respond to requests for a comment.Midha, had in the past, handled high-profile economic fraud cases. He was the investigation officer for Adrash Credit and Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society fraud cases.Interestingly, Paliwal was made ADGP personnel in the mass reshuffle carried out in the police department two days ago. He was replaced by Ashok Rathore and Midha was transferred to Rajasthan armed constabulary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-police-officer-booked-for-seeking-rs-2-crore-bribe-another-top-cop-in-crosshairs/story-DSqncfqceRPgde7QqLcNGO.html
05-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand residents will be allowed to visit Char Dham shrines from July 1||Almost a month after allowing only locals from nearby the Char Dham shrines to visit the temples, the Uttarakhand government on Monday decided to allow pilgrims from all the districts in the state to visit the shrines from July 1.Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said that people from across the state will be allowed to visit the shrines following certain guidelines. However, anyone staying in a containment zone or buffer zone will not be allowed to enter any of the shrine premises. Anyone with symptoms similar to Covid-19 will not be allowed to undertake the yatra.“The residents of Uttarakhand are being permitted to visit the shrines right now, but again they all have to follow the guidelines and standard operating procedures issued by the state and Central government so far. There might be people who are residents of Uttarakhand but have travelled from outside the state and they are supposed to observe the mandatory quarantine period,” said Raman.He said that those who want to visit the shrines will first have to get themselves enrolled on the website of the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, https://badrinath-kedarnath.gov.in.“After enrolment, those who want to visit the shrine will have to give a self-declaration, details like when they would start the yatra, submit an address and photo ID proof. After this an auto-generated e-pass will be given which the pilgrims should carry with themselves along with the address and photo ID proof submitted earlier, only then will police and respective district administration allow them to enter,” added Raman. The pass will be valid for two-days.The guidelines further mention that pilgrims will be allowed an overnight stay of only one night in the area where the shrine is situated, However, in the condition of a disaster, roadblock or health concern the time period can be increased. People who own or work at restaurants, hotels, guest houses near the shrine premises can take special permission from the district administration and stay for longer periods.Those above 65 years of age and below 10 years of age will not be allowed to undertake yatra. It is mandatory to wear masks, use hand sanitiser and follow social distancing in the shrine premises. Keeping in view the health safety concerns of the priests and others working at the shrines, pilgrims will not be allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum of the shrines.Pilgrims will mandatorily have to wash their hands and feet before entering the shrine and any offering brought from outside the shrine will not be allowed. Pilgrims have also been advised to not touch any idol while visiting the temples.In an order on June 9, the state government had capped the number of pilgrims allowed at the shrines till June 30 to a maximum of 1,200 pilgrims per day for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for the Yamunotri shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-residents-will-be-allowed-to-visit-char-dham-shrines-from-july-1/story-jpkhA0BSZ6OelVvs1LtFlN.html
05-07-2020||Today's||To change the ground realities, first fix the civil services | Opinion||These are difficult times for humanity across the globe. The coronavirus pandemic has changed the way things worked. Nobody knows for certain what will be the new normal. Even those countries who could avoid the spread of virus in their population, are witnessing economic distress due to the changing scenario globally. India, on the other hand, faces multidimensional challenges due to the rapid spread of coronavirus, the resultant economic downturn, rising unemployment and an expansionist China. These challenges have come at a time when we were already witnessing the phenomenon of slowing economic growth. These challenges are not insurmountable and will have to be faced with the coordinated effort of all organs of the state.In a democracy, the political party in power does have the people’s mandate to rule according to the Constitution but the permanent bureaucracy and such other institutions, particularly at the higher levels cannot absolve themselves of the responsibility of ensuring that the nation is run honestly, efficiently and in a just manner. Change in the colour of the ruling dispensation should not make any difference to their defined role of providing honest and efficient governance. For this to happen, the bureaucracy needs to be led by people of courage, integrity and selfless motives.Over several decades, due to various reasons such as political interference, caste affiliations, groupism and growing corruption, merit and integrity were often given a go by. The system slowly forgot the concept of removing the weeds from the garden and the result is in front of us. It became the norm that everyone will not only survive but also move up the ladder on the basis of seniority irrespective of their merit and integrity. This has cost the nation dearly. Nothing would get done on its own without recommendation or a bribe. Implementation of various governmental policies and delivery of the schemes launched by governments for the welfare of common people became the biggest casualty. People lost faith in any governmental initiative to change the status quo as they became convinced that the situation would not change. Undoubtedly, India as a country, cannot go far unless the work culture in all the organs of the government changes for the better. For that to happen, political will is a must. Those serving in the top echelons of government will have to change their culture of focusing only on their self interest and survival.History has many lessons for a nation aspiring for its due place in the comity of nations, the foremost being choosing fearless, honest, meritorious and capable people to leadership positions in the governance structure. Selfish, incompetent and corrupt advisers have always lead to the downfall of the strongest kingdoms in the past and any country following this pathway will meet the same fate. An illiterate 13-year-old Akbar went on to become one of the greatest rulers only because he had illustrious ‘navratnas’ to advise and guide him. History is replete with such examples. Chandragupta Maurya is another.Today’s permanent bureaucracy has to understand its responsibility towards this great nation and act in the best interest of people at large. The Indian Constitution has already provided them ample job security and in my long association with civil services, I am yet to find a single, honest and well-meaning officer having had to lose his job or suffer permanent damage for performing his duties honestly. So during these trying times, all the organs of government, be it bureaucracy, judiciary, armed forces, corporations, and all the private enterprises, businesses, and others will have to work to their potential to counter the adversity facing the nation.It is expected that the political leadership will provide a conducive atmosphere to allow the hardworking, meritorious and honest to reach leadership positions. Seniority may be one criterion to select people but to treat it as the sole criterion at the cost of merit and integrity has already caused enough damage to our administrative ethos. Similarly, short tenures at any position and particularly at the top has hindered the decision-making process and has allowed people to easily evade responsibility. This is not only true for functional and decision-making levels in the administrative structure but also for the armed forces who have the most onerous task of keeping the unity and integrity of our nation intact.All nations have an equal potential to rise and become strong. It is political and administrative leadership which determines the future - prosperity or doom. As the famous French philosopher Sartre succinctly stated “ We are our Choices”. (VS Pandey is a former IAS officer. He retired as secretary, department of fertilisers in the Government of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-change-the-ground-realities-first-fix-the-civil-services-opinion/story-9MW3kLXNp4L9Onrj3vL92I.html
05-07-2020||Editorials||The urgency of defence reforms | HT Editorial||India scrambling to buy weapons, from fighters to ammunition, on an emergency basis during a military crisis has become a familiar sight. India is fast-tracking the purchase of equipment worth ₹400 billion from foreign and domestic suppliers. This is largely about signalling determination in light of the military confrontation with China, but also the partial mobilisation by the Pakistani army. Many of these projects have simply been fast-tracked. Some purchases are designed to provide a financial fillip to domestic Indian defence manufacturers severely stressed by the recession. Unfortunately, that these sort of emergency buys also took place during the Pulwama crisis and the earlier Doklam stand-off points to gaps in the country’s defence equipment and the planning.Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s defence policy has been inward-looking. The defence budget has been squeezed, in part to rid the military structure of the considerable flab it has accumulated. There has been an overwhelming emphasis on indigenous defence manufacturing, especially through the private sector. There has been a much-needed cleansing and streamlining of the arms procurement process. The past six years have seen a dizzying array of committees and reports on military reform. All of this is laudable, necessary and will pay dividends in the future. But this has also meant fewer weapons and more inferior ones being bought. The backdrop to all of this has been an assumption that India’s strategic environment is relatively stable. Pakistan is around, but less a threat than an irritant. The big gamble was that India and China had reached a state of competitive equilibrium. Under present circumstances, this assumption no longer holds true. India’s defence reforms should continue. It remains an absurdity that a great power in the making has to import assault rifles. The lack of battlefield networking simply because of a desire to keep different foreign vendors happy is not working either. In the Balakot strike, India lost a fighter because it lacked a secure data link. It was China that used drones with lethal effect in the Galwan Valley. The deep-seated resistance to the massive expansion of smart weapons, unmanned aerial vehicles and greater investment in cyber-offensive capabilities needs to be overcome, and quickly. The world is becoming an increasingly unsafe place and that means security must reassume priority over shaking things up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-urgency-of-defence-reforms/story-9vO9mPXc4758EFD2tbYRlL.html
