06-07-2020||News||Time to revive democracy in Jammu and Kashmir | Opinion||August 5 will mark a year since Article 370 was effectively nullified, the state of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) was divided into two separate units, and both units — J&K and Ladakh — were made union territories (UTs). In light of the current domestic and external situation, it is time to review the policy approach towards J&K.It is important to, first, recognise a paradox of the Kashmir policy. While everyone agrees that Kashmir is a political issue, which needs to be dealt with politically, the government’s efforts, to achieve peace and tranquility, have been centred on reducing Pakistani influence in social and political Kashmiri life.There is, indeed, a strong section, particularly those loyal to the Jamaat-e-Islami, which believes that the state should have been part of Pakistan since 1948. But, in contrast, the majority in J&K believe that integration with India was the correct decision. The National Conference (NC), which has ruled the state for the longest period after accession, despite the usual political ups and downs, accepted the Indian Constitution and its democratic institutions — Supreme Court, Parliament, Election Commission, among others.In this backdrop of the overall acceptance of the Indian State, Article 370 — focusing on exclusivity in certain spheres — played the role of assuaging the emotions of the state’s leaders and its people. Its nullification undermined the emotional connect. But that, too, was palatable: It was losing statehood that was considered unacceptable by the majority of J&K’s polity.At a time when China is flexing its muscles in eastern Ladakh and is understood to want Pakistan to increase terrorist activities across the border, it is time to focus sharply on finding a political mechanism in J&K.As the national polity gears up for elections in other parts of the country, there is no reason that people of J&K should be excluded from the political arena. The government’s core objective now in J&K has to be to restore democracy and hold elections. This, in turn, will require a three-step approach.The first task is convincing mainstream political leaders in J&K to participate in elections. Credible interlocutors from the Centre will be needed for each party — the NC, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), as well as the Congress — to persuade them to join the electoral process. Only this will make it legitimate and representative. Managing these elections, just like panchayat elections were “managed”, simply will not work.It is instructive to go back to the past in this regard. In 1996, elections were conducted in the state after extended periods of President Rule. There was a recognition that without the participation of a regional party, there would be questions about its legitimacy. Despite his initial reluctance, Farooq Abdullah consented to participate in polls. Attempts to form a second regional party failed before the polls. The NC, under Abdullah, won comfortably. A boycott call by Hurriyat, and fear of militants, kept the voter turnout low in the Kashmir Valley and upper regions of Jammu, north of Chenab, but the other regions saw a high turnout.But in subsequent elections, the turnout increased. By 2002, a second regional party — the PDP — took shape. The PDP, on two occasions, came to power — once in alliance with Congress (2002), and then in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2014.There is also, now, a third political front of Altaf Bukhari and Ghulam Hassan Mir. This new party, perceived to be close to the Centre, also acknowledges that to have legitimacy, elections must have the participation of NC and PDP.Whether NC and PDP agree to participate in elections in a UT, or whether they insist on restoration of statehood as a precondition, will have to be carefully examined. The NC and PDP leadership will initially show some hesitation in participating in UT elections — but nothing will be lost if statehood to J&K is restored, while keeping Ladakh as a separate UT. Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself has kept the door open for this.This, then, requires the second step. All mainstream political prisoners, without any prejudice, must be released immediately. The government may also want to consider releasing leaders of moderate secessionist parties who have earlier shown some inclination to participate in elections.The third step is security planning. To be sure, Pakistan will try to create trouble. It has closely noted the loss of local militant cadres of Hizbul-Mujahideen and even foreign militants of Jaish-e-Mohammed in the last six months. There is a deliberate move to exaggerate the possible impact of Al Badr — a small group picked, trained and controlled by the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), which also includes ex-Pakistan army soldiers — to offset the low morale in the militant camp because of other losses, and infuse a sense of fear. While the J&K police is perfectly capable of taking it on, security forces should account for it in planning actions against terrorist groups. They will also have to be prepared for the infiltration of fresh cadres of the Pakistan army, infused with extremist fervour, before passes close this winter. The new security matrix — where Pakistan will seek to synchronise its offensive along with China — will also have to be taken into consideration, but the Indian Army is capable of taking them on in this theatre.The people of J&K would like normalcy to return, in the real sense of the term. They would like business, especially the travel industry, hit by both the developments of the past year and the Covid-19 pandemic, to revive. Also, they would like to be part of the Indian State not only physically, but emotionally. They would like to exercise all the democratic rights enjoyed by citizens elsewhere, and elect their own representatives. The time is now ripe to announce the elections in the state — to be held along with elections in Bihar, later this year. This will be the best gift to J&K as the one year anniversary of the constitutional changes approaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/time-to-revive-democracy-in-jammu-and-kashmir-opinion/story-UxfbHRUX60Xn5XnPoDpfkL.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government launches job portal for sons of soil||The Maharashtra government has initiated an industrial employment bureau that will help in providing jobs to the unemployed youths of the state. The bureau will also fulfil the labour requirements of the industries. The job seeker and the employer both can register and meet their requirements on the portal mahajobs.maharashtra.gov.in. The state government has incorporated 950 professions from 17 sectors in the portal. The portal was launched by the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday.The state, however, has put a condition that the person seeking employment with the help of the bureau should be a domicile. “The portal will bridge the gap between the employers and local skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers and ensure jobs to everyone,” the chief minister said after launching the portal.“Our aim is to end unemployment in the state. The portal is an employment bureau that will provide workforce to the industries. This is being done, bringing both the job seeker and the employer on a common platform,” said state industries minister Subhash Desai.Those who are in need of a job will have to apply on the portal. They also won’t have to wait forever. The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) will ensure that they will be employed based on the credentials, the industries minister said.“A person looking for a job will have to register on the portal by sharing details such as education, training if taken any, diploma etc. At the same time, companies can also place their requirement by giving details on the job openings. The in-house software developed by the information technology department will match the requirement and the company will be informed about the workforce available as per their requirement,” said P Anbalagan, chief executive officer (CEO), MIDC.“This will be done with the help of a dedicated cell of the MIDC. Once, intimated the company can start selection process and hire those who will be selected,” he added.The portal has started getting response within hours after being launched. As many as 13,500 job seekers and 150 companies have registered on the portal on Monday.On domicile condition, Desai said that they have a policy for the industries on providing 80% jobs to the locals and the domicile condition will work towards complying the state orders. “We have put only one condition that only those can register on the portal who have been staying in Maharashtra for last 15 years and possesses domicile certificate. This is being done to ensure that locals get the priority,” he said.The state also has plans to provide training to all those wasn’t selected by the company for lack of skills. “In the next stage of the project, we are planning to provide the required skills to the unemployed people who could not get selected by a company because of lack of skills. This will ensure that no one who has applied on the portal will be left without a job,” said a senior official from state industries department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-launches-job-portal-for-sons-of-soil/story-o9gzBEqfqiS4dm8ccetePM.html
06-07-2020||City||31-yr-old who won battle against drugs inspires youngsters to fight for country||Till about two years ago, 31-year-old Gurjit Singh of Bahadurnagar village in Patti sub-division did not have much hope from life. Caught in a vicious cycle of drug addiction and police cases, it seemed he was throwing his promising life away.But the death of his older brother due to drug overdose in 2018 served as an eye-opener. While lighting his pyre, Gurjit pledged to give up drugs.Encouraged by his sister, he went to a drug rehabilitation centre but after coming out, he again got addicted to drugs. But the one-time athlete was not ready to give-up. He started going to the village grounds to take up athletics again. He was soon joined by some other youths and his determination only grew stronger. Gurjit soon started training over 100 youth in athletics.“During my school years, I used to take part in track events. In college, I started participating in national-level games and even won several medals,” Gurjit says, adding that he then started training at the Guru Nanak Stadium in Ludhiana to get into the Indian Army through sports quota.The army dreams were, however, stalled after he got entangled in criminal case. “I was booked under Section 326 (causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons) of the Indian Penal after I took part in a quarrel between two groups. After that, I started mingling with anti-social elements and started drinking alcohol. One day, at a marriage function, I inhaled heroin and got addicted to it. Soon I started taking drugs worth Rs 4000 on a daily basis,” he says.In 2014, he was booked in a drug case and then declared a proclaimed offender. He remained in jail for about a year and a half. 171 ASPIRANTS TRAIN UNDER HIM Having fought his addiction through sports, Gurjit now coaches at least young army and police aspirants in the village. “My aim is to protect the youth of my village from drugs,” says the 31-year-old, who trains around 171 young men and women these days. At least 68 youngsters who trained under him have already got jobs in various security forces, which include 48 in the Indian Army.“It’s a miracle,” says village sarpanch Jaswant Singh. “Gurjit not only won his own battle, he is helping others in their fight too. There were three of four young men in the village who had been addicted to drugs but after training under Gurjit, they too have overcome their addiction.”One of his successful trainees, Mahanbir Singh, 19, of Dall village, says, “It is only due to the great effort of my coach Gurjit Singh that my army dream has been fulfilled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/31-yr-old-who-won-battle-against-drugs-inspires-youngsters-to-fight-for-country/story-avMe5ZcTwG7H7OF7fpb3iM.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||10 CHB allottees win Rs 1,000 each in computerised draw||To encourage online payments, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) on Monday held a computerised draw and gave a reward of Rs 1,000 each to 10 allottees for making online payment, irrespective of the amount paid by them.The draw was held under the supervision of Prem Kaushik, board member, and Jagjit Singh, joint secretary (housing).Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB, said a total of 10 winners got a reward of Rs 1,000 each. Among the winners, the lowest deposited online payment was Rs 118 and the highest was Rs 19,699, he added.Out of the 10 winners, six had deposited an amount less than the prize money. Garg said that the prize money would be credited in the bank accounts of the winners in the next few days.The CHB had recently introduced an online payment facility on its website: www.chbonline.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-chb-allottees-win-rs-1-000-each-in-computerised-draw/story-uhKxSmiUccNoHIpvBe2SlO.html
06-07-2020||Pune||PCMC sees highest single-day spike in Covid positive cases||The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation saw the highest single-day spike with 573 fresh positive Covid-19 cases on Monday.“Now, the antigen detection test is also being carried out at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital. Along with it, every day 250 to 300 tests are conducted in the Covid care bus,” said Dr Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer.In total, 2,656 patients were admitted to the hospital on Monday among which 710 were discharged from the hospital and the reports of 1,392 patients are awaited.Prior to this, 314 was the highest single-day number in PCMC which occurred on July 2.“The number will increase every day but there is nothing to worry. We are conducting quick treatment on all the patients,” said Salve.Along with PCMC hospitals, the Covid care bus has also been active in the industrial city for the last two weeks.“Every day our work continues till 6pm, we are checking 250 patients since the last 15 days. There are 25 members who are actively working in this bus,” said Dr Chaya Shinde of the Covid care bus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-sees-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-positive-cases/story-K0XFhg62PH8vwNqdaNKCwL.html
06-07-2020||Delhi||Door-to-door health survey in Delhi’s Covid-19 containment zones completed||The Delhi government has completed the door-to door health survey in the city’s Covid-19 containment zones, covering around 3.68 lakh people, officials said on Monday.Over 1.66 lakh antigen tests have been conducted in 445 Covid-19 containment zones, according to an official. On June 29, the Union Home Ministry had said that the door-to-door survey would be done in containment zones on priority basis by July 6, followed by a similar exercise across the city. The earlier deadline to complete the door-to-door survey in city’s containment zones was June 30. Under the new rules, authorities have to delineate the containment zones on a micro level, instead of big ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/door-to-door-health-survey-in-delhi-s-covid-19-containment-zones-completed/story-MuL6esbO87jok7rIfeiE7O.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||We received 48,000 complaints, resolved 95%, says Adani CEO||Over the last month, the Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML), the largest power distributor in Mumbai, received 48,000 complaints on inflated power bills. Adani officials, however, said that only 2,111 complaints need a re-validation.In a press conference addressed by the group‘s chief executive officer (CEO) on Monday, AEML said that it had anticipated that there will be complaints about the bills and had also intimidated consumers about it when actual meter-reading began on June 1.Kandarp Patel, CEO, AEML said, “We had intimated consumers via messages and email that there will be an increase in billing later owing to the lockdown and suspension of actual meter-reading. In 2019, we had observed a 33% difference in consumption between the winter and summer months. This year, owing to the lockdown, there has been a 50% difference in consumption.” Patel also said that around 11,300 and 35,120 readings were received from customers in April and May respectively Owing to the lockdown, the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) had asked utilities to suspend meter-reading. For March-May, consumers were being billed on an average of the December, January and February months. Many consumers, including Bollywood actors, took to Twitter to complain about being charged excessively.“95% of the complaints have been addressed and there has not been a single bill which was wrong so far,” said Paresh Chaudhry, group president - corporate brand custodian, Adani Group. The company now has a recovery due of almost ₹750 crore. Almost 6.7 lakh consumers have not paid their bills in the last one month, Patel added. He also said that if consumers were billed as per 2019’s consumption in March, April and May, it would have been better, however, power regulations restrict billing, in such case, to calculate as per the presiding three months.As a measure towards removing human intervention from meter reading, the distributor is also looking at installing seven lakh meters in the city by March 2022. Meanwhile, on Monday, AEML also termed remarks of a Bollywood actor against the group on Twitter as “derogatory and irresponsible”. According to AEML, the actor had recently posted an April 2019 bill to complain of high electricity bills and used derogatory remarks. The actor, however, later deleted the tweet.--||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/we-received-48-000-complaints-resolved-95-says-adani-ceo/story-0bUTlFhihvr5OjJ8AcsEZI.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||As edu dept shuts down after Covid-19 cases, other staff worried about reporting to work||Even as the UT administration’s education department closed down offices on July 5 and on July 6 directed staff to work from home until the workplace was sanitised as nine of its employees tested positive for Covid-19, it was work as usual for other departments in the same building at the UT Secretariat in Sector 9.Several divisions and sub-divisions of the UT engineering department operate from the additional deluxe building where the education department is located and share space on some floors with education staff.The secretariat also has a deluxe (main) buildingExecutive engineers of public health divisions (3 and 8) and their sub-divisions; executive engineers of electrical divisions (1 and 2) and their sub-divisions; and executive engineers of civil divisions (1, 4 and 6) and their sub-divisions also work in the same building.Staff interact constantly with other departmentsBalwinder Singh, president of the Subordinate Services Federation, Chandigarh administration, and Municipal Corporation Employee Union, said, “The staff of both the departments share the same space, and because of this there is constant interaction between them. Work from home directions should be similar for both the departments. The office rooms are small and social distancing norms are harder to practice.”Stating that the union had earlier also requested officials to strictly enforce screening at the entry of the building and ensure social distancing norms, Singh, said, “Even though staff has been stationed at the entry gate for screening of people coming to the building, it is very slack. Both of these are public dealing departments.”Slack screening a matter of concernEmployees at the main UT secretariat building (deluxe), too, criticised the slack screening at entry gates, and crowded office rooms where they said social distancing was not possible.Meanwhile,there was panic at the additional deluxe building as news of more positive cases came in and most of the engineering department staff left early.When contacted, Mukesh Anand, UT chief engineer, said no directions for work from home had been issued to the department staff and offices in the building had not been sealed. “We have asked the office-in-charges to call minimally required personnel. We have also asked them to sit in the deluxe building till sanitisation is undertaken,” said Anand.Concerned over the rising Covid-19 cases in the city, Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore, on Monday, tweeted, “The increase in Covid positive cases in Chandigarh is worrying; stringent steps are being taken to combat the situation inflow of patients without formal reference to PGIMER (Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research)needs to be monitored.” Also during his s interaction with the deputy commissioners of Panchkula and Mohali in Monday’s war room meeting, Badnore urged the neighbouring states to treat patients without severe illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-edu-dept-shuts-down-after-covid-19-cases-other-staff-worried-about-reporting-to-work/story-c8mCc0RQQ4RKCBSiLe6anN.html
06-07-2020||City||Migrant held for rape attempt on toddler in Kharar||The police arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly trying to rape a two-year-old girl. The accused, a native of Uttar Pradesh was working as a labourer in Kharar.The accused was produced before a local court on Monday that sent him to four-day police custody.According to the complaint filed by the girl’s parents, she was playing near her house when their neighbour took her behind the bushes, near their locality where he tried to rape her. However, when the girl’s parents reached there the accused fled the spot.The police on Sunday conducted a raid at the house of the accused and arrested him.“The accused is said to be mentally unstable. He is separated from his wife. Currently, he was staying with his cousin brothers here,” said the investigation officer.A case has been registered under Sections 376 (rape), 511 (attempt to commit an offence) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-held-for-rape-attempt-on-toddler-in-kharar/story-GdY0kLMkdp8rwAZkjrRENM.html
06-07-2020||Delhi||HC raps Centre and Delhi govt for failing to clarify benefits for nurses||The Delhi High Court on Monday came down heavily on the Centre and the city government for their failure to answer the court’s queries on the various schemes in place for the benefit of the nurses while also seeking the Delhi government’s reply on suggestions for setting up a helpline for nurses through which they would be able to complain against private hospitals for failing to provide N-95 masks and personal protection equipment (PPE) kits.A bench comprising Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan also sought to know the Delhi government’s stand on the suggestion by Manoj V George, counsel for the petitioner, that private hospitals and nursing homes must file an undertaking before the authorities concerned for providing PPE kits, N95 masks to the nurses.The court was hearing a plea by an NGO which has alleged that nurses in private hospitals and nursing homes were not being provided with proper PPE kits and masks to guard against Covid-19.During the hearing on Monday, the court directed the Delhi government, represented by advocate Anupam Srivastava, to file a reply to each of the six points suggested by the counsel for the NGO.Besides a helpline, ex-gratia and the undertaking, the court also asked them to respond to the suggestions of extending the benefits of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) of insurance protection to nurses working in private hospitals and nursing homes and that the insurance premium be paid by the authorities at least for a limited period during the Covid-19 pandemic.The court, during the proceedings, sought answers to specific queries concerning the premiums to be filled to avail the benefits of the PradhanMantri Garib Kalyan Yojana from the counsels. However, when they failed to answer, the court called an officer from the Delhi government to reply to its questions.“You people don’t know anything as to how many nursing homes are there, whether the premiums (Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana scheme) are to be filled monthly or yearly and how many nurses are there… This is a very casual approach. This is how you guys are arguing in the court of law,” the court said.The Centre, represented by its standing counsel Anil Soni, told the court that he would seek instruction on the suggestion of extending the benefit of PMGKP of insurance protection to nurses.Later, after brief arguments, the Delhi government’s counsel sought time to file a reply to the suggestions, following which the matter was listed for a hearing on July 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-raps-centre-and-delhi-govt-for-failing-to-clarify-benefits-for-nurses/story-U2pM2NA7onEkjslwjhnXUN.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Use of gadgets, summer led to inflated power bills: Experts||An increasing number of citizens and celebrities have complained about ‘inflated bills’ received in June, resulting in a social media outrage post the announcement of unlock 1.0. In some cases, the bills are two-three times more than the average bill of the household. However, utility companies and experts maintain that the bills are higher owing to the suspension of meter-reading in March-end, more usage of electronic gadgets due to the lockdown and hot weather in the summer months of March, April and May.“If you see the average demand in Mumbai during the day, in these months - it was around 1,800 megawatts (MW), which spiked to 2,400 MW between 11pm and 5am, when the air-conditioners were on,” said Ashok Pendse, a noted Mumbai-based power expert and a consumer representative at the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC).As per MERC guidelines, meter-reading was suspended at the end of March and utilities were asked to charge consumers based on the average of the preceding three months - December, January and February, which were winter months. “This effectively means that consumers underpaid in the months of April and May when consumption was high. And in June, when actual meter-reading began, the residual electricity amount was also taken into consideration,” said an official from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL). During the lockdown period, only 2.32% consumers across the state were billed as per actual reading, data reveals.Last week, MSEDCL also released a video, explaining the multiple reasons behind the high bills. The video shows that when all members of the household are at home, more gadgets are being used. The video shows people utilising chargers, laptops, air-conditioners and mixers, when in the house. “People should also remember that when your consumption is high, you are also charged at a higher slab,” Pendse said further.For instance, if MSEDCL charges ₹4.91/unit for 0-100 units, it increases to ₹8.88/unit for 100-300 units and so forth. A BJP MLA from Mumbai, who has been addressing complaints in his area since a month, said, “In my own house, all gadgets were in use throughout the day during the lockdown. People are not able to accept this fact, and their frustration, also a result of the lockdown, is pouring on social media. Owing to the lockdown and job losses, people’s income and spending capacity have also reduced.”“There is a simple way to check if your bill is right,” says Pendse. “If you have received a bill where your consumption is 1,500 units, go and check your meter. If it is higher than 1,500 units, that means the bill is right, if it is at 1430 units, you can approach the utility to check the meter again. In any case, if your bill is more than double of the average for the period of March-May 2020, utilities are bound to give you an option to make payment in three easy monthly instalments,” Pendse explained.MERC, in a directive issued to utilities, has also stated that utilities cannot disconnect power supply unless the grievances are resolved. --||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/use-of-gadgets-summer-led-to-inflated-power-bills-experts/story-olSEqUeDA3XaczKNizuJML.html
06-07-2020||Noida||Noida’s Covid-19 tally nearing 2,900; 67 new cases recorded||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Monday recorded 67 more coronavirus cases, pushing the district’s infection tally to 2,831, an official data showed. So far, the district has reported 28 deaths. According to the data released by the state health department, the district has recorded 2,831 positive cases, the highest in the state. The number of active cases in the district is 1,041, which is the second highest after adjoining Ghaziabad district (1,251) in the state. They are followed by Lucknow (602), Kanpur Nagar (385), Meerut (321), Varanasi (272), Aligarh (232), Bulandshahr (213), Bareilly (203), Mathura (184), Gorakhpur (170), Hapur (168), Jhansi (161) and Allahabad (157), the data stated. Also, three patients were discharged, taking the overall number of recoveries to 1,762, according to the data. The recovery rate dropped slightly to 62.23 per cent from 63.61, according to the official statistics. From Sunday to Monday, 933 new Covid-19 cases were reported across districts in the state, while 348 patients got discharged from hospitals and 24 deaths were recorded, it showed. As of Monday, there were 8,718 active Covid-19 cases in UP, while 19,109 patients have been discharged from hospitals and 809 deaths have been recorded so far, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-covid-19-tally-nearing-2-900-67-new-cases-recorded/story-soskQkbatL9aMWaQiGRCcL.html
06-07-2020||Noida||FIR to be lodged against doctors, nurses, who quit jobs during Covid-19 pandemic||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday said that cases will be lodged against doctors and medical staff who decide to quit their jobs during times of the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing a meeting with senior district officials and head of different Covid-dedicated hospitals at Indira Gandhi Kala Kendra in Noida, additional chief secretary (health and education) Rajnish Dubey said that escapism has never been a part of the medical profession. “How can doctors and paramedics quit their jobs, particularly when there is a public health emergency in the state ? Every responsible fraternity of the society — like police, administrative officials, fire dept staff and above all the doctors — need to step up and put themselves in the battle against the deadly virus. I am surprised as to how some doctors and health workers want to quit and flee this battle, fearing for their own lives,” he said.In context with the recent reports of some health staff and seven doctors, including four anaesthesiologists, quitting their jobs at Sharda hospital last month, Dubey said that the government will first warn them for dereliction of duty. “If they’ll still do not resume their duties, FIRs will be lodged against them and they ca=n even be jailed for violation of rules under the ongoing pandemic Act,” he said.Dubey further said that 10 additional ventilators will be made available to Sharda hospital soon. “With these ventilators, the Covid-19 ward of this hospital will now run with 30 oxygen intensive care units (ICUs) and 30 ventilators,” he said.About a proposal of increasing capacity of beds from 150 to 250 in Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), the additional chief secretary said that the move had already been cleared by the Uttar Pradesh government. “We will soon allocate adequate funds to GIMS for increasing the capacity of beds in its Covid-19 ward,” he said.Meanwhile, when contacted, GIMS director Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta said that if the number of beds are increased, he hospital will be able to cater to more Covid-19 patients for their proper treatment.Echoing similar views, spokesperson of Sharda hospital, who said that with enhanced infrastructure, the comfort level of coronavirus patients will increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fir-to-be-lodged-against-doctors-nurses-who-quit-jobs-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-gPj5MbsJR0d0PvAt2sYxEN.html
06-07-2020||City||Fire at illegal factory: Police arrest owner of manufacturing unit||The Ghaziabad police on Monday arrested the owner of the illegal factory manufacturing party poppers in Modinagar where eight persons, including seven women and an 18-year-old man, were charred to death in a major fire on Sunday. The police said they are on the lookout for a cracker manufacturer from Farrukhnagar who illegally supplied raw material to the owner.As many as 11 women were also left injured in the fire, including two still in critical condition, in Bakharwa village of Modinagar following which the police registered an FIR under IPC sections 304, 336, 338 besides levying provisions of the Explosives Act and Criminal Law Amendment Act. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey on Monday said that he has also asked the police to initiate proceedings to add charges under the National Security Act (NSA) against the factory owner, identified as Nitin Chaudhary, the prime suspect in the case.The police said Chaudhary, who was arrested from Modinagar itself , had employed over 150 people, mostly women, in his factory. The police said he was engaged in making reels for yarns for over ten years and had started manufacturing party poopers in November, 2019. “Chaudhary had come in contact with one Waseem (single name) who is a fireworks’ manufacturer from Farrukhnagar who supplied him with raw materials. The suspects told us that before Sunday’s incident many small fires were reported from his factory, but all of them were doused on time. He was in house when the incident took place and then fled,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). The suspect has no criminal record.The police said they are on the lookout for Waseem and are also probing the role of other persons who could be involved in the operation of the illegal factory. A policeman has already been suspended for alleged laxity.Cracker manufacturing in Farrukhnagar had completely stopped in October 2018 after a Supreme Court order imposed a ban on the sale of non-green crackers in the wake of rising pollution levels. “It is probably due to this reason that Waseem had partnered up with Chaudhary and supplied him with raw materials in Bakharwa. Our local police post in-charge had inspected the illegal factory about fortnight ago but failed to take any action, and this is why he was suspended on Sunday,” Jadun added.Chadhaury’s arrest comes on a day when the National Human Rights’ Commission issued a notice to the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary and the director general of police (DGP) calling for a detailed report into Sunday’s incident. The notice gave a four-week deadline for the filling of the report which should include “action taken against the factory owner and the delinquent officers/officials, status of the medical treatment being provided to the injured and relief/rehabilitation provided to the aggrieved by the state.”“It is necessary for the local administration to fix the responsibility of the concerned officer and start departmental/criminal proceedings against them immediately to ensure justice to the victims and their families,” the NHRC said in its notice.The UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday had announced a compensation of ₹4 lakh for the families of the deceased.The police on Monday said five of the deceased were from Bakharwa village, while three, including two minor girls, aged about 16-17 years, were from the nearby locality of Vijay Nagar. “Initially, there was some discrepancy in the identification of victims and some of the villagers had wrongly identified women from Vijay Nagar as residents of Bakhwara. Since minor girls were also employed at the factory, we will also add more sections related to child labour. As many as 11 persons are under treatment and two of them are in critical condition,” SP Jadaun said.On Monday, the families of the eight deceased arrived at the Hindon mortuary where the were bodies were sent for autopsy.“My niece Parul was 17 years old and was a class 8 student. Her school was closed due to the lockdown, so she, along with one other girl and another boy from Vijay Nagar, had started working at the factory. All three of them died in the fire incident. Parul’s father had died 10 years ago, and she has five siblings. She just wanted to help her family financially,” said Manohar Kumar, a relative of one of the victims. “My mother was working in the factory since December, 2019 and was got about ₹4,500 per month. We had often asked her to stop going to the factory but she continued to work there. The factory owner had employed people from dozens of families in Bakharwa for the packaging of the party poopers. About a fortnight ago, a complaint about the factory was also made. The police came to the factory and did nothing,” said Deepak Kumar, son of one of the deceased, 45-year-old Baby (single name).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-at-illegal-factory-police-arrest-owner-of-manufacturing-unit/story-AsDtQPNyKnPAinrs6sHjTM.html
06-07-2020||City||Cong, BJP councillors meet mayor Balkar Sandhu, raise concerns over MC’s ill-preparedness for monsoon||Raising concern over “ill-preparedness” of the Ludhiana municipal corporation, Congress and BJP councillors conducted separate meetings with mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal at zone office on Monday. While the Congress councillors rued lack of machinery and staff in the east constituency, the BJP councillors demanded that the silt being removed from Buddha Nullah should be lifted from the site on a regular basis.Congress councillors Kuldeep Janda and Pallavi Vinayak said, “We are facing a shortage of tankers, trolleys and machines for cleaning the sewer lines. Also, more sweepers should be deputed by the civic body so that cleanliness could be maintained during the monsoon. We have also demanded that MC should arrange generators at disposal points so that the process to drain out the accumulated water does not get hit due to disruption in the power supply.”The BJP councillors also demanded that the MC should take action against the contractors who are not taking up development projects even after work orders have been issued to them. Leader of BJP councillors, Sunita Rani said, “The MC should regularly lift the silt which is pulled out of the nullah and dumped on the banks. Further, we have also demanded that MC should blacklist the contractors who have failed to commence development projects even after getting the work orders.” Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “I have taken note of the concerns which have been raised by the councillors and directions have been issued to the MC officials to resolve the problems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-bjp-councillors-meet-mayor-balkar-sandhu-raise-concerns-over-mc-s-ill-prepared-for-monsoon/story-OzPJ5yG9eW0yHyqdTiQoCK.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fee collection issue: Private schools can’t be allowed to feed on human misery, Chandigarh admn tells HC||The UT administration has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that the private schools’ plea challenging UT’s directions on fee collection proved that they were charitable public trusts only interested in collecting donations and amassing land, and not public service.They can’t be allowed to feed on human misery; education is a noble profession, not a trade,” the administration said in its response to the plea filed by schools that challenged UT’s move to allow them to only charge a tuition fee during the lockdown.The plea was filed by the Independent Schools’ Association of Chandigarh, a body of 80-odd private schools in the city, on June 22 seeking the quashing of the notification issued on June 3 under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, directing the educational institutions to collect only tuition fee from the students till further orders.In the wake of the pandemic, the state ought to frame policies that provide relief to residents, the UT administration stated in front of the court, adding that the June 3 notification was put out to help financially-crippled parents of wards studying in private schools.‘PLEA DOESN’T MENTION SHORTFALL’The UT further stated that the plea did not mention how much fee was collected by the schools earlier and how many parents already deposited the fee. The plea also did not mention the shortfall faced if the schools were to collect fee as per UT’s notification. It was difficult, therefore, to ascertain the hardship, if any, being faced by the schools. Moreover, even CBSE and ICSE bylaws clearly provided that the fee shall be charged only as per the regulation of the appropriate government, the UT told the court.The court was told that of the 78 schools of the association, 41 were already complying with UT’s notification. “Majority of the schools have always propagated themselves to be smart schools, fully equipped with computerised and digital technology. So to say that any school has spent extra on technology is a misrepresentation,” the court was told. Majority of the technology platforms like Whatsapp and Zoom were free and no special training was required to be imparted to teachers as claimed, the UT officials said.Since the issue is pending with the Supreme Court, the UT requested the court to defer plea hearing till the apex court’s ruling. The plea will next be taken up on July 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fee-collection-issue-private-schools-can-t-be-allowed-to-feed-on-human-misery-chandigarh-admn-tells-hc/story-XvNMjJSUqnIKclNYMR1PHM.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Teaching and non-teaching staff of UT colleges can work from home till July 31||Teaching and non-teaching staff of government and aided colleges in Chandigarh have been allowed to work from home till July 31. An order regarding this was released by the UT higher education department on Monday.There has been a growing concern among teachers after the higher education department last month had directed the government and aided colleges to ask 50% of their teaching and non-teaching staff to report to work.The order issued by the higher education department of Chandigarh reads, “The guidelines issued by the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) are hereby circulated for compliance by the faculty members, teachers, researchers, non-teaching staff working in government and government-aided colleges and institutions and they are permitted and advised to work from home till July 31.”The UT education department had planned to review the orders after the MHRD permitted teachers to work from home.Inderpal Singh Sidhu, an assistant professor at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, said, “We have been demanding the provision to work from home since June 30 when the MHRD had notified the same. Nonetheless, we welcome the step taken by the UT higher education department.”However, college principals were told to ensure that the online admission process and other related activities are carried on smoothly and for that, they were allowed to call the required staff at their own level.Conducting elections during pandemic Meanwhile, teachers at Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma (GGDSD) College, Sector 32 have submitted a complaint to the president of Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union (PCCTU), after the College Teacher Union elections were held on Monday.“This is completely against the instructions issued by competent authorities which suggest avoiding any sort of gathering or holding any such meetings which involve a large number of individuals. Despite the teachers demanding to withhold the election in view of safety of the staff, the elections were conducted on the campus today and also scheduled for tomorrow,” the teachers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/teaching-and-non-teaching-staff-of-ut-colleges-can-work-from-home-till-july-31/story-AwvcbC3QTGr8i2ZZJHs6fJ.html
06-07-2020||City||Assistant supdt procures phone for Youth Cong leader in Ludhiana jail, both booked||Central jail staffers here have seized a cellphone from the possession of Youth Congress leader Shubham Arora and registered a case against him and assistant superintendent Karanvir Singh, who allegedly helped sneak the phone into the prison premises.With the information provided by Shubham, who is lodged in the jail in an attempt to murder case, the police booked his accomplice, Ankush Arora, and the assistant jail superintendent on Sunday.While Shubham has been arrested and is in one-day police remand, rest of the accused are yet to be nabbed. Karanvir Singh had already been transferred from the central jail.As per the FIR, filed based on the statement of assistant jail superintendent Parduman Kumar, a mobile phone with a SIM card was recovered on July 4 during a surprise inspection in barrack number 5 and it was smuggled into the premises with the help of the accused jail staffer.ASI Rajinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said the youth leader had asked his aide to arrange a mobile phone for him in April, following which Ankush got one and handed it over to Karanvir Singh, who after using the phone for a few days gave it to Shubham.That Karanvir was given bribe or other favours in exchange of the help will be known only upon his arrest, the ASI added.A case under the sections 42, 45, 52-A, 54 of the Prisons Act and sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at Division 7 police station against Shubham, Ankush and Karanvir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assistant-supdt-procures-phone-for-youth-cong-leader-in-ludhiana-jail-both-booked/story-SVVsxqBtoOJKRKslLu4EXN.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mason dies after assault by 2 men ‘for making their father waste money on alcohol’||A 55-year-old man was killed after two sons of an acquaintance assaulted him for reportedly making their father waste money on alcohol. Jaspreet Singh alias Jassi, 36, of Dhillon Nagar and his brother Jasvir Singh, 30, reportedly assaulting Satnam Singh, a mason living in the same locality. He died after falling down when they pushed him.The Daba police have lodged an FIR for culpable homicide not amounting to murder against both after a complaint by Satnam’s son Gurnam, who is an assistant to an advocate.Jaspreet and Jasvir are on the run.Gurnam stated that his father was a mason and Narinder Pal Singh was his drinking partner. Both had taken shelter on July 4 under the shed of a shop during heavy rain after drinking together.When Gurnam went to fetch Satnam, Jaspreet and Jasvir turned up and accused Satnam of making their father waste money on alcohol. “When I objected, the two slapped me. My father tried to intervene, but the accused thrashed him also and gave him a strong push,” said Gurnam.“My father fell and his head hit the ground. I rushed my father to hospital, where he died,” he added.Assistant sub inspector (ASI) Gurdial Singh who is investigating the case said that a case under sections 304 and 34 of IPC had been registered against the accused at Daba police station.Narinder Pal Singh had retired as a peon at a government school a few months back. He was spending his employees’ provident fund on buying liquor and his sons held Satnam responsible for it, the ASI added.A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused, the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mason-dies-after-assault-by-2-men-for-making-their-father-waste-money-on-alcohol/story-YQNQ2xdPfqgxGYDKXBL8oK.html
06-07-2020||City||Labourer rapes neighbour’s 14-year-old daughter in Ludhiana||A labourer raped his neighbour’s 14-year-old daughter in the Moti Nagar area of the city on Sunday night.The accused, identified as Rishikesh, managed to escape after the crime. The police have launched a manhunt to trace him.An FIR has been lodged following the statement of the survivor’s father. He told the police that he along with his wife and daughter were sleeping on the terrace. He woke up around midnight and found his daughter missing from her cot. While searching for his minor daughter, he found her crying in the rented accommodation of the accused, while the latter had fled.The girl told her parents that she was woken up by the accused and taken to his room where the latter raped her and escaped.ASI Bua Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under sections 376 and 506 of the IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act has been registered against the accused at the Moti Nagar police station. A hunt is on for his arrest.The survivor is a student of Class 4, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-rapes-neighbour-s-14-year-old-daughter-in-ludhiana/story-wg7EDeiUysbWcBFOQemPqI.html
06-07-2020||City||43 contractual engineers, SDOs working for Ludhiana MC get cessation notices||Amid the Covid-19 crisis, 43 contractual junior engineers (JEs) and sub-divisional officers (SDOs) deputed in the bridges and roads (B&R) department, light branch and horticulture wing of the municipal corporation (MC) have been served cessation notices by the outsourcing firm concerned.As per the officials, notices were served to the contract employees because the higher authorities were not satisfied with their performance. However, financial crisis has been cited as the reason in the notice by the outsourcing company. The higher authorities would be observing their work for a month now before the MC takes its final decision.Out of 43, 37 employees work in the B&R department, while the others are engaged work the light branch and horticulture wing. Most of them were appointed in 2016. The contracts of employees working in the operations and maintenance cell have been renewed.An official requesting anonymity said, “The notices have been served amid the row over inferior quality roads being constructed by contractors, with MC officials failing to keep a check on the same.”Stating that most of the work is done by them, the JEs and SDOs rued that the MC should not terminate their services at this time of health and economic crisis.“The MC is already facing staff crunch, so how will it carry out the development projects without proper staff. Most of the field work is done by JEs and SDOs as the executive and superintending engineers remain involved in office work. The MC should reconsider the decision as it would also result in unemployment,” a contractual JE said.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “These employees are under observation by the MC. Those found working satisfactorily will get to keep their jobs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/43-contractual-engineers-sdos-working-for-ludhiana-mc-get-cessation-notices/story-oAXp9769RPhQc0NOGSFGeL.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||3 health workers, 4 education staffers among 21 fresh Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh||The UT health department on Monday confirmed that three healthcare workers and four employees of the education department are among 21 fresh Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, which took the total count to 487. Three healthcare workers of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, one of whom is from Nayagaon in Mohali, and one nurse of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research have tested positive.The 30-year-old woman staffer of the PGIMER resides on the institute’s campus and has performed duties at the Covid-19 hospital.The GMCH health workers include a 48-year-old doctor, who resides in Sector 32, and a 40-year-old male staffer from Daria village. They are workplace contacts of a previous positive case.While no employee has been quarantined at the PGIMER, seven contacts of GMCH health workers have tested negative so far while more contacts are being sampled, said officials.The health department also confirmed that four workplace contacts of a previously diagnosed staffer of the UT education department in Sector 9 have been reported positive. These include two women, aged 34 and 44, from Dadumajra and Sector 40, respectively, besides two men, aged 25 and 37, from Sector 20 and Behlana, respectively.NUMBER OF RECOVERED PATIENTS CROSSES 400 MARKThe remaining cases have been reported from Sectors 15, 21, 30, 31, 32 and 38 besides Daria. Meanwhile, in a positive development, the number of recovered patients crossed the 400 mark, with six more being discharged on Monday. They include three from Khuda Alisher and remaining from Sectors 22 and 41 and Ram Darbar. The number of recoveries stands at 401 and active cases at 80. Four family contacts of a previously positive case of Sector 30 have contracted the infection. They include four females, aged 16, 22, 26, and 55.A 61-year-old woman and a five-year-old boy are among two family contacts of a patient who have tested positive in Sector 21.Three family contacts of a previous positive case of Daria have also been found infected. They include two girls, aged 11 and 15, and a 43-year-old man.A 67-year-old woman from Sector 38 and a 39-year-old woman from Sector 15 have also tested positive. The former has nine family contacts, who are asymptomatic, while the other has two family contacts, who have tested negative.A 42-year-old man, who was working in Ambala and had travel history to Gurugram, has been found infected in Sector 32. He had four family members and a domestic help in contact.A 64-year-old man from Khuda Lahora, working in Punjab, and a nine-year-old boy from Sector 31, who is a contact of a previous case from the area, have also tested positive. EDUCATION DEPT, COLLEGE EMPLOYEES CAN WORK FROM HOME After nine employees of the education department working on the first floor of the additional deluxe building of the UT secretariat in Sector 9 tested positive for Covid-19 in the past three days, the administration on Monday directed teaching and non-teaching staff will not be asked to come to offices and government and aided colleges, unless there is emergent work. They have been allowed to work from home till July 31.The administration also directed its employees not to have lunch together in groups in canteen or rooms in the UT Secretariat.While the education department had sealed offices of director, higher education and school education, and other rooms on the first floor on Sunday, Chandigarh Police headquarters, which too are located in the same building, were closed for sanitisation for two days on Monday. All the wings and office staff have been asked to work from home, in the orders issued by Manoj Kumar Meena, superintendent of police (SP, headquarters).Several offices of the UT engineering department also operate from the additional deluxe building.Mukesh Anand, UT chief engineer, said: “We have asked office-in-charges to call minimal personnel. They have been asked to sit in the deluxe building till sanitisation is over.”Meanwhile, concerned over spike in cases, UT administrator VPS Badnore on Monday shared on Twitter: “The increase in Covid positive cases in Chandigarh is worrying; stringent steps are being taken to combat the situation. Inflow of patients without formal reference to PGIMER needs to be monitored.”Even in his interaction with deputy commissioners of Panchkula and Mohali in the Monday’s war room meeting, Badnore urged the neighbouring states to treat non-critical patients on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-health-workers-4-education-staffers-among-21-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh/story-FyJzRzEx42OAGakVZHwRjM.html
06-07-2020||City||MCD teachers get training in inclusive education||New Delhi: The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Monday started an online ‘Inclusive Education Training Programme’ for its 7,500 school teachers to enable them to focus on children with special abilities. According to civic officials, teachers were trained how to sensitively handle and teach students with disabilities and how a healthy environment can be created for them in the class. Teachers have been divided into 16 batches of around 450 participants each for the programme.Civic officials said teachers at municipal schools generally are unable to harness capabilities of a student with any kind of disability because they cannot provide a conducive environment in the classroom.Ira Singhal, deputy commissioner North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said it was for the first time municipal school teachers were being imparted training on inclusive education.“Since teachers are not very familiar that what exactly is a disability and what limitations or abilities a disabled student has, they tend to mix physical disability with mental one and so they are unable to guide and treat that child well in a classroom environment. They generally think if a child is physically disabled, he would be mentally weak too and hence they fail to understand the child’s mental abilities. In such a scenario, the social inclusion of any student with a disability is hard. The training workshop is to overcome all these challenges and provide a conducive environment for inclusive education at municipal schools,” she said.There are around 714 primary schools run by the north corporation where nearly 287,000 children get basic education. Mostly children from lower-income groups study at municipal schools across the city.Singhal said the exercise, which will continue for the entire month, is being conducted online in the form of a webinar with the help of an NGO Vision Divyang and Rehab Council of India’s (RCI) Delhi chapter. Monday was the first day of the training session in which 600 teachers participated. The session continued for over six hours. Mukesh Gupta, one of the trainers, said it is the system’s responsibility to create an environment where every individual is able to contribute to society as much as his capabilities are. “Disabled children do not get that opportunity. In the training, teachers were told about the special needs of a child with a disability. Teachers enthusiastically took part in the exercise and asked nearly 4,187 questions related to various types of disabilities in children and ways to harness their capabilities through inclusive education,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcd-teachers-get-training-in-inclusive-education/story-qzk16jQ0Pg2x63pWEvk8IM.html
06-07-2020||City||Don’t treat students as guinea pigs, Delhi HC to DU on open book exams||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Monday said Delhi University’s final-year students cannot be “treated as guinea pigs” and that there are “serious glitches” in the varsity’s online open book examination scheduled to start on July 10.Justice Pratibha Singh -- on a plea by several students who sought cancellation of the examination -- said apart from the technical aspect, the mental state of the students should also be kept in mind since they are at home since February, have not been attending classes and do not even have online material available for studying.Expressing displeasure for conducting the examination “without any basis”, the judge asked Delhi University to give a state-wise data of final-year students who will take the test. It asked the University Grants Commission (UGC) to give its committee’s report on conducting exams in universities across the country.The court was hearing a plea filed by six students through the Vera Cause Legal, a law firm, seeking to call off the open book exams. They said students are facing several problems in taking the online exams.On Monday, advocate Shivankar Sharma, counsel for five students of DU—one from Faridabad, two from Delhi and one each from Rajasthan and Nagaland —told the court that several students would have to go to the nearest community centres to write the exams and risk their lives in a situation when Covid-19 cases are rising every day.The Delhi University has suggested students to use common service centres in their localities to write online exams in case they do not have the internet facility at home.. Sharma said students live in remote areas where there might not be electricity and internet connections.He contended there were glitches during the mock tests conducted on Saturday when students had to download and upload question papers and answer sheets of different subjects . Students faced trouble logging in, and downloading and uploading PDFs. The website too crashed many times, students had alleged on Saturday, a claim the university had denied.He said several students complained that the community centres were not aware of the mock examinations.Appearing for Delhi University (DU), senior advocate Sachin Datta and advocate J S Rupal, told the court that DU is the only varsity in the country attempting the online exams. They said officers are taking huge risks to conduct the examinations, and that those who cannot take the exams now later appear in September.The court then said, “You cannot make the students guinea pigs. Think about their mental status also. Suppose there are children whose family members are unwell; they need to be in the correct state of mind. This is complete callousness where the decision has been taken without any basis”.The judge said that by conducting the exams, the university is putting their careers in jeopardy because by the time the results are declared by the end of August, many foreign universities and other higher educational institutions would already have started their academic session. It said because of the postponement of the exams, earlier scheduled to start from July 1, the interest of the students had been “jeopardised”. Despite several attempts, DU Dean examination Vinay Gupta and Vice Chancellor Yogesh Tyagi did not respond to calls and texts sent for a comment. A member of the examination team, requesting anonymity, said, “The University will produce relevant information in the court on Tuesday. We can’t comment further since the matter is sub-judice.”The UGC counsel told the court that its notification is not binding and advisory in nature. The UGC notification in April suggested the universities several modes of conducting exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic, which includes the open book exams. He said many universities have decided to not conduct the exams.The judge said there can’t be any delay in UGC’s recommendations on the conduct of exams for final-year students in universities across the country. UGC is coming up with a fresh notification on exams for final-year graduation and postgraduate students. The court asked DU to give state-wise data of final-year students, a detailed examination schedule, including declaration of results and distribution of answer sheets.The matter would be now heard on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-treat-students-as-guinea-pigs-delhi-hc-to-du-on-open-book-exams/story-W80fLMltqEbDqJXfMudHoK.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Light rain likely in Chandigarh till July 9, to intensify thereon: IMD||After a sunny Monday in Chandigarh, India Meteorological Department has forecast light rain in the city till Thursday. It will increase in intensity, thereon, said the weatherman.“Sky will get cloudy on Tuesday and Wednesday, and a few spells of rain are also possible. However, it is unlikely to rain more than 20mm. Temperature will remain on the higher side till Thursday, after which it is likely to drop as moderate rain up to 60mm is expected thereon,” said an IMD official.Meanwhile, maximum temperature went up from 34.4°C on Sunday to 35.4°C on Monday. Minimum temperature went up from 22.2°C to 26.2°C on Monday. In the next three days, maximum temperature is likely to remain between 31 and 34 degrees while minimum is likely to remain between 25 and 26 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/light-rain-likely-in-chandigarh-till-july-9-to-intensify-thereon-imd/story-wI3kfzNQPvWICOEDGRlDpK.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Moderate showers in Mumbai; above average rains in city so far||After witnessing a spell of heavy rainfall over the past three days, Mumbai and neighbouring Thane received moderate rains on Monday, but the IMD predicted showers will continue in the night in the region.The India Meteorological Department (IMD), in a statement, also said that significant reduction in rainfall is expected over the west coast during the next two days.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Thane-Belapur Industries Association observatory recorded 34 mm rainfall between 8:30 am and 5:30 pm on Monday, the IMD said.The Santacruz weather bureau (in Mumbais suburbs) recorded 5.2 mm rainfall, while the Colaba weather station, representative of the island city, reported 1.2 mm rainfall.The IMD said that the Mumbai city has received 928.3 mm rainfall this monsoon season till now, that is 26 per cent more from normal average rainfall of 735.1 mm for the current period.The suburbs have received 896.2 mm seasonal rainfall till now, a departure of 27 per cent from the normal average rainfall of 705 mm for the current period.“Showers to continue tonight Mumbai and around, as seen from satellite and radar latest images..,”IMD Mumbai’s Deputy Director General K S Hosalikar tweeted.The Matheran weather station in Raigad district received 22 mm rainfall from 8:30 am to 5:30 pm on Monday, the IMD said.The Dahanu observatory in Palghar district reported 16.8 mm rainfall, while the Nashik weather bureau reported 4.3 mm rainfall during the period.The Santacruz weather station in Mumbai’s western suburbs recorded 116.1 mm downpour during the 24 hours ended at 8.30 am on Monday, while the Colaba weather station in South Mumbai recorded 12.4 mm rainfall during the same period.Mumbai and other parts of the coastal Konkan region have been experiencing heavy rains since Friday.On Sunday, the Powai lake in suburban Mumbai started overflowing after the heavy downpour. PTI ENM GK RSY RSY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/moderate-showers-in-mumbai-above-average-rains-in-city-so-far/story-GX3rPfC8k6QbZxjCGhv98M.html
06-07-2020||Pune||Pune reports 861 fresh positive cases, 15 Covid-19 deaths on Monday||The city reported 861 fresh positive Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the count of progressive cases to 22,381. The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 730 with 15 deaths recorded on Monday. Three deaths were also reported from out of PMC limits. Of the 7,912 active cases currently, 368 are in critical condition, with 64 on ventilators and 304 in ICU beds.A total of 4,548 samples were tested on Monday of which 264 were via the rapid antigen detection kits. A total of 1,37,364 samples have been tested in the city as of Monday. On Monday, 630 people were discharged, taking the count of such patients to 13,739.From the Sassoon General Hospital, a 79-year-old male from Sangamwadi, 62-year-old male from Yerawada, 72-year-old male and 50-year-old male from Hadapsar and 37-year-old male from Kondhwa, were declared dead on Monday.A 52 year old male from Shramiknagar and an 83-year-old male from Bhairoba were declared dead at Ruby Hall clinic. A 79-year-old male from Sai Sulochana Apartment and a 62-year-old male from Senapati Bapat road were declared dead at the Sahyadri hospital.Two deaths from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital were also reported, including a 67-year-old male from Shaniwar peth.Death of a 63-year-old male from Hadapsar was reported from the Noble Hospital and a 52-year-old male from Phursungi was declared dead at Inlaks and Budhrani. A 59-year-old male from Bibwewadi admitted to the Naidu hospital and an 83-year-old female admitted to the KEM hospital were also reported dead on Monday.A 61-year-old male from Bibwewadi was also reported dead at a Covid care centre in Sinhgad, after the patient suffered a cardiac arrest. The patient was suffering from hypertension too.Three deaths from out of PMC limits include a 70-year-old female from Camp admitted to the Ruby Hall clinic; 82-year-old female from Camp reported dead at Sassoon Hospital and a 67-year-old male from Solapur reported dead at Ruby Hall Clinic.PMC begins use of rapid antigen detection kitsThe PMC started using the rapid antigen detection kits on Monday and tested 264 samples from five wards. The five wards which are seeing a drastic rise in the number of cases include Bibwewadi, Hadapsar, Dhole Patil road, Shivajinagar-Ghole road and Kasba-Vishrambaug wada. Of the 264 samples, 27 tested positive.The PMC will soon start using the kits for all the 15 wards to ramp up its testing capacity. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “It takes time to set up the procedure and train the staff for the same. Within the next 2-3 days, we will start using the kits at all the 15 wards. The test results are considered final for asymptomatic high-risk contacts of a positive person while for a symptomatic positive person if the results are negative, then they are cross checked through the RT-PCR method.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-861-fresh-positive-cases-15-covid-19-deaths-on-monday/story-Z62K3mEjv34iLLDRRWVLwJ.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai receives 60% of its average July rainfall in first six days of the month||The city has received 60% of its average rainfall for July in the first six days of the month this year. The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 508mm rain between July 1 and July 6 (8.30 pm) against the monthly average of 840.7mm. South Mumbai recorded 406.3 mm during the same time.Last year, Mumbai had covered 62% of its July average rain in the first five days and 84% in the first eight days after two extremely heavy rain spells. However, rain intensity reduced thereafter and the city reached its monthly target by July 21.In 72 hours till Monday evening, Mumbai had received 478.6mm rain, leading to around 27% excess rain for the season, so far, for the suburbs and 26% excess for south Mumbai. However, on Monday, the suburbs and south Mumbai recorded a considerable drop in rain intensity against a yellow alert (heavy rain across isolated areas) issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Between 8.30am and 8.30pm, the Santacruz weather station recorded 6mm rain and the Coloba weather observatory recorded 5mm rain. High speed winds, though, were recorded throughout the day. According to IMD, the wind speed ranged between 45kmph and 55kmph.“As witnessed on Monday, a significant reduction in rain activity is expected over the west coast over the next few days as weather systems have shifted towards the Gujarat region where intense rain spells are being witnessed,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. “However, heavy to very heavy rain at isolated areas across Palghar district is expected to continue.”Hosalikar said the three weather systems that led to intense rain over the weekend were still active. “This will allow Mumbai, Thane and Raigad to receive moderate showers over the next two to three days,” he said. Independent meteorologists said strong wind gusts could persist on Tuesday and Wednesday owing to weather systems in the Arabian Sea. “Winds are a result of the well-marked low pressure system in the Arabian Sea close to Gujarat. The outlook for the next 2-3 days is mostly moderate showers with some intermittent heavy spells of short duration,” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay.Meanwhile, the maximum and minimum temperatures in the city and suburbs were a degree Celsius below normal, leading to cool weather further aided by windy conditions. A few spells of light to moderate rain with the possibility of isolated heavy showers is expected on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-receives-60-of-its-average-july-rainfall-in-first-six-days-of-the-month/story-isji8dwyPimK5KKJGeGYmI.html
06-07-2020||City||Haryana cabinet okays bifurcation of Panchkula MC; Kalka, Pinjore to have separate council||A decade after merger, the Haryana cabinet on Monday approved the separation of Kalka and Pinjore from the limits of Panchkula municipal corporation and creation of a separate common municipal council for the two towns and 33 villages.The Panchkula civic body will comprise of the erstwhile council and 21 villages.“A common municipal body for Kalka and Pinjore area will be highly convenient for the (locals) to avail various municipal services at a convenient nearest place, which will reduce time, distance and cost,” said a government spokesperson.According to local leaders, the decision is a win-win for all.The corporation was set up in March 2010 by merging the municipal council of Panchkula and municipal committees of Pinjore and Kalka. Though the move was opposed in court, the first mayor was elected in June 2013 after a Supreme Court decision.In December 2017, a panel led by Ambala divisional commissioner Vivek Joshi recommended bifurcation of the corporation. According to the panel report, both Kalka and Pinjore have separate administrative and police structure. It is not fair for people of those areas to depend upon the corporation that has its head office miles away in Panchkula, the report stated.The report suggested that both Kalka and Pinjore could have a council as the population of both the towns along with villages was 1.28 lakh. The council status requires a population above 1 lakh.Similarly, the Panchkula corporation could sustain on its own since it had projected population of 3.31 lakh along with villages in its catchment, sufficient to have the corporation status.The report was sent to the local bodies department, and then to the state cabinet, which decided in its favour during a meeting in Panchkula on Monday.Gian Chand Gupta, local MLA and speaker of the legislative assembly, said: “It’s a welcome decision. I was consistently highlighting this issue for the last two years. The Panchkula MC was overburdened with the additional work of Kalka and Pinjore. It slowed down the city’s development works.”Former mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia said: “The council might face funding issues, but as long as the officers are honest and hardworking, work will continue.”AREAS INCLUDEDThe Panchkula municipal corporation will include 21 villages, namely Chowki, Nada, Saketri, Beed Ghahhar, Ramgarh, Billa, Nangal, Jaswant Garh, Kot, Khangesra, Nanngal, Moginand, Bhanu, Beed Babupur, Jaloli , Sukhdarshanpur, Toka, Dabkori, Chandi Mandir, Mankya, Alipur and Khatoli, besides the erstwhile municipal council of PanchkulaThe 22 villages of Pinjore, namely Bhagwanpur, Bitna, Dhamala, Islam Nagar, Lohgarh, Surajpur, Manakpur Devilal, Manankpur Nanak Chand, Manakpur Thakar Dass, Rajjipur, Mohabaatpur, Milk, Gumthala, Bhogpur, Damdama, Bisawal, Kheda, Majri Jatta, Rampur Siyudi, Vasudevpuri, Meerpr, Bakshiwala and Raipur, and 11 villages of Kalka, namely Bhairo Ke sair, Kanguwala, Kheda Sitaram, T Dangra, Hansua, Tangra Hakimpur, Tangra Hari Singh, Tangra Kali Ram, Tangra kangan, Tangra Sahu, Tipra and Majra Mehtab, along with the two towns will form a separate municipal council||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-cabinet-okays-bifurcation-of-panchkula-mc-kalka-pinjore-to-have-separate-council/story-THgbPEQUL9OzQJzBNypNGO.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||24-year-old Ropar man held for GMCH-32 firing in January||A 24-year-old man from Ropar was arrested by Chandigarh police for opening fire outside the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, on January 10 this year after an argument with another man over a TikTok video.Police also recovered a Scorpio sports utility vehicle with a Punjab registration number from the accused, Dilpreet Singh alias Billa, in which he had driven to the hospital.Billa was produced in court and sent to five-day police remand. A police party headed by Inspector Baldev Kumar, station house officer, Sector 34, acted on a secret tip-off and arrested Billa from the parking lot of Gurdwara Saheed Baba Deep Singh, Solkhian Saheb in Ropar.This is the second arrest in the case after Kamalpreet Singh Sidhu, (24) of Sunny Enclave, Sector-125, Kharar, was nabbed on June 28.Billa had opened fire at a car at GMCH-32 on January 10, leaving a bystander injured.In a complaint related to the case, Ludhiana resident Jagtar Singh alias Jaggi (23) had said that he and a friend Samar Bhat had come to GMCH-32 to meet another friend Lovepreet Singh of Model Town, Kharar, who was admitted there. Jaggi and Bhat were reportedly standing near the emergency when four to five men attacked them while shouting that Bhat would be eliminated. Before fleeing the group fired from pistols, Jaggi said, adding that he hid behind his car while a passer-by, identified as Gurdyal Singh, received a bullet wound in the arm and admitted in GMCH-32.Jaggi said Bhat had a standoff with some persons over a TikTok video.The police had registered a case under sections 147,148,149,307 IPC and 25, 27,54,59 of the Arms Act at the Sector 34 police station. During the course of investigation, three spent cartridges and a car with five bullet marks were seized from the spot.Dilpreet has no criminal record. However Kamalpreet had a case registered against him on May 6, 2016, under sections 307,506,34 IPC 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act at the Kharar (sadar) police station. The other co-accused Nishan Singh Khera, Baljeet Chaudhary and Bhavjit Singh Gill are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/24-year-old-ropar-man-held-for-gmch-32-firing-in-january/story-omOT1RorT1POuh17yTfteM.html
06-07-2020||City||Cycle traders propose ‘restriction’ on parts imported from China||After Hero Cycles cancelled its ₹900-crore deal with China just three months before schedule, other cycle traders as well as parts manufacturers in the industrial hub have decided to reduce reliance on the country for imports.Focussed on boosting indigenous component manufacturing, All India Cycle Manufacturers Association (AICMA) has sent a list of parts, currently being imported from China, to the government proposing the same to be placed under the restricted category.Putting goods under restricted category implies that an importer would require a licence or permission from Directorate General of Foreign Trade for imports.The cycle industry in Ludhiana is dependent on China for the import of multi-speed gears, alloy frames, steel rims, reflectors, brakes among others.According to AICMA president and Avon Cycles owner Omkar Singh Pahwa, they have sent a list of components like reflectors, alloy rims etc to the government proposing these be put under the restricted category.“The government has recently imposed curbs on imported tyres used in bicycles, which is a good decision. Similarly, we have sent a list of cycle components being imported from China to the government which can be placed under the restricted category. This will increase focus on manufacture of indigenous goods, reducing reliance on China. However, it’s a long road ahead,” he said.United Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association president DS Chawla said Indian imports 7 lakh cycles from China annually, including components for high-end cycles worth hundreds of crores. “Cycle traders are contemplating cancelling deals and orders with China and are exploring alternatives,” he said.Earlier, Hero Cycles chairman Pankaj Munjal had stated that they were localising manufacture of cycle parts and components in a phased manner. The company has cancelled a ₹900-crore deal with China which it was to execute in the next three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cycle-traders-propose-restriction-on-parts-imported-from-china/story-IUzGpNhoTX2dVzRTK1qREP.html
06-07-2020||Ranchi||60 cops quarantined in Chhattisgarh after rape accused tests Covid-19 positive||Sixty policemen were quarantined in Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh after a rape accused they brought from Karnataka was detected with Covid-19 on Monday, an official said.The Civil Lines police station, where the rape accused was brought, has been sealed and declared a containment zone after alerted by jail authorities on Monday, inspector general of police (Bilaspur Range) Dipanshu Kabra told Hindustan Times. “While four people came in direct contact with the accused, we have sent swab samples of all the sixty personnel posted in the police station for testing,” the IG said.Kabra said that the 28-year-old accused was arrested from Mysore by Bilaspur police after a woman lodged a case of sexual assault in June this year.The accused, who was brought by a team on July 4, has been sent in judicial remand. Jail authorities have been alerted after his reports returned positive, officials said. “ We are waiting for report of samples sent on Monday and further decisions will be taken accordingly” IG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/60-cops-quarantined-in-chhattisgarh-after-rape-accused-tests-covid-19-positive/story-AaUAjNqAT7lcqHoWNdPSfI.html
06-07-2020||City||No check on laying of underground cables leading to road cave-ins in Ludhiana||No check on laying of underground cables by companies and the absence of a water-sewer line map with the municipal corporation (MC) is said to be the major reason behind the rising roads cave-in incidents in the city. During monsoon, major road cave-in incidents are reported in the city and the authorities blame underlying wires by cable companies for the same. However, no steps have been taken to keep a check on the working of these companies or conduct a survey of the water-sewer lines. On Sunday, a road cave-in incident took place at Kaka marriage palace and the authorities claimed that the water supply lines got damaged due to underground laying of wires and cave-in occurred after soil eroded due to leakage. However, the authorities said that the repair work will be completed within two days. Major cave-in incident has been reported on the same road for the second consecutive year.One of the officials requesting anonymity said, “No field staff is present on-site when the companies dig the roads for laying wires. The sewer and water lines installed in many parts of the city are decades old and there is no map available. The authorities do not even have an idea about the damage made to the lines by cable companies until the soil erodes due to leakage in the line and road cave-ins.”Last year, road cave-in incidents were reported in different parts of the city including Dugri, Ghumar Mandi, Fountain chowk, Chandigarh road among other areas and the civic body officials blamed underground laying of wires for the same. MC additional commissioner Rishipal Singh said, “Till now the officials were not following the procedure. I have directed the staff to get the area inspected and apprise the cable company officials about the water-sewer lines before they commence the work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-check-on-laying-of-underground-cables-leading-to-road-cave-ins-in-ludhiana/story-GJGYsvleoYdVc0s7qdIXnI.html
06-07-2020||City||LIT engineer manhandled: Seeking arrests, improvement trust staff goes on strike in parts of Punjab||Seeking the arrest of accused Ravinder Singh Sonu for allegedly manhandling executive engineer of Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) during an anti-encroachment drive in Model House area here, the staff went on strike in Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala, Moga and other parts of the state on Monday. The staffers said that they will continue to protest until the accused is arrested by the police.The staffers rued that an FIR has been lodged against the accused, Ravinder Sonu, but he has not been arrested yet. The staff members also met deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and police commissioner, Rakesh Agrawal, over the issue on July 2.LIT executive engineer Buta Ram said, “We had observed a strike on Thursday but the police have not been able to arrest the accused. Due to this, the staff of improvement trusts in other districts of the state also joined the protest on Monday. We will continue protesting until the accused is arrested.”Station house officer of Model Town Rajanpal said, “Based o the complaint of LIT staff, the police have booked Ravinder Singh and six unidentified persons under section 353 (whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any person being a public servant in the execution of his duty as such public servant), 186 (obstructing any public servant in the discharge of his public functions) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code. Further Section 332 (whoever voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty as such public servant), 448 (punishment for house-trespass), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC have been added to the FIR. Raids are being conducted to nab the accused.”The LIT had to postpone the anti encroachments drive organised to raze encroachments from 3.03 acres of land in the Model house area on Tuesday. Ravinder Sonu and his family members opposed the drive and Sonu had allegedly slapped the executive engineer Jagdev Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lit-engineer-manhandled-seeking-arrests-improvement-trust-staff-goes-on-strike-in-parts-of-punjab/story-ut2wwOcks8jbGGPQN8BSaM.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Time for a fresh start!||It is true that the on-going pandemic has affected almost every business venture in the world. And therefore, with the clouds of uncertainty looming over heads of businessmen, there is nothing else for them to do but try and get back on track.For instance, holiday properties like villas and estates are a result of massive investments that require a steady return. With everyone staying home, the owners are staring into a bleak future. “The opening of our homes is going to be a combination of people, process and technology. When I say people, it means getting your people completely aware and sensitised to the fact that we are in very different times,” says Devendra Parulekar, Founder, SaffronStays.It is the same for the owners of luxurious sets. “Before the nationwide lockdown we accepted 4 bookings a day, but adapting to the new normal we have restricted that to one shoot a day,” says Rajesh Dembla, Founder, Sets In The City, adding, “We have seen a 90% decline in our bookings but are hopeful that it will get better by August.”Sorting out financial leeway is another important step towards recovery. “We controlled our fixed costs, for instance, lease rentals. We spoke to the homeowners and as a first measure, all of them agreed to waive off the lease rentals for the period and also at the same time, expenses were brought down to bare minimum. That ensured that the cash position wouldn’t be impacted,” adds Parulekar.The maintenance, too, requires huge manpower and regular checks and necessary precautions are important for their safety. “We have arranged for accommodation for our team at the premises so they do not travel and interact with other people. We are taking all the precautions as per government guidelines,” adds Dembala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/time-for-a-fresh-start/story-3DpLy6B9dHA5tL4FoXBwsO.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||School fee: Punjab and Haryana HC to hear appeals on July 13||The Punjab and Haryana high court will take up appeals against the single judge bench order on school fee issue of Punjab on July 13.A petition was taken up on Monday. However, in view of the state’s statement that it too is in the process of filing an appeal, the hearing was adjourned for July 13 by the bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice JS Puri.On June 30, a single judge had allowed private schools in Punjab to collect tuition fee irrespective of whether schools offered online classes during the lockdown or not. The bench had also permitted them to collect admission fee but ordered that fee should not be increased.A section of parents have challenged the order arguing that their income is affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Also, there is no rule regarding holding a person liable to pay charges for the services which have not been availed, they stated. Immediately after the judgment, the state government too had announced that the single bench order will be challenged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/school-fee-punjab-and-haryana-hc-to-hear-appeals-on-july-13/story-8KRsu2oqzbmfwVrBmkjVSJ.html
06-07-2020||Pune||211 PMC employees Covid +ve, 12 deceased||In addition to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) office bearers, 211 employees have tested positive for the Covid-19 infection as of July 5. PMC municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad and additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal are home quarantined and will be giving swab tests on Tuesday, as they attended various meetings with mayor Murlidhar Mohol who tested Covid-19 positive on July 4.After the mayor tested positive, several PMC officers have been home quarantined for three days and will be giving a swab test on Tuesday.Agrawal said, “I am home quarantined, but work was not affected as I conducted online meetings on Monday. I will give a swab test on Tuesday.”PMC labour welfare officer Shivaji Daundkar said, “In total, 211 PMC employees have tested positive for the Covid-19 infection till July 5. Among them,109 have been recovered and discharged. Until July 6, a total of 90 PMC employees were admitted to various Covid centres. A total of 12 PMC employees have lost their lives due to Covid-19, among them, one employee was on contract and the rest are permanent employees.”BOXPMC employees and Covid-19, as of July 5Total positive- 211Deaths - 12Total discharged -109In hospital - 90||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/211-pmc-employees-covid-ve-12-deceased/story-Andebsd4uGUIQsjsw3cBxI.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Determined to overcome coronavirus crisis in Maharashtra’: CM Uddhav Thackeray||Amid rising coronavirus cases, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said the ongoing battle against the pandemic will be definitely won and asserted that success against adversities can be achieved only when every section of the society comes together.He said his government is determined to overcome the coronavirus crisis in the state, which has reported more than than 2 lakh cases so far.Thackeray was speaking on the occasion of handing over of 20 ambulances, 100 ventilators and Rs 10 crore to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation ((BMC) under the ‘Plasma Project’, being jointly implemented by the civic body and the Tata Group for improving healthcare services in Mumbai.“We are all determined to end the coronavirus crisis. Citizens and big entrepreneurs are fighting shoulder to shoulder with the government. Everyone is working tirelessly and this will ensure success,” Thackeray said.The Chief Minister said in a crisis like coronavirus, many organisations and individuals have come forward to help fight the pandemic out of social consciousness.The Tata Group has stood by the state government in full force from the very beginning, he said.AadityaThackeray, tourism minister of Maharashtra and guardian minister of Mumbai suburban district, said the diversified conglomerate has been involved in the fight against the coronavirus from the very first day.AadityaThackeray prayed that time should not come to use these ambulances and ventilators, but if at all they are required, they will be useful in saving lives.AslamShaikh, guardian minister of Mumbai city district, said as steps are being taken fearlessly to get rid of coronavirus, Maharashtra will “soon” be free of Covid-19.Speaking on the occasion, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar sought the chief ministers involvement for the revival of BMCs own plasma centre that has 6000 litres of plasma stored.Ashutosh Salil, joint municipal commissioner, said the number of Covid-19 beds in Mumbai increased to 14,000 from just 3,500 more than three months ago and the count of ICU beds to 1,450 from 191 in mid-March.The city has a recovery rate of 66 per cent, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/determined-to-overcome-coronavirus-crisis-in-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-KRZ21OJ2SYZs75uyM78meK.html
06-07-2020||Pune||30-year-old alleges employer kidnapped, harassed him for spending company funds during lockdown||A 30-year-old man has alleged that his Pune-based employers kidnapped and abused him in order to punish him for using the company’s funds during the lockdown.A case has been registered against three people, including the owner of the company. The complaint has been lodged by Sanil Shinde, a native of Badlapur, Thane, who was working with a partnership company in Pune as a manager. The company runs a studio and organises art festivals in Pune, according to the complainant.“I was sent to Delhi in March for some work and was stuck in Delhi. I came to Pune in the first week of May. After undergoing tests at Sassoon hospital, I was asked to remain in quarantine for 14 days. The company owners first told me to check-in at a hotel on Apte road which I did. After 4-5 days, they said they will not pay for the hotel stay,” said the complainant.He allegedly left a mobile phone and the company debit card in the hotel after spending 17 days there as he could not pay the bill.The complainant claims that the accused found him through a social media post he had made along with his friend. According to complaint, the three accused allegedly kidnapped him on June 13 at 11am from Ghotawade phata area in Mulshi and took him to the office in Paud road area where he was allegedly beaten up. The men, then undressed him, harassed him and then left him locked there. In the morning, the younger brother of one of the accused opened the door and let him out.“One of the officials had received the complaint. Prima facie, it is an offence and all facts have been recorded in the complaint. There was no reason to doubt the content of the complaint. The complaint was sent to the appropriate police station,” said Pornima Gaikwad, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-3 of Pune police.“The three are on the run. We are looking for them. We are also waiting for the medical certificates of the complainant. The accused are all residents of Pune city. The assault happened in Kothrud, but since he was picked up from here, the case has been registered here (Paud),” said police inspector Ashok Dhumal of Paud police station.A case under Sections 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 342 (wrongful restraint), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt using dangerous weapons or means), 504 (insult with an intention of causing breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the three at Paud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/30-year-old-alleges-employer-kidnapped-harassed-him-for-spending-company-funds-during-lockdown/story-fJgsdTEKNmsScA2zuok07H.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER seeks ₹485 crore from Centre under supplementary budget grant||The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has sought an additional ₹485 crore from the Central government under the supplementary demand of grants for this year. The Central government in February had allocated ₹1,426 crore to PGIMER in its Union budget, ₹724 crore less than what it had sought.PGIMER was also not likely to generate estimated revenues of ₹150 crore for this financial year because of partial closure of medical services.“There is no clear cut thought on when everything will be back on track and therefore around ₹85 crore has been sought to meet expenditure – the source of which was the internal revenue,” said Kumar Abhay, the institute’s financial adviser.Much to disappointment of PGIMER authorities, just ₹300 crore was allocated out of the ₹700 crore they had sought as grant-in-aid. Factoring this, the institute sought an additional ₹300 crore in supplementary grants.New projects likely to be hitProcurement of medical diagnostic equipment and new projects are likely to be hit if the additional grants don’t come through. Among its major projects, PGIMER is setting up a 430-bed, high-end mother and child care centre, a 300-bed neurosciences centre and a 300-bed hospital at its satellite centre in Sangrur. The institute has also sought an additional ₹100 crore under the salary component.“Though the amount granted initially is enough for salaries, but as more people are expected to join the institute, the need for more money may arise. So, this amount has been demanded to be on the safe side,” Abhay said. No special funding sought for Covid-19 No special funding for Covid-19 care has been sought by PGIMER, which is utilising available funds for the purpose. “However, if some costly item is to be purchased, people who can replenish the stock are encouraged to do so,” officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-seeks-485-crore-from-centre-under-supplementary-budget-grant/story-yVDjl7qSY2NUpTBotsxkyH.html
06-07-2020||City||Covid +ve SI harassed for hospitalisation by pvt hospital in Amritsar||Police were on toes on Monday after the authorities of a private hospital ignored their requests of admitting a sub-inspector (SI) of the Punjab Police for over seven hours.The SI, who was performing his duties as a frontline warrior, was tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Following this, he was to be admitted in an isolation ward of the private hospital.“At 11am, we got information that the SI has been tested positive. He was symptomatic and consultation from doctors was a must. Since he has health insurance, he wanted to be admitted at Fortis Hospital, Amritsar. We called the hospital authorities immediately but they kept lingering the matter for seven hours. They ignored our requests and neither agreed nor refused his admission,” said assistant commissioner of police Sushil Kumar, who is nodal officer for Covid-19 in Amritsar.“We took the SI to district administration controlled meritorious school, where covid patients are being isolated. We have asked higher authorities to intervene into the matter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-ve-si-harassed-for-hospitalisation-by-pvt-hospital-in-amritsar/story-o6iA1D4SUL7faiyzXRErqO.html
06-07-2020||City||Students serve legal notice on Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law for seeking semester fee||Students of the Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) have served a legal notice on the varsity for seeking the semester fee of Rs 1.13 lakh amid the lockdown.As many as 639 students enrolled in the BA LLB course at the varsity stated that the legal notice has been sent demanding consideration and re-consideration of various issues and appropriate relaxation in respect of the proposed chargeable fee for the upcoming semester (August-December 2020) in light of the challenges posed by the ongoing pandemic.“The students have been asked to submit the advance chargeable fees of Rs 1.13 lakh by July 10 for upcoming semester. This fee is equivalent to the regular fees minus merely the mess fee (only postponed) and a waiver of the annual increase in the tuition fee amounting to Rs 5,000,” said Shreyans Jain, advocate in high court of Madhya Pradesh, who is representing the students.University registrar Naresh Vats said the varsity had given a patient hearing to students’ representation following which the decision of seeking fee was taken. “We will respond to the legal notice accordingly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-serve-legal-notice-on-rajiv-gandhi-national-university-of-law-for-seeking-semester-fee/story-m3VKzuLo8sjzI6osBF5U8H.html
06-07-2020||City||Two arrested for duping 38-yr-old; booked under anti-superstition act||PUNE: Two persons have been arrested for duping a woman of Rs 15,000, by having her believe that her missing gold could be brought back by performing a puja.The arrested have been identified as Ashish Chimanlal Kamble (28), a transgender, and Sunita Deepak Kamble (40), according to the police.“The complainant is a cleaner, and had lost some gold jewellery last year. The accused performed a puja and had her believe that it will help her retrieve the lost gold,” said sub-inspector (PSI) VS Mohite of Samarth police station.Through multiple transactions, the complainant paid them Rs 15,000 in the past seven months, according to the police.The gold jewellery is believed to have been given by the complainant’s minor son to his friend.There is a third person, along with the two arrested, who was involved in the crime, according to the complainant.The accused threatened her with dire consequences if she failed to pay the money on multiple occasions for the puja that was conducted at her home, according to her complaint. A case under Sections 384 (extortion), 341 (wrongful restraint), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 3 of the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013 has been registered against the three at Samarth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-duping-38-yr-old-booked-under-anti-superstition-act/story-w94C6WzsiSLatkEX9Qo5SK.html
06-07-2020||City||Cattle trader hacked to death in Khanna village||A cattle trader was hacked to death with sharp-edged weapons in his sleep in Kalalmajra village of Khanna on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday.His body was found lying in a pool of blood in a cattle shed near his house, following which the family informed the police.Cops reached the spot and initiated an investigation in the case. An FIR has been lodged against unidentified assailants. The police suspect rivalry behind the crime.The deceased has been identified as Jagmail Singh (48) of Kalal Majra village.As per information, the victim was a cattle trader for the past many years and also worked at a factory. After the factory was closed due to the lockdown, he did cattle trade only.His son Gursewak Singh said Jagmail used to sleep in the cattle shed every night and returned home the next morning.When his father didn’t return on Monday morning, he went to the cattle shed looking for him and found him dead there.Police said Jagmail’s body had multiple injury marks, including some on the face, seemingly inflicted by sharp weapons.Cops from Sadar police station reached the spot and initiated investigation. The body was sent to Khanna civil hospital for post-mortem examination.Sadar SHO inspector Jaspal Singh said an FIR has been registered against unidentified accused and that the police are close to solving the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cattle-trader-hacked-to-death-in-khanna-village/story-cS7Hc2a0Eiv8Lwpp2Qge8H.html
06-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally crosses one lakh, but recoveries also rise||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally crossed the one lakh mark on Monday after 1,379 new cases, the state health department said.The national capital’s tally now stands at 1,00,823 while the death toll mounted to 3,115 after 48 casualties in the last 24 hours.The number of activeCovid-19 cases now stands at 25,620 while 72,088 people have recovered from the virus. Delhi’s recovery rate is now 71.49%. After a surge in Covid-19 cases for much of the last month, Delhi seems to have gotten a hold on rising numbers and the number of people testing positive for the virus has been declining steadily.Since June 16, Delhi has seen a sharp rise in the number of cases with the daily figures ranging between 2,000 and 3,000. On June 23, it saw its highest single-day spike of 3,947 casesOn Monday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said there was no reason to panic despite the Covid-19 tally going past the one lakh mark and pointed to the number of recoveries to underline his claim.“In the last three months, the total number of corona patients in Delhi has reached approximately 1 lakh. But there is no need to worry or panic because out of these one lakh people, 72,000 cases have recovered. The recovery rate in Delhi has gone up to 72 per cent, which is a huge figure,” Kejriwal said.Kejriwal also said that his government was making all efforts to increase ICU beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.The average positivity rate - the rate at which samples test positive - has decreased to 11.6% from 21.6% two weeks ago.Delhi has tested 6,57,383 people, out of which 5,327 RT-PCR tests and 8,552 rapid antigen tests were conducted on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-coronavirus-tally-crosses-1-lakh-mark-slight-dip-in-cases-recorded/story-6JbLjU4x942MeYKvWiJU3I.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Heavy showers take break but moderate rains continue in Mumbai||After witnessing a spell of heavy rainfall over the past three days, Mumbai and neighbouring Thane received moderate rains on Monday, but the IMD predicted showers will continue in the night in the region.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Santacruz weather bureau (in suburbs) recorded 5.2 mm rainfall, while the Colaba weather station, representative of the island city, reported 1.2 mm rainfall between 8:30 am and 5:30 pm on Monday.The Thane-Belapur Industries Association observatory recorded 34 mm rainfall during the period, the IMD said. “Showers to continue tonight Mumbai and around, as seen from satellite and radar latest images..,”IMD Mumbai’s Deputy Director General K S Hosalikar tweeted.The Matheran weather station in Raigad district received 22 mm rainfall during the same span, the IMD said.The Dahanu observatory in Palghar district reported 16.8 mm rainfall, while the Nashik weather bureau reported 4.3 mm rainfall during the period.The Santacruz weather station in Mumbai’s western suburbs recorded 116.1 mm downpour during the 24 hours ended at 8.30 am on Monday, while the Colaba weather station in South Mumbai recorded 12.4 mm rainfall during the same period.Mumbai and other parts of the coastal Konkan region have been experiencing heavy rains since Friday.On Sunday, the Powai lake in suburban Mumbai started overflowing after the heavy downpour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-showers-take-break-but-moderate-rains-continue-in-mumbai/story-QQXuzVfz2UnuE6dpiA229N.html
06-07-2020||Delhi||Helpline numbers of Covid hospitals available in Delhi Corona app, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has said that authorised helpline numbers of all Covid hospitals in the city are being reflected in the ‘Delhi Corona’ mobile application, an official statement said on Monday. The development comes after the Delhi government received many complaints from citizens that helpline numbers of these hospitals remained unreachable most of the time, it said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTaking cognisance of the matter, Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia, who is also handling the health portfolio, directed all Covid hospitals of the city to make authorised helpline numbers. “All these hospitals have come out with 24*7 available authorised helpline numbers and the numbers are available in the Delhi Corona app which was developed and launched by the Delhi government to provide Covid-19 pandemic related information,” the statement said. Any person who wants to reach out to these hospitals with Covid-19 related query can now dial these numbers directly from the application, it said. When a person clicks on the name of a hospital where beds are available, its phone number along with its location on a map, will pop up in the mobile app. The AAP government had launched the ‘Delhi Corona’ application last month to provide real-time information on the availability of beds for the treatment of coronavirus in hospitals across the city. Days after launching the application, the government had ordered the medical facilities to ensure real-time updating on the app. The application also helps Delhiites locate nearby healthcare facilities dealing with coronavirus patients.The hospitals have also been colour-coded red, yellow and green depending on the availability of beds, with ‘red’ denoting hospitals with very few beds available and ‘green’ denoting those with an adequate number of beds, the statement said. Till July 6, Delhi has around 14,986 beds, out of which, 5,169 beds are occupied and 9,817 beds are vacant, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/helpline-numbers-of-covid-hospitals-available-in-delhi-corona-app-says-kejriwal/story-AsDTDDTmRc5RtF37jGapvJ.html
06-07-2020||City||Four fresh cases in Haryana’s Panchkula take district tally to 124||Four new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Panchkula on Monday, taking the district’s total tally to 124. Nineteen of these cases are active.Those found infected include a 47-year-old man from Sector 7 and a 33-year-old woman from Sector 18. Their source of infection is not known yet.A 53-year-old man from Sector 16, who used to travel to Baddi daily for work, and a 16-year-old girl from Indira Colony near Sector 16, who is a family contact of a previous patient, have also tested positive. While 104 people have been cured and discharged so far, one has succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-fresh-cases-in-haryana-s-panchkula-take-district-tally-to-124/story-zVTvKtHSSTp6NlrN5JvYrK.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Alleged kingpin of match-fixing racket held in Mohali||The alleged kingpin of a betting racket, Ravinder Dandiwal, was arrested on Monday by Mohali police for suspected links to an international tennis match-fixing scandal and for hosting a fake Uva Sri Lankan T20 league games in Sawara village in this district from June 29 to July 5.Two bookies were held three days ago for the cricket betting racket.The trio, including Dandiwal, was produced in a local court that sent them to a five-day police remand.Divulging details, Mohali senior superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Chahal said Dandiwal, who was on the radar of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), was facing charges of hosting a cricket match of the Uva T20 league on June 29 that was aired in Sri Lanka through YouTube. BCCI unit arriving todayHe said the anti-corruption unit of the BCCI would be arriving in the city on Tuesday to share details and interrogate Dandiwal.A report in the Indian Express had said earlier that Dandiwal was named as a suspect in a tennis fixing racket by the Victoria Police in Australia. Chahal said the cricket match, comprising small-time players largely from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, was played at a cricket academy in Sawara village located about 15 km from Chandigarh. The players were wearing face masks, presumably for Covid-19 protection, and numbered jerseys.It was being streamed live as a Uva T20 League match in Sri Lanka’s Badulla city, home of the Uva Province Cricket Association.Village cricket ground bookedChahal said after the arrests of bookies Rajesh Garg and Pankaj Arora, the police learnt that the grounds of Stoker Cricket Academy in Swara village had been booked from June 29 to July 5, 2020, for ₹33,000.Four teams had been formed for the cricket series named Uva-T 20-Premier League. Though held in Punjab it was shown as being held in Sri Lanka and relayed on various social media apps such as FanCode, Diamond, Sky, Lotus, 10bet, Spin, Punjab Exchange, for earning money through betting. Chahal said Dandiwal’s role in the racket was being investigated.Those hired to play the match were small-time players who were offered ₹5,000 to ₹10,000. The role of some Ranji players in hosting the match is also being investigated,said a senior police officer.He said the players who looked like Sri Lankans were selected.Two cameras at the venue focused on the back of the players to conceal their faces and were typically taking long shots.“When the match was airing, suddenly a camera captured some farmers working in a rice field. That raised suspicions that the match is not being played in a stadium,” said the police official, who was part of the investigation.Cases against Dandiwal and the two other bookies have been registered under section 420, 120-B IPC, 13A/3/67 of the Punjab Gambling Act at Police Station Sadar in Kharar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/alleged-kingpin-of-match-fixing-racket-held-in-mohali/story-aNX2QSGHBqRDdrtugPgktO.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||HT Spotlight: Covid warriors put duty before self||MARCHING ON Policemen and health workers are the frontline warriors in our fight against Covid-19. With India expected to hit the coronavirus peak this month, Hindustan Times reporters take a look at how the health and police departments in J&K, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh are fighting the invisible enemy amid a surge in cases and challenges, including increased risk, longer hours at work, and colleagues in quarantine. Some of our warriors have made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty, while many have recovered and are back Covid duty.43 doctors, over 200 security men test positive in Kashmir Forty-three doctors in Kashmir have tested positive for Covid-19 while treating coronavirus patients in hospitals across the Union territory.Director, health services, Kashmir, Dr Samir Matto says, “Almost all of them are doing fine.”Dr Javeed Iqbal Monga, who is working at Government Medical College, Baramulla, was the first doctor from Kashmir Valley to have contracted the infection. His wife also tested positive and they were hospitalised at Srinagar’s Sher-e-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) for three weeks before they tested negative.“I was the first doctor from Kashmir to get Covid-19. I got the virus while performing intubation of a patient at Baramulla Medical College. I was scared initially because my condition was getting from bad to worse, but after a week of treatment, I started recovering,” he says.“After the hospital stay, I completed home quarantine and got back to treating patients. Today, I can easily recognise patients with Covid symptoms as I have gone through this disease,” Dr Monga says.He is ready to donate his plasma for therapy and save lives. “In J&K, plasma therapy has not started yet. But once it does, I will surely donate my plasma,” he adds.Family members of Dr Gul Afroz Khuroo recently posted a message on social media, seeking prayers and blessings after the condition of the doctor deteriorated. She had got the disease at a hospital in Sopore and is fighting for life.Security personnel have also borne the brunt of coronavirus while performing their duties.More than 200 security personnel, including policemen, Central Reserve Paramilitary Force personnel and soldiers, have tested positive in the past four months in different parts of Kashmir. -Mir EhsanPart of the job, 12 Jammu doctors get back to duty With a testing rate of 25,000 per million and a doubling rate of 22 days, the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has fortunately not seen a single death of a doctor or security personnel in its four-month drive against coronavirus.“We haven’t lost any health worker or policeman to Covid though we have positive cases among them but the figure keeps changing,” says Bhupinder Kumar, the nodal officer of Covid-19 mitigation efforts in J&K.“Twelve doctors engaged in treating Covid cases tested positive in four months. Most of them have recovered and the rest are on the road to recovery. It’s part of the profession,” says a senior doctor at Government Medical College And Hospital in Jammu.Kathua district police chief Shailendra Kumar Mishra admits that six personnel of the central armed police force are undergoing treatment at a police training school in Kathua, which has been converted into a quarantine centre. “But we don’t have a single positive case in the police force of Kathua.”On countering challenges, he says, “From the outset, we didn’t consider it a dreaded infection. It’s a weak virus. Kathua has recorded only one death of an elderly woman from Basohli so far.”Mishra credits community involvement and sustained awareness campaigns for fewer cases.“Initially, we had to be strict but it paid off. Today, we are comfortable in tackling the virus compared to other states and UTs,” he says. - Ravi Krishnan KhajuriaSeven police personnel, two doctors catch infection in HP Seven police personnel and two doctors have tested positive for coronavirus since the pandemic began four months ago. Fortunately, there has been no casualty among Covid warriors.The first instance of a policeman getting infected was reported in Kangra district on May 12 when a 50-year-old head constable posted at Panchrukhi police station tested positive. He has since recovered but the source of infection remains untraced.In Una, a constable at the superintendent of police’s office tested positive after which the entire premises was sealed and staff quarantined.Two head constables and a constable at Bhabha Nagar police station in the tribal district of Kinnaur tested positive on June 26. Again, the source of infection remains untraced.Two doctors have tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal so far. One of them was deployed in the Covid ward of the Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda, Kangra. The other was a lady doctor on duty at a quarantine centre near Palampur town.Both of them have recovered and are back on duty.KEEPING MORALE UP AMID INCREASED WORKLOADShiv Kumar Sharma, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Solan, admits policing has become challenging in such times. “The biggest challenge is that cops on frontline duty should not let the morale dip. Everyone knows the dangers; they have families and limitations. Precautions are of utmost importance,” he says.The work of police has also increased manifold due to the pandemic. Apart from law and order and border management, police are engaged for contact tracing and supply of essentials.Doctors too are struggling with increased workload. Dr Satyavrat Vaidya, the district surveillance officer in Kullu, says, “I haven’t taken an off in the past three months and haven’t even been able to meet my father who not keeping well.”Doctors are working in shifts stretching from 12-18 hours a day as against the eight hours on normal days.- Naresh K ThakurAggressive testing helps Punjab Police, most cases asymptomatic Punjab’s policemen and health workers on Covid duty are leading from the front in the fight against coronavirus.From catching people violating protocol to ensuring strict lockdown, Punjab Police is on their toes yet so far only 0.8% of the 29,456 cops tested have been found positive. Tests of rest of the force is underway.It’s compulsory for all police personnel to get themselves tested for Covid and so far, 37% of the total force has undergone the RT-PCR test.A total of 241 cops have been found positive, while 168 have recovered till date. Barring two deaths due to Covid-19, all police personnel were asymptomatic.“From catching people jumping quarantine to ensuring law and order, even routine duties make police personnel vulnerable to the virus. We are doing RT-PCR tests for all and thankfully, a very less number has turned out to be positive,” says Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta.With 13 positive cases, Sangrur has the maximum number of positive police personnel followed by Ludhiana City at 10.According to a senior official, most of personnel have recovered and rejoined duty.ADGP, welfare, V Neerja has been given the task of overseeing RT-PCR tests of the police force.“I didn’t have any symptom but felt stiffness in the body one night. I went for a routine check and was stunned to learn about my positive status. I was shifted to a government isolation facility in Ludhiana, where I was kept for eight days. I’m perfectly fine now,” says assistant sub inspector Harmesh Singh from Ludhiana, who was posted at Ladhowal Toll Plaza. The ASI resumes duty this week. FEW HEALTH WORKERS TESTED POSITIVEDr Rajesh Bhaskar, Punjab’s nodal officer for fighting Covid-19, says, “We don’t have the exact data of health workers testing positive since the outbreak. It’s only recently that we added the column for data of health workers and cops testing positive.”Director, health and family welfare, Dr Avneet Kaur says, “Let me assure you this number is very low.”In Government Medical College, Patiala, 22 health workers were found positive, including 10 nurses, 10 ward boys and a junior doctor. At least 20 ASHA workers also tested positive, a senior health functionary said, requesting anonymity. Ravinder VasudevaStrict oversight helps cut down cases among health workers in Chandigarh  Twenty-two healthcare professionals and a policewoman contracted Covid-19 infection since the first case was reported in Chandigarh on March 18. Most of them are back on duty at the city’s two tertiary care hospitals – Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.Work at the Sector 32 hospital was hit at one stage when 12 health workers tested positive out of 20 such cases in town.In Mohali, two doctors and a policeman were infected, out of which a doctor is in quarantine, while in Panchkula, 11 health professionals and policemen contracted the virus and 10 are in isolation.A 28-year-old resident doctor of the anesthesia department of GMCH-32 says that testing positive and getting isolated from the family was a tough experience. “I felt low initially and even thought it was the end of my career. But I persisted and recovered to join back work,” she says.After infection was reported among healthcare workers, the city’s hospitals extended the sphere of providing safety gear to non-Covid wards and areas. “Safety of healthcare professionals is a must and we didn’t want to take any chances. Protective gear is being provided in emergency wards, which are the first point of contact between doctors and patients,” says PGI director Dr Jagat Ram.“There is no room for complacency, so whenever, a healthcare worker dons the PPE, experts supervise it. There is a doffing area and the same activity takes place there. This has helped control the infection spread among healthcare workers,” spokesperson Dr Ashok Kumar said.In Panckula, 11 health professionals and policemen have tested positive so far. The doctors who tested positive are working with a private hospital and so is a nurse. They are all posted in a non-Covid ICU but had treated a chronic kidney patient who tested positive in June.A family of four that works in the Civil Hospital of Panchkula also tested positive. The husband , 47, works in the post-mortem department, while the wife cooks at doctors’ residences inside the campus. Their two sons work as class four employees on contract. The woman had travelled to Rajpura to attend a funeral after which she tested positive.In Mohali, a 35-year-old doctor of a private hospital in Sector 69 tested positive on March 31, while on June 7, a policeman at the judicial complex was found positive. Both have resumed duty after treatment. On July 2, a doctor from Sohana Hospital tested positive and is under quarantine.Civil surgeon Dr Manjeet Singh sums it up well: “Times are difficult and if we won’t work in solidarity, we can never defeat this virus.” - Hillary Victor748 health workers, nearly 800 officials, cops infected in Haryana Deployed on Covid duty in hospitals, containment zones, quarantine centres and testing labs, health workers and police personnel are vulnerable to catching the virus.According to the state health department, 12% of the infected persons in the state are doctors, paramedics, police and government officials deputed to save lives of infected persons.By June 28, the state had 748 infected health workers, which is 5.41% of the 13,829 patients. As many as 779 (5.6%) state police personnel, army and government officials have tested positive in Haryana so far.“There is no need to worry as most of the infected health staff workers have recovered and resumed duty,” says Haryana health services director Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj.Dr Anjali, an ENT specialist at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital, Karnal, who tested positive on April 6, recalls, “It was shocking for me as I was worried about my two-year-old daughter and husband. But my family and colleagues supported me and I recovered to join duty after 26 days.”POLICING RISKY DESPITE PRECAUTIONSThe state reported the first Covid 19 death involving a police personnel on April 4 as a sub-inspector died of coronavirus at the Maharaja Agrasen Hospital in Delhi. On June1, a sub-inspector of Haryana Police posted in Gurugram also succumbed to the virus.Barring the two cases, police personnel have defeated the virus and resumed duty after quarantine.Lata Rani, an assistant sub-inspector in Panipat, got infected along with her two brothers and parents on April 24. It took her 25 days to recover. “Being public servants, police personnel have to deal with people from different backgrounds daily. That’s why I don’t know the source of my infection,” she says.Haryana director general of police Manoj Yadava says, “The number of infected cops is low as compared to other states. Policing is risky in these times despite all precautionary measures. We issued a detailed protocol and training was also suspended to avoid the spread of infection.”Similarly, Bharti Arora, inspector general of police, Karnal range, says district police heads have been asked to monitor and provide all facilities if personnel test positive. Neeraj MohanWith inputs from Shailee Dogra and Amanjeet Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-spotlight-covid-warriors-put-duty-before-self/story-oz96s6pmk266lrcMOBfnOM.html
06-07-2020||City||4 steal alcohol, cash worth ₹8.8 lakh, held||Thane’s Kasarwadwli police arrested four persons for breaking into a wine shop in Ghodbunder area and stealing alcohol bottles and cash worth ₹8.8 lakh.The theft happened on June 22 in the evening hour. The owner of the shop realised the morning after ₹1 lakh cash kept in the locker and some of the alcohol bottles boxes worth ₹7.8 lakh were missing.Senior police inspector, Kishor Khairnar registered an offence against four unknown thefts who were caught in CCTV camera of the area and the shop.Khairnar said, “Acting on a tip-off, we formed four different teams and arrested Mohammad Ansari, 36, Sartaj Malik, 27, Salman Pathan, 27 and Samir Shaikh, 21. Ansari owns a salon and the other three are unemployed. We have arrested all of them and recovered all amounts and alcohol bottles too. They have been arrested under Indian Penal Code sections 457, 454, 380.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-steal-alcohol-cash-worth-8-8-lakh-held/story-iY5M3cAybM7X0tXRNXB2fK.html
06-07-2020||City||15 fresh cases of Covid-19 surface in Punjab’s Mohali; count climbs to 318||Fifteen cases of Covid-19 were reported in Mohali on Monday, taking the district’s total count to 318.While 13 of the 14 cases reported on Sunday were from Dera Bassi subdivision, the fresh ones are from Mohali and Kharar subdivisions.In Mohali subdivision, two women, aged 26 and 52, and a 27-year-old man, all of whom have travel history to Kanpur, have been found infected in Sector 66, besides three men, aged 20, 33 and 45, and a woman, aged 70, in Majat, who are contacts of previous cases.A 29-year-old woman, who works in the Chandigarh education department and lives in Sector 80, and a 70-year-old man from Phase 11, who is suffering from influenza like illness, have also tested positive. In Kharar, a 32-year-old man, who is a contact of a patient, a 46-year-old man from Sunny Enclave and a 37-year-old man from Sector 127 have tested positive. A 65-year-old man from New Chandigarh, Mullanpur, and a 23-year-old woman from Ballomajra have also been found infected.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all patients have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and samples of their family members are being taken. There are 85 active cases in the district, as 229 people have recovered while five have died.Behda village declared containment zoneAfter 35 Covid-19 cases were reported from Behda village near Dera Bassi, it has been declared a containment zone. While a health team led by the civil surgeon visited the village, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan passed orders to seal its boundaries to prevent further spread of the disease. “A total of 22 workers of a meat factory near Behda have tested positive so far. The factory has already been declared a containment zone. Most of its workers live in this village, 11 of whom had tested positive on Sunday,” said Dr Manjit Singh, adding that 141 samples of family and community contacts were collected besides door-to-door screening on Monday. No unauthorised entry into districtActing on directions of the state government for mandatory e-registration for travellers to Punjab, the deputy commissioner said on Monday that no unauthorised entry would be allowed into the district and strict vigil would be maintained at all five border check posts at Siswan, Jharmari, Zirakpur, Bohra Khera Morh and Nagal Morh. Everyone entering the district will have to go through proper procedures as laid out in the advisory regarding standard operating procedures, which would be applicable from Tuesday, though no e-registration is required for tricity residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-surface-in-punjab-s-mohali-count-climbs-to-318/story-3tUGGI7lp4ewHiLhUkqADL.html
06-07-2020||City||Delhi govt resumes online classes after summer break||New Delhi: The Delhi government resumed virtual teaching-learning process in its schools after the summer break on Monday. As many as 415,000 students enrolled in classes KG to 10 accessed worksheets through WhatsApp and 23,000 class12 students attended live lessons via YouTube on the first day.In a statement issued on Monday, Delhi education minister Manisha Sisodia’s office said, “Students from KG to class 8 received their first worksheet which they will now receive every day. It contains activities to promote reading, writing, basic numeracy and happiness among children. Similarly, students in Grade 9 and 10 received worksheets for Hindi, Science and Maths today. They will receive 2-3 worksheets every day.”All the worksheets were shared with the students by the class teachers through WhatsApp group created for each class. “For those students who don’t have access to WhatsApp, teachers will get the printouts of these worksheets and hand them to their parents each week,” it added.“What a great start of online teaching & learning in #DelhiGovtSchools. Over 1.35 lakh views of the Gr 12 English & History class on Youtube & over 4 lakh students accessed lessons via WhatsApp.Proud of my teachers! We have to make sure we reach every child of each class,” Sisodia tweeted.Similarly, for class 12 students, the Delhi government’s Directorate of Education (DoE) conducted online classes via YouTube in English and History on Monday. The students were given an opportunity to remove their doubts through YouTube comments, to which teachers responded. “Around 23,000 students watched the live lessons on YouTube and answered questions asked by teachers in the comments section. Till the writing of this report, the videos had been accessed by more than 1.35 lakh people,” the statement added.Sisodia requested the parents to continue supporting the government in this initiative so that every child can learn. “It’s very important to engage creatively with the students on digital platforms and our teachers have created very engaging content,” he said.All schools in Delhi have been shut since March 18 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Both private and government schools are offering virtual learning through different modes such as video conferencing, YouTube and WhatsApp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-resumes-online-classes-after-summer-break/story-SsZVPWjgAiVAkO9pN2RlQN.html
06-07-2020||City||No unauthorised entry permitted into district: Mohali DC||Acting on the directions of the state government for mandatory e-registration for travellers to Punjab, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, no unauthorised entry into the district would be allowed and a strict vigil would be maintained at all the five border checkpoints at Siswan, Jharmari, Zirakpur, Bohra Khera Morh, and Nagal Morh.The process of e-registration for all travellers to the state has been made mandatory from Monday midnight. However, e-registration is not applicable for the travellers in Tricity.Dayalan said that in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the district administration would double up its efforts including the deploying of police teams, and officials of the health departments so as to ensure that people are entering the district after proper medical screening at five border checkpoints. E-passes generated through COVA app will only be accepted.Data entry operators would also be deployed at every border checkpoint for the purpose of maintaining the complete information about every individual entering the district. Besides, the ambulance service will be on standby so as to ensure its availability at short notice.In accordance with the advisory, any person whether major or minor coming to Punjab via any mode i.e. road, rail or air shall henceforth, and till further orders, would be medically screened when they enter Punjab and will be required to e-register themselves by downloading COVA app on their mobile phone and then registering themselves and each member of their family travelling with them before starting their journey.For 4/3-wheelers, paste the printout on the left side of your windscreen or place it on the dashboard or carry it with you on your mobile phone if travelling in public transport by logging on to portalhttps://cova.punjab.gov.in/registration.In case any inbound traveller does not undertake the steps detailed above, then they will have to cooperate with the team who would undertake the data capturing process at the spot itself.Except for frequent travellers, all inbound persons after reaching Punjab will have to undergo self-quarantine for 14 days and during this period they will have to update their health status daily on the COVA app or would have to call 112 daily. In case they feel they are developing any Covid-19 symptoms, they will have to immediately call 104. For international travellers, the quarantine would be institutional for the first seven days and then at their homes for the next seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-unauthorised-entry-permitted-into-district-mohali-dc/story-OFU9IqvkTenPHM9ga6OlKM.html
06-07-2020||City||Ambulance carrying 12 Covid-19 patients overturns in Pune||PUNE: An ambulance carrying 12 Covid-19 positive patients from Kothrud to Balewadi met with an accident in Bavdhan on Monday evening.“A second ambulance was immediately called and the patients were taken to Symbiosis Lavale hospital. No major injuries were reported,” said senior inspector Yashwant Gawari of Hinjewadi police station.The accident happened near the gate of High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL) in Bavdhan.“The vehicle overturned at a turn near the gate,” said PI Gawari.There were five minors, four men and three women in the ambulance along with the driver.As relatives of some patients were following the ambulance in a separate vehicle, help was called for immediately, according to the police.“A second ambulance to take the patients and a crane to clear the damaged ambulance from the stretch was immediately called,” said hawaldar Maruti Pashale of Bavdhan police outpost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambulance-carrying-12-covid-19-patients-overturns-in-pune/story-k1jC7IbHZmVDYZv5mharsM.html
06-07-2020||Lucknow||No pension causes heartburns among ex-UP cricketers||In the nine Ranji Trophy matches Hari Daas Bhandari played over four years in the 60s, the Kanpur player earned R5 per match, totalling R45. But more than the money, the “biggest earning” for him was “pride and satisfaction of playing for his state”.A right-handed batsman and stumper, Bhandari began with a catch and a stumping, besides making two runs in his only innings against Madhya Pradesh at Banaras (now Varanasi). Still, he continued to be backed by his skipper AK Chaturvedi and when he quit in 1960-61, he had 11 catches and eight stumpings to his credit besides scoring 96 runs with 37 being his highest in 14 innings.“Money was not the issue, it was pride and passion and I enjoyed my four seasons with the UP team with full enthusiasm and excitement,” said Bhandari. “The passion for the game was such then as I used to travel to Lucknow to play Sheesh Mahal Cricket Tournament and for that I used to get trouser, shirt and even shoes from my team-mates.”Now retired as an executive director from Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL), Bhandari has been a strong voice for the pension to the former cricketers. Now 83, the former junior state selector Bhandari wants that contribution of all 120-odd former cricketers of the state should be recognized by the Uttar Pradesh Cricket Association in the form of monthly pension.“A token amount of R5,000-10,000 as pension to veterans won’t make a big difference to the coffers of the UPCA as they have been getting huge money from the BCCI. They (UPCA) should also copy other state cricket bodies, who have been giving pension to their former cricketers, including those who could play just one match,” said Bhandari.Only this January in the very second meeting of the Apex Council at Ferozabad, the UPCA had agreed to a pension scheme and Indian Cricketers Association’s representatives in the state --- Ashok Bambi (men’s cricket) and Iti Chaturvedi (women’s cricket) --- were assigned the jobs of finalising the list of genuine beneficiaries.“Yes, we are waiting for a response from the UPCA and I have been assured to get the things done soon,” Bambi said on Friday. “Have already submitted the list of the beneficiaries to the UPCA and even my suggestions in this regard, but now they are silent over the issue. Even a few among the listed beneficiaries have passed away during the last five months. Financial aid to veteran cricketers in this pandemic COVID19 would be a big help.”He, however, said that even he told UPCA to give R10,000-20,000 to all such beneficiaries in advance, and the money should be deducted from their accounts when the pension scheme is approved. “If UPCA can R50 lakh to the government’s relief fund it can also give financial help to its veteran heroes. It’s not going to be R1.10 crore a year to run this scheme properly.”In 2009, UPCA had distributed R50,000 each to veteran cricketers in its maiden endeavor before handing over a similar amount to those beneficiaries as the second installment after a few years, but it never bothered to introduce any pension scheme. “In many states, cricket bodies are giving even pension to their domestic players, who are getting pensions from the BCCI, but here in UP we are struggling for a routine system.”Women’s cricket representative in UP Chaturvedi said that process to complete the membership with the ICA was on. “Due to the lockdown over the last three months, the scrutiny has been delayed a bit but so far we have identified 37 genuine cricketers, who come under the pension scheme. We are expecting pension for them soon,” said Chaturvedi.She also said that but so far as many as three cricketers, including Shikha Chatterjee (Kanpur), Kashmira Jain (Lucknow) and Farzana Begum (Kanpur) have been given one-time benefit by the ICA.Former Ranji cricketer and selector Neeru Kapoor was furious over the delay in pension to the veteran cricketers of UP. “I don’t understand the reason behind this delay. “Many of us have been facing financial hardships in this crisis situation and this is the right time when UPCA should given financial support to its former cricketers,” said Kapoor.No one from the UPCA, including secretary Yudhveer Singh could come on record to say on the issue, but insiders confirm that process is on and soon things would be finalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/no-pension-causes-heartburns-among-ex-up-cricketers/story-peqvyhZkflCVZoB0jYfHtM.html
06-07-2020||Lucknow||Goat milk was like ‘elixir’ for village kids during lockdown||The goat has received the least attention among milch animals in the country and is supposed to be an asset of the very poor. Yet its milk helped scores of undernourished kids in Uttar Pradesh during the lockdown.Four-and-a-half-year old Jeetu’s father Ajay Kumar, a daily wage labourer in Bada Tal Maiti village, Barabanki, said: “Jeetu never had milk -- cow’s or buffalo’s. When he drank the goat milk offered to him for the first time, he relished it and looked forward to it every day. He used to pick up his glass and troop out to the free goat milk distribution spot during the first 35 days of intense Covid-19 lockdown.”“His health showed visible improvement and his weight increased. He did not miss even a day.”The Goat Trust, a voluntary organisation engaged in promotion and support of goat rearing -- especially in Bundelkhand and Lucknow region of the state -– faced disruption in its commercial milk supply during the lockdown. So it chose free distribution and on-the-spot goat milk-drinking campaign for 138 under-nourished children in Bada Tal (Barabanki) and Newada, Dhawa Takia and Achchhripurwa villages of Lucknow.“We checked their undernourishment parameters before and after the 35-day campaign. A total of 129 children showed marked positive growth. There was an average of 500-gram weight gain among the 129 and 10 of these children gained an average of 1.32 kg. Nine did not show any noticeable change. In all the villages, not even one child missed his daily dose of a glass of goat milk,” said Sanjeev Kumar, founder of the Goat Trust.He said: “While the government made arrangements for food security to people, we thought to provide some nutrition to these children during the lockdown.”Sanjeev Kumar, a social entrepreneur and an Ashok fellow (2013) had founded the Goat Trust in 2013 to promote systematic goat rearing as a means of livelihood and nutrition in rural areas of the state. Last year, the trust set up a milk pasteurisation plant near Kukrail forest area in Lucknow and began buying milk from its member goat-rearers. An alumnus of the National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, Sanjeev Kumar said: “Most of the people buy our goat milk as medicine. The goat milk has many health benefits and is also healthier than cow/buffalo milk. Maximum of our consumers are elderly with digestive, heart, or diabetes issues and goat milk is beneficial in all these diseases. But it is not as tasty as the other kinds of milk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/goat-milk-was-like-elixir-for-village-kids-during-lockdown/story-dCbdSfOYbDXRtIKga86qBJ.html
06-07-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee launches document scanning app, says it reflects patriotism||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday launched a mobile application, developed by the state’s information technology department, to scan documents and said it reflects patriotism.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe state government’s ‘Self Scan’ app came days after the Centre banned 59 Chinese mobile applications and amid a call for boycott of Chinese goods.“I would always want to use an app prepared in my country. It reflects patriotism. What Bengal thinks today, the whole world thinks tomorrow,” Banerjee said after launching the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-launches-document-scanning-app-says-it-reflects-patriotism/story-IIjFR8RDY0U5Con7YiQQsM.html
06-07-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 vs COPAL-19: Meet Delhi’s engineering students who powered plasma donor app with AIIMS doc||Though there is no breakthrough in developing a vaccine for Covid-19 yet, the youngsters of the country are leaving no stone unturned to back India’s brave fight against the pandemic. Meet engineering students Tushar Chaudhary, Kaashika Prajaapat, and Tanay Aggarwal, who have collaborated with Dr Abhinav Singh Verma from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi. Together they have successfully developed the COPAL-19 app, which will help build a plasma donor bank to speed up recovery of Covid-19 patients. Prajaapat, a fourth year Computer Science and Engineering undergraduate at Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) Delhi, says, “I had been creating a Medical Facility Tracker that could help people locate things like the nearest hospital for treatment against Covid-19, the number of beds available in that hospital etc. I was working on this with my friend Tanay, a student of Maharaja Surajmal Institute Of Technology (affiliated to Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University). When we launched the tracker, a lot of people came to us to discuss about what other problems can be solved though mobile apps. And one of the issues we found pertinent was the lack of routing between plasma donors and Covid-19 patients. We started work to create a prototype. And Tushar, who is my senior at IIT-D, connected us with Dr Abhinav Singh Verma from AIIMS, who was also aiming at solving the same problem. That’s how we all collaborated and took this initiative further.” “There have been a lot of cases where people have died because of the unavailability of plasma, and we wanted to do something about it,” says Chaudhary, adding, “The app helps to connect those patients who need plasma therapy with the potential donors, well in time for the treatment to begin. We coordinated with Dr Verma and developed the app digitally! So, this was majorly a remote project. Phone calls and video conferencing is what helped us remain in touch as we developed the app during these odd times.” In absence of a Covid-19 vaccine, the age old plasma therapy is proving useful to reduce the viral load, making COPAL-19 app a crucial software. The Resident Neurosurgeon at AIIMS Delhi informs that the idea for one such app was propelled by the need to find a plasma donor for his senior. Dr Verma adds, “We wanted matching plasma for one of our senior doctors who had turned Covid-19 positive. And it took a group of 50 doctors almost one full day to arrange it! Still they managed to find only two donors. At that point, I realised what a crisis it is and thought of how can it be solved with a simple solution to make a smart database of plasma donors.” Calling COPAL-19 app the need of the hour, Chaudhary adds, “If a doctor had to face so much trouble to get plasma donors, wonder what common people would have been facing... That’s how the idea for COPAL-19 was born.” Thus the engineering students acted quickly and moved from the ideation stage to the execution within a matter of few days. “It took a week from ideation to prototyping. We worked day and night to get the permissions and to have a working prototype launched. It will now be made available pan India, on the playstore, within a week or two,” says Prajaapat, sharing that the team is also in touch with Karnataka government to further spread the word about the app. Talking about the response so far, Prajaapat adds, “Though it’s not yet a published app since we are seeking certain permissions, people have already registered themselves as donors and have voluntarily come forward to save people who are infected and in need of plasma.”Interact with the author @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-vs-copal-19-meet-delhi-s-engineering-students-who-powered-plasma-donor-app-with-aiims-doc/story-zs9Yo1VCRFnYOi6t4qZN1N.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal first state where all households have LPG gas connections: CM||Himachal Pradesh has become the first state in the country where all households have LPG gas connections, said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur while interacting with the beneficiaries of Himachal Grihini Suvidha Yojana through video-conference on Monday.Thakur said collecting fuel wood and cooking food on traditional chullahs was not only cumbersome, but also had an adverse affects on health of the women. It also affected the environment as trees are cut for fuel wood. Keeping in view all these issues, Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his first tenure envisioned the Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojana under which gas connections were provided free of cost to poor women of rural areas, he said. As many as 1.36 lakh families in the state have benefitted from the scheme, the CM said.“The state government had launched the Himachal Grihini Suvidha Yojana to cover left out families from the state, who were not covered under the centre’s Scheme,” he said. As many as 2,76,243 families were provided free gas connections in the state under the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-first-state-where-all-households-have-lpg-gas-connections-cm/story-grVNrkvCUPzhOtEbEGgbxI.html
06-07-2020||Pune||12 Covid-19 patients injured as ambulance overturns in Pune||A total of 12 Covid-19 patients were injured on Monday when their ambulance overturned while on its way to a Covid care facility near Bavdhan here in Maharashtra, police said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAll the injured patients have been shifted to a nearby hospital.“An ambulance carrying 12 patients was headed towards the Balewadi-based Covid-19 isolation facility from Kothrud when it turned on its side near Bavdhan on Pune-Mumbai Highway,” said Yashwant Gawari, senior inspector, Hinjawadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/12-covid-19-patients-injured-as-ambulance-overturns-in-pune/story-CZv8qlBd7F9hmlErXDr9zJ.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||31K teachers’ posts vacant in Haryana’s government schools||Government schools across Haryana present a poor state of affairs with 31,232 of the sanctioned 1,27,794 teachers’ posts lying vacant. The information was revealed by the Haryana school education department in response to an RTI (right to information) query made by Rewari-based social activist Saket Dhingra.Posts of principals, headmasters, elementary school headmaster and trained graduate teachers are also vacant. As per the RTI, around 1,27,794 teachers’ posts have been sanctioned, of which 84,447 are regular teachers and 12,144 guest teachers. However, 31,232 posts are lying vacant.The RTI also revealed that 1,864 posts of headmaster (elementary school) of the sanctioned 5,664 posts, 831 posts of headmasters (high school) of 1,143 sanctioned posts, 757 posts of head teacher (primary) of 2,583 posts and 803 posts of principal (senior secondary schools) of 2,189 sanctioned posts are vacant.Among posts for post graduate teachers, 1,629 posts of 1,966 posts for computer teachers are vacant, 1,288 posts of 5,705 posts for English teachers are vacant, 2, 064 of 4,977 posts for mathematic teachers are vacant and 5,647 posts of junior basic teachers (JBT) of 41,261 sanctioned posts are yet to be filled.The RTI report says 1,612 posts of 5,903 for trained graduate physical-education teachers and 3,011 of 5,164 posts for drawing teachers are vacant.Social activist Saket Dhingra said the state government was not serious about education: “I had filed the RTI application to know the status of education in the state. The data reveals poor state of education in government-run schools across 22 districts of Haryana. Over 24% teachers’ posts are vacant and the state government has frizzed new recruitments for a year due to covid-19 crises,” the activist said. “The government has failed to construct new school and is focusing on shutting down already established government schools. How will students get education, if teachers are not recruited,” the activist added. SEEKING DETAILS OF TEACHERS, STUDENTS THROUGH ONLINE PORTAL: EDUCATION MINISTER Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said the school education department was seeking details of teachers and students through online portal.“After that we will open online transfer for teachers by the next month and send them to schools where posts are lying vacant. The actual shortage of teachers will be known after getting details of enrolled students by the end of this month. Posts of principals in senior secondary schools, headmasters in high schools, elementary school headmasters in middle school and head teacher in primary schools are promotional posts. We have invited the cases of promotion and the same will be done soon”, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/31k-teachers-posts-vacant-in-haryana-s-government-schools/story-yELQRUY8NtOncXaP3R3KjJ.html
06-07-2020||City||Shimla Nagrik Sabha stages protest over inflated bills||The Shimla Nagrik Sabha (SNS) on Monday protested against the inflated electricity, water, garbage collection bills and property tax outside the municipal corporation office here.The Shimla Nagrik Sabha has demanded that the state government, municipal corporation and the electricity board should waive off bills for March till June due to the Covid-19 pandemic.A delegation of the SNS met the MC joint commissioner and submitted a memorandum in this regard. They said the movement will be intensified if no relief is provided within a week.The SNS has alleged that the state government has not provided any financial relief to the people who have been badly affected due to the pandemic.SNS secretary Kapil Sharma said at least 70% people in the state have fully or partially lost their employment and have not received any financial support through the PM Cares Fund and the CM Relief Fund. He said in the current situation, people were hoping for some financial relief from the state government but instead have been handed over inflated bills.Sharma said the bills that should have be given every month are now given after a period of four months. “Less time has been granted to deposit these bills. Bills of garbage collection and property tax are also inflated which has increased the financial burden on people,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shimla-nagrik-sabha-stages-protest-over-inflated-bills/story-N4ivhN7OuExI2rMrnPYW6J.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Recite ‘mani mantra’ at least 1,000 times: Dalai Lama on 85th birthday||Prayers marked the Dalai Lama’s 85th birthday, which was celebrated in Dharamshala, the seat of the Tibetan government-in-exile, on Monday. In his message to the Buddhist community from his home in McLeodganj, the Tibetan spiritual leader asked people to recite the “om mani padme hum” mantra at least a thousand times. With this practice, you will create some roots of virtue that you can dedicate to me — Avalakiteshvara’s messenger — to live for 110 or 108 years or so, the Dalai Lama said.The mantra ‘om mani padme hum’, encapsulates Buddhist teachings and indicates that we can all transform ourselves to be more like Buddha. The spiritual leader said, “We Tibetans have a unique connection with the Avalokiteshvara (a bodhisattva who embodies the compassion of all Buddhas),” he said. “As I often say, Avalokiteshvara is my boss and I am his messenger. So if you wish to celebrate my birthday, remember Avalokiteshvara and recall that he is the one on whom I, Gyalwa Rinpoche, rely, and in whom I seek refuge. In terms of pure vision, Avalokiteshvara is someone who I have been connected with over successive lifetimes.”He said, “ On my birthday, either visualise me, Gyalwa Rinpoche as inseparable from Avalokiteshvara or visualise Avalokiteshvara as the principal deity and me as a monk sitting in front of him.”This year, the celebrations remained a low-key affair due to restrictions imposed by the government in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.Prayers marked the occasion at the community’s main temple in McLeodganj.The Tibetan spiritual leader too said it was not possible to hold a large celebration due to the pandemic.“And it’s not necessary either,” he said, asking his followers to recite the mantra if they wished to celebrate the occasion.DALAI LAMA MOST REVERED LEADER OF TIBET: KASHAGKashag (Tibetan cabinet) and the Tibetan people, those inside Tibet and those in exile also wished the 14th Dalai Lama on his birthday and issued a statement in say that the Dalai Lama was the most revered leader of Tibet, the world’s leading spokesman for peace, an epitome of Buddha’s wisdom and unconditional compassion.“The Dalai Lama often describes himself as an ‘ordinary monk.’ For Tibetans, His Holiness is the glorious sun. He is a rare and unequaled leader who has been shouldering a nation and its people from the time he was sixteen years old. His Holiness is the peerless teacher who has been guiding Tibetans through every hardship, both personal and national,” the Kashag said. GLOBAL LEADERS WISH THE DALAI LAMA The Dalai Lama’s office in Dharamshala said the spiritual leader received birthday greetings through the internet or social media from across the world, including former US president George Bush.“Laura (former first lady) and I send our very best wishes on your 85th birthday. I admire you, I care for you and I love you,” Bush said. Indian Union minister Kiren Rijiju too wished him on his birthday. BJP leader Ram Madhav wishing the Tibetan spiritual leader said he is ‘a great guru and master for mankind’.Governor Bandaru Dattatreya and chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur also extended warm greetings to the Dalai Lama on his birthday. Arya, spokesperson of the Tibetan government-in-exile, said grand celebrations were planned for celebrating the spiritual leader’s birthday but due to the coronavirus pandemic, the celebrations had to be downsized.“TIBETAN PARLIAMENT IN-EXILE CRITICISES CHINA FOR GALWAN CONFLICT Karma Yeshi, finance minister of Tibetan government-in-exile, wished the leader a “happy birthday and a very long life” and said that China must use the message of Dalai Lama as a tool to resolve the Tibet border issue.“I think His Holiness is the key on the issue of Tibet so China must use his voice and wisdom to resolve the issue,” he said.The statement said the People’s Liberation Army of the communist-ruled China continued to make “attempts to encroach into India from all across its border areas”. “And recently, a dispute in Galwan Valley in Ladakh led to a clash between the troops from the two sides with the result that 20 Indian soldiers died and several others were injured. The Tibetan parliament-in-exile wishes to express our condolences to India for the tragedy which resulted from that unfortunate incident,” the statement said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/recite-mani-mantra-at-least-1-000-times-dalai-lama-on-85th-birthday/story-aeuktLGFCKulTMofABooGM.html
06-07-2020||Pune||100 people booked for visiting tourist destinations during weekend||PUNE The Paud police station officials have booked at least 100 people for violating lockdown rules during the weekend and visiting tourist spots like Mulshi, Tamhini Ghat, Lavasa, and Bhugaon despite prohibitory orders from the district administration. Besides, Mulshi, rural police also acted against revellers vising local tourist destinations. According to Pune rural police, a total of 187 persons were booked in the district on Sunday while 80 persons were fined for not wearing masks.On Sunday, the police station officials collected a fine of Rs 18,000 from mask violators in these places, according to inspector Ashok Dhumal of Paud police station.“This has been happening every weekend since June. Every weekend there are close to 50-60 cases. We must have registered at least 200 cases in June alone. Most of these people are from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas,” said Dhumal.While 45 cases were registered on Saturday, over 50-60 cases were registered on Sunday as well, according to Dhumal.The cases have been registered under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Rs 500 fine is levied upon people who fail to wear masks. “The gram panchayat officials collect that fine. We must have collected over Rs 1 lakh in fine in June,” said Dhumal.The Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram has continued the prohibition of assembly and movement to tourist places in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the monsoon season and unlock down procedure has led to an increased number of tourists, said, officials.As per the order issued by Ram on June 7 under Disaster Management Act 2005, entry of people has been restricted to Bhushi dam and Lonavla area in Maval taluka, Mulshi dam and Tamhini ghat in Mulshi taluka, Khadakwasla dam in Haveli taluka, Malshej ghat in Junnar taluka, Bhatghar dam, fort area in Bhor taluka, Panshet dam and other areas in Velhe taluka, Bhimashankar in Ambegaon taluka and other tourist places.Meanwhile, at Bhushi dam in Lonavla wore a deserted look even as it was overflowing during the weekend. Every monsoon when the dam overflows, a large number of revellers throng their famous tourist destination. Police actionNumber of persons booked in Pune district on Sunday: 187Number of persons booked by Paud road over the weekend: 100Action against number of persons not wearing mask in Pune district: 80Number of persons booked by Pune rural police over month: 381||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/100-people-booked-for-visiting-tourist-destinations-during-weekend/story-HK3AOel1TZrEEwfhhZQHDO.html
06-07-2020||Pune||Pune needs to avoid mistakes Mumbai made to get through Covid-19||Pune, the second largest city in Maharashtra has always matched every trend in Mumbai, be it business, fashion, culture, and also, the incidence of infectious diseases.In 2009, Pune became the epicentre of the swine flu outbreak and it also reported the first case in Maharashtra on March 9, 2020, in the Covid-19 pandemic. At present, there are 21,520 cases in Pune. The population of Pune is estimated to be 6.5 million while Mumbai’s population is exactly its double at 13 million. The total number of cases in Mumbai is 84,524 which is the highest not only in Maharashtra, but nationally too. If compared statistically, Pune city has 25 per cent cases as against Mumbai. However, the case fatality rate in Mumbai is 5.85% and that of Pune is 3.32% as of July 3.All these figures show that though Pune claims the better numbers, it is closely following Mumbai. The civic administration of Pune has not yet realised the blunders committed in Mumbai and have been blindly following the trail. Mumbai mistakesTesting criteria: In Mumbai, testing rate at the ground level is low. Citizens who want to be tested are discouraged and sent back by government and municipal doctors, which is happening in Pune too. This has led to a delay in diagnosis and worsening of the patient’s condition, resulting in more serious patients and deaths.· Patients referred by private practitioners to the BMC hospitals for Covid-19 tests are seldom tested. On the contrary, private doctors in Mumbai have been served legal notices for referring such patients. Many of them, turn out to be positive when tested at a private laboratory. Similar incidents are being noted in Pune as well.· The reports of the patients undergoing RT-PCR tests are given neither to the patient nor to the referring doctor. It is in the possession of the medical officer of BMC. This procedure of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has caused a delay in admission and treatment of patients. In Pune too, a similar pattern has been observed.· Private laboratories in Pune often deny testing those referred by private practitioners and they have also been instructed to send reports to the referring doctors and PMC and not to the patients.· Contact tracing is very poor in Pune. Positive patients do not even submit names of their contacts and apart from family members, only a few others are traced. This trend proved to be detrimental in Mumbai.· Testing of senior citizens and those having co-morbid conditions and living in containment zones has not been prioritised either in Mumbai or Pune. The case fatality rate of this group is around 80% as such people easily fall prey to the disease. The case fatality rate pattern in Mumbai and Pune clearly indicate it. Hospital facilities: Sassoon General Hospital, being the only government hospital with ICU facilities in Pune, is always full even in the pre-Covid period. PMC has failed to construct a new general hospital with tertiary care facilities and trained doctors and staff. Sassoon’s demand for modern equipment has been ignored till now. The assurance of having a 500-bedded infectious diseases hospital after the H1N1 outbreak in 2009 was never fulfilled. Doctors on duty: The number of doctors in the public sector hospitals are insufficient and hence, many posts are vacant. Newspapers, doctors’ associations and social workers have been demanding appointment of doctors, but the government and PMC always turned a deaf ear to their demands. Now, new applications are being invited.Treatment meted out to private doctors- Private practicing doctors were given notices to attend duties in Covid-19 wards. In Mumbai, Pune and across the state, private doctors or their associations like the IMA, were never consulted. Doctors have been threatened with legal consequences under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, Disaster Management Act, 2005 and MESMA.To compensate the lack of hospital beds, the government acquired 80% beds of private hospitals and capped rates of various services. Government of Maharashtra alleged that private hospitals in Mumbai were overcharging and sending the patients away. The government has failed to resolve the problems of doctors. The same pattern is being followed in Pune. Scarcity of facilities: Pune’s situation is becoming grim with every passing day. Private doctors do not know where to send their patient and patients have to visits numerous hospitals. The scenario is very similar to the tragic situation in Mumbai. IMA’s demand for developing an app for ambulances and bed availability has not been answered till now.Eight of every ten patients prefer private doctors to government hospitals. So, the government should stop ignoring them and must take some advice from private doctors. The residents of Pune are always satirised about their afternoon siesta even while doing business. It is time for the administration to wake up from their slumber and look for better solutions.(Dr Avinash Bhondwe is the president of the IMA, Maharashtra state and is the UNESCO Chair For BIOETHICS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-needs-to-avoid-mistakes-mumbai-made-to-get-through-covid-19/story-sGYIt2yMrg6Ns3diWRH1cJ.html
06-07-2020||Pune||57-year-old duped of Rs 11 lakh in SIM swap case in Pune||PUNE A 57-year-old man was duped of Rs 11 lakh by a caller who tricked him into sending an SMS from his phone that gave access of the victim’s SIM card to the caller.The incident occurred between May 25 and May 27 when the 57-year-old was at his residence in Camp.According to police, once the caller had access to his SIM card, he used to get access to the victim’s bank account.“There was Rs 2 lakh in his account and once the SIM swap was complete, the caller used his bank account details, which he must have already had, and got a personal loan sanctioned for Rs 9 lakh,” said sub-inspector (PSI) Kiran Auti, cyber police station.According to the complainant, the caller told him that he was speaking from a cellular company.When the complainant was falsely convinced that the man was a representative of the cellular company, the caller told him that his SIM card needed to be upgraded. In order to do so, the caller asked the complainant to send an SMS to 1234.“He had not realised that the SIM stopped working until 2-3 days after. That is when he came to the police,” said Auti.The complainant works in a private company, according to the police. The caller offered to upgrade the services from 3G to 4G.“We have had 10 complaints in the past two months alone. We have written to the cellular company saying such frauds have been happening,” said Auti.A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act is registered at cyber police station of Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/57-year-old-duped-of-rs-11-lakh-in-sim-swap-case-in-pune/story-l9pU04sCPbJ7w2hDrVsMxH.html
06-07-2020||Pune||State govt wants PMC to improve contact tracing||With Pune crossing the 20,000-mark of Covid cases – half of them coming in just 18 days – the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to focus more on its contact tracing and ramp up its health infrastructure to avoid a situation that Mumbai is witnessing.On Saturday, Pune reported 819 Covid-19 positive cases, taking its overall tally to 20,668 while the overall death toll to 703. According to state surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate, Pune’s contact tracing is lower to the state average and needs to improve. The PMC data suggests that the source of infection among 21.35 per cent cases is unknown.“Pune could do better on contact tracing which is the only way to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission. While the state’s average of contact tracing is about 21 per positive cases Pune’s is much lower. Every person who came in contact with a positive person two days before the onset of the symptoms must be tested as per ICMR guidelines. There should be no fixed number of contact tracing but every person who might have come in contact with the patient must be screened thoroughly. While in June we collected over 14,000 samples daily, as of Saturday we collected close to 26,000 samples in one day. It is obvious that as the movement of people raises the number of positives will increase but aggressive contact tracing will ensure early detection and to contain the spread further. This is what Pune should also do to ensure that the chain breaks,” said Awate.The PMC officials have also accepted that its current contact tracing is around 8-9 persons per positive case though it needs to improve.Shekhar Gaikwad, PMC commissioner said, “Yes it is true that our contact tracing is close to 8-9 contacts per positive person. However, we are only following the ICMR guidelines which state testing only symptomatic patients and asymptomatic on every 5th day which means there is a lapse of 5 days. We are also trying to increase our testing capacity, now that we have the rapid antigen detecting kits so at least 1,000 samples will be tested through these kits by next week which will increase the number of positives but also ensure better contact tracing. We are putting in more beds at the Covid care centres but the logistics like mattresses, pillows and beds are a huge issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-govt-wants-pmc-to-improve-contact-tracing/story-ZcvDglyRhTw36lHjMMZQIL.html
06-07-2020||Pune||10 vegetable vendors booked for violating lockdown norms in Pimpri-Chinchwad||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police booked ten vegetable vendors for violating lockdown rules on Sunday.Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Sandeep Bishnoi had issued orders under Section 144(1)(2) of Code of Criminal Procedure that prevented vegetable vendors from operating after 5 pm.The order also directed the vendors to follow social distancing rule while dealing with customers.However, as per the complaints, these vendors were found operating even after 6 pm.According to police, the customers were found flocking the vendors without maintaining social distance in the light of Covid-19 pandemic.Three of the booked vendors have been identified as Govind Billo Sarkar (53), Biplav Papagalchand Vishwas (35), Swapnil ArunBhakar (20) all residents of Marunji village in Hinjewadi. They were found near Vinodi Vasti Corner in Wakad.Four others identified as Akash Deepak Nikam (80), Vandana Rakendra Nikam (42) and Sarika Deepak Dhede (30) and Tukaram Gunwantrao Panchak (52) were selling vegetables at Lakshmi chowk in Hinjewadi, and three others identified as Mohammad Amleen Istiyak Ali Ghoshi (21), Vinod Bhai Karasandas Ramanandi (25) and Prakash Dhhaglaram Chaudhari (28) were found near Supriya Complex area of Wakad, according to the police.All cases have been registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/10-vegetable-vendors-booked-for-violating-lockdown-norms-in-pimpri-chinchwad/story-Hk420MGi3l1RnzDneBfYxL.html
06-07-2020||Pune||Cleaned 5 times a day? Not these public toilets... anymore||The public toilets operated by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), have once again started displaying a lack of hygiene, regularly now running out of water. This comes days after the PMC, during lockdowns 1.0 and 2.0, June 4 and June 15, had started cleaning public toilets four times a day to prevent the spread of Covid.Pune has 1,240 toilets, of which 57 toilets are currently in containment zones, PMC officials said in Sunday, requesting anonymity. Dnyaneshwar Molak, deputy commissioner, head of the solid waste management department of the PMC said, insists that the public toilets are still cleaned five times a day. “We clean the public toilets five times a day and appeal to citizens to exercise discipline and follow hygiene rules while using the facilities. There are instances where the users dump cigarette butts, spit tobacco and don’t flush after use, which is very unhealthy. Also, jetting machines are used for deep cleaning to ensure that the necessary hygiene is maintained,” he said.During its visit, the central team, headed by IAS officer Kunal Kumar, had asked PMC to clean public toilets and mobile toilets in slums. Residents of Vishrantwadi, Viman nagar, Kalyani nagar, Wanowrie, Undri, Mohammadwadi, Bund Garden, Boat Club, Kashewadi, Bhavani peth, Sahakarnagar, Swargate, Koregaon Park and other suburbs have complained about public toilets not being cleaned. A spot visit by HT confirmed the same in at least five of these areas.Akhilesh Salve, a resident of Boat Club road said, “The public toilets are not cleaned regularly and PMC has to take the blame. In the wake of the Covid crisis, PMC must carry out regular cleaning and sanitisation of the toilet blocks to avoid the spread of infections,” he said.Manohar Patil, a resident of NIBM road said, “The public toilets in Kondhwa are and stinking. The PMC has stopped the special cleaning of the toilets.”The public toilet outside the ST bus depot in Swargate is so bad, people rather use the road outside to ease themselves. Cantonment residents have complained about public toilets in Bhimpura, Pul Gate, Modikhana and Ghorpadi. President of Vithalrao Vandekar Foundation Dhairyashil Vandekar and Koregaon Park Mohalla Committee member said, “The way we see at toilets have to be changed and we have to move into a new phase. Dirty and stinky public toilets are unacceptable.”Vandekar Foundation has proposed all PMC urinals be manned with the personnel to ensure proper upkeep, cleanliness and to ensure social distancing is maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cleaned-5-times-a-day-not-these-public-toilets-anymore/story-N2F4hXxM0jNYnCsSMF7LfI.html
06-07-2020||Pune||Residents defy janata curfew appeal in PCMC||Despite the local administration’s appeal to not venture out on Sunday, which was to be observed as a “janata curfew” day in Pimpri-Chinchwad, large crowds were seen at shops across the city.Pimpri-Chinchwad mayor Usha Dhore and the Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar appealed for a curfew twice a week – on Sundays and Thursdays.The appeal came as the industrial town has been witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases. As on Sunday, PCMC reported 4,288 cases and 61 deaths.However, despite the appeal, people followed a regular Sunday routine as most of the shops were open and heavy traffic was on display in most areas in PCMC.People followed their routine in the morning, many claiming that they were not aware of the curfew appeal made by the PCMC civic body.“I have not heard anything about the janata curfew. Like a daily routine, I will close my shop at 5pm. I don’t think anyone is aware as I can see all the shops are open at Dange chowk,” said the owner of Raj vada pav centre in Thergaon.In other areas, like Kalewadi phata, normal traffic was seen while at the Pimpri market all shops were open but customers were scattered. The shops at Pimple Saudagar and Chinchwad had a mixed response to the curfew; some were closed.“Since the message was circulated by 9pm yesterday, many people are still not aware of the appeal. Once people are aware of it they will support the call of the mayor and commissioner,” Anna Bodade, assistant municipal commissioner, PCMC said.In the last 15 days, the civic body authorities have noticed people not following social distancing norms and despite fine not wearing masks.Although the civic body is not in favour of a complete lockdown, they are seeking support from residents so that the transmission of the virus can be stopped.“Twice a week is a good idea, I hope on this Thursday, we will see more people voluntarily observing the curfew,” Bodade said.Mask for Safe PCMC movement:Pimpri -Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has started selfie with mask to support the wearing of masks. PCMC aims for safe movement within its jurisdiction. The selfies can be sent to @pcmcindiagovin.The PCMC has appealed to people to stay home, maintain social distance and fight Covid-19 together. In a tweet, PCMC Commissioner Shravan Hardikar was seen posing with his mask delivering the message ‘I have worn a mask, have you?’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/residents-defy-janata-curfew-appeal-in-pcmc/story-TpdUrJm4QFitsz3pomnJpO.html
06-07-2020||Patna||276 fresh Covid-19 cases in Bihar||A total of 276 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Bihar on Monday, informed the State Health Department. With this, 12,410 cases have been reported in the state for coronavirus, as per the health department. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia’s Covid-19 tally neared the seven lakh mark with 6,97,413 cases after 24,248 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.As per the Health Ministry, there are 2,53,287 active cases in the country while 4,24,432 patients have been cured or discharged. While one patient has migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/276-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-bihar/story-0YWkL0J8vveWecUKWUNbJP.html
06-07-2020||Pune||Pune ZP issues new guidelines for RTE admissions after complaints from parents||The Pune zilla parishad (ZP) education department has issued new guidelines for admissions under the right to education (RTE) after complaints from parents about a delay in verification of documents and lack of proper response and coordination from schools.“According to the new guidelines the schools should inform the parents about the date for document verification via SMS and the date should be decided by the school. They should display the admission schedule at the school gate and if parents who have gone to their home town could not come on that particular date they should be given another date,” said Ranjit Shivtare, chairman, education and finance committee, Pune ZP.“Parents from containment zones should be called to the school after the area comes out of the containment zone,” said Shivtare.“Only five students should be called for admission at a time and only one parent should be called for documentation process and he/she should get body temperature checked before entry from the school gate,” added Shivtare.The admission process for the 25 per cent Right to Education (RTE) kicked off from June 24 and in Pune district, a total of 16,617 RTE admissions were confirmed in the first lottery.“We got complaints from parents about schools not cooperating during the admission process. So the new guidelines were issued. We want to give admissions to each and every student who is selected in the first lottery,” said Shivtare.This year the document verification process is done at the school level due to the restrictions amid the Covid-19 pandemic, earlier there were separate verification centres where education department officials would check the documents. At schools, staffers are pointing out small mistakes like the incorrect spelling of the name, printing mistake in the form, incomplete information or scratched information written in the form among others. And this is resulting in a denial of admission by the schools, the parents had claimed.RTE admission in Pune districtFor this academic year 2020-21 in Pune district, a total of 16,949 RTE seats were declared in 972 schools and 62,919 applications were received for the sameOut of these applications first RTE lottery was declared on March 17 and 16,617 admissions were confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-zp-issues-new-guidelines-for-rte-admissions-after-complaints-from-parents/story-3KdDFJogBCzsHUacepOEHN.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||One killed, 3 injured in firing between two Nihang groups over possession of dera in Punjab’s Baba Bakala town||Amritsar: One person was killed and three were injured in firing during a clash between two groups of Nihangs over the possession of a dera at Baba Bakala town, 42 km from Amritsar, on Monday.Senior superintendent of police (rural) Vikram Jeet Duggal said the clash took place around 3.30am when a group of 40 Nihang Sikhs led by Ranjit Singh Rania attacked Dera Nihang Ajit Singh Poohla and tried to take possession of it.Superintendent of police (operations) Shailendra Singh said there was a property dispute between Rania and the present dera management.“Rania along with his supporters, all armed to the teeth, reached the dera and started firing in the wee hours. In retaliation, the dera men opened fire. Nihang Singhs of the Rania faction were injured and rushed to hospital,” he said, adding one of them succumbed to his injuries.A member of the Rania faction said five supporters were injured in the firing and one of them succumbed to injuries.A police team was already at the dera before the incident took place. A senior police official said 50 rounds were fired from both sides.“The police team had a close shave as firing was indiscriminate. Another team led by deputy DSP, Baba Bakala, Harkrishan Singh reached the spot and arrested 10 Nihang Singhs belonging to the Rania faction,” the SP said. Three rifles were recovered from them.Rania has been claiming his share in the dera due to which he tried to take control of it forcibly. The self-proclaimed leader of Nihang Tarna Dal, Ajit Singh Poohla, was allegedly burnt to death in Amritsar jail in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-killed-3-injured-in-firing-between-two-nihang-groups-over-possession-of-dera-in-punjab-s-baba-bakala-town/story-nBkh1dZEfuh4YZGvhIpKVM.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ram Madhav wishes Dalai Lama on 85th birthday, calls him great guru, master for mankind||BJP leader Ram Madhav wished Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama on his 85th birthday and said that he is ‘a great guru and master for mankind’.“I am deeply honoured and pleased to offer my greetings and best wishes on the 85th birthday to his holiness for a long life in not only serving Tibet and the Tibetans, but the entire humanity. Yesterday, we Hindus celebrated Guru Purnima, a day dedicated to offering obeisance to our gurus and masters,” Madhav said.“Holiness is also a great guru and master for mankind. I offer my obeisance to this great guru of spiritual enlightenment, compassion and bliss. Holiness has completed 61 years of living in India. When he came, he came as a refugee, but today every Indian regards him as an elder in the family,” Madhav added.In the video message Madhav said he had the privilege of vising Taktser, Dalai Lama’s birth place. “I also had the honour of vising the famed Potala Palace in Lhasa. Everyone loves you there,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ram-madhav-wishes-dalai-lama-on-85th-birthday-calls-him-great-guru-master-for-mankind/story-APN8HuhhQ2Ut65Jc8QR51L.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||E-registeration for travellers to Punjab must from midnight||Chandigarh: After chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh ruled out dilution of the 14-day home quarantine norm for domestic entrants, in the light of the high risk posed by those coming from Delhi/NCR in particular, the process of e-registration for all travellers to the state has been made mandatory from midnight today.Travellers can self-register online from the comfort of their homes, as per the guidelines issued by the government, and ensure their hassle-free travel for themselves.The state government has advised road travellers entering or transiting through Punjab to self-register, either through the COVA app or through a weblink, https://cova.punjab.gov.in/registration, before embarking on the journey. The objective of e-registration is to avoid any inconvenience to travellers due to crowding and queues at border check points.The travellers are advised to follow the following registration process.Register yourself and your co-passengers through either of two ways:A. Through Cova Appi) Download ‘COVA App’ on your smartphone from the Apple App Store or Android Play Store.ii) Install the App.iii) From the Menu choose ‘Self-registration for travel into/ through Punjab’iv) Fill in all particulars as sought and press ‘Submit”.orB. Through a weblinki) Self-register at https://cova.punjab.gov.in/registrationii) Fill in all particulars as sought and press the ‘Submit” button.iii) Download and Install Cova App before travelling.2. After registration, the primary traveller will receive a confirmation link through SMS.3. Click on the link for printout.4. Take a printout with QR code on A4 size sheet.5. For four/three wheelers, paste the printout on the left side your windscreen or place it on the dashboard.6. At border check points, staff will scan the QR code on the printout.7. This will be followed by basic medical screening.8. After successful medical screening, the process is over. In case a passenger exhibits Covid symptoms, the health staff at the Border Check Point will assist and guide the passenger(s).For passengers who are entering the state and not merely transiting it, after successfully crossing the check-point, those who are asymptomatic will have to undergo self-quarantine at their homes for 14 days. During quarantine, they will be required to report their medical status daily either by calling 112 or through the Cova App. In case of symptomatic passengers, appropriate instructions will be given at the check-point, said a government spokesperson.The spokesperson said all relevant details about the visitors/residents coming into Punjab would be shared with the health authorities and police stations through a real-time alert system. The police stations would keep a regular check, both through physical and technical means (geo-fencing), on the incoming visitors at their given addresses for their protection and the health and safety of the people of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/e-registeration-for-travellers-to-punjab-must-from-midnight/story-1CnQZ0gmOJaODk8alIiI8N.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||AIIMS gets permission to start Covid-testing in Bathinda||Central health authorities have given the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bathinda the go-ahead to start a Covid-19 facility. AIIMS will be the fourth medical institution in Punjab to have the facility. Director professor DK Singh on Monday said that rapid antibody polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests will begin within 10 days as the central health authorities have given the proposal a go-ahead.After assuming office as the first director of the institute last week, Singh said adjoining districts in Punjab and Haryana may also be linked with AIIMS for coronavirus testing.Since the RT-PCR kits are not available in the market, testing equipment will be supplied to AIIMS by the central agencies.“In view of the rising number of Covid -19 cases, it is important to add more institutes for aggressive testing,” Singh said. 10-15 BED AD HOC ICU “A 10-15 bed ad hoc ICU will also be be made operational at AIIMS for emergency medical assistance to patients till they are moved to dedicated Covid-19 care facilities. A ventilator-equipped vehicle will also be pressed in to service for safe transportation of Covid patients,” he added.The director said that due to the pandemic construction work on the campus had been delayed indefinitely.“As most workers have left for their native states, the construction firm engaged by the central agencies has expressed its inability to commit to a deadline,” he said. MBBS CLASSES TO BEGIN ON CAMPUS The director, however, confirmed that classes for the next academic session will be held on the Bathinda campus.“The first batch of MBBS students had 50 students. This year, the intake capacity for the current session, will be 100 students. Classes for the 2020-21 session will be shifted from the institute’s temporary campus at the Faridkot-based Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, under Baba Farid University of Health Sciences. Hostel and other facilities are being prepared,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aiims-gets-permission-to-start-covid-testing-in-bathinda/story-EF5zURhzvf5CaNNJJ8hOwK.html
06-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 53 new cases of Covid-19, 1 more death||Jharkhand on Sunday reported 53 new cases of Covid-19, taking the infection tally in the state to 2,807, according to the state health department.One more person died due to the contagion, raising the total fatalities in the state to 19, it said in a bulletin.There are 743 active cases in the state at present.With five more persons recovering from the disease, the number of recovered people is 2,045, as per the bulletin.Ranchi has the highest number of fatalities with four deaths, followed by Hazaribag (three), two each in Sahibganj, Bokaro, East Singhbhum and Giridih, and one fatality each in Gumla, Khunti, Koderma and Simdega, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-53-new-cases-of-covid-19-1-more-death/story-ACMWd12mJRzkysHZrWJGoM.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Massacre of cops in Kanpur exposes ‘encounter specialist’ UP govt: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday targeted chief minister Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government over the killings of eight police personnel by henchmen of notorious gangster Vikas Dubey last week and warned that he should not become ‘Dawood (Ibrahim) of Nepal’ for India.An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that the killings of the police personnel during a raid has exposed the “encounter specialist” UP government and asked what has changed since Yogi Adityanath became the UP chief minister in March 2017.Eight police personnel, including a deputy superintendent of police, were gunned down last week at a village near Kanpur by the henchmen of Dubey. An accomplice of Dubey has been arrested, while the gangster is still at large.Also read: 3 more Kanpur cops suspected of ‘leaking raid info’ to Vikas Dubey suspendedThe Saamana editorial said that Dubey is said to have fled to neighbouring Nepal. Pointing to the porous border and current relations with Nepal, the editorial said, “India’s border with Nepal has always been a concern in such cases. At the moment, our relations with Nepal are also not good. In this perspective, Vikas Dubey shouldn’t prove to be ‘Dawood of Nepal’ for us tomorrow.”The editorial stated that Uttar Pradesh is often referred to as ‘Uttam Pradesh’, but it now stands “soaked in the blood of policemen” leaving the “country in a state of shock”. How did Dubey’s name not feature in the list of UP government which is otherwise known for finishing off gangsters in ‘encounters’, the editorial asked in a series of questions to Adityanath’s government. During the three-year tenure of Adityanath, more than 113 gangsters were gunned down, while Dubey had built an unauthorised bungalow that came to the government’s notice only after the gangster orchestrated the killings of policemen, which is “unfortunate,” the editorial said.Also read | Vikas Dubey, UP’s most wanted man, may have fled UP before borders were sealed: Cops“It has been more than three years since the Yogi government came to power in Uttar Pradesh. During this period, the police had ‘encounters’ of more than 113 goons, but how did the name Vikas Dubey get dropped in it? He has over 60 serious crimes, including murder and robbery. But how did he survive due to lack of evidence? How did the police become witnesses on his behalf? Is the list of encounters being prepared according to the convenience of Uttar Pradesh police and government? If someone makes such an allegation, what does the Yogi government have to say on this?” questioned the editorial.It added that the incident revived the memories of the killing of 11 policemen in UP’s Kathuapur by a dacoit named Chaviram four decades ago. “Even after 40 years, if gangsters can kill policemen in this manner than what has changed in Yogi Maharaj’s Uttar Pradesh… There are several questions that Yogi government will have to answer because ‘Uttam Pradesh’ is now soaked in the blood of policemen,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uttam-pradesh-now-soaked-in-blood-of-policemen-shiv-sena-targets-yogi-s-govt-in-saamana/story-WxW8EI84IQstB1n0itDl6J.html
06-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Devotees offer prayers from outside as temple remains closed on first day of Sawan||Devotees offered prayers from outside as portals of Pahari Mandir in Ranchi remain closed, on the first Monday of Sawan month today. The lockdown has been extended in the state till July 31 by the state government. “Everyone is taking precautions amid Covid-19 crisis so the authorities have taken the right step by not opening the temple portals. Devotees here are offering prayers by making social distancing,” said Madan Kumar Kesari, a devotee.Another devotee, while speaking to ANI, said, “I visit the temple continuously for 30 days during Sawan month but now the temples have been closed amid Covid-19 pandemic.”Sawan, the fifth month in the Hindu calendar, is considered to be the most auspicious month of the year. It is dedicated to Lord Shiva who, according to Hindu religious beliefs, is the creator, preserver, and destroyer of this universe.While Lord Shiva is worshipped on Mondays throughout the year, Mondays during this particular month are considered highly significant and auspicious. The festival is celebrated in North Indian states predominantly.It is believed that on ‘sawan ke somwaar’ (Mondays falling in the month of Shravan), devotees observe a special fast and visit Shiva temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-devotees-offer-prayers-from-outside-as-temple-remains-closed-on-first-day-of-sawan/story-e98RchFTNv5Xbr3lg58ZIJ.html
06-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan appoints senior IAS officer DB Gupta as adviser to CM Ashok Gehlot||Senior IAS officer DB Gupta, who was removed as the chief secretary on Thursday, was appointed adviser to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday.The appointment order was issued by the Department of Personnel of Rajasthan on Sunday night.Along with this, three more IAS officers have been transferred.Udaipur Collector Anandhi has been shifted to Alwar in the same designation. Kishore Kumar Sharma, who was awaiting posting orders, has been named the new Chittorgarh Collector, replacing Chetan Ram Deora. Deora has been transferred to Udaipur as the new collector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-appoints-senior-ias-officer-db-gupta-as-adviser-to-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-83CKOMh5rA2wk1WxPORW2M.html
06-07-2020||Patna||Poster attacking Tejashwi Yadav springs up in Patna, terms RJD ‘Rashtriya Jaalsaaj Dal’||A poster war has broken out between the ruling Janata Dal (United) and its main opposition in Bihar, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) an example of which was visible on the streets of Patna on Sunday.A poster enlisting 24 properties allegedly belonging to RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav was put up in Patna today on the 24th foundation day of the party.The poster also termed RJD as “Rashtriya Jaalsaaj (fraud) Dal” and read that more such revelations are on the cards.Meanwhile, talking to reporters JDU leader Neeraj Kumar not only justified the contents of the poster but termed RJD’s chapter as a “dark chapter” in the history of Indian politics.“I thank the person who put up the poster from my heart. It enlists the properties amassed by people who used politics for gaining property on its 24th foundation of the party (RJD). Rashtriya Jaalsaaj Party the name given to RJD on the poster too is quite apt. The 24 years (of RJD) is a dark chapter in the history of politics. Their leader (Lalu Prasad Yadav) is not only behind the bars in corruption cases, but the party is also a living, breathing example of corruption,” Kumar said.Meanwhile, the RJD celebrated its foundation day in the absence of Lalu Prasad Yadav, who is in jail in Ranchi on a number of cases related to the fodder scam.RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday said that his father and senior party leader, Lalu Prasad Yadav, is very important in the phase the country is going through.Tejashwi along with elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav and other leaders undertook a cycle rally along with supporters as a mark of protest against the hike in fuel prices.“Laluji is very important in the phase the country is going through currently. Laluji especially should be in the Parliament today, everybody is missing his presence,” Tejashwi said.He went on to add: “In the last 15 years we were not even in power, still we apologised and asked for forgiveness. Only those who have a spine can bend, the others crawl. We have never compromised with the ideology, had we done so then I would have been the chief minister today.”The Assembly elections in Bihar likely to be held later this year will decide the fate of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led NDA government. Lalu Yadav’s RJD will fight the elections with its main ally Congress in the contest for 243 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/poster-attacking-tejashwi-yadav-springs-up-in-patna-terms-rjd-rashtriya-jaalsaaj-dal/story-IZ6ZBNNdbzbqgAxiaYAGAJ.html
06-07-2020||Patna||Will fight Bihar polls as united force: Minister dismisses ‘rumours’ of rift in NDA||Union minister Nityanand Rai on Sunday asserted that there was no rift within the NDA in Bihar and charged the RJD-Congress combine with spreading rumours regarding it. The former Bihar BJP chief made the remarks, while addressing party workers in Purnea district through video conference, in an oblique reference to speculations which have followed notes of discord emanating from LJP chief Chirag Paswan in the recent past. “The NDA, under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, will fight as a united force in the assembly polls. It will repeat the stupendous success of 2010 when the coalition had grabbed more than 80 per cent of assembly seats,” Rai said. “The RJD-Congress will do better to stop spreading rumours about NDA and worry about fissures in their own camp,” said the Minister of State for Home. Founded by Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, the LJP had severed its links with the Congress-led UPA and walked over to the NDA ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Paswan handed over the party mantle to his son Chirag last year and the young leader has been critical of the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the migrant crisis resulting therefrom. Chirag Paswan, who also represents the Jamui Lok Sabha constituency in Bihar, had raised many eyebrows recently with his cryptic remark “we are supporting the government in the state but are not a part of it”. The LJP chief was, understandably, venting his frustration at his party having no representation in the state government after his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, a member of the cabinet, got elected to the Lok Sabha in 2019. Reports have claimed that Paswan has been unhappy over Nitish Kumar, who heads the JD(U), expressing unwillingness to part with a respectable number of seats in assembly polls for the LJP, which had contested six out of 40 in Bihar in Lok Sabha. Last week, a district unit chief of LJP in Bihar was also removed from the post for giving a statement before the media that the NDA was “atoot” (unbreakable) in Bihar. Although it was said that the lower-rank party leader had violated the diktat that only Chirag Paswan was authorised to make remarks with regard to alliance, the action fuelled fresh speculations about the LJP’s disaffection with the NDA. At a video-conference meeting held by Rahul Gandhi with Congress leaders from Bihar, Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Prasad Singh is understood to have conveyed the message that the rift in the NDA be cashed in on and attempts be made to woo the LJP. Congress MLC and AICC media in-charge Prem Chandra Mishra held out an olive branch to the LJP on Saturday when he came out with a video message, reminding Ram Vilas Paswan of his association with the UPA and saying that he would be welcome in the Grand Alliance. The Grand Alliance, a five-party coalition which comprises, besides RJD and Congress, HAM, RLSP and VIP, however itself seems to be in disarray. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav has been dismissive of Chirag Paswan and his LJP. Besides, a key Grand Alliance partner HAM headed by former Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi has been dropping hints that it was feeling slighted by the RJD’s domineering ways and would not be reluctant to switch sides ahead of the assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/will-fight-bihar-polls-as-united-force-minister-dismisses-rumours-of-rift-in-nda/story-sTwcQGmiq4d8PYbPP58BcJ.html
06-07-2020||Delhi||‘No need to panic’, says Kejriwal as Covid-19 cases in Delhi cross 1 lakh mark||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that though the number of coronavirus disease cases has crossed one lakh in the national capital, there is no need to panic.“Covid-19 cases have crossed 1 lakh mark in Delhi but there is no need to panic as around 72,000 people have also recovered,” Kejriwal said in a digital press briefing.Listing the work done by his government to check the spread of the coronavirus disease, Kejriwal said, “Out of 25,000 active patients, 15,000 are being treated at home. Death rate has also come down. We’ve also started the country’s first corona plasma bank. Our trials have shown that plasma therapy can help moderate patients improve significantly.”He also urged the people of the city to donate plasma to help whose who have contracted the disease. “The number of people who need plasma is more than those coming forward to donate it. I urge all those who are eligible to come forward and donate plasma. It will not cause any pain or weakness. Those donating plasma are doing selfless service to society,” Kejriwal said.Watch: ‘Recovery rate from Covid 72%; urge people to donate plasma’: Arvind Kejriwal The chief minister had said on Sunday that the number of people requiring hospitalisation in Delhi has been declining.“Less and less people in Delhi are now requiring hospitalisation, more and more people are getting cured at home,” Kejriwal tweeted yesterday. “Whereas there were around 2,300 new patients daily last week, no of patients in hospital has gone down from 6,200 to 5,300. Today, 9,900 corona beds are free,” he said in another tweet.The Delhi government, meanwhile, announced that the number of intensive care unit (ICU) beds in three Delhi government hospitals has nearly tripled. As per a statement by Delhi government on Sunday, ICU beds in the three major Covid-dedicated hospitals in the city - Lok Nayak (LNJP), Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospitals - have witnessed a 169% increase.Delhi has been recording thousands of new Covid-19 cases daily. Till Sunday, 3,067 fatalities had been reported in the city.But the rate at which the state’s population is turning positive has been declining steadily, giving hope to authorities that the disease is close to its spread in the national capital. The average positivity rate - the rate at which samples test positive - has decreased to 11.6% from 21.6% two weeks ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-need-to-panic-says-kejriwal-as-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-cross-1-lakh-mark/story-nDfudpb5s6ilHACfa7MrUM.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||11 fresh cases take Himachal’s Covid-19 count to 1,077||Eleven persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Monday taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,077, officials said.Three cases each were reported from Kangra and Solan district, two from Hamirpur and one each from Una, Mandi and Bilaspur.Officials said a 50-year-old man of Kulhan village in Nurpur tehsil had tested positive in Kangra district. He had returned from Muzzafarnagar and has been shifted to the zonal hospital in Dharamshala. A 27-year-old woman of Lahar village in Kangra’s Jaisinghpur tehsil tested positive for the virus. She had returned from Mumbai on June 25. She has been shifted to District Covid Care Centre (DCCC), Dadh.In Hamirpur, a 29-year-old man from Batari village in Barsar was found positive. He was institutionally quarantined at Dungri. He had returned from Noida. A 53-year-old man from Jhiljari village in Barsar also tested positive while in institutional quarantine at Deotsidh. The man had returned from Delhi.The active cases in the state now stand at 303 as 26 more patients have recovered.So far, nine people have succumbed to the disease in the state. As many as 750 patients have recovered while 13 have migrated out of the state.With 290 positive cases, Kangra is the worst-hit district followed by Hamirpur at 267, Una at 127 cases, Solan at 119, Chamba at 58, Bilaspur at 48, Shimla and Bilaspur at 47, Sirmaur at 40, Mandi at 36, Kinnaur at 34, Kullu at seven and Lahaul-Spiti at four.‘STAY ALERT AS UNLOCK UNDERWAY’Additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman has urged people of the state to observe all precautions to combat coronavirus during the unlock period. He said the process has started in a phased manner.Dhiman said that as economic and tourism activities increase in the state, it’s all the more important to stay alert. He urged people not to be afraid of coronavirus but to follow guidelines of maintaining hygiene and social distancing, avoiding crowded places, wearing a mask and not touching the nose, eyes and mouth. He urged people to avoid going to wards in hospital where patients of coronavirus are being treated.He said in case a person is suffering from fever, cough, cold or having difficulty in breathing, he/she should contact helpline number 104 or avail services of e-Sanjeevani OPD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-new-covid-19-cases-in-himachal-s-hamirpur-district-take-state-s-corona-count-to-1-065/story-DFrFa6fa9J2ibbB09g51NK.html
06-07-2020||Noida||Noida’s Covid-19 tally increases from 1 to nearly 3,000 in four months||As India takes rapid strides and achieves grim Covid-19 milestones one after another, the situation in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar has also deteriorated.Noida, as the district is popularly known, has seen the number of cases rise from one to close to 3,000 in four months. It recorded 118 more positive cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, which took the district’s tally to 2,765.Noida had recorded its first positive case of the coronavirus disease on March 5.According to the official data, the number of active cases in Noida stood at 978. One hundred thirteen patients were discharged during the period, taking the overall number of recoveries to 1,759 in the district so far, the data further showed.Despite the rising number of cases, Noida’s recovery rate has been increasing - from 59.59 per cent on Friday, to 62.60 per cent on Saturday and 63.61 per cent on Sunday.The mortality rate here stands at 1.01 per cent, the Uttar Pradesh health department data showed.The deadly virus has so far claimed 28 lives in the district.Gautam Buddh Nagar currently has the second highest active cases of Covid-19 after adjoining Ghaziabad district (1,203) in the state.Till Sunday, Uttar Pradesh had 8,161 active Covid-19 cases. More than 18,000 patients have been discharged from hospitals and 785 fatalities have been recorded so far across the state.India, meanwhile, saw its Covid-19 infection tally increase by another 24,248 in the last 24 hours. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the country now stand at 6,97,413.India had on Sunday overtaken Russia to become the third-most affected country globally in terms of the numbers of Covid-19 cases. More than 11 million infections and 5,36,776 have been reported worldwide, data from Worldometre shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-covid-19-tally-increases-from-1-to-nearly-3-000-in-four-months/story-vlmKRLF1e8Dbylr244FjLN.html
06-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan cancels UG, PG exams as coronavirus cases rise||The Rajasthan government has decided to cancel all undergraduate and postgraduate exams for all the universities, colleges and technical educational institutions for the academic year 2019-2020, amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The decision was taken by chief minister Ashok Gehlot after a meeting on Saturday. “In view of the scenario of the corona epidemic, examinations of UG and PG courses of higher and technical education will not be conducted this year, and all students will be promoted to the next class without examination,” said Gehlot.With respect to the determination of the marks of the students being promoted, Gehlot said the Union ministry of human resource development will take appropriate decisions after studying the guidelines issued in the next few days.“The process to determine marks of the students and the promotion to the next class will be decided after examining the guidelines which will be issued by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD),” the state government said.The meeting was attended by state higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati, minister of state for technical education Subhash Garg, chief secretary Rajiv Swaroop, additional chief secretary finance Niranjan Arya, and higher education secretary Shuchi Sharma and other officers. The state has reported 19,532 Covid-19 cases far. Of these, over 400 patients have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-cancels-ug-pg-exams-as-coronavirus-cases-rise/story-XvFMbWhXAOfy13RH4LChZO.html
06-07-2020||City||Kanpur firing: Our men went down in first hail of bullets, says cop who survived||Kanpur Station house officer(SHO) , Bithoor, Kaushalendra Pratap Singh, one of the seven policemen injured in the shootout at Bikru village in Kanpur early on July 3, said he had been asked by station officer, Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari, who was suspended on Saturday, to accompany the raiding team. On reaching Bikru village, the police team left their vehicles on the road and walked about 100 metres, said Singh at the hospital where he is being treated. They eventually found a heavy earthmoving machine blocking the road. The team, he said, somehow reached close to Dubey’s house.“Dubey’s men were fully prepared. Each of them had weapons. They were using semi-automatic weapons. Suddenly, firing began from all the directions. We looked for safe places. But the majority of our men went down in the first hail of bullets,” he said.The remaining policemen fired back, he said, adding the criminals could see them but policemen could not.“Two of my constables Ajay Sengar and Ajay Kashyap were injured. My priority at that time was to save them and take them to safer ground as others had fallen,” he said. Singh was injured when he was taking the constables away. He said he came to know later when he saw visuals of the attack on social media that the firing was going on from three sides and that at the place where Circle Officer, Bilhaur, was hiding, firing was done from right above him. -- here is the reporter version“All the workers of the local police station are under our scope of investigation on how Vikas Dubey got information about police movement. Whoever is found guilty will be charged with murder,” he added.The Uttar Pradesh Police has contacted the police of both Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Even after 65 hours, UP Police and ATS have not yet discovered anything about the whereabouts of Dubey, sources informed.The district administration had on Saturday demolished the house and visuals showed cars and other vehicles in the premises of the building complex being crushed by machines.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath earlier announced Rs 1 crore each ex-gratia for the families of the policemen who were killed in the Bikaru village encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kanpur-firing-up-policeman-narrates-horror-of-raid-night/story-OVmwZBYsZ7L2Ti0xJu2mRJ.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rainfall likely to occur in parts of Maharashtra today: IMD||Heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, and Palghar districts of Maharashtra on July 6, predicted the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday.The IMD informed that due to active monsoon conditions, the entire Konkan coast including Mumbai is experiencing an intense spell of rainfall and issued a yellow alert warning for the aforementioned districts for tomorrow.“Monsoon remained widespread active over the entire Konkan belt, including Mumbai with heavy to very heavy rainfall over many places and isolated extremely heavy falls,” read a press release by IMD. The weather agency further said that interior Maharashtra has received fairly widespread rainfall with mostly moderate rainfall. “Ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra also received heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places,” it added.“Moderate rain very likely in the city and suburbs. Possibility of heavy falls at isolated places for the next 48 hours,” it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rainfall-likely-to-occur-in-parts-of-maharashtra-today-imd/story-SjG1PE14x0MZZjdKKZsLjM.html
06-07-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi govt yet to restart doorstep delivery of services||Shikhar Arora (18), a resident of Krishna Nagar, east Delhi, on Thursday returned disappointed from the subdivisional magistrate’s office as he couldn’t get an income certificate of his family, which he needs urgently to apply to the Delhi University. Arora, who is seeking admission to a BA Pass course, said he won’t be able to apply under the economically weaker section (EWS) category without the income certificate to show that he is eligible. “I have been going to the office for nearly a month, but have not been able to get the certificate. They have now asked me to apply online,” he said.Issuance of income certificate is one of the 70 services provided by the Delhi government under its ambitious doorstep delivery of services project, which was launched in September 2018. It was suspended this March in view of the nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).While the government has further relaxed restrictions from July 1, under the Unlock 2.0 plan, the Delhi government is yet to restart the doorstep service delivery project. Under the project, 70 services from 10 different departments, including those of social welfare, transport, and food and supplies,among others, were being provided to citizens at their doorstep.Arora said, “Had the service been operational, it would have saved me from unnecessary trips to the SDM’s office.” He is one of the many people queuing up outside the district revenue offices for certificates needed to apply to colleges/jobs.An official at the East Delhi district office said, “Currently, only the registry of property is being done manually. For all other certificates, citizen have to apply online.”The office is also in the process of setting up help desks to help applicants fill up online forms, he said.Ananya Mandal (18) is seeking admission to BA (Hons) in Economics at DU and she had visited the SDM’s office in Mehrauli to get an OBC (other backward class) certificate, a mandatory document to apply under the OBC quota.“I was told that we will have to apply online since the staff at the SDM’s office are currently busy with Covid-19 duty. I tried to fill the form online but that the portal was not working properly. Still, I managed to apply for the certificate online and submitted the acknowledgement slip along with my admission form. But I don’t know by when I would get the certificate itself,” she said.A senior official at SDM Mehrauli said, “We are accepting applications online. We are trying to clear all EWS and income certificate related applications at the earliest as these are required by students.”The government, however, has no immediate plan to restart the service. A senior official with the administrative reforms department, on condition of anonymity, said, “The service was suspended due to Covid-19. Currently, there are a lot of Covid-19 cases being reported from the national capital. There is no immediate plan to resume the service in these circumstances. We will do so only when the Covid-19 situation is under control.”The official added, “The doorstep delivery was an additional service. People can still apply for essential documents either online or manually at the offices concerned.”Under the government’s doorstep delivery scheme, people could just call on the centralised number -- 1076-- and place a service request. The services included the issuance of certificates (caste, income, domicile, delayed birth order; duplicate registration certificate of the vehicle, transfer of vehicle ownership), and new water and sewer connections, among others.The government had outsourced the operations to VFS Global, which had set up the centralised call centre and hired ‘mobile sahayaks’ to ensure timely and hassle-free delivery of services. “In light of the Covid-19 pandemic situation in Delhi, the doorstep delivery operations were suspended from March 23, 2020, and we are awaiting further instructions from the Delhi government,” a VFS Global spokesperson said.As the city crawls back to normalcy with further relaxations in restrictions imposed earlier to contain the spread of the infectious disease, citizens say the doorstep delivery of service should be resumed as people could then avoid visiting crowded places.Atul Goyal, president of United RWAs Joint Action (URJA), said, “It was a good scheme and would have proved beneficial during the present times when the number of Covid-19 cases are on the rise. While government offices have resumed public dealings, people want to avoid going to public places for fear of contracting the infection. But those who need crucial documents are forced to step out. The government should encourage online systems or provide doorstep delivery of services.”Explaining the reason why the service cannot be resumed, a government spokesperson (CHECK)on condition of anonymity, said, “We can’t resume services immediately, as the entire staff at the call centre and officials of the revenue department are deployed on Covid-19 duty. It will be restarted once the Covid situation improves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-govt-yet-to-restart-doorstep-delivery-of-services/story-njFBBfCbSdBIwRjcJNeisL.html
06-07-2020||Delhi||Three-time plasma donor spreads hope among Covid-19 patients||Yogesh Dhakad, a 28-year-old nursing officer at Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital’s paediatric surgery department, was infected by the coronavirus in April and he spent 21 days in isolation at Safdarjung Hospital. Having recovered now, Dhakad has donated his plasma three times already – in 45 days of his discharge from the hospital. And he is not done. “As long as my body continues producing sufficient antibodies, I’ll continue donating every 15 days,” says Dhakad, who has been serving at the hospital since December.Plasma therapy is a process in which blood rich in antibodies from a Covid-19 recovered patient is transfused into the body of someone still struggling with the virus.Dhakad, who shares a rented flat in east Delhi’s Pandav Nagar with a friend, had been deployed in the Covid section of RML Hospital when he tested positive for the disease on April 18. “I must have been a little careless while dealing with patients,” says Dhakad. During 21 days of isolation at Safdarjung Hospital, he was asymptomatic throughout and kept himself busy with a physical workout, meditation and diet. It was on May 30 — nearly three weeks after his recovery — that he received the first request for donating plasma. “A social worker called me to ask if I could donate plasma for two patients admitted at Max Hospital,” says Dhakad.Dhakad, who weighs a little over 70 kilos, had no qualms. “I have donated blood about a dozen times since 2014. I am educated and aware that it is safe for a healthy person to donate plasma,” says Dhakad.In plasma donation, as against blood donation, plasma is extracted from the body while other components of the blood are injected back into the body, says Dr Sangeeta Pathak, senior consultant and head of department for the blood bank at Max Healthcare.“It is a totally safe process as a single needle and kit are used in the entire process. About 96% of the donors don’t feel any adverse effect. Some may feel dizziness and nausea, but it is a temporary effect and can be dealt with by taking sufficient liquid before and after the donation,” says Dr Pathak.But not every recovered Covid patient is eligible to donate.In an interview with HT, ILBS director Dr SK Sarin, had said that plasma donors should be a Covid patient younger than 60 years of age, not having uncontrolled diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney, heart, lung, or liver diseases and are well-nourished and weigh above 50kg.“Women who have been pregnant cannot donate,” says Dr Sarin, adding that people can donate again after a gap of 15 days.It was only several days later — after a thank you note from one of the beneficiary patients — that Dhakad got to know that both the patients at Max Hospital had recovered. “They were both over 50 years of age. One of them picked my address from the form I had filled and sent me a box of sweets and a thank you note,” says Dhakad.A curious Dhakad himself dialled a hospital attendant to learn that the second patient too had been discharged.Over the next 30 days, Dhakad donated plasma to yet another unknown patient during his visit to his hometown in Gwalior after a request from a known person, and then at Jaipur Golden Hospital in Rohini on receiving a call from RML Hospital.“I don’t know who the other two patients were or whether they got better, but it gives me immense satisfaction and a sense of pride to even think that I contributed to some families feeling hopeful,” says Dhakad.But Dhakad won’t reveal about his contribution to his parents; his two sisters being the only two relatives who know of it. “My father is a farmer and my mother a homemaker. They won’t understand that donating plasma is a safe, quick and painless process. When this crisis ends, I’ll let them know,” Dhakad says.Smriti Tiwari, the PRO of RML Hospital, says that Dhakad has also made the hospital proud. “We are proud that a colleague has come forward to set an example.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-time-plasma-donor-spreads-hope-among-covid-19-patients/story-lOnXvCvujd1cT2JF8CtQkK.html
06-07-2020||City||1984 riots convict lodged in Delhi’s Mandoli jail, dies of Covid-19||Mahender Yadav, a former legislator from Delhi’s Palam constituency who was convicted in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, died at a private hospital in Dwarka on Saturday, days after testing positive for Covid-19 at Mandoli Jail where he was lodged for the last 18 months.Yadav is the second prisoner to have died of the disease in the national capital. The other Covid death, on June 19, had taken place in the same barrack where Yadav was lodged.On Wednesday, Yadav’s family had approached the Supreme Court seeking interim bail for him on the grounds that they were not allowed to meet him in hospital. The Supreme Court had rejected his bail petition saying nobody could visit a person admitted in the ICU and that prisoners suffering from coronavirus were not entitled to getting any special treatment or favours.So far, 53 inmates and 88 staffers of Delhi’s jails have tested positive for Covid-19. Of them, 31 prisoners and 28 staffers have recovered, said Sandeep Goel, director general (Delhi Prisons).Yadav was serving a 10-year sentence in the anti-Sikh riots case after conviction by a CBI court in 2018. He had been in jail since December 31 that year.He was lodged in jail number 14 of Mandoli Jail located in north-east Delhi.Giving a background of the spread of Covid-19 in Mandoli Jail, Goel said the death of the other prisoner, Kanwar Singh, due to coronavirus had prompted the authorities to test all the other 29 inmates in that barrack. These 29 prisoners, including Yadav, were mostly senior citizens.“Seventeen of these 29 inmates tested positive in the first round on June 20. The others were tested again five days later and three more inmates were found to be infected. Yadav was found positive in the second round of testing,” said Goel.A day after his test results showed he was positive, Yadav developed “uneasiness and heart-related symptoms” upon which he was referred to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, said Goel.“The same day, he was referred to Lok Nayak Hospital (a Covid-designated hospital),” said Goel.Four days later, on June 30, Yadav was moved to the private Akash Healthcare Hospital in Dwarka. “The transfer was made under police guard on the request by Yadav’s family.On Wednesday, his family had approached the Supreme Court to request interim bail for him on the grounds that his relatives weren’t allowed to meet him in hospital and granting him bail would allow his family to take suitable steps in view of his deteriorating health.His family had cited his advancing age and ailments like diabetes and kidney issues.But the bench, headed by justice Indira Banerjee, had remarked, “If a person is in ICU, nobody can visit him. The petitioner cannot be given differential treatment because he is under detention.” HT’s efforts to reach Yadav’s son did not elicit a response.Yadav passed away at the hospital on Saturday evening, said Goel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1984-riots-convict-lodged-in-delhi-s-mandoli-jail-dies-of-covid-19/story-DOYTwkQjsMzBrFKa13qpON.html
06-07-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi govt orders hospitals to test all ‘high-risk’ individuals||The Delhi government on Sunday made it mandatory for all hospitals to conduct rapid antigen testing on all people with influenza like illness, all patients admitted with severe acute respiratory infection cases, all asymptomatic admitted patients or those falling in the high-risk group seeking admission in their facility. The order defines high-risk group undergoing chemotherapy, immunosuppressed, suffering from a malignancy, transplant patients and elderly (over 65 years of age) with co-morbidities.All patients undergoing aerosol generating procedures such as dental procedures will also have to undergo the test, the order says.“In view of above, medical directors, medical superintendents, directors of all hospitals of Government of NCT of Delhi are directed to ensure that rapid antigen detection testing of all individuals or patients falling in the above categories who visit their hospital is mandatorily done,” read the directive from Delhi government’s health and family welfare department.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on June 17 had issued an advisory to states, recommending antigen based rapid test to be expanded in a big way, especially those with high disease burden.Tests that detect presence or absence of an antigen in the body are called antigen detection tests. An antigen is a foreign molecule that induces an immune response within the body, especially the production of antibodies, and detecting its presence determines present infection.Delhi was the first state to roll out antigen based testing in June as Covid-19 cases had seen an unusual surge.ICMR had provided 50,000 kits to Delhi government for conducting antigen based testing across the state.An ICMR official, in the know of things, said, on condition of anonymity, “Antigen based test can help determine an ongoing infection which is why it is a good tool that can be used for diagnosis of Covid-19 along with the RT-PCR testing. RT-PCR, while a gold standard in diagnosing Covid-19, needs a proper biosafety level 2 lab for analysis. Antigen based test is a rapid point-of-care test that can be done on the spot without posing a biosafety hazard as it doesn’t deal with analyisng a live virus.”RT-PCR testing also has its limitations in terms of widespread availability because of the need for a specialized lab for analysis, and it takes about five hours to get results as compared to 30 minutes needed for antigen-based testing.The move is a part of enhancing Covid-19 testing capacity in the country as an upsurge in cases due to increased transmission of SARS-CoV-2 virus that is expected because of relaxation in travel restrictions in the country post lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-govt-orders-hospitals-to-test-all-high-risk-individuals/story-HoUDIEl8nsd4jZyUXCB0UK.html
06-07-2020||Delhi||Number of Covid patients requiring hospital care in Delhi declining: CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the number of Covid-19 patients in Delhi requiring hospital admission has been declining even as the state government announced that the number of intensive care unit (ICU) beds in three Delhi government hospitals has nearly tripled. “Less and less people in Delhi are now requiring hospitalisation, more and more people are getting cured at home,” Kejriwal tweeted.“Whereas there were around 2,300 new patients daily last week, no of patients in hospital has gone down from 6,200 to 5,300. Today, 9,900 corona beds are free,” he said in another tweet.As per a statement by Delhi government issued on Sunday, ICU beds in the three major covid-dedicated hospitals in the city – Lok Nayak (LNJP), Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospitals – have witnessed a 169% increase.After a visit to the temporary Covid hospital set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), along with Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday, Kejriwal said ICU beds are “very much needed at the moment” in the Capital. “For now, there is no scarcity of hospital beds, we have over 15,000 beds out of which 5,300 are occupied. There is a paucity of ICU beds. If there is any spike in Covid cases, these ICU beds are very critical for us,” the Delhi CM said. Delhi is on the cusp of reporting 100,000 cases with the city recording 99,444 cases by Sunday. The city has 3,067 fatalities so far due the viral disease.Also, 71,399 people have recovered and 15,564 patients with mild symptoms were in home isolation, according to the Delhi government’s daily Covid bulletin. In its statement on ICU beds, the Delhi government said, “The three-fold increase in ICU beds in Delhi’s three largest state-run Covid hospitals is a timely addition that will further strengthen the city’s fight against Covid-19. A few days back, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced with adequate bed capacity in Covid hospitals, major efforts are underway to now increase the ICU beds.“As a result of a continued push from the top, the number of beds in LNJP has increased from 60 at the beginning of lockdown to 180 today. The number of ICU beds in Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital has increased from 45 to 120 and the number of beds in Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital has increased from 31 to 66,” it said.It further said, “With an increase in the ICU beds, the fatality rate in Delhi is expected to further reduce due to enhanced capacity to take care of critical patients. Over the last few weeks, the daily number of fatalities due to Covid-19 has gone down substantially from over 120 a day to 55 on July 4.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/number-of-covid-patients-requiring-hospital-care-in-delhi-declining-cm-kejriwal/story-PJczLFhXLIGWu3fmRboHuO.html
06-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 case count likely to hit 100k today, fatality rate at 3%||With 2,244 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, the total number of confirmed infections in the national capital stood just 556 away from the 100,000 mark, 126 days since the first case was recorded in Delhi on March 2.According to the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin on Sunday, the Capital’s Covid-19 tally was 99,444. Delhi has recorded 2,338 new cases of Covid-19 on average every day over the past week.So far, 3,067 people have died due to the infection in the city, which means that Delhi has a case fatality rate (CFR) of 3%, slightly higher than the national average of 2.8%.Also read| Covid-19: Delhi govt orders compulsory rapid antigen detection test for high-risk individualsHowever, a silver lining for the national capital is the recovery rate, which on Saturday exceeded 70% for the first time. On Sunday, another 3,083 people recovered from the illness, taking the city’s recovery tally to 71,339, even as the testing numbers continue to rise.This means there are around 25,000 “active cases” — those still living with the infection — in the city. “Active cases” are a crucial metric because they directly correspond to the strain on a region’s health care system.According to the state government’s “Delhi Corona” app, the Capital has 15,161 beds for Covid-19 patients, of which 5,294 are occupied and 9,867 vacant as of Sunday.With 32,477 tests per million on Sunday, Delhi has among the highest testing rates in the country once the population is factored in.With nearly two-thirds of the Capital’s Covid-19 beds vacant, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday tweeted: “Less and less people in Delhi are now requiring hospitalisation, more and more people are getting cured at home.”“Whereas there were around 2,300 new patients daily last week, no of patients in hospital has gone down from 6,200 to 5,300. Today, 9,900 corona beds are free,” he said in another tweet.Just over one in five people admitted to hospitals with Covid-19 in Delhi are admitted to intensive care units.Testing numbers in the city have gone up since the commencement of rapid antigen tests on June 18, as part of the Centre and state governments’ efforts to stabilise the Covid-19 situation in the Capital. While the rapid tests were initially limited to the city’s containment zones initially, administrations in all 11 revenue districts of the city began conducting these tests from Friday, in a move to bring a greater proportion of the population under the testing net.The increase in the daily testing and the change in testing strategy to include asymptomatic people has meant that the positivity rate of cases has also dropped. The average weekly positivity rate, which was 21.6% two weeks ago, has since dropped to 11.6% on Sunday, though it still remains one of the highest in the country. At its peak, this number crossed 30% on June 16, which meant that nearly one out of every three tests was coming back positive. Also read| ‘People behaving like pre-Covid days’:Kerala backs tightening of rules, traders scepticalGovernment reports seen by HT showed that till Friday, 181,883 antigen tests were conducted across Delhi, of which 13,100 people were found positive. As per these reports, Shahdara district had the highest antigen test positivity rate in the national capital — 11.29%, while the most tests had, as of Friday, been conducted in south-west district.Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicine department at Safdarjung Hospital, said: “Our recoveries have more or less been on international lines. In fact, the recovery rate will get much higher in the coming days because the new cases that are being detected are mostly mild or asymptomatic. We have also had far fewer deaths than estimated earlier, which is positive as well, showing that we our understanding of the virus has evolved from the initial situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-covid-19-case-count-likely-to-hit-100k-today-fatality-rate-at-3/story-CX91FPsG4fhoOxL3bgtA2J.html
06-07-2020||City||Most Covid-19 deaths in Dharavi ward, least reported in south Mumbai||The G-North ward, comprising Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim, has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 deaths, followed by the K-East ward (Andheri, Jogeshwari and Vile Parle) and L ward (Kurla and Sakinaka), a report released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday has revealed.While the G-N ward has recorded 379 deaths of the total 5,156 Covid-19 cases reported so far, 351 deaths were recorded in the K-E ward, which has 5,660 cases. The death toll in L ward is 249, while the case count is 4,257.With 69 deaths reported in the past 48 hours, the city’s Covid-19 toll has reached 4, 896, while its fatality rate has risen to 5.8%.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G-N ward said, “Death records are maintained by the civic body’s epidemiology cell, as they have access to all the hospitals’ details. We have been given the deaths count recently and are looking into it.”Another civic official from Andheri said that the Covid-19 deaths data is not shared with the local administrative ward office of the area every day.Meanwhile, the lowest number of deaths was recorded in the wards in south Bombay. The A ward (Nariman Point and Churchgate) recorded the lowest deaths, followed by B ward (Bhendi Bazaar, Dongri, Pydhonie and Mohammad Ali Road) and C ward (Marine Lines, Chandanwadi, Kalbadevi). The A ward has recorded 48 deaths from the 1,894 Covid-19 cases reported so far, while B ward recorded 60 deaths. It has reported 798 cases so far. In C ward, the death toll stands at 61 deaths, even as the total case count is 1,114.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/most-covid-19-deaths-in-dharavi-ward-least-reported-in-south-mumbai/story-Nz0pEk81GQvNk2i7NSZfaL.html
06-07-2020||City||Kalyan and Dombivli too, need attention, says Fadnavis as Covid cases witness rise||The Maharashtra government should pay immediate attention to the spread of Covid-19 in Kalyan and Dombivli amid the rapidly increasing cases in the area, Devendra Fadnavis, leader of the Opposition in the legislative Assembly, said on Sunday at Holy Cross Covid-19 Hospital in Kalyan (West).Fadnavis was on a visit to the Covid-19 hospitals in the city to review the situation. “In the coming days, the cases in Kalyan Dombivli will be out of control. With less manpower, the civic body will not be able to look after the patients with the existing infrastructure. The state should see if extra manpower can be provided to the city,” the former chief minister (CM) said.After Kalyan, Fadnavis also visited Ulhasnagar and Bhiwandi.The Opposition leader said that though the situation has improved at Bhiwandi, the civic authorities must keep on improving the health care facilities in the city.“The state can help in providing funds to these areas so that the authorities can set up more beds and quarantine centres for the timely treatment of Covid-19 patients,” he said.Kalyan-Dombivli’s cases cross the 9-K markThe Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 482 new cases on Sunday, taking the total figure to 9,086. The first five days of the month have already seen a rapid surge in the Covid-19 cases, with around 400-500 cases recorded every day. Five deaths were also reported on Sunday, taking the death toll to 140.Meanwhile, KDMC recently joined hands with local private doctors’ association and set up three more Covid-19 hospitals in its vicinity. It has tied up with 17 private hospitals as a part of its efforts to curb the Covid-19 cases.The civic body will operate its 30 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 155 oxygen beds at the badminton court in KDMC Sports Complex at Dombivli MIDC on Monday. By July 15, KDMC will set up a facility with 70 ICU and 30 oxygen beds at Dombivli Gymkhana, and with 120 ICU and 250 oxygen beds at an art gallery in Dombivli. KDMC also plans to set up a quarantine facility in every ward by July 15 and ramp up the screening of residents from the current 800 to 2,000 each day. 120 deaths in BhiwandiMeanwhile, the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) on Sunday recorded 69 new cases and one death, taking its total case count to 2,319 and fatalities to 120.‘Why divide villages within KDMC’Speaking on the state’s recent decision to form a separate municipal body for 18 villages within KDMC, Fadnavis said, “The state should have considered establishing a civic body for all the 27 villages with proper planning instead of dividing them. Lack of planning will prove to be a major disaster in the future.”In the wake of the KDMC polls to be held later this year, the state had in June passed a notification to keep the remaining nine of the 27 villages within the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-and-dombivli-too-need-attention-says-fadnavis-as-covid-cases-witness-rise/story-3cyVJanCXmQzeoQfsXOSdM.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Ramping up health infra, keeping Covid fatalities in check: Maha task ahead||Maharashtra’s victory in the battle against the Covid-19 outbreak looks like an uphill task amid the daily spike in positive cases and the mushrooming of newer hot spots across the state. After the state crossed the grim mark of 2 lakh cases on Saturday, it has multiple challenges ahead, including containing the spread of the virus, ramping up the health infrastructure in hot spots other than Mumbai, and keeping the fatality rate in check.It took 96 days for the state to cross the 1 lakh mark, but the 2 lakh figure was breached within a mere 22 days.Despite the grave situation in the state, health minister Rajesh Tope is confident that the virus spread will stabilise in a few weeks. However, the minister did not wish to comment if the state is yet to reach its peak. “There is no point in talking about the peak now. I think that the cases in the state will flatten by August,” he said.According to senior officials, the challenge now is even greater than before, as the state government ‘unlocked’ several restrictions.Though Mumbai continues to remain the worst-affected city in Maharashtra, the daily surge in the number of cases has stabilised. However, the new hot spots in the rest of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) as well as in the cities of Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik and Aurangabad are now witnessing a high number of new cases every day. In the past two weeks, cities in MMR, excluding Mumbai, contributed over 41% of the cases recorded in the state. Between June 22 and July 4, the region recorded 27,808 cases. According to Tope, like Mumbai, the satellite cities, too, will witness a decline in daily cases. “Cases had spiked in south Mumbai but have subsided now. Cases from Dharavi and other major slums have also reduced. Now hot spots have resurfaced in north Mumbai and MMR. But the cases will be under control in the next 15 days there also,” he said.Senior health department officials said that densely populated areas, ease in restrictions on movement, and opening up of businesses, etc., led to the surge in MMR. Laxity in contact tracing further fuelled the surge in MMR’s cases.“As things have opened up now, the major challenge is to keep the numbers in control. The movement of citizens has increased after Unlock 2.0. Apart from social distancing campaigns, we have enforced closure of areas or selective lockdown now,” state health commissioner Anup Kumar Yadav said.As areas in MMR do not have adequate health infrastructure, district collectors and municipal commissioners rely on stringent lockdown measures to grapple with the increasing Covid-19 cases here. The situation in Mumbai came under control owing to a strong public and private health infrastructure. However, in the rest of MMR, barring Thane city, the health infrastructure is not as strong, said Yadav.“We have invested a lot to ramp up the infrastructure. Thane has a strong infrastructure but other corporations are not developed on the lines of Mumbai and Thane. We have conducted the gap analysis and proposed new Covid care centres, there is increased supply of ventilators as well as an increase in quarantine centres. In a short span of time, we are trying hard to supplement the health infrastructure. As of now, there is no shortage of bed or other equipment,” Yadav said.According to a civic official, around 80% of the positive patients are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and therefore they recover in their home without burdening the health infrastructure in MMR region. Tope also acknowledged the lack of institutional quarantine facilities in other parts of MMR. He said he directed municipal commissioners from the region to put quarantine infected patients at institutional facilities.Lack of aggressive contact tracingSenior health department officials pointed out that lack of aggressive contact tracing caused several areas to take longer to control the cases. They added that it has a “cascading effect” which ultimately impacts the chances of survival of a positive patient. “Data shows that a positive patient comes to hospital on the fifth day of getting infected because tracing did not take place. In the meantime, they develop severe symptoms and the patient’s chances of recovery reduce. They also infect others before they are hospitalised. Ideally, we want patients [who need hospitalisation] to be admitted between 24 and 48 hours,” a health department official said.Tope admitted that contact tracing ratio in the state is 1:6 as opposed to the 1:15 target (15 contacts per one Covid-19 patient). Cases seeing surge in other cities tooIn the past two weeks, Pune city recorded around 8,112 cases, while the adjoining Pimpri-Chinchwad region recorded nearly 2,000 new cases during the same period. Nashik and Aurangabad too have been recording cases every day that largely contribute to the state’s cumulative figure. But officials said that since the movement in these areas is not as much as what is witnessed in MMR, cases are not growing exponentially. “We have adequate health infrastructure in Pune and other rural areas. The state has set up a task force in every district and advice from expert doctors, epidemiologists and virologists are being made available to rural patients with comorbidities,” Yadav said.Fatality rateAnother challenge before the state government is its battle against the rising fatality rate. After the state recorded 295 deaths – its highest ever in a day – the fatality rate in Maharashtra stands at 4.33% on Saturday. Yadav said the state has stepped up efforts to combat the fatality rate. “The death rate is largely under control. We have set up task forces, introduced a new clinical guideline, and experts guide the physicians treating Covid patients in rural areas through video conferencing. We also have the necessary drugs, including Remdesivir, and we are getting ventilators also,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ramping-up-health-infra-keeping-covid-fatalities-in-check-maha-task-ahead/story-JVcM8CkZkQrJ12xh2COkKI.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s active Covid-19 cases between 25,000 and 30,000||The city’s active Covid-19 cases have plateaued between 25,000 and 30,000 throughout June and the first week of July, as against the steady rise seen in the active cases in April and May. For the past one month, while fresh Covid-19 cases in a single day averaged between 1,000 and 1,300, the active cases have not shown a drastic increase owing to the high discharge rate of patients, who have recovered from the virus. On Saturday, Mumbai had 24,524 active Covid-19 cases, while on July 1 the number stood at 29,288. On June 15, the active cases count was 26,828, and on June 1, it was 22,571. The average growth rate of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai is 1.63%. According to BMC, 66% of Covid-19 patients have recovered and discharged as per the protocols outlined by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Officials from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as well as experts anticipate that Mumbai’s curve will flatten in mid-July, and total number of active cases will begin to decrease every day after that. In mid-June, the number of discharged patients in Mumbai had crossed the number of active cases. Experts have also pointed out that a steady number of active cases will stabilise the health care system and help predict future health interventions and policies better.Civic commissioner IS Chahal pointed out to HT on Sunday that independent studies by doctors in the city have also indicated that Mumbai’s Covid-19 curve will begin to flatten by mid-July. However, officials have also cautioned that scaled testing, monsoon and further easing of restrictions are likely to affect these determinations.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of the health department, said, “The numbers have given us a clear understanding of where we stand right now. Things are certainly under control. We are on the proper track and our policies are working.”However, he has cautioned against two factors. “It is not time to celebrate yet . We are not aware of two scenarios: the first being what happens after we open up completely and the traffic on the road starts to increase. This may or may not lead to a spike in cases. The second scenario is the monsoon season. In June, it did not rain much but this month it has started to rain heavily. That is a worrying factor for us, as can aggravate the situation if there are high cases of malaria and dengue. These are situations out of our control, and so we are continuing to upgrade our facility to accommodate a spike. The corporation is preparing for future health interventions without considering that the curve is flattening.”As on Sunday, Mumbai reported 23,732 active Covid-19 cases, which is 28% of the total cases reported in the city so far. Mumbai recorded 1,287 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday and 69 deaths. The total cases in Mumbai are now at 84,524, while the death toll is 4,899, with 5.7% fatality rate. Mumbai’s figures contribute to 40% of Maharashtra’s total cases, 27% of the state’s active cases and 55% of its deaths.Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician from Bombay Hospital and chief co-ordinator for private hospitals and BMC, said, “Mumbai’s recovery and doubling rates have improved. The number of cases per day is almost the same – around 1,000 a day but not above 1,300 – from the past three weeks. These are signs that the curve is flattening. I feel that after July 15, our curve will witness a downward trend. But we have to still prepare for the worst-case situation.”When the number of cases can be predicted based on recent trends, healthcare facilities are in a better position to manage patients and can plan future heath care policies better, according to Dr Bhansali. He said, “Bed availability has improved. Very soon patients will also be able to get their choice of hospital. These are signs that we are doing better.”BMC has also started antigen testing that will increase Mumbai’s testing capacity to 7,000 tests everyday. Kakani said, “If someone tests positive in an antigen test, it will be treated at par with RT-PCR [reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction] test’s results. If anyone is tested negative, the person will go through a mandatory RT-PCR test.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-active-covid-19-cases-between-25-000-and-30-000/story-zw1zKcIiWxJHpw77eB98OM.html
06-07-2020||City||Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases are plateauing, but city needs more tests experts say||Are Covid-19 cases in Mumbai plateauing? In the past 10 days, Mumbai has, in descending order of dates from July 5, recorded 1,287, 1,163, 1,338, 1,554, 1,487, 893, 1,226, 1,287, 1,402 and 1,297 cases, averaging 1,293 cases per day. This number was 1,275 for the week ending June 27, and 1,214 the week ending June 20. In the three weeks before that, Mumbai recorded 1354, 1273 and 1375 new cases every day at an average.Since June 15, the city has not recorded major spikes in the pandemic curve. In this backdrop, Maharashtra health officials believe that Covid-19 has hit a plateau in Mumbai.However, that is not the case for the rest of Maharashtra. If we break the 200,000-case march of Covid in the state (Maharashtra breached the grim figure on July 4) into four phases of 50,000 cases each, an alarming trend of the increasing pace of cases emerges. The first 50,000 cases in Maharashtra took 77 days (on May 24) from the first case reported in the state on March 9, while the next 50,000 came in the next 19 days on June 12. The state crossed 150,000 cases just two weeks later on June 26. The 200,000-case mark came in just eight days later.In the last week, Maharashtra reported 5,847 new cases every day at an average – the highest ever recorded. The week before, this number was 4,418, and it was 3,376 the week before, all record highs until that point of time. In fact, the average new case graph has been increasing every day for nearly a month.Another case of worry for Maharashtra is the rise in active cases. In the last week, the state has added nearly 15,700 active cases. The week before that, active cases in the state increased a little over 9,500. Active cases is a crucial metric because it directly reflects the load on any region’s healthcare system. As of July 5, there are 86,040 active cases in the state. On June 25, there were 63,342. Recovery rate improved marginally from 52.42% to 54.08% in the same period.Mumbai, however, appears to have hit a plateau, in both daily cases as well as active cases. As of July 5, Mumbai’s active cases stood at 23,732. The city had recorded 55,884 recoveries out of 84,524 cumulative cases, giving a recovery rate of 66.12%. In contrast, on June 25, Mumbai’s active cases stood at 27,659, with 39,149 recoveries out of a total of 70,878 cases. The recovery rate in Mumbai was 55.23%. Since then, the recovery rate in Mumbai has risen by 10.89 percentage points, and the active cases have dropped by 14.2%.This is not enough to put Mumbai in the clear, though, according to Dr Abhijit More, co-convenor of Jan Arogya Abhiyaan, a pan-Maharashtra health sector NGO. He says testing in Mumbai has been inadequate. “The number of tests has remained constant between 4,000 and 4,500. The identification of cases has therefore maintained a similar path. If the civic-body starts testing more, the pandemic curve will go up, rather than remaining constant,” he said.From June 25 to July 3, Mumbai averaged 5025 tests a day, but from June 1 to June 24, it had averaged 4,298 tests.However, Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid-19 task force refutes More’s claim. Citing data, Joshi said when BMC was testing between 2,500 and 4,000 people every day in April, the positivity rate was higher. For example, on April 28, when the city recorded its highest one-day spike with 2,105 cases, the BMC tested 4,093 people, giving a positivity rate of 51.43%. “In the last week of May, when we recorded the highest spike in cases, our testing figure was between 3,500 and 4,500 samples. Despite increasing the number of tests in June and July, the pandemic curve hasn’t gone up. It has rather plateaued,” Dr Joshi said.Public health experts said the plateauing is not uniform across the city. Cases seem to have plateaued only in south Mumbai, they said, where some locations had recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases, whereas numbers are gradually increasing in north Mumbai, especially in the western suburbs.Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health expert and analyst, said. “G-North ward, which has India’s largest slum cluster of Dharavi, was BMC’s prime concern. Now, we are recording very few cases there. The curve has flattened in Dharavi, but the situation is the opposite in Borivali, Dahisar and Kandivali.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-covid-19-cases-are-plateauing-but-city-needs-more-tests-experts-say/story-1JhVRjpIyekcSPhGVoLkcP.html
06-07-2020||City||Man killed as car rams into tree in Thane||One person was killed after a car hit the tree near the service road of Teen Hath Naka on Sunday at 11pm. The residents rushed to the spot and informed police. “The car rammed into the tree and driver died on the spot. He was over-speeding. We are yet to identify the driver,” a Naupada police officer said. “We were at the spot around at 11.20pm. The driver could not control the vehicle and rammed on the tree. The car is completely crushed from the front.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-killed-as-car-rams-into-tree-in-thane/story-kiQArq7janivq9wQGwtVRN.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ahead of monsoon, Chandigarh MC issues 700 notices over illegal water supply connections||Cracking the whip on illegal water supply connections and to stop contamination of drinking water with sewage, the municipal corporation has issued notices to around 700 houses in Sector 32 directing them to immediately disconnect ferrule connections to old supply lines.The residents have been given a week’s time to remove old connections, after which MC will remove them while taking a strict action against the defaulters. Residents have been directed to only use water connections from the new supply lines laid in the area.“In some locations of Sector 32, the old water supply lines were covered under illegal constructions, and their use was discontinued by the department after new pipes were laid in the area. But some residents haven’t disconnected the old lines, even when they have been provided with new connections,” said a senior MC official privy to the development.With people using both lines, the department reasons that the drinking water of the new pipeline gets contaminated. “The old water supply lines are laid in close proximity to the sewage pipelines. There are leakages at several places in these old lines. The sewage water gets mixed with drinking water. Through ferrule connections, the contaminated water enters the new pipelines,” said the official.Complaints received of stinking waterAfter receiving several complaints of contaminated water, the public health department of the MC had examined the reasons behind the problem. “Even though the drinking water supply was clean, residents were complaining of stinky and contaminated water for some time now. It was discovered that the reason lay in water from old lines getting mixed with new line supply leading to contamination,” explained the official.The contamination of the drinking water with the sewage water can lead to major health problems, especially in monsoon, which is why the notices have been issued, the official said.Besides contamination, the use of double water supply lines leads to low water pressure. “The leakages in old pipes that are difficult to locate now, are leading to water loss from the new lines. As a result, in many multi-storeyed houses, people on higher floors are not getting proper water supply. When people cut connections to the old pipes, this problem will be mitigated,” the official added.Meanwhile, residents are blaming the civic body, alleging that it was the department’s responsibility to disconnect old connections when the new lines were laid. “They are now putting onus on the residents and blaming us for issues like low water pressure. They should have taken appropriate steps when new lines were being laid,” said a resident, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ahead-of-monsoon-chandigarh-mc-issues-700-notices-over-illegal-water-supply-connections/story-TzCM5g9G820NBpV95L4sfO.html
06-07-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi govt orders compulsory rapid antigen detection test for high-risk individuals||The Delhi government on Sunday instructed all health care facilities to carry out compulsory rapid antigen detection testing of patients with ILI symptoms, patients admitted with SARI and other high-risk individuals who visit their facilities. An order issued by the Delhi Health department directed all medical directors, medical superintendent and directors of all Delhi government-run hospitals to ensure that “rapid antigen detection testing” of all individuals/patients falling in the categories listed, who visit their hospital, is mandatorily done. All individuals with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms, all patients admitted with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) are to be mandatorily tested, it said. “All asymptomatic patients admitted or seeking admission of following high - risk group -- Patients undergoing Chemotherapy, Immunosuppressed patient including HIV+, Patients with Malignant disease, Transplant Patients, Elderly patients ( > 65 years of age ) with co-morbidities and all asymptomatic patients undergoing aerosol generating interventions,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-govt-orders-compulsory-rapid-antigen-detection-test-for-high-risk-individuals/story-zLIHGgfW1wjuhXA5iTsTdK.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||State Covid-19 tally rises to 206,619; toll 8,822||A day after breaching the 2-lakh Covid-19 case mark and recording, in a first, over 7,000 infections in a day, Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 6,555 new cases. The state’s tally is now 206,619, of which 86,040 are active cases, according to the state health department. Maharashtra now joins 14 countries that have reported over 2 lakh cases, as per data with worldometers.info. The state took 17 weeks to pass the bleak mark since the first case on March 9 and on Sunday surpassed the tally of countries such as Saudi Arabia and Turkey, which have reported 2,05,929 and 2,04,610 cases respectively.The state also recorded 151 deaths in a day, taking the toll to 8,822, health officials said. The state’s highest single-day spike of 7,074 cases and highest 24-hour toll of 295 was recorded on Saturday. Mumbai’s tally touched 84,524 after 1,287 cases were reported in the past 24 hours. Of these, 23,732 cases are active. The city’s toll stands at 4,899 after 69 more deaths were reported.Last week, CM Uddhav Thackeray had confirmed that there will be a spike in infections in the next few weeks as the state has begun opening up economy.Sharp surge in cases was observed in the past 10 days from June 24 onwards. The daily case count increased from 3,890 on June 24 to 4,841 the next day. It then recorded over 5,000 cases for each of the next five days and over 6,000 cases for each of the two days after that and crossed 7,000 cases on Saturday.In the past five days since July 1, the state has got 31,860 cases, as against 302 in March, 10,196 in April, 57,157 cases in May and 1,02,172 in June. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said there is no need to worry over the rise in cases until proper medical care is being made available to the people. “As we are opening up restrictions and allowing people to start their day-to-day activities, it is obvious that cases will go up. The rise should not be seen as a reason to worry as we are doing better surveillance, contact-tracing, testing and treatment. If we are providing better medical care, there is no need to worry about it,” Kumar said.However, following the spike in cases, many cities and districts have reimposed lockdown, although for a brief period to break the chain after the state government empowered them to take the decision as and when required.Cities in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) such as Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayandar, Ulhasnagar, Navi Mumbai and Panvel have imposed lockdown in their jurisdiction for ten days.In MMR, cases have increased to 135,358 from 55,086 cases on June 3, when the state decided to provide relaxations in red zones, including MMR.In other cities such as Aurangabad, lockdown has been imposed in Walunj industrial area, between July 4 and 12. In Nashik city, night curfew has been imposed from 7pm to 5am to curb the pandemic’s spread.Aurangabad and Nashik have 5,205 and 2,932 cases respectively. Districts such as Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Beed, too, have imposed lockdown in their jurisdiction, following the surge in cases. Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Beed have 712, 246 and 142 cases respectively. While there has been a buzz that cases have started to peak in the state, public health secretary Pradeep Vyas denied this.“It is an infectious disease, movement of people and opening of restrictions has resulted in the rise in cases. I still cannot say that the peak has started,” Dr Vyas said.“We have found that the rise is cases was recorded in the areas where contact-tracing per positive patient is less than 10 people. Following this, authorities have been directed to trace at least 10 people behind one patient,” said another senior official, wishing not to be named.State health minister Rajesh Tope on July 2 had clarified that there is no community spread in the state so far. The numbers are rising, but there is no indication of community transmission, he said.“The number of fresh cases is increasing, but it cannot be termed community transmission as most of the cases are coming either from containment zones or institutional quarantine facilities. There is no community spread in the state yet,” Tope said.Despite rise in cases, the recovery rate of the state is over 54%, said the health minister. “On Sunday, 3,658 patients were discharged from various hospitals and are allowed to go back to their homes. Total number of recovered patients has increased to 1,11,740 and recovery rate stands at 54.08%,” he said.Along with surge in cases, the state is also facing a large number of deaths on a daily basis. In the past five days (since July 5), 967 deaths are recorded. To control the situation, the state has now formed a taskforce of expert doctors in all districts. With 8,822 deaths on Sunday, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded as 4.27%. It is second-highest in the country after Gujarat, where CFR is 5.45% with 1,925 deaths (35,312 cases) till Saturday, according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.Maharashtra still has highest number of deaths across states in the country.By the end of May, the state has successfully brought down CFRto 3.26% (on May 26) from 7.41% (with 148 deaths) on April 13. Currently, 46,062 people have been kept in institutional quarantine and over 6,04,463 people have been put under home quarantine across the state.So far, the state has also completed 11 lakh tests. On Sunday, the health department declared to have conducted 11,12,442 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 10,05,823 people tested negative. It means 18.57% of the total samples tested positive, said an official.This works out to 11.36% of the total tests conducted in the country. Till July 4, a total of 97,89,066 samples have been tested across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-covid-19-tally-rises-to-206-619-toll-8-822/story-XwIhyeK14UcfXqzLip07jJ.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Constable hurt after car rams into him, driver booked||Gamdevi police booked a 35-year-old driver for rash and negligent driving after his car rammed into a traffic constable on Friday evening at Mahalaxmi.According to the police, the constable – Ajitrao Maske – suffered multiple injuries and is undergoing treatment at Jaslok Hospital.Around 6.15pm, Maske was assisting his colleague, constable Manish Sawant, in manning the traffic at Cadbury Junction.“We are posted with the Tardeo traffic division and were deployed at Cadbury junction. While we were clearing the traffic, around 6.15pm, a car was heading towards Peddar Road from Bhulabhai Desai Marg. The driver suddenly lost control over the vehicle and dashed into Maske,” read Sawant’s statement in the first information report (FIR) registered by the police.Sawant added that Maske suffered multiple injuries and was bleeding from head. The driver, identified as Jatashankar Yadav, stopped the car and the duo immediately rushed Maske to Jaslok Hospital in the same car. He suffered a fracture on his hand and some other injuries.“We booked Yadav under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and are investigating the case,” an officer from Gamdevi police station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/constable-hurt-after-car-rams-into-him-driver-booked/story-NrQ5cCVBz0KDxUGnCBBX8H.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Classify buildings on their use while levying development charges: HC||Civic bodies ought to classify buildings on the basis of its predominant purpose (residential or commercial) while levying development charges, the Bombay high court (HC) said on Friday, while directing the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to not take any coercive steps for the recovery of the charges from Macrotech Developers Ltd.The division bench of justice KK Tated and justice Milind Jadhav directed the civic body to accept the ₹13.15 crore from the developer, instead of the ₹26.30 crore the corporation had demanded for.The bench also directed BMC to issue a commencement certificate to the commercial wing of the building developed by Macrotech Developers up to 26 habitable floors, after ₹13.15 crore is paid by the latter.Macrotech moved HC after the civic body on July 1 demanded ₹26.30 crore towards development charges for the issuance of commencement certificate for the habitable floors of the fourth - commercial wing of its project, World Towers at Worli.Senior advocate Sharan Jagtiani, who represented the developer, submitted that the development charges levied were in contradiction to sections 124A and 124B of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act, 1966. He added that the predominant user of the development which is being carried out by the developer was residential, as 78℅ of the construction is residential in nature, and therefore, the developer was liable to pay development charges at the rate of 4℅ of the ready reckoner (for residential buildings) and not at 8℅, required to be paid for commercial constructions.Senior advocate Anil Sakhare, who represented BMC, strongly opposed the prayer for interim relief. He submitted that if interim relief was granted to the developer, there was a possibility that he will complete the work and vanish without making any payments to the civic body, in case the court upholds the civic body’s demand notice later.The argument, however, failed to impress upon the bench.“On a careful perusal and consideration of the provisions of section 124A read with section 124B of MRTP Act, the petitioner has, prima facie, made out a case for seeking interim relief,” the bench said, adding that it was clear that the building was required to be classified for the purpose of levy of development charges on the basis of its “predominant user” as stated in the provisions.The bench also noted that of the total floor space index of 1,95,524 square metres to be utilised at the site, a majority (1,52,646 square metres) was being utilised for residential purposes, clearly indicating that the predominant purpose was residential.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/classify-buildings-on-their-use-while-levying-development-charges-hc/story-BdimXrLUUHghqPeEIdHExN.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Cops on lookout for 3 who stabbed bizman in Juhu||Juhu police have booked three unidentified men for allegedly stabbing a 35-year-old businessman near Jalsa, actor Amitabh Bachchan’s bungalow.According to the police, the incident occurred on Saturday around 10pm when the victim Aquil Ahmad, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, visited the area for some personal work. “He was walking near Jalsa bungalow, opposite Bharti Arogya Nidhi Hospital when three unknown men accosted him and asked him to consume liquor,” said a police officer.Ahmad ignored them but they kept insisting, and an argument ensued. The three accused then started beating Ahmad. One of them later brought out a knife and stabbed him in the chest, hand, and stomach. The three accused then fled the scene.Locals rushed the victim to Cooper Hospital where he is receiving treatment and is in stable condition. Ahmad told police that while they were assaulting him, the accused addressed each other as Rajendra, Vikas, and Naresh.“Based on the victim’s statement, we registered a first information report [FIR] against the three under sections 307 [attempt to murder], 323 [Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt], 504 [intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace] and 34 [common intention] of the Indian Penal Code [IPC] and are investigating the case,” said an officer from Juhu police station.Bizman at Bhandup threatened for money to pay for partyFour people were booked by Bhandup police for allegedly attempting to extort money from a 49-year-old businessman on Saturday. The victim, identified as Girish Mishra, is a resident of Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Nagar, Kurla.According to Mishra’s statement, on July 4, around 6pm, four people accosted him near Khindipada, Bhandup. The accused flashed a knife and demanded ₹15,000, saying they wanted the money to have a party. The accused threatened to kill Mishra if he did not accede to their demand.Mishra identified two of the accused as Vicky Gaud and Suraj Mishra, while he was unable to identify the other two. “After the encounter, Mishra approached the police station and filed a complaint against the four men. We have registered an FIR against them under relevant sections of the IPC,” said an officer from Bhandup police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cops-on-lookout-for-3-who-stabbed-bizman-in-juhu/story-RNUdZCZYgmcLkQW6BfiZ2N.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||ICT researchers work on Covid-19 rapid testing kit||The Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT), Matunga, is developing an indigenous rapid testing kit, RTqPCR 2.0, for the detection of Covid-19 at almost half the cost of the existing test.A five-member team of researchers from the institute, in association with the Indian Institutes of Technology Alumni Council, is creating a one-step lyophilised real time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) kit that can detect a host of diseases. The kit will contain a testing reagent that is in dry state and can be stored in room temperature.Currently, RT-PCR test is one of the most effective diagnostic tools for confirmation of Covid-19 owing to its qualitative results. However, since the cost of the test is high and the method of detection is complex, the use of the test is limited across the country.The existing RT-PCR tests, which have been either adopted or imported from other countries, require sophisticated refrigerators to store the reagent. This increases the cost of the test significantly. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has capped the cost of the test at ₹4,500. “The reagent is in liquid state and has to be stored at -20° C. It requires standardised and quality-controlled refrigeration facility, which makes it unsuitable for tropical countries like India. Especially in rural India, such refrigeration facilities are not available,” said Ratnesh Jain, coordinator of the project.The scientists are lyophilising this reagent — or drying it out — to a solid powder state that can be stored at room temperature. “This reagent can then be mixed with water and used for the diagnosis,” said Jain. The process of lyophilisation is not new to the institute that has in the past done the same for pharmaceutical and food industries. According to Jain, lyophilising traditionally helps pharmaceutical companies cut manufacturing cost by two to three times. The product is in development stage and will soon be ready depending on how the funding flows in, he added. It will be available in the MegaLab, an initiative of the IIT Alumni Council to build a lab in Mumbai with the capacity of conducting 10 million Covid-19 tests a month. Apart from Covid-19, the kits will have the ability to detect tuberculosis, dengue, chikungunya, HIV, Hepatitis, select cancers and some sexually transmitted diseases. With this, ICT has joined the league of technical institutes that are working on indigenous variants of the Covid-19 tests. “MegaLab Mumbai and RTqPCR 2.0 are excellent initiatives by IIT Alumni Council in the fight against Covid-19. It will meet the immediate need for mass testing through reliable, faster and cheaper genetic diagnostics, in addition to becoming a showpiece for indigenous technology and engineering capability,” said Anirudha Pandit, vice chancellor of ICT, Mumbai and one of the investigators of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ict-researchers-work-on-covid-19-rapid-testing-kit/story-xz7NCS73vu6GiovZyS77FJ.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Mulund MLA seeks action against add civic commissioner over alleged Nesco facility malpractices||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Mulund, Mihir Kotecha has requested the speaker of the state legislative Assembly Nana Patole to move a breach of privilege motion against P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, in the upcoming session in Vidhan Sabha, for hiding and misrepresenting facts regarding the Covid centre at Nesco in Goregaon. BJP leaders have alleged severe malpractices and corruption at the facility.Kotecha alleged that Velrasu denied furnishing a work order of oxygen cylinders at the Nesco facility as the later claimed that the facility was built using CSR funds. “However, later we got a copy of the work order that was issued to a local builder to supply 23 oxygen cylinders worth ₹10.90 crore to the Nesco Covid facility,” said Kotecha in a press release. The release added that this amounted to breach of privilege.Kotecha further alleged that there have been many such purchases made by the authorities during the pandemic that have severe irregularities. Velrasu is yet to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mulund-mla-seeks-action-against-add-civic-commissioner-over-alleged-nesco-facility-malpractices/story-XqNVMJZnx1F6cdz3cEw6LL.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||CMO, home minister cancel transfer order of 10 Mumbai DCPs||The transfer order of 10 deputy commissioner of police (DCPs) has been stayed by the office of chief minister Uddhav Thackerey and home minister Anil Deshmukh. Ten DCPs were recently transferred within Mumbai by the commissioner of police Parambir Singh Deshmukh on Sunday evening in a message on Twitter said that the Mumbai commissioner of police’s (CP) order of internal transfers in Mumbai police were stayed by his and chief minister Udhhav Thackeray’s offices. Home minister Anil Deshmukh remained unavailable for comment.It’s for the first time that Mumbai CP’s decision has been overturned by the government in the last decade. Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary, (general administration) department having additional charge of ACS (home) department, said, “It has been done out administrative reasons.” The order has come amid reports of discontent among the ruling partners — Congress and NCP — over decisions taken by Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. However, Anil Deshmukh in a video statement claimed that there was no differences between three parties. The 10 DCPs which include three Indian police service (IPS) officers as well were recently transferred as part of internal shuffling by CP Mumbai. Sources in the home department said that while shuffling DCPs internally, some transfer rules were overlooked and some senior political leaders of the ruling parties were not happy with the move.The joint commissioner of police (administration) Naval Bajaj, on Sunday, issued an order to cancel these transfers. Bajaj also directed all the DCPs who had taken charge of the new postings, to resume back to their previous postings. The exact reason for holding the transfers is not yet clear. On July 2, 10 DCPs; Paramjit Dahiya, Prashant Kadam, Ganesh Shinde, Dr Rashmi Karandikar, Shahaji Umap, Mohan Dahikar, Vishal Thakur, Sangramsingh Nishandar, Pranaya Ashok and Nandkumar Thakur were given new postings. Apart from this, DCP (headquarter-1), N Ambika was given an additional charge of DCP zone 3. “For the internal shuffling of DCPs, CP’s recommendation holds maximum weightage. But it has to be done after securing prior approval from the home department,” said a home department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cmo-home-minister-cancel-transfer-order-of-10-mumbai-dcps/story-uDecf1meHClMNSJpy10tYJ.html
06-07-2020||City||People in Thane quarantine centre complain of inadequate food, hot water||Patients at a quarantine centre set up in one of the buildings of a private residential complex in Manpada, Thane, have alleged a lack of many basic facilities. Patients said that food is served only twice a day and no hot water is provided. Additionally, they claimed that Covid-negative patients are made to stay with those who tested positive, increasing their risk of infection.“Our basic complaint is the lack of adequate food and its quality. Lunch is served at 1pm, while dinner is served at 10pm, with no tea or snacks for nine hours in between. Many old, diabetic patients and children suffer due to these timings. Moreover, breakfast is very meagre and irregular. At times, no breakfast is served. My in-laws who are diabetic need food on time and face difficulty in this centre,” said a 40-year-old woman who has been quarantined at the centre along with her family members.The Manpada facility is one of 10 civic quarantine centres in the city. The 23-storeyed building can accommodate 120 patients.Quarantined individuals allege that there is no provision for hot water in the washrooms and people suffering from cold are forced to bathe with cold water. Hot water is also not provided for drinking.“We do not get enough water to drink. Sometimes the water is over and not re-filled on time. In this heavy rain, we need hot water to bathe. We even asked for hot drinking water but were denied. It would be better if we were quarantined at home and could take care of ourselves rather than deteriorating here. We don’t get any immunity booster products or tablets to have if we are suspected of Covid-19,” said a 38-year-old man who was admitted to the quarantine centre along with four of his family members.One patient at the centre who was Covid-negative complained that he was given a bed near a positive patient and later tested positive as well.Thane Deputy municipal commissioner Sandip Malvi said, “The allegations are baseless. Apart from the lack of hot water, there are no major problems in any of our centres. It is true that we are facing difficulty to provide hot water in some of the centres and are working on it.”He claimed that food reaches on time and is adequate at all the centres. “Along with the patients, our staff is also provided food. We provide breakfast, lunch, evening tea and biscuits, and dinner. There is no scarcity of food. We check every morning if the patients have received breakfast. However, I will send our volunteers to check on these complaints. Our doctor is also checking on the health of every patient,” Malvi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-in-thane-quarantine-centre-complain-of-inadequate-food-hot-water/story-JnlGDPCfFjB69eCjPh7ICN.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||HC judges to pay surprise visits to Covid facilities in Aurangabad||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday said that it would pay surprise visits to hospitals, quarantine, and Covid care centres in the city after it was informed that officials continued to be negligent in their Covid duties despite the court’s direction to initiate a suo moto public interest litigation (PIL) based on news reports on the matter. The court said that if they found public servants shirking their responsibilities, they would issue directions for registering criminal complaints against such officials. They would also seek details of negligent officials from the Aurangabad civic administration.A division bench of justice TV Nalawade and SD Kulkarni, while hearing the suo moto PIL initiated at their behest, was informed by senior counsel Rajendra Deshmukh appointed as Amicus Curiae, that indiscipline and apathy among public servants involved in containing the spread of Covid-19 continued even though the court had issued strict directions in the previous hearing.Public prosecutor for the state DR Kale, however, assured the court that based on the previous directions, disciplinary action had been taken against public servants and persons who were not obeying orders made by the officers and authority created under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Kale claimed that since said action was not publicized, it seemed like the authority was not acting. Kale also submitted a compilation of documents to show what action had been taken against errant public servants.However, Deshmukh submitted that there was still no discipline among public servants and Covid staff, and they remain absent from duty.“It is a fact that the graph of the affected persons is still ascending in Aurangabad district. This court has already observed that only giving direction is not sufficient, the directions need to actually be implemented,” the bench said.In light of these observations, the court said that it would pay surprise visits to hospitals, quarantine, and Covid care centres and containment zones. It said that if it finds that staff negligence is leading to the spread of the virus, criminal action will be taken against the errant public servant or staffer, no matter their rank. “This court will not be sparing anyone if such lapses are found,” the bench said, posting the hearing for July 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-judges-to-pay-surprise-visits-to-covid-facilities-in-aurangabad/story-FHQ39LyyO0kf0ncUDesviN.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Stop confusing people on agri ordinances: SAD to Capt||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday asked chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh to “stop creating confusion on the central agricultural ordinances despite knowing it had nothing to do with minimum support price (MSP)”.In a statement here, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema asked the CM to shun politics on the central agricultural ordinances in the interest of Punjabis. “Punjabis want answers to the ₹5,600-crore excise revenue losses. They want to know what you have done to recoup the losses which were pointed out by your own colleagues. Why no action has been taken against Congress leaders and distillery owners who are accused of bottling illicit liquor and denying excise duty to the state,” the former minister asked.Cheema said Punjabis also wanted to know why illegal mining of sand was continuing unabated in the state. “Why is the state government facilitating the sand mafia by reducing their lease fee and even allowing them to mine sand where clearances have not been given,” he asked.The former minister said even in the case of central ration received by the state, the Congress government had turned a blind eye to diversion of ration to houses of its leaders. Further, according to Cheema, there are other issues concerning the state, such as denial of dues to sugarcane growers and huge power bills thrust on the common man, but the CM seems oblivious to these and is bent on building a false narrative to cover his failures.Asking the CM to tell farmers and Kisan Unions the whole truth, Daljit Cheema said, “Isn’t it a fact that you amended the state Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act in 2017 to include all the provisions contained in the farmers’ produce and trade ordinance, such as allowing creation of private yards, direct marketing and e-trading.”He said the state did not only amend its APMC Act but also participated in the consultation process on the agricultural ordinances. “Now after doing all this, the CM is misleading farmers and Kisan Unions in league with AAP for petty political gains,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stop-confusing-people-on-agri-ordinances-sad-to-capt/story-tk4GZ68yiuS36oVcumiDQP.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||Man’s long wait to meet wife, newborn in Saudi||Aamir Ali’s son was born last month in Jubail, Saudi Arabia, but he is yet to meet him in person. Ali had come to Mumbai in February for his mother’s heart treatment and was forced to extend his stay after international flight operations were put on hold during the Covid-19 lockdown. He has still been unable to get a ticket to fly back to his wife and newborn and will now have to attempt to get a seat in phase five of repatriation flights. Ali, a business executive, was unable to book a seat on any of the 11 flights as they were sold out within minutes after the government announced the list of repatriation flights as part of Vande Bharat Mission (VBM).Also read: Fed up of waiting, Goans stranded abroad arrange own flights homeAli, his mother, father, and brother landed in Mumbai on February 8 for the mother’s heart valve replacement surgery. They had to stay in the city till March to attend follow-up visits with her doctor. Their trip got extended further due to the lockdown and now, Ali is desperate for a way back to his family.“My wife was nearly six months pregnant at the time when the doctors in Saudi informed us about the need for surgery [for my mother] and hence, she stayed back,” said Ali. The government announced repatriation flights to Saudi (Dammam, Jeddah, and Riyadh) in the fourth phase of VBM from July 3. However, by the time Ali decided to book his ticket, seats on all 11 flights were sold out. Also read| Over 5 lakh Indians repatriated under Vande Bharat Mission since May 7: Govt“Bookings for Saudi were full within hours of the routes being open,” said an Air India official. 36 new India-US flights Air India on Sunday announced that it will operate 36 new flights between India and the USA from July 11 to 19 under the Vande Bharat Mission, bookings for which will open from July 6, 8pm (IST).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-s-long-wait-to-meet-wife-newborn-in-saudi/story-zuqSWxkv9cIQ8kv2WJPmqJ.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||City gets second highest 24-hour July rain in 5 years||Heavy rain for the second consecutive day led to waterlogging in 13 spots on Sunday. The disruptions exposed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s monsoon preparedness, including desilting and cleaning of nullahs. The suburbs received heavy rain, whereas the island city saw light showers throughout the day.Chronic flooding spots of Parel, Chembur, Khar, Andheri, Jogeshwari, Malad and Dahisar were waterlogged for a couple of hours. Routes for Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses, Bandra National college via Linking Road, SV Road via Linking Road, were diverted. Suburban railways ferrying only essential staffers remained uninterrupted.A portion of a balcony of a dilapidated building in Bandra’s Nirmal Nagar collapsed on Sunday morning. No one was injured in the incident. The heavy rain on Saturday midnight also lead to collapse of a balcony of a ground plus 10 storey building in Mazagaon. Civic officials who visited the site said the building was not in a dilapidated condition, however, residents decided to move out of it. It was also later found that owing to heavy rains over the weekend, water had gotten accumulated in the balcony leading to its collapse.Leader of Opposition in BMC, Ravi Raja, alleged claims of monsoon preparedness turned out to be false. He added, “BMC commissioner’s claim of completing 113% desilting of drains turned out to be hollow. The contractors claimed to meet the desilting target by mixing debris in the garbage dumped from the sewer at several places. These contractors should face legal action.”BMC recieved 75 complaints of tree/branch crashes from various areas of the city, 16 of short-circuits and five of wall collapse. No one was injured in either of the incidents. A high tide (4m) is expected on Monday at 12.17am midnight and of 4.72 meters at 1.06am. Powai lake also overflowed on Sunday morning. A senior civic officer of BMC’s hydraulics department said, “Around 6am, the Powai lake overflowed. Data on lake levels for the seven lakes that provide drinking water to Mumbai is being compiled following Saturday’s rain.” Meanwhile, two flights had to be diverted. One Navy aircaft had to be diverted to Pune around 9.45am and a Swiss Air flight from Zurich had to be diverted to Hyderabad at 10.58am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-washed-away-bmc-s-claims/story-nXVvjD4h4RhyMzzLzoWWPP.html
06-07-2020||Gurugram||First spell of rain floods Gurugram, officials track situation||The city received its first heavy downpour of the season on Sunday morning, with rain bringing its share of pain for an unprepared city and leaving a bunch of stretches waterlogged.A spell of heavy rain lashed the city between 3 am and 4 am, and left areas like service lanes of Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway at Narsinghpur, Rampura flyover, IFFCO Chowk, Signature Tower, Sector 30/31 exit heavily waterlogged. Arterial stretches such as sector 30/31 dividing road, Sheetla Mata Mandir Road, and a spot near Basai Chowk also reported some waterlogging.Gurugram traffic police later took to the social media to warn commuters about all the waterlogged stretches that should be avoided.As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) website, the city received 7mm of rainfall on Sunday. The website further said that the city is expected to have spells of rains and thundershowers till Thursday.Last Thursday, during a meeting at the PWD rest house, officials of Gurugram police, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), and district administration had identified 35 “most crucial” waterlogging-prone points in the city. Barring Rampura flyover which is located in Manesar, all the other points that witnessed waterlogging on Sunday were part of the 35-point list.Officials said each of the points that witnessed waterlogging is being monitored via CCTV cameras and teams have been allocated to initiate remedial measures at the earliest.VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA, said he was carrying out a site inspection of all the 35 points on Saturday and Sunday. He said that at some spots, — Vatika Chowk, the highway stretch near Ambience Mall, HUDA City Centre, and Mahavir Chowk — GMDA was waiting for a spell of rainfall in order to gauge the condition of the drains in the area.“Construction activities are underway at some of these points, due to which there is a possibility that drains could have been clogged or blocked entirely. We were, hence, waiting for the first proper spell of rain to ascertain the time it would take for water to recede so that we could initiate remedial measures accordingly,” said Kundu.As per GMDA officials privy to the matter, remedial measures include placement of high-power motor pumps to divert rainwater to the nearest drainage outlet, or establishing new drainage lines at these spots entirely.Even during the construction of underpasses on the e-way between 2016-18, similar practices of waiting until the first spell of rains to predict the drainage conditions of stretches were followed by officials.As per MCG officials, they had deployed motor pumps at several points across the city and by noon water had receded in most parts of the city.“At several points, especially those on the arterial stretches, we realised drains had become clogged due to which there was heavy rainwater accumulation. Using super suction machines we were quickly able to remove the silt and other depositions and drain out rainwater. At some of the points on the expressway, drainage was an issue and hence, we used motor pumps to divert the water to the nearest outlet. Barring the Narsinghpur-Khandsa service lanes, rainwater had receded across most parts of the city by noon,” said an MCG official privy to the matter.With a majority of people staying indoors and working from home amid the Covid-19outbreak, there were no snarls reported on Sunday as the volume of traffic was lower than usual. However, a few commuters did say that they got delayed as they drove on flooded stretches at a low-speed.“Amidst the coronavirus outbreak, it was taking me less than 25 minutes to drive between Sirhaul and Kherki Daula toll along the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. However, today morning, it took me nearly 40 minutes to cover the same stretch as roads were heavily waterlogged, especially between Hero Honda Chowk and Kherki Daula. I had to drive at a much slower pace and with caution,” said Virender Singh, a resident of sector 82.Last month HT had reported that the city should brace for waterlogged stretches as authorities are lagging behind on monsoon preparedness as most of the resources and attention had been diverted towards containing the spread of coronavirus.From March 21 till April 15, MCG had issued an internal order to all its officials to solely focus on ensuring “basic services” such as sanitation, water, sewage, and streetlights, continue to remain uninterrupted during the initial phases of the lockdown. It was only after April 15, that the MCG directed its officials to resume other works, including monsoon preparedness measures, albeit in a limited capacity.Similarly, GMDA had also followed a similar mode of operation, with tenders for desilting and cleaning key stretches such as Iffco Chowk-Rajiv Chowk stretch, located along the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, Subhash Chowk-Vatika Chowk stretch on Sohna Road and the Bakhtawar Chowk-Subhash Chowk-Sector 34 marble market (located near Hero Honda Chowk) stretch being floated only in end of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/first-spell-of-rain-floods-gurugram-officials-track-situation/story-AabTLCT0ix2fUweZFvdwhI.html
06-07-2020||Gurugram||Coronavirus death toll in Gurugram touches 100, infection tally at 5,949||The district’s death toll due to Covid-19 touched the 100-mark on Sunday after one more patient succumbed to the viral infection. Gurugram’s case-fatality rate now stands at 1.7 percent, according to an analysis of health department data. As many as 120 new cases were added to the district’s tally of reported infections, taking the total count of Covid-19 cases to 5,949.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOf the total 100 deaths, 93 occurred in the last 30 days alone. Of the total fatalities, men account for 78 deaths, while the rest are women. According to the data shared by the health department, 63 patients who died of Covid-19 had pre-existing comorbidities.According to the data, with 26 deaths (of which seven were women) most number of fatalities occurred in the age group of 61-70 years, followed by 18 deaths (including two women) in the 71-80 years age group. Between ages 51 and 60 years, 17 patients (including four women) succumbed to Covid-19. Another 15 people in the 41-50 years age group also died of Covid-19, six of them women. In the 31-40 years age group, 12 people died (including two women), while 11 people (one woman) in 81-90 years age group died as well. Just one death has been recorded in the 21-30 years age group. On the brighter side, the district also witnesses 332 recoveries on Sunday—the highest in a single day so far. The district so far has recorded a total of 4,828 recoveries taking the recovery rate to 81%.The number of active cases in Gurugram now stands at 1,021 (down from Saturday’s 1,234). Of the active cases, 814 are mild or asymptomatic cases under home isolation, while another 35 mild cases are at government Covid care centres. Another 138 cases are ‘moderate’ cases, who are displaying either symptoms of pneumonia or require oxygen support at secondary health care facilities, while 34 patients are currently receiving tertiary care at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.“If recoveries continue at this same rate, there is no real danger of the health care system being overwhelmed in the district. Of course, that will also depend on how many people we continue to be tested,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (Gurugram).On Sunday, the district collected nearly 2,381 samples, of which 463 were taken by private labs. the test-positivity rate on Sunday remained low, at about 6 percent, while cumulatively about 14 percent of all samples tested from Gurugram have tested positive for Covid-19. “Our aim is to keep positivity rate at around 8 percent, even as cases continue to rise,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-death-toll-in-gurugram-touches-100/story-a9WByk2k9gV1q7qekVatRM.html
06-07-2020||Gurugram||Municipal Corporation of Gurugram to conduct its House meeting today||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will be conducting its second House meeting after lockdown at a community centre in Sector 27 on Monday. Key agendas on the list of the civic body include the current status of the takeover of several private colonies across the city, the beautification of green belts and parks, and the rejuvenation of ponds during the monsoon season.Regarding the first agenda, the councillors have asked the MCG to give a status update on the takeover of the privately developed colonies in the city, including Sushant Lok 2 and 3. The civic body has already taken over the responsibility of the upkeep for six private colonies, while the work on 11 others are underway. The private colonies taken over by the civic body include Nirvana Country, South City 1 and 2, Sushant Lok 1, Palam Vihar and Suncity.While the developers of South City 1 and 2, Nirvana Country, Palam Vihar, Sushant Lok 1 have opted to pay the civic body to the fix the deficiencies in the civic infrastructure their colonies, developers of DLF phases 1, 2 and 3, and Suncity have opted to fix deficiencies themselves. Barring, DLF phases 1, 2 and 3, the takeover of all other colonies has been completed.As per a reply from the planning branch of the MCG, the civic body held a meeting with the officials of the department of town and country planning (DTCP), residents’ welfare associations, and the developers of the some of the remaining private colonies, including Ardee City, Malibu Town, Vipul World, Uppal Southend, Rosewood City, and Mayfield Garden, last month for “working out a strategy” to improve the deficient civic infrastructure in these colonies. Subsequently, another meeting was held, where it was decided that the MCG will initiate a deficiency assessment survey in these colonies for which the DTCP has been asked to provide a service plan design and estimates, after which the survey can be initiated. Simultaneously, the engineering wing will be working on identifying an agency that can carry out the survey on the behalf of the MCG.In its reply, the planning branch has said that the proposal for the takeover of Sushant Lok 2 and 3, along with Greenwood City, DLF phases 4 and 5 has already been approved in the last month’s House meeting and a proposal has been sent to the directorate of town and country planning (DTCP) in Chandigarh in this regard.Another agenda in the MCG’s meeting is the beautification of green belts and parks, and the rejuvenation of ponds.In its reply, the engineering wing said that the MCG is currently undertaking several plantation drives that will result in more than 75,000 saplings being planted across the city during the monsoon season while work on rejuvenating five ponds is also underway. The civic body has scheduled the plantation drives between June 27 and August 2. As per an MCG release on Sunday, 4,000 saplings were planted during the first drive, held on June 27 and 28, while 13,000 saplings were planted during another drive on July 4 and 5.Monday’s meeting will be the first time that a House meeting will take place outside John Hall in Civil Lines or MCG’s Sector 34 office. “The House meeting will be taking place at a community centre in Sector 27 as the venue is large and measures of social distancing can be easily followed. Prior to the meeting, disinfection and sanitisation operations will be carried out,” said SS Rohilla, public relation officer (PRO), MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-conduct-its-house-meeting-today/story-UY9PD24vZwC565y9evo0wO.html
06-07-2020||Mumbai||State awaits nod to release Avni’s cub after monsoon||After failing to release the female cub (T1C2) of alleged man-eater tigress T1 or Avni last year, the Maharashtra forest department has yet again decided to go ahead with the plan this year post monsoon.T1C2, now a sub-adult tigress, aged two-and-a-half years, has been kept in captivity in a 4.5-hectare (ha) area in Pench Tiger Reserve since December 22, 2018. She was captured around a month after Avni was shot dead by a father-son hunter duo hired from Hyderabad on November 2. The decision to release T1C2 was taken on Thursday during a meeting chaired by principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) wildlife with forest officials and the committee constituted in November 2018 to oversee the cub’s capture and behaviour and captivity. However, the forest department needs approval from the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NCTA) before releasing the animal back in the wild.“T1C2 has been showing all traits of a tigress that can hunt and kill in the wild. She is fit for release. A proposal to that effect will be submitted in the coming week to NTCA. Based on their approval, we should be in a position to release the tigress in a couple of months or just after monsoon,” said Nitin Kakodkar, PCCF (wildlife), Maharashtra.PCCF added that three locations had been shortlisted as possible areas of release — Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve in Gondia, Pench Tiger Reserve in Nagpur and Melghat Tiger Reserve in Amravati. “As of now, Navegaon-Nagzira looks most promising as there is a low tiger population. However, this will be finalised based on NTCA’s nod,” said Kakodkar.SP Yadav, member secretary, NTCA, said, “We are aware about the matter. A decision will be taken once we receive their (Maharashtra’s) proposal.”Last year, the state had planned a similar release after monsoon but met with complications with NTCA guidelines. “Some activities as per NTCA’s standard operating procedure (SOP) still needed to be studied. For example, the number of prey killed by her, prey base, and frequency of kills etc. We were not complying with NCTA’s SOP then. All conditions are met now,” said Kakodkar.One of the committee members requesting anonymity said, “We were monitoring her behaviour using CCTV. She was too young to be released last year, and would not have survived in the wild.”Former member of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) Kishor Rithe said the tigress’s timeline in captivity and extent of human imprint (changes in behaviour in captivity) were two crucial factors. “If we are sure that there is no human imprint on the animal then it is fit for release. Also, the time period between the animal’s capture and translocation has to be minimum. In this case, the period is more than one-and-a-half years. I have serious doubts about this experiment,” said Rithe.Earlier this year, a rewilding experiment in Madhya Pradesh’s Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve had failed after two tigers were shifted to a Bhopal zoo after they were found incapable of hunting wild prey. Tiger cubs usually mature slowly and stay with their mother till at least eighteen months, after which they disperse into the wild in search of new territory.“One school of thought says there is nothing like human imprint on large carnivores. However, if her release is happening as per NTCA protocol and assessed in a scientific manner, it should be done. The animal cannot be kept in captivity for life,” said Dr Prayag HS, former chief wildlife veterinary officer, Karnataka forest department. Tiger scientist from Wildlife Institute of India (WII) Bilal Habib said, “Since T1C2 was captured, it was decided that she would be released. She was kept away from humans and all efforts have gone into ensuring minimal human imprint unlike other captive animals. Thus, it is the right decision to release her back into the wild.”WHY WAS T1C2 CAPTUREDTigress T1 or Avni was shot dead by a father-son hunter duo hired from Hyderabad on November 2, after it was said that she killed 13 people in Pandharkawada forest in Ralegaon, Yavatmal. The forest department began the capture of her male and female cubs soon after as they were too young to fend for themselves in the wild and could have fallen prey to infighting among other tigers. It was also suspected that the cubs allegedly posed a threat like T1. While T1C2 was rescued on December 22 with the help of Madhya Pradesh forest department and sent to Pench, the male cub T1C1 remained elusive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-awaits-nod-to-release-avni-s-cub-after-monsoon/story-RHTWv1K0WZsl0KlbA3mgSK.html
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh couple spends the night in rain as property-hungry son locks them out||Wanting the entire three-storey house all to himself, a man allegedly forced his parents out in Sector 35 on Saturday night. Unable to go anywhere else, the couple, Jaspal Singh and Tarlochan Kaur, who are in their 60s and 50s, respectively, spent the night in the rain, police said.Jaspal, who retired from a superintendent position in the Punjab government, said he had transferred the 7-marla house in the name of his elder son, Manpreet Singh, who works in the merchant navy and lives on the first floor with his wife, Varinderpreet Kaur.“Manpreet now wants the house all to himself, and hence, assaulted his parents and forced them out,” said a police official, privy to the matter.Neighbours told the police the couple spent the day outside even on Sunday and were comforted and fed by neighbours.Jaspal alleged Manpreet’s father-in-law Anoop Singh and mother-in-law Narinder Kaur had incited him.On the father’s complaint, police have booked Manpreet and his in-laws under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 36 police station. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-couple-spends-the-night-outside-as-property-hungry-son-locks-them-out/story-MKw5yqoOGmIU5EsG0m7rCK.html
06-07-2020||World||South Dakota governor, who joined Donald Trump on jet, exposed to coronavirus||Shortly after fireworks above Mount Rushmore disappeared into the night sky on Friday, South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem accompanied President Donald Trump aboard Air Force One despite having had close contact with Trump’s son’s girlfriend, who had tested positive for the coronavirus.Trump has been in a position all along to encounter a virus that spreads from people who don’t feel sick, such as Noem, who had interacted closely at a campaign fundraiser with Donald Trump Jr.’s girlfriend, Kimberly Guilfoyle, who turned out to be sick. Noem didn’t wear a mask on the plane and chatted with the president as the flight returned to Washington, D.C., according to her spokesperson, Maggie Seidel.Noem had tested negative for COVID-19 shortly before welcoming Trump to South Dakota on Friday, a day after she had interacted with Guilfoyle. One photo on social media showed Noem and Guilfoyle, who is also a Trump campaign staff member, hugging. The Trump campaign announced that Guilfoyle had tested positive on Friday.Guilfoyle’s infection prompted some Republicans, such as Rep. Greg Gianforte of Montana, to take precautions against the spread of the coronavirus. He suspended in-person campaigning for his gubernatorial bid after his wife and his running mate both attended a fundraiser with Guilfoyle earlier in the week.Noem doesn’t plan anything similar, Seidel said. She cast Noem’s decision to fly on Air Force One as a demonstration of how to live with the virus. Seidel pointed to comments from the World Health Organization that the spread of the virus is “rare” from asymptomatic people. But that runs counter to guidance from public health experts, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, that advises people to wear masks when interacting with people outside their household.Asked about Trump’s interaction with Noem, the White House noted the frequency with which the president is tested.“The president is tested constantly, has tested negative, and those around him are tested as well,” White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said.When asked why Noem was allowed to travel on Air Force One, McEnany referred the question to the Secret Service, but added: “They take the president’s health very seriously. They would never put him in a situation that would put him in harm’s way.”As the number of people hospitalized from COVID-19 in South Dakota has decreased in recent weeks to just 59 people statewide, Noem has doubled down on her relaxed approach to the pandemic. Even as Republican governors in states like Texas have moved to require people to wear masks, Noem didn’t require distancing or masks at the July 3 celebration at Mount Rushmore, an outdoor event at which few in the closely packed crowd wore masks.On Friday night, she told the crowd, “Tonight, if you look to your left, if you look to your right, you’re going to see that this crowd isn’t just from South Dakota, but it’s from everywhere across this nation.”The influx of tourists for the Rushmore fireworks has some local leaders and doctors concerned that the area could see a spike in cases. Seidel said the governor worries about other effects of the virus, such as unemployment and domestic violence.When Seidel was asked about a risk to Trump’s health from Noem’s presence on Air Force One, she said, “I don’t understand why Gov. Noem now needs to manage the president’s medical care.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-dakota-governor-who-joined-donald-trump-on-jet-exposed-to-coronavirus/story-AuWqqbN8UcpjKKtCXhqbSO.html
06-07-2020||World||Facebook, others, block govt requests on Hong Kong user data||Facebook, WhatsApp and Telegram will deny law enforcement requests for user data in Hong Kong as they assess the impact of a new national security law enacted last week.Facebook and its messaging app WhatsApp said in separate statements Monday that they would freeze the review of government requests for user data in Hong Kong, “pending further assessment of the National Security Law, including formal human rights due diligence and consultations with international human rights experts.”The policy changes follow the roll out last week of laws that prohibit what Beijing views as secessionist, subversive, or terrorist activities, as well as foreign intervention in the city’s internal affairs. The legislation criminalizes some pro-democracy slogans like the widely used “Liberate Hong Kong, revolution of our time,” which the Hong Kong government has deemed has separatist connotations.The fear is that the new law erodes the freedoms of the semi-autonomous city, which operates under a ‘one country, two systems’ framework after Britain handed it over to China in 1997. That framework gives Hong Kong and its people freedoms not found in mainland China, such as unrestricted internet access.Spokesman Mike Ravdonikas said Monday that Telegram understands “the importance of protecting the right to privacy of our Hong Kong users.” Telegram has been used broadly to spread pro-democracy messages and information about the protests in Hong Kong.“Telegram has never shared any data with the Hong Kong authorities in the past and does not intend to process any data requests related to its Hong Kong users until an international consensus is reached in relation to the ongoing political changes in the city,” he said.Social platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and WhatsApp have operated freely in Hong Kong, while they are blocked in the mainland under China’s “Great Firewall.”Though social platforms have yet to be blocked in Hong Kong, users have begun scrubbing their accounts and deleting pro-democracy posts out of fear of retribution. That retreat has extended to the streets of Hong Kong as well.Many of the shops and stores that publicly stood in solidarity with protesters have removed the pro-democracy sticky notes and artwork that adorned their walls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-others-block-govt-requests-on-hong-kong-user-data/story-cgyxPvSuyQZQUrXT1z36CK.html
06-07-2020||World||AIDS report: Kids are lagging and Covid-19 is harming care||New numbers on the global AIDS epidemic show some big successes, such as fewer deaths and new infections. But there are also some tragic failures: Only half the children with HIV, the virus that causes the disease, are getting treatment.“We are making great progress against the HIV epidemic ... but the bad, bad news is that kids are lagging behind,” said Dr. Shannon Hader, deputy executive director of UNAIDS. The United Nations agency reported last year’s numbers Monday at the start of an international AIDS conference.Progress against HIV also is being hurt by another infectious disease — the new coronavirus. Four years ago, the United Nations set goals for limiting HIV infections and improving treatment by the end of 2020, and all will be missed because the coronavirus pandemic is hurting access to care, the report concludes.“We were already off track for the 2020 targets, but Covid-19 is threatening to blow us completely of course,” said UNAIDS’ executive director, Winnie Byanyima.A World Health Organization survey found that 73 countries are at risk of running out of HIV medicines and 24 have critically low stocks.“Access to HIV medicines has been significantly curtailed” since the coronavirus pandemic began, said WHO’s chief, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. “We must not turn our backs” on HIV while fighting Covid-19, he said.Here are highlights from the UNAIDS report:INFECTIONSAbout 1.7 million new HIV infections occurred in 2019 — down 23% since 2010 but far short of the 75% reduction goal.Eastern and southern Africa have greatly curbed new infections, but they’re rising elsewhere — by about 20% since 2010 in Latin America, the Middle East and north Africa, and 72% in eastern Europe and central Asia.“We have countries in other regions that are growing a next wave of epidemics among young people,” Hader said. “We’re still seeing 150,000 kids being newly infected with HIV each year.”In sub-Saharan Africa, girls and young women make up 10% of the population but account for 25% of new HIV infections. In many cases, pregnant women aren’t getting tested or don’t stay on drugs that can prevent spreading the virus to their babies, Byanyima said.TREATMENTWorldwide, 38 million people have HIV and 81% of them are aware of it. About 25.4 million are on treatment, triple the number since 2010.Roughly 67% of adults with the virus are getting treatment. But only 53% of children and teens are, meaning 840,000 of them are missing out on life-saving drugs.Besides reaching more kids to provide care, “we need the science to come through for children” to develop easier treatments, Byanyima said. “It’s really hard if you’re a child ... 5, 6 or 7 ... to be on a tablet every day for the rest of your life,” or to have to conceal daily medicine use to keep HIV status a secret because of stigma around the disease, she said.DEATHSThere were 690,000 AIDS-related deaths in 2019. That’s down 39% from 2010 but short of the target of under 500,000 by the end of this year.Children accounted for 95,000 of those deaths.“That’s a stain on our conscience ... because treatments are there,” Byanyima said. “It breaks my heart that 4,500 girls, young women, were being infected every week in Africa — every week! They are many times, three or four times, more vulnerable than boys and men of the same age because of social norms, because of lack of education, opportunity.”Covid-19′S IMPACTIn many countries, Byanyima said, health workers testing for and caring for people with HIV have switched to fighting Covid-19; supplies of medicines and condoms have been disrupted because of lockdowns; and many health clinics have closed.Dr. Anton Pozniak, head of the AIDS conference and an HIV specialist at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London, said many HIV patients have delayed seeking care out of fear of getting the coronavirus. Some are even afraid to have medicines delivered to their homes because “they don’t want the stigma of parcels and drugs arriving” that might reveal their HIV status, he said.Another conference leader, Dr. Monica Gandhi of the University of California, San Francisco, said that in her large HIV clinic, a smaller percentage of patients now have their HIV under control.“We’re very, very worried, profoundly worried,” about Covid-19 harming patients and efforts to curb the HIV, she said.A six-month interruption of HIV services in sub-Saharan Africa would mean 500,000 deaths, according to estimates by UNAIDS, the WHO and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.That would mean a return to death levels last seen in 2008, “and I think we have to admit, we just can’t allow that to happen,” said Hader, the UNAIDS official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aids-report-kids-are-lagging-and-covid-19-is-harming-care/story-G3ROMOQt6HbPp9Gi2xJd5J.html
06-07-2020||World||Justin Trudeau turns down White House invitation amid pandemic||Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has turned down a White House invitation to celebrate the new regional free trade agreement in Washington with U.S President Donald Trump and Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador.Trump and López Obrador are due to meet Wednesday Washington, but Trudeau spokesperson Chantal Gagnon said Monday that while Canada wishes the U.S. and Mexico well, Trudeau won’t be there.“While there were recent discussions about the possible participation of Canada, the prime minister will be in Ottawa this week for scheduled Cabinet meetings and the long-planned sitting of Parliament,” Gagnon said.Trudeau is conducting online Cabinet meetings instead of in person meetings because of the coronavirus pandemic.A senior U.S. administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to be quoted by name, said Trudeau had multiple conflicts related to the start of Parliament and coronavirus regulations which require Canadians who travel abroad to quarantine for 14 days on return. The official said Trudeau has asked to speak with Trump by phone.López Obrador also said he would be speaking to Trudeau by phone.Gagnon said the new treaty that took effect on July 1 “is good for Canada, the United States and Mexico. It will help ensure that North America emerges stronger from the COVID-19 pandemic.”Nelson Wiseman, a political science professor at the University of Toronto, said Trudeau has less to lose by shunning Trump now that the new treaty is in effect.“Trudeau losses in Canadian public opinion to be seen chumming with the very unpopular Trump,” Wiseman said. “Trudeau can afford to wait out Trump’s presidency now with less than four months to the U.S. election. Trudeau will still be power after the election, Trump much less likely so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/justin-trudeau-turns-down-white-house-invitation-amid-pandemic/story-ssSgdycupfNlGMNCBNkoPK.html
06-07-2020||World||Tell-all book by Donald Trump’s niece to be released next week||A tell-all book by President Donald Trump’s niece that has been the subject of a legal battle will be released next week.Publisher Simon & Schuster cited “high interest and extraordinary interest” in the book by Mary Trump titled “Too Much and Never Enough: How My Family Created the World’s Most Dangerous Man.” The book was originally set for release on July 28, but will now arrive on July 14.The revised date, announced Monday, came after a New York appellate court cleared the way for the book’s publication following a legal challenge by Trump’s brother.The White House did not respond immediately to a request for comment on the release date change.Robert Trump had sued Mary Trump to block publication of a book promoted to contain an “insider’s perspective” of “countless holiday meals,” “family interactions” and “family events.”A judge last week left in place a restraint that blocked Mary Trump and any agent of hers from distributing the book, but the court made clear it was not considering Simon & Schuster to be covered by the ruling. The publisher has said that 75,000 first-run editions had already been sent to bookstores.Mary Trump is the daughter of Fred Trump Jr., the president’s elder brother, who died in 1981. She has a doctorate in psychology.“Mary L. Trump has the education, insight, and intimate familiarity needed to reveal what makes Donald, and the rest of her clan, tick,” a release about the book said.The book is expected to include a number of allegations about President Trump, including how his upbringing led to his worldview and the derision he showed his father after he was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease.The book’s back cover opens with a biting critique of the president: “Today, Donald is much as he was at three years old: incapable of growing, learning, or evolving, unable to regulate his emotions, moderate his responses, or take in and synthesize information.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tell-all-book-by-donald-trump-s-niece-to-be-released-next-week/story-m14gThhf2fDcpTmzlcBQrN.html
06-07-2020||World||Police say man accused of crashing gate threatened Canadian PM Justin Trudeau||A military reservist who allegedly crashed his truck through a gate on the grounds where Prime Minister Justin Trudeau lives was armed with two shotguns, a rifle and a revolver, and threatened Trudeau, according to prosecution documents made public on Monday.Police allege that Corey Hurren brought a prohibited M-14 rifle, plus the shotguns and a revolver made by Hi-Standard when he entered the grounds on July 2. He’s also accused of having a prohibited high-capacity magazine.In addition to 21 charges relate to the weapons, Hurren is accused of threatening to cause death or bodily harm to the prime minister. The exact nature of threat was not disclosed.Police have said that Hurren, a 46-year-old on-duty member of the Canadian military reserves who also has a gourmet sausage business, drove from Manitoba and crashed his truck through the gate at 6:30 a.m. Thursday. The truck was disabled and he was spotted with a rifle before being contained in a greenhouse on the sprawling property in Ottawa. Police began talking to him and he was arrested two hours later.Trudeau lives on the grounds of the property where Canada’s governor general resides but was not home at the time. The post of governor general, currently held by Julie Payette, is a mostly ceremonial position. Payette also was not home at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/police-say-man-accused-of-crashing-gate-threatened-canadian-pm-justin-trudeau/story-2vHJQi0zx7MdGRlHxQMGDK.html
06-07-2020||World||‘Coronavirus can spread in air’: Over 200 scientists want WHO to recognise new risk||More than 200 scientists have called for the World Health Organization and others to acknowledge that the coronavirus can spread in the air — a change that could alter some of the current measures being taken to stop the pandemic.In a letter published this week in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases, two scientists from Australia and the U.S. wrote that studies have shown “beyond any reasonable doubt that viruses are released during exhalation, talking and coughing in microdroplets small enough to remain aloft in the air.” That means people in certain indoor conditions could be at greater risk of being infected than was previously thought.The WHO has long maintained that Covid-19 is spread via larger respiratory droplets, most often when people cough or sneeze, that fall to the ground. It has dismissed the possibility of airborne transmission, except for certain high-risk medical procedures, like when patients are first put on breathing machines.In a statement on Monday, the U.N. health agency said it was aware of the article and was reviewing it with technical experts.WHO has been criticized in recent weeks and months for its seeming divergence from the scientific community. The organization for months declined to recommend mask-wearing, partly out of supply concerns and has also continued to describe the transmission of Covid-19 from people without symptoms as “rare.”The letter was endorsed by 239 scientists from a variety of fields. It stated that the issue of whether or not Covid-19 was airborne was of “heightened significance” as many countries stop restrictive lockdown measures.The authors cited previous studies suggesting that germs closely related to the new virus were spread via airborne transmission. They said “there is every reason to expect” that the coronavirus behaves similarly. They also cited a Washington state choir practice and research about a poorly ventilated restaurant in Guangzhou, China, each of which raised the possibility of infections from airborne droplets.“We are concerned that the lack of recognition of the risk of airborne transmission of Covid-19 and the lack of clear recommendations on the control measures against the airborne virus will have significant consequences,” the scientists wrote. “People may think they are fully protected by adhering to the current recommendations but in fact, additional airborne interventions are needed.”Scientists around the world have been working furiously to understand the new virus. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says it is thought to mainly jump from person to person through close contact, but adds: “We are still learning about how the virus spreads.”Martin McKee, a professor of European Public Health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine who was not linked to the letter, said the scientists’ arguments sounded “entirely reasonable.”“Part of the problem is that everybody at WHO was moving with the paradigm of influenza, even though we know there are lots of differences between influenza and coronaviruses,” he said.McKee noted that with Britain’s recent reopening of its pubs, restaurants and salons, the possibility of airborne coronavirus transmission might mean stricter interventions are needed indoors, including more mask-wearing and continued physical distancing.“We’re getting accumulating evidence about super-spreading events happening in indoor spaces where there are large numbers of people in confined spaces,” he said. “Many of these are in exactly the circumstances that governments now want to open up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-can-spread-in-air-over-200-scientists-want-who-to-recognise-new-risk/story-kI0fGTRzV16JbGE6xzFYUJ.html
06-07-2020||World||Months of trial and error in the ICU offer clues on how to save Covid patients||Sanja Jelic’s worst day in almost two decades as a critical care doctor in New York City was April 6.Faced with an unmanageable influx of coronavirus patients at Columbia University Irving Medical Center’s step-down unit, an intermediate care ward, Jelic made an unorthodox decision: she asked those struggling to breathe to roll onto their bellies while they waited for intubation to mechanically ventilate their inflamed lungs.It wasn’t a random guess. Laying patients in the stomach-down prone position is known to improve oxygenation in sedated, intubated patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome. But there was no guarantee the same would hold true for wakeful Covid patients who were gasping for air.“We had to buy time,” Jelic, who is also an associate professor of medicine at Columbia University, recalled in an interview. “I remember, the first three patients really had a dramatic improvement in their oxygenation.”In the absence of a cure, doctors like Jelic were left relying in part on trial and error, but months into the most destructive pandemic in a century, their collective experience is starting to build a framework of how best to cope with coronavirus patients.As many as 1,000 Covid-related research papers are being released daily ahead of peer review and publication, according to Soumya Swaminathan, the World Health Organization’s chief scientist. “Our goal is to see that the learnings from science are as quickly as possible channeled into impacts for patients and communities,” she told reporters in Geneva on Thursday.‘How You Do It’The collective experience may be showing results. U.S. deaths, which often ranged between 2,000 and 3,000 a day in April and May, have mostly remained below 1,000 and in the low hundreds since the beginning of June.The WHO is collating data from countries to identify crucial elements that reduce mortality. These include how health systems triage Covid-19 patients, how they protect those vulnerable to more serious complications, and the speed with which they provide intensive care.The goal is to create a tool box that will enable doctors to provide better care for the full range of patients with Covid-19, which has turned out to be more than just a respiratory disease, said Sylvie Briand, the WHO’s director for global infectious hazard preparedness.“It’s not only what you do -- sometimes at this level there is no difference -- but it’s how you do it,” Briand said in an interview.Better PracticedAnthony Fauci, director of the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, also credits better experience with medicines.“Whenever you’re in an outbreak, there are two things about treatment that contribute to improvement,” he said. “Not only do you get better in practice, but you get better because of new treatments.”In April, Gilead Sciences Inc.’s antiviral remdesivir, now approved with the brand name Veklury, was shown to speed recovery time. Last month, the inexpensive corticosteroid dexamethasone was found to reduce deaths by one-third among patients receiving mechanical ventilation. Doctors are also routinely administering heparin and other anticoagulants to prevent dangerous blood clots from forming in the veins of the critically ill.Although the “awake proning” approach Jelic and colleagues tried hasn’t been properly studied yet in a large clinical trial, it points to a cheap and simple way overwhelmed health centers may be able to help severely ill patients. Their research, published in a June 17 letter to the Journal of the American Medical Association, indicated that it reduced the probability patients would need intubation. The journal also published an invited commentary subtitled “necessity is the mother of invention.”“I couldn’t agree more with the title,” Jelic said. “I have never seen this much strain on our ICU resources.”Laying on the stomach improves blood circulation in the upper portion of the lung, she said, increasing the volume of oxygen and carbon dioxide that can be exchanged. It also decreases pressure around the lung, and can help clear secretions from the airways, studies show.While combination treatments -- the HIV medications ritonavir and lopinavir, and the antimalarial drugs hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine with the antibiotic azithromycin -- failed to reduce death in hospitalized Covid-19 patients, there’s optimism for others. These include antibody-based therapies and blood products from survivors.‘Cytokine Storm’The antiflammatory infusion infliximab, sold by Johnson & Johnson and Merck & Co. as Remicade, is being studied by Tufts Medical Center in Boston as a way of circumventing the major cause of lethal complications in a subset of Covid-19 patients: A damaging immune response, sometimes referred to as a cytokine storm, that usually occurs in the second week of illness.Infliximab blocks tumor necrosis factor-alpha, a cell-signaling protein or “cytokine” that plays a key role in driving the immune system to exhaustion in response to infections, said Paul Mathew, a cancer specialist at Tufts University School of Medicine who’s leading the study. The medicine may also help avert life-threatening blood-clotting problems that can occur in Covid patients.“Little by little, we discovered new signs and symptoms of the disease,” said the WHO’s Briand. “Now we know that there is really a lot of possibilities for this virus to attack the human body.”These range from a sudden lack of smell to a multi-system inflammatory syndrome in children -- features that have become more apparent with more than 11 million Covid cases worldwide. Others include clotting-related disorders that can be benign skin lesions on the feet, sometimes called “Covid toe,” or potentially lethal strokes.The more Covid patients Jarrod Mosier sees in his hospital’s intensive care unit in Tucson, Arizona, the more he says he’s convinced that saving lives comes down to protecting the lungs of those with acute respiratory distress syndrome, or ARDS, caused by pulmonary inflammation. Most patients need breathing support, but too little or too much air pressure and volume can damage the lungs further.“I look at all of those things and tinker with the ventilator for a good while everyday to try to find that balance,” Mosier said. “To me, that is the thing that will save the most lives in this disease -- just excellent critical care management of ARDS.”Mosier said he’s hoping it results in better patient survival. “I think that’s the case, but it’s very hard to answer that question when you’re in the thick of it,” he said. “Some days I think we’re actually getting pretty good at this. And other days I think, ‘This is demoralizing.’”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/months-of-trial-and-error-in-the-icu-offer-clues-on-how-to-save-covid-patients/story-aLQD0kgetfAP2BQQAceTUO.html
06-07-2020||World||UK slaps visa ban, asset freeze under new sanctions regime against human rights abusers||Two top Myanmar army officials involved in atrocities against Rohingya Muslims are among 49 individuals and entities named by the Boris Johnson government on Monday under a new regime of sanctions unveiled against abusers of human rights.The regime equips the post-Brexit UK with new powers to freeze assets and stop those involved in serious human rights abuses and violations from entering the country, channelling money through UK banks, or profiting from the British economy, foreign secretary Dominic Raab announced.Those identified in the first such list of sanctions are mostly Russian and Saudi Arabian individuals, but also include Myanmar army commander-in-chief Min Aung Hlaing and Soe Win, deputy commander-in-chief – both named in relation to Rohinyas in Rakhine state.It is the first time that the UK has sanctioned people or entities for human rights violations and abuses under a UK-only regime. It previously joined collective sanctions imposed by the United Nations and the European Union.Officials said that the first list included 25 Russian nationals involved in the mistreatment and death of auditor Sergei Magnitsky, who uncovered widespread Russian corruption by a group of Russian tax and police officials; 20 Saudi nationals involved in the death of journalist Jamal Khashoggi; and two organisations involved in the forced labour, torture and murder that takes place in North Korea’s gulags.Raab said the regime will allow the UK to target individuals and organisations around the world unlike conventional geographic sanctions regime, which only target a country. It could also include those who commit unlawful killings perpetrated against journalists and media workers, or violations and abuses motivated on the grounds of religion or belief.A special unit will consider the use of future sanctions, with teams across the department monitoring human rights issues. They will ensure targets under the landmark regime will have to meet stringent legal tests before the UK decides to designate, ensuring the sanctions are robust and powerful.As specified in the legislation presented in the House of Commons, the regime can be used to impose sanctions for serious violations or abuses of three human rights: an individual’s right to life; right not to be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; or right to be free from slavery, not to be held in servitude or required to perform forced or compulsory labour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-slaps-visa-travel-bans-under-new-sanctions-regime-against-human-rights-abusers/story-TRRn2ugET0q2PJd1Wj0P7J.html
06-07-2020||World||Top Xi Jinping critic arrested in China||Beijing police arrested a law professor who had criticised President Xi Jinping’s style of functioning and recently questioned the government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic on Monday. Xu Zhangrun, 58, was arrested from his house in a Beijing suburb, Geng Xiaonan, his friend, told Bloomberg. She got to know about the arrest from his domestic helper, wife and students, Geng added.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at regular ministry briefing that he had no information about the arrest.Xu had published an essay in February, blaming the culture of censorship under Xi for the spread of the coronavirus in China. Xu wrote, “China’s leader system is itself destroying the structure of governance”, adding that the chaos in the first virus epicentre of Hubei province reflected systemic problems in the Chinese state.But that essay was only the most recent of Xu’s scathing critiques of Xi and his rule.“In a series of essays published from early 2016 to early 2019, Xu questioned at length, and in detail, the political, economic and cultural trajectory of the People’s Republic of China under Xi Jinping, the leader of the nation’s party-state-army,” says the e-journal, China Heritage, affiliated to the Wairarapa Academy of New Sinology in New Zealand.A China Heritage article on Xu says in late July 2018, Xu published ‘Immient Fears, Immediate Hopes’, a 10000-word article. In it, Xu not only questioned Xi Jinping’s ‘dispensation’, he also offered concrete policy suggestions to “…counter the authoritarian revanchism” (or a policy to retaliate) of Xi’s ‘New Epoch’.In some of his essays, Xu didn’t even take President Xi’s name.In March, 2019, Xu told selected foreign media that he had been placed under investigation by the Tsinghua University. At the time, Chinese state media was quick to slam Xu.“Several politically extreme articles have made Xu stand out from dissidents in China since 2018... He must be certain that one cannot keep his teaching position for long at a top university with an open stance of political confrontation. His stand has forced the university to adopt a different attitude,” the nationalistic tabloid, Global Times had reported in March, 2019. “The treatment Xu has received may not surprise those familiar with him. One can never find a top university in any country tolerating a professor with such an aggressive anti-establishment view,” it said.Xu, GT reported, had told the media during his interaction in March, 2019, that he “could end up in prison” for his writings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/outspoken-xi-jinping-critic-arrested-in-china/story-K5bPqoJAbGtJfhO0yRNvxO.html
06-07-2020||World||China arrests top Xi critic, plans crackdown on political foes||Beijing police arrested an outspoken critic of Chinese President Xi Jinping on Monday morning as his administration took steps to crack down on potential threats to the Communist Party stemming from the economic fallout of the pandemic.Xu Zhangrun, a law professor at Tsinghua University, was taken away by police from his house at a Beijing suburb, according to his friend, Geng Xiaonan, who said she got the information from his domestic helper, his wife and students. She said she believed Xu’s arrest was linked to a book he published in New York last month, a collection of ten political essays with scathing criticisms of Xi and the Communist Party’s rule.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said he had no information about the arrest when asked during a regular briefing on Monday in Beijing.News of Xu’s detention came as the official Legal Daily reported that a special working group on political security was added to a law enforcement task force first established in April to defuse any social unrest stemming from the government’s response to the virus. The group “recently” convened its first meeting in Beijing, the article said.China plans tighter control to counter social unrest over virusAt the gathering, it was emphasized that “protecting the safety of the political system” and “safeguarding the regime’s security” should be the first priority. Officials also vowed to take strict precautions against and move to stop activities including infiltration, subversion, terrorism, ethnic secession and extreme religious activities.Xi had warned early in the Covid-19 crisis that the epidemic posed a threat to “social stability,” and since then his country has faced criticism from nations including the US and Australia over its handling of the initial outbreak. Xi’s government has repeatedly expressed suspicions that foreign nations were spreading disinformation and attempting to foment unrest within China.Led by Guo Shengkun, one of the 25 most powerful Communist Party members, the task force initially set up two working groups: one to maintain social order and another to contain risks at the city level. Rising international tensions in recent months appear to have added another focus: stemming the influence of international actors on the country’s populace.The party’s Politics and Law Commission said on its official WeChat account on Monday that the new working group’s meeting came as safeguarding political security becomes a top priority “amid a changing global situation.” It cited examples including American politicians “deflecting blame” to China over its failure to contain the pandemic, “intervention” by the US, Taiwan, and Australia over national security legislation in Hong Kong, and the deadly border conflict with India.The list of international disputes continues to grow as China asserts its power on the world stage and defends its record on the virus. In recent months, it has also stepped up fighter jet exercises near Taiwan, clashed over territory in the South China Sea, charged two Canadians it detained under murky circumstance, sparred with Australia over an investigation into the virus’s origins and quarreled with the European Union over a range of issues.Silencing criticsXu had been placed under house arrest after publishing an essay criticizing Xi’s one-man rule as the root cause of an unfolding coronavirus crisis. In another essay in May, Xu said China was “backtracking toward Mao Zedong’s totalitarian rule” and becoming more isolated in the world, adding: “It is high time for China to turn wrongs to rights and return to the path pursuing a modern constitutional democracy and a people’s republic.” None of the articles are accessible on China’s internet.Xu is among a growing list of critics who were arrested since January for writing articles lambasting Xi’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak and clampdown on dissent. Outspoken property tycoon Ren Zhiqiang was placed under investigation in April after he was widely associated with an anonymous article denouncing the country’s “great leader” as a “clown with no clothes on who was still determined to play emperor.”Xu Zhiyong, another prominent dissident who previously served four years in prison, wrote an open letter calling on Xi to resign for mishandling the coronavirus crisis. He was formally charged with “inciting subversion of the state power” last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-arrests-top-xi-critic-plans-crackdown-on-political-foes/story-se97ADYnikC4NKUCGaEixM.html
06-07-2020||World||Russian journalist guilty of ‘justifying terrorism’ fined $6,950||A Russian journalist on Monday was convicted on charges of condoning terrorism and ordered to pay a fine in a case that has been widely criticized as an attack on freedom of speech.The court in the city of Pskov has found Svetlana Prokopyeva guilty of “justifying terrorism” and ordered her to pay a fine of 500,000 rubles (about $6,950). Prosecutors had asked for a six-year prison sentence for Prokopyeva.The case of Prokopyeva stems from a commentary she published in the wake of a November 2018 suicide attack, in which a 17-year-old Russian man blew himself up at the entrance of the office of the Federal Security Service, or FSB, in the northern city of Arkhangelsk. The attacker was killed and three FSB officers were injured.In her commentary, Prokopyeva criticized repressive government policies, arguing that they leave little chance for the young people to express their discontent and drive them to despair.Prokopyeva, a freelance contributor to RFE/RL’s Russian Service, has maintained her innocence, rejecting the charges as an attack on freedom of speech.“I am not afraid to criticize law enforcement or tell the security organs that they are wrong,” Prokopyeva said in her final statement Friday. “Because I know how really horrific it will become if I don’t speak out — if no one speaks out.” She insisted that she only did her work as a journalist.“I did not do anything that was beyond the framework of my professional duty,” Prokopyeva told the court “And that is not a crime.” Prokopyeva said she would appeal the verdict.Human rights groups and media watchdogs in Russia and abroad have criticized the charges against Prokopyeva as an attempt to trample on freedom of speech and demanded her acquittal. (AP) AMS AMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-journalist-guilty-of-justifying-terrorism-fined-6-950/story-EGH7v8WUQ76CAnih5FM7yI.html
06-07-2020||World||Taiwan says Dalai Lama welcome to visit, a trip that would infuriate China||Taiwan would welcome a visit by exiled Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, its foreign ministry said on Monday, a trip that would infuriate Beijing which views him as a dangerous separatist.The Dalai Lama has not visited the Chinese-claimed, democratic island under the administration of President Tsai Ing-wen, who first took office in 2016. He last came in 2009.In a birthday message via video link to supporters in Taiwan on Sunday, the Dalai Lama said he would like to visit again.“As the political scenario changes, it may be that I’ll be able to visit you in Taiwan again. I hope so. Whatever happens I’ll remain with you in spirit,” he said on his website.Taiwan Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Joanne Ou said the government had not yet received an application for him to travel to the island but would handle it under “relevant rules” if one came.“We will, in accordance with the principle of mutual respect and at a time of convenience for both sides, welcome the Dalai Lama to come to Taiwan again to propagate Buddhist teachings,” Ou added.Beijing is deeply suspicious of Taiwan’s president, believing she wishes to push for the island’s formal independence. Tsai says Taiwan is already an independent country called the Republic of China, its official name. Taipei-Beijing relations have worsened further since Taiwan offered to receive Hong Kong people who wish to leave the city after China passed a new national security law last week, an offer Beijing has condemned.The Dalai Lama fled into exile in India in 1959 after an abortive uprising against Chinese rule. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989.China accuses him of being a “splittist”, but he says he only wants genuine autonomy for his remote Himalayan homeland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-says-dalai-lama-welcome-to-visit-a-trip-that-would-infuriate-china/story-k88iwTM7Y2LLJrDM652DDO.html
06-07-2020||World||UK minister Rishi Sunak unveils £1.57 bn arts, culture Covid-19 rescue package||UK Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak has unveiled a 1.57 billion pounds rescue package of emergency grants and cheap loans for arts, culture and heritage industries to help them weather the impact of coronavirus lockdown.Thousands of organisations across a range of sectors including the performing arts and theatres, heritage, historic palaces, museums, galleries, live music and independent cinema will be able to access the funding boost put in place on Sunday night.“Our world-renowned galleries, museums, heritage sites, music venues and independent cinemas are not only critical to keeping our economy thriving, employing more than 700,000 people, they’re the lifeblood of British culture,” said Sunak.“That’s why we’re giving them the vital cash they need to safeguard their survival, helping to protect jobs and ensuring that they can continue to provide the sights and sounds that Britain is famous for,” he said.The Indian-origin finance minister indicated that many of Britain’s cultural and heritage institutions have already received financial assistance to see them through the pandemic including loans, business rate holidays and participation in the Coronavirus Job Retention or furlough scheme, introduced by him earlier this year at the height of the pandemic.The Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) said the new package represents the “biggest ever one-off investment in UK culture” and will provide a lifeline to vital cultural and heritage organisations across the country hit hard by the pandemic. “From iconic theatre and musicals, mesmerising exhibitions at our world-class galleries to gigs performed in local basement venues, the UK’s cultural industry is the beating heart of this country,” said UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson.“This money will help safeguard the sector for future generations, ensuring arts groups and venues across the UK can stay afloat and support their staff whilst their doors remain closed and curtains remain down,” he said.The arts industry had been lobbying for support for some time and many agree that this package would help them stay afloat while their doors remain closed under the lockdown restrictions still in place for most venues. Funding to restart paused projects will also help support employment, including freelancers working in these sectors.The new package will be available across the country, including 33 million pounds to Northern Ireland, 97 million pounds to Scotland and 59 million pounds to Wales and ensure the future of many multi billion-pound industries are secured.“Our arts and culture are the soul of our nation. They make our country great and are the lynchpin of our world-beating and fast growing creative industries,” said UK Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden.“I understand the grave challenges the arts face and we must protect and preserve all we can for future generations. Today we are announcing a huge support package of immediate funding to tackle the funding crisis they face. I said we would not let the arts down, and this massive investment shows our level of commitment,” he said.Of the total sum, 1.15 billion pounds support will go for cultural organisations in England delivered through a mix of grants and loans, made up of 270 million pounds of repayable finance and 880 million pounds grants. Targeted support of 100 million pounds will go for the national cultural institutions in England and the English Heritage Trust. Capital investment of 120 million pounds will be available to restart construction on cultural infrastructure and for heritage construction projects in England, which was paused due to the coronavirus pandemic.Decisions on awards of the different funding will be made working alongside expert independent figures from the sector, including the Arts Council England and other specialist bodies such as Historic England, National Lottery Heritage Fund and the British Film Institute.The government said the repayable finance, to be set out in the coming weeks, will be issued on “generous terms” tailored for cultural institutions to ensure they are affordable.“This is welcome news for the museum sector, both in the scale of funding and as a strategic commitment to our role in the life of the country,” said Sir Ian Blatchford, Chair of the National Museums Directors Council.Julian Bird, Chief Executive, Society of London Theatre & UK Theatre, added: “Venues, producers and the huge workforce in the theatre sector look forward to clarity of how these funds will be allocated and invested, so that artists and organisations can get back to work as soon as possible.“Our industry’s united ambition is to be able to play its vital role in the nation’s economic and social recovery and this investment will allow us to do so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-minister-rishi-sunak-unveils-1-57-bn-arts-culture-covid-19-rescue-package/story-dyXlhbjSmTG3mHBSSdX5VM.html
06-07-2020||World||Nepal’s ruling communist party meet to decide PM Oli’s future deferred again||Nepal’s ruling communist party’s crucial Standing Committee meeting to decide Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli’s future has been postponed until Wednesday, according to an official announcement.Prime Minister’s press advisor Surya Thapa said that the meeting was deferred for Wednesday.The reason for the postponement was not immediately known.On Saturday as well, the meeting was postponed for Monday as the top leaders of the Nepal Communist Party (NCP) required more time to forge an understanding on the outstanding issues.The crucial meeting of the NCP’s 45-member Standing Committee, the most powerful body of the party, was scheduled to be held on Monday.Top NCP leaders, including former prime minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal Prachanda, have demanded Prime Minister Oli’s resignation, saying his recent anti-India remarks were “neither politically correct nor diplomatically appropriate.” Oli and Prachanda were expected to meet on Monday, ahead of the Standing Committee meeting. The political future of Nepal’s embattled Prime Minister K P Sharma Oil will now be decided on Wednesday after the ruling communist party postponed for a third time a crucial meeting, a day after the Chinese ambassador met a senior leader amidst the growing demand for his resignation over his style of functioning and anti-India statements.The meeting of the Nepal Communist Party’s 45-member powerful Standing Committee was scheduled to be held on Monday. But it was postponed at the last minute.Prime Minister’s press advisor Surya Thapa said the meeting was postponed until Wednesday. The reason for the deferment for a third time was not revealed.The development came as China’s ambassador Hou Yanqi met with the senior leader of the NCP and former prime minister Madhav Kumar Nepal on Sunday.The differences between the two factions of the NCP -- one led by Oli and the other led by party’s executive chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ on the issue of power-sharing -- intensified after the prime minister unilaterally decided to prorogue the budget session of Parliament on Thursday.The Prachanda faction, backed by senior leaders and former prime ministers Madhav Nepal and Jhalanath Khanal, has been demanding Oli’s resignation.According to a senior NCP leader, the Chinese ambassador Hou met Madhav Nepal at his residence in Koteshwor on Sunday evening and they discussed the current situation.The Chinese envoy also called on Nepal President Bidya Devi Bhandari on Sunday, My Republica newspaper reported on Monday.This is not the first time that the Chinese ambassador has intervened in Nepal’s internal affairs at a time of crisis. One-and-a-half months ago, when the NCP’s intra-party feud reached the climax, Hou held separate meetings with President Bhandari, Prime Minister Oli and other senior leaders including Prachanda and Madhav Nepal.This is for the third time that the Standing Committee meeting of the ruling party was postponed. Last week, the meeting was postponed twice to allow Oli and Prachanda time to iron out their differences over power-sharing.Meanwhile, a fresh meeting between Prachanda and Oli at the Prime Minister’s office at Baluwatar in a bid to save the party from being split did not yield any positive outcome, according Thapa, the prime minister’s spokesman.The Himalayan Times reported that Oli and Prachanda will meet again on Tuesday for another round of talks.The differences in the ruling party have reached its peak, with both the sides sticking to their respective stands.The Prachanda-led faction has asked Oli to resign from both the posts of the Prime Minister as well as the party chairman, while Oli is not ready to quit any of the two key posts.With Oli being cornered within the party, he met main Opposition Nepali Congress president Sher Bahadur Deuba on Sunday in a bid to seek his backing to save his government in case the party splits.Earlier, on Saturday, Oli met President Bhandari and held consultations.There has been a demand from the party’s senior leaders and cadres to adhere to the principle of one-man one post in the party since the unification process between CPN-UML and Maoist Centre started two years ago, said Ganesh Shah, the Standing Committee member.If Oli sacrifices one of the two executive posts, a solution to the present crisis could be found, he said.There is a need to operate the party in adherence to the statute, and meetings of the Central Secretariat, Standing Committee and Central Committee should be held on a regular basis to run the party smoothly and not to allow any misunderstanding, he said.There has been turmoil in the NCP for the past few months, but Oli tried to divert the attention of the dissident group by giving a nationalist slogan and updating the Nepalese map incorporating three strategically key Indian territories - Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura -- which served as means to pacify the internal tussle for some time.However, the turmoil again surfaced since last week, after Oli accused the dissident groups led by Prachanda of hatching a conspiracy to remove him with the help of the southern neighbour.Now Oli has become a victim of the trap he himself has laid, according to the political observers here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-s-ruling-communist-party-meet-to-decide-pm-oli-s-future-deferred-again/story-UWvRLZYhE1WUPuBa6ozf5I.html
06-07-2020||World||After Qureshi, now Pakistan’s health minister Zafar Mirza contracts Covid-19||Pakistan’s point person on the coronavirus disease, Dr Zafar Mirza, has himself contracted Covid-19.Dr Mirza announced on Monday that he was isolating himself at home after testing positive for the coronavirus disease.In a tweet, the special assistant to the prime minister on health said that he was experiencing “mild symptoms” and was taking all precautions. He also applauded the services of his colleagues, saying “Keep up the good work! You are making a big difference and I am proud of you.” <327> I have tested positive for COVID-19. Under med advice I have isolated myself at home & taking all precautions. I have mild symptoms. Please keep me in your kind prayers. Colleagues, keep up the good work! You are making a big difference & I am proud of you.Last week, Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi also tested positive for the disease.Dr Mirza has been at the forefront of Pakistan’s strategy to fight Covid-19. He has been severly criticised by various quarters for his inability to get a coordinated strategy in place.Both Dr Mirza and prime minister Imran Khan have been accused of implementing a muddled strategy under which the country’s Covid-19 numbers are amongst the highest in the region.Meanwhile, Pakistan’s Covid-19 tally on Monday crossed the 2,31,000-mark after 3,344 new infections were detected in the last 24 hours. So far, the disease has claimed the lives of 4,762 in the country.Out of the total infections, Sindh province reported 94,528 cases, Punjab 81,963, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa 28,116, Islamabad 13,494, Balochistan 10,814, Gilgit-Baltistan 1,561 and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir 1,342.Pakistan’s Ministry of National Health Services said that 56.78 per cent patients have recovered from the disease while those still infected are 43.21 per cent.Forty eight doctors resigned in Pakistan’s Punjab province on Sunday citing inability of the government to provide safety gear to protect them from the virus.“The doctors in question have resigned after the government’s failure to comply with their repeated requests to provide them protective gear against the deadly coronavirus and other inadequate facilities,” a senior doctor of a public hospital Lahore told news agencies.Most of these doctors were working in teaching hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-qureshi-now-pakistan-s-health-minister-zafar-mirza-contracts-covid-19/story-nFCBIUYDnpL6OowJzo7SKI.html
06-07-2020||World||China reports suspected case of ‘Black Death’ plague. All you need to know||Authorities in a city of China’s Inner Mongolia issued a warning on Sunday, a day after a hospital reported a case of suspected bubonic plague.Sunday’s warning follows four reported cases of plague in people from Inner Mongolia last November, including two of the deadlier variant of plague—pneumonic plague.The bubonic plague, known as the “Black Death” in the Middle Ages, is a highly infectious and often fatal disease that is spread mostly by rodents.Also Watch | New ‘pandemic virus’ in China raises alarm What is a plague?Plague is an infectious disease caused by Yersinia pestis, a zoonotic bacteria, usually found in small mammals and their fleas, says the World Health Organization (WHO)People can contract plague if they are in bitten by infected fleas and develop the bubonic form of plague. Sometimes bubonic plague progresses to pneumonic plague when the bacteria reach the lungs. What is the bubonic plague?According to WHO, bubonic plague is the most common form of plague and is caused by the bite of an infected flea. It says plague bacillus, Y pestis, enters at the bite and travels through the lymphatic system to the nearest lymph node where it replicates itself. The lymph node then becomes inflamed, tense and painful, and is called a ‘bubo’. At advanced stages of the infection, the inflamed lymph nodes can turn into open sores filled with pus. Human to human transmission of bubonic plague is rare. What’s the difference between bubonic and pneumonic plagues?Bubonic plague is the most common form of the plague but cannot be easily transmitted between people. Some people with bubonic plague will develop pneumonic plague. Pneumonic plague, or lung-based plague, is the most virulent form of plague and has an incubation period as short as 24 hours. A person with pneumonic plague may transmit the disease to others through coughing via droplets. Bubonic plague has a mortality rate of 30% to 60%, while the pneumonic form is fatal in the absence of treatment. Both types have good recovery rates if people are treated in time.Pneumonic plague, if not diagnosed and treated early, can be fatal. However, recovery rates are high if detected and treated in time—within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms.How are people infected?Humans can be infected through the bite of infected vector fleas, unprotected contact with infectious bodily fluids or contaminated materials to the inhalation of respiratory droplets/small particles from a patient with pneumonic plague.Can there be human to human transmission?Person-to-person transmission is possible through the inhalation of infected respiratory droplets of a person who has the pneumonic plague. Common antibiotics are efficient to cure plague, if they are delivered very early because the course of the disease is usually rapid.What are the symptoms?People infected with plague usually develop acute febrile disease with other non-specific systemic symptoms after an incubation period of one to seven days.Symptoms typically include sudden onset of fever, chills, head and body aches, weakness, vomiting and nausea. Painful and inflamed lymph nodes can also appear during the bubonic plague. Symptoms of the pneumonic form appear quickly after infection, sometimes less than 24 hours, and include severe respiratory symptoms such as shortness of breath and coughing, often with blood-tainted sputum.How is plague treated?Plague can be treated with antibiotics, and recovery is common if treatment starts early. In areas where there is a plague outbreak, people with symptoms should go to a health centre for evaluation and treatment. Patients with pneumonic plague must be isolated and treated by trained medical staff wearing personal protective equipment.Can dead bodies spread plague?The body of someone who has died after being infected with plague can infect people who are in close contact, such as those who are preparing the body for burial. The source of infection is the bacteria that are still present in body fluids.When has it happened in the past?Bubonic plague, known as the Black Death in the Middle Ages, killed tens of millions of people around the world in three major pandemics, with about a third of Europe’s population wiped out in the 1300s.The bacterium is believed to have originated in Yunnan in southwest China. Opium trade routes from Yunnan caused the third global plague outbreak in 1894, but it has since become increasingly rare.There were 3,248 cases worldwide, leading to 584 deaths—a fatality rate of 18%— between 2010 and 2015 according to WHO.(Source WHO)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-reports-suspected-case-of-black-death-plague-what-you-need-to-know/story-kBBKxiK0dZecalflvJPQsM.html
06-07-2020||World||In a first in 100 years, Australia shuts state borders to check Covid-19 spread||Australian officials are closing the border between Australia’s two most populous states from Tuesday for an indefinite period as they scramble to contain an outbreak of the coronavirus in the city of Melbourne. The decision announced on Monday marks the first time the border between Victoria and New South Wales has been shut in 100 years. Officials last blocked movement between the two states in 1919 during the Spanish flu pandemic.The number of Covid-19 cases in Melbourne, Victoria’s capital, has surged in recent days, prompting authorities to enforce strict social-distancing orders in 30 suburbs and put nine public housing towers into complete lockdown.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The state reported 127 new Covid-19 infections overnight, its biggest one-day spike since the pandemic began. It also reported one death, the first nationally in more than two weeks, taking the country’s total tally to 105. “It is the smart call, the right call at this time, given the significant challenges we face in containing this virus,” Victoria Premier Daniel Andrews told reporters in Melbourne as he announced the border closure, effective from 11.59 p.m. local time on Tuesday.The move will, however, likely be a blow to Australia’s economic recovery as it heads into its first recession in nearly three decades. Victoria’s only other internal border, with South Australia state, is already closed.NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian said there was no timetable for reopening the border, which will be patrolled by the military to prevent illegal crossings. The state line is highly porous, with 55 roads, wilderness parks and rivers. Some businesses straddle both sides and several workers commute daily.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Lyn McKenzie, who runs a paddle steamer business along the Murray River from Mildura, a border city of 30,000 people, is waiting for more detail to gauge the full impact on her business.McKenzie lives on the NSW side of the river, the boats pick up passengers from the Victoria side and the river itself is classified as part of NSW.“The Mildura wharf ... is where we pick people up from (but) they’ve got to cross the border technically to go on the boat,” McKenzie said by telephone. “I’m seeing this as possibly needing to shut down again, but it’s a bit early for me, not knowing the exact details.”Berejiklian said people would be able to apply for daily permits to cross the border, but added there would be delays of around three days in issuing the passes.NSW Police Commissioner Mick Fuller said he has requested military assistance to enforce the order. “There will be aerial and other surveillance 24/7 right across the border,” Fuller told reporters in Sydney. Melbourne restrictions Australia has fared better than many countries in the coronavirus pandemic, with just short of 8,500 cases so far, but the Melbourne outbreak has raised alarm bells. The country has reported an average of 109 cases daily over the past week, compared with an average of just 9 cases daily over the first week of June.Although authorities have said the border closure will prevent the latest outbreak from spreading interstate, Melbourne locals are concerned that renewed social distancing measures have not been implemented uniformly across the city. “Without a full Melbourne lockdown, I am not super confident this is going to be contained,” Jack Bell, a lifeguard who lives in Victorian suburb of Kensington, told Reuters. Kensington is one of the 30 suburbs that have reimposed social distancing measures. The nine public housing blocks that have been subjected to a complete lockdown, Australia’s first, are in neighbouring North Melbourne and Flemington.“I think people have very much forgotten about social distancing,” Bell said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-a-first-in-100-years-australia-shuts-state-borders-to-check-covid-19-spread/story-EJl0CRxAlAtdA6P2t0FAuM.html
06-07-2020||World||Covid-19 fear prompts Mexican town to block road from US border||Residents of the town of Sonoyta, across from Lukeville, Arizona, briefly blocked the main road leading south from the US border over the weekend over fears of coronavirus outbreaks.Arizona has seen a major upsurge in infections and there were worries about intensified contagion during the July 4 weekend.The mayor of Sonoyta, José Ramos Arzate, issued a statement Saturday “inviting U.S. tourists not to visit Mexico.”Local residents organized to block the road with their cars on the Mexican side Saturday.Video posted by residents showed several travellers complaining that they had a right to cross because they were Mexican citizens. The road is the quickest route to the seaside resort of Puerto Peñasco, also known as Rocky Point.Ramos Arzate wrote that people from the United States should only be allowed in “for essential activities, and for that reason, the checkpoint and inspection point a few meters from the Sonoyta-Lukeville AZ crossing will continue operating.”“We had agreed on this in order to safeguard the health of our community in the face of an accelerated rate of COVID-19 contagion in the neighboring state of Arizona,” Ramos Arzate wrote. “It is our duty as municipal authorities to protect the health of our town.”Mexico and the United States agreed previously to limit border crossings to essential activities, but up until this week, that had mainly been enforced for people entering the United States, not the other way.Residents of Sonoyta demanded health checks on incoming visitors, better health care facilities and broader testing.There has been some resentment that tourists, but not local residents, had reportedly been allowed into Puerto Peñasco, where many banks and other services are located.In view of continued high infection rates and deaths in Mexico, some state are backpedaling on reopening businesses. For example, the Mexico City government said Sunday that more streets in the city’s colonial-era downtown would be closed to traffic but open to pedestrians.The city already allows businesses with even-numbered addresses to open one day, and odd-numbered businesses the next.But on Sunday the city proposed a new, voluntary measure to reduce crowds downtown: officials asked people whose last names begin with the letters A to L to shop on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Those whose names begin with the letters M to Z would be encouraged to shop Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. There was no proposal to enforce the rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-fear-prompts-mexican-town-to-block-road-from-us-border/story-WSnNE4iqCWoO7JilMSGMdM.html
06-07-2020||World||Who has short shorts: Elon Musk sells them for real at $69.42||Elon Musk made good on a promise to produce a pair of “short shorts” to mark his triumph against investors who had bet against Tesla Inc., unveiling the item Sunday among the range of branded apparel for sale on the electric-car maker’s online store.A pair of the limited edition satin shorts would cost “Only $69.420” Musk tweeted -- a likely reference to the $420 per share price that he had offered shareholders in 2018 to take the company private. That offer, made over a series of tweets, sparked off a Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit.“Run like the wind or entertain like Liberace with our red satin and gold trim design,” read a blurb describing the shorts, which come in various sizes. “Enjoy exceptional comfort from the closing bell.”Following Musk’s initial tweet, which was “liked” by Twitter users over 41,000 times, Tesla’s online store was temporarily unable to process orders for the item.  Only $69.420!! Limited edition short shorts now available at https://t.co/5EmNcTBvJvMusk has repeatedly joked about “short shorts” to short sellers who took positions against Tesla, such as hedge fund manager David Einhorn.Tesla shares have surged 189% this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-has-short-shorts-elon-musk-sells-them-for-real-at-69-42/story-UV5ZSI4eViSb6qxB6rR6lK.html
06-07-2020||World||Fire at Iran’s Natanz nuclear facility caused significant damage: Spokesperson||A fire at Iran’s underground Natanz nuclear facility has caused significant damage that could slow the development of advanced centrifuges used to enrich uranium, an Iranian nuclear official said on Sunday.Iran’s top security body said on Friday that the cause of the fire that broke out on Thursday had been determined but would be announced later. Some Iranian officials have said it may have been cyber sabotage and one warned that Tehran would retaliate against any country carrying out such attacks.On Thursday, an article by Iran’s state news agency IRNA addressed what it called the possibility of sabotage by enemies such as Israel and the United States, although it stopped short of accusing either directly.Israel’s defence minister said on Sunday it was not “necessarily” behind every mysterious incident in Iran.Three Iranian officials who spoke to Reuters on condition of anonymity on Friday said they believed the fire was the result of a cyber attack but did not cite any evidence.“The incident could slow down the development and production of advanced centrifuges in the medium term ... Iran will replace the damaged building with a bigger one that has more advanced equipment,” state news agency IRNA quoted the spokesman for Iran’s Atomic Energy Organisation, Behrouz Kamalvandi, as saying.“The incident has caused significant damage but there were no casualties.” Separately on Sunday, Iran’s powerful Revolutionary Guards Navy chief said Tehran had built underground “missile cities” along the Gulf coastline and warned of a “nightmare for Iran’s enemies”.Iranian authorities have said such sites exist in all provinces of Iran but have unveiled only three bases so far and not disclosed that they have been built along its coast.‘Maximum pressure’Natanz is the centrepiece of Iran’s enrichment programme, which Tehran says is for peaceful purposes. Western intelligence agencies and the U.N.’s nuclear watchdog (IAEA) believe it had a coordinated, clandestine nuclear arms programme that it halted in 2003. Tehran denies ever seeking nuclear weapons.Iran agreed to curb its nuclear programme in exchange for the removal of most international sanctions in a deal reached between Tehran and six world powers in 2015. But Iran has gradually reduced its commitments to the accord since US President Donald Trump’s administration withdrew from the deal in 2018 and reimposed and intensified sanctions that have battered Iran’s economy.The deal only allows Iran to enrich uranium at its Natanz facility with just over 5,000 first-generation IR-1 centrifuges, but Iran has installed new cascades of advanced centrifuges.Iran, which says it will not negotiate as long as sanctions remain in place, has repeatedly vowed to continue building up what it calls a defensive missile capability run by the Revolutionary Guards, in defiance of Western criticism.Israel has backed Trump’s “maximum pressure” policy on Tehran aimed at forcing it to agree a new deal that puts stricter limits on its nuclear work, curbs its ballistic missile programme and ends its regional proxy wars. In 2010, the Stuxnet computer virus, widely believed to have been developed by the United States and Israel, was discovered after it was used to attack Natanz.The Natanz Fuel Enrichment Plant (FEP), Iran’s main uranium enrichment site which is mostly underground, is one of several Iranian facilities monitored by inspectors of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the U.N. nuclear watchdog.The IAEA said on Friday that the location of the fire did not contain nuclear materials and that none of its inspectors was present at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fire-at-iran-s-natanz-nuclear-facility-caused-significant-damage-spokesperson/story-AsFMfpCudP4uVgRfvFOPXO.html
06-07-2020||World||Suspected case of bubonic plague found in China’s Inner Mongolia||China’s health authorities are on high alert after a suspected case of the infectious bubonic plague was reported Sunday from Inner Mongolia less than eight months after two cases of the same type of plague were reported from the same northern province.In November last year, two cases of the more infectious pneumonic plague were also diagnosed in Beijing and in Inner Mongolia.In the latest case, the Bayannur municipal health commission said in a press release late on Sunday night that the people’s hospital in Urad Middle Banner (an administrative division in China) reported the suspected bubonic plague case in local herdsman on Saturday.The patient has been isolated and under treatment in a local hospital; he is said to be stable.Local authorities in Bayannur issued a third-level warning for plague prevention and control that will last till the end of 2020, the commission was quoted by the official news agency, Xinhua, as saying.The commission issued an advisory for residents in the area to prevent people-to-people infection including not to hunt and eat animals that could cause plague infections.It asked the public to “report any findings of killed or dead marmots and other animals, and report suspected plague cases, high fever patients with unknown reasons and patients dying from sudden deaths”.There are three types of plague, a bacterial infection caused by Yersinia pestis: septicemic, which spreads in the blood; bubonic, which affects the lymph nodes; and pneumonic, which affects the lungs.The last two types were reported in Inner Mongolia and in Beijing in November, 2019.There are large areas of natural plague foci in Inner Mongolia where contact with plague-infected animals such as rats or hares might result in human infection, Chinese health authorities had said earlier.According to the American Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), while the bubonic plague spreads through fleas hosted by infected animals, like rodents — it wiped out millions in medieval Europe before spreading to Asia and Africa in the 14th century — pneumonic plague spreads through cough droplets. Symptoms include persistent high fever, coughing with blood, and chest pain.Bubonic plague is more common, but the latter is more dangerous.In 2014, China had locked down the city of Yumen, home to over 30,000 people, in the northwestern province of Gansu, after a person died of bubonic plague; 151 people were quarantined.According to China’s national health commission (NHC), a total of five people have died from the plague between 2014 and September 2019. A Reuters report on Sunday said from 2009 to 2018, China reported 26 cases and 11 deaths.The most recent outbreak of pneumonic plague happened in Madagascar in 2017, with over 2300 confirmed cases and 202 deaths, according to the WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suspected-case-of-bubonic-plague-found-in-china-s-inner-mongolia/story-eAqgqStONW7TKlGwHYCLHP.html
06-07-2020||World||Sri Lanka schools to reopen from Monday after over-3 month long Covid-19 lockdown||Sri Lanka will re-open its schools in a phased manner from Monday after keeping them closed for 115 days due to the lockdown imposed in the country to contain the spread of the coronavirus, the Ministry of Education said on Sunday.The schools were shut mid-March when Sri Lanka detected its first Covid-19 infection.Ranjith Chandrasekera, the additional secretary to the ministry, said students from Grades 5, 11 and 13 will resume schooling on Monday.There will be extended hours for Grade 13 students with school closing time extended until 3.30pm from usual 1.30pm closure.In the next phase, students of Grades 12 and 10 will return on July 20. The students of Grades 3,4,6,7,8 and 9 would return on July 27. The final phase would be on August 10 when Grades 1 and 2 would return, the official said.“Parents are strictly advised not to send children to schools if they are having fever, cough and flu,” Chandrasekera said.He said students were not expected to wear face masks when in school but must don them when they travel to school and back.They will also be made to follow strict Covid-19 health guidelines.The school principals have been advised not to conduct term tests or to have students participating in extra curricular activities despite the re-opening of schools.The teachers and non-academic staff had returned to schools last week to prepare for students’ return while setting in motion health guidelines.Sri Lanka ended its Covid-19 lockdown in stages after it was imposed in May.Last month, the Sri Lankan government completely lifted the curfew imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus after no new case of community infection was recorded for nearly two months in the country.Sri Lanka had been under a continuous lockdown since March 20, a week after the first case of the pandemic was reported. Initially, a nationwide blanket curfew was imposed but it was later eased for about two-thirds of the country and was mostly confined to night time. The island nation recorded over 2,000 Covid-19 positive cases with just 11 deaths. Since April 30, no cases from within the local communities have been reported, according to the health officials. Sri Lanka is set to hold parliamentary election on August 5 which was also postponed twice due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-schools-to-reopen-from-monday-after-over-3-month-long-covid-19-lockdown/story-mKP9C39uPBNISV6GLlbleL.html
06-07-2020||World||99% Covid-19 cases ‘totally harmless’, says Donald Trump||President Donald Trump has claimed without evidence that 99% of Covid-19 cases in the country were “totally harmless,” as the 4th of July weekend to mark US Independence Day added to worries of further spread of the pandemic.Many states broke records in new cases. In Texas for instance, 7,890 patients were hospitalised. Florida has reported a new record of 11,445 cases.Trump once again blamed China for the pandemic and held out hopes of a vaccine by the end of the year. He held the 4th of July celebrations against warnings that the virus is spreading through such large gatherings. Deaths in US were nearing 130,000 on Sunday as cases topped 2.8 million, with more than 45,000 in the past 24 hours.“China must be held fully accountable”, Trump said, blaming Beijing for misreporting and misleading the world, while claiming again that the high number of cases in the US was due to more testing. “Now we have tested, almost 40 mn people, 99% of which are totally harmless”, he said.The president went on to hold hopes of a breakthrough in the hunt of a vaccine, saying, “We’ll likely have a therapeutic and/or a vaccine solution long before the end of the year.”Trump said China must be held fully accountable for its “secrecy, deception and cover-up” that allowed it to spread the coronavirus all over the world. He touted the country’s “progress” against the pandemic saying, “We have the manufacturing record for ventilators. We have the most and the finest testing anywhere in the world.” “We are producing gowns, masks, and surgical equipment in our country…It was almost exclusively made in foreign lands, in particular, China, where ironically this virus and others came from. “China’s secrecy, deception, and cover-up allowed it to spread all over the world, 189 countries and China must be held fully accountable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/99-virus-cases-totally-harmless-says-donald-trump/story-bRlU5DyWuszGMlaNwrfQKO.html
06-07-2020||World||‘Not intimidated’: US Navy tweets sharp comeback to China on ‘aircraft carrier killer’||The United States Navy took a jibe at China after a news report claimed that Beijing has a wide selection of anti-aircraft carrier weapons and the South China Sea is fully within grasp of the Chinese army. The US Navy said that it is “not intimidated”.“China has a wide selection of anti-aircraft carrier weapons like DF-21D and DF-26 “aircraft carrier killer” #missiles. South China Sea is fully within grasp of the #PLA; any US #aircraftcarrier movement in the region is at the pleasure of PLA: analysts,” a tweet from China’s Global Times said.In response, the US Navy’s chief of information tweeted, “And yet, there they are. Two @USNavy aircraft carriers operating in the international waters of the South China Sea. #USSNimitz & #USSRonaldReagan are not intimidated.” It tagged the Global Times report and used the hashtag #AtOurDiscretion. And yet, there they are. Two @USNavy aircraft carriers operating in the international waters of the South China Sea. #USSNimitz & #USSRonaldReagan are not intimidated #AtOurDiscretion https://t.co/QGTggRjOulThe United States has sent the two aircraft carriers - USS Ronald Reagan and USS Nimitz - to the South China Sea to participate in a military exercise.The exercise is long-planned but comes as China conducts military drills of its own in the area, near the contested Paracel Islands, exercises that have been criticised by the US and other countries.The US Navy’s operation of two nuclear-powered aircraft carriers in the South China Sea region further represents a significant show of force and comes amid heightened tensions between Washington and Beijing over a number of areas, including Hong Kong.The US has also targeted China over the coronavirus disease which was first reported in the Chinese city of Wuhan and later spread to the world. Washingtomn accuses Beijing of hiding information from the world.China responded with a short video on Twitter in May which said that Washington didn’t listen to the words of caution from Beijing on the coronavirus outbreak.The animated video was posted on Twitter by the Chinese Embassy in France on Thursday and was titled “Once upon a virus”.The video lists the timeline of the outbreak, with cartoon figures representing China and the United States accusing each other. While the Chinese side in the video says it informed about the discovery of a new virus in January, the US didn’t take any note of it.The one minute 39 seconds video further shows China announcing its lockdown in January, and the US calling it barbaric. It also shows the US accusing China of human rights violation - more than once.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/not-intimidated-us-navy-tweets-sharp-comeback-to-china-on-aircraft-carrier-killer/story-PzbljIunzVfwturUmWQSiP.html
06-07-2020||World||Donald Trump vows to defeat radical left; Columbus statue pulled down||US President Donald Trump has lashed out once again at “angry mobs” and the “radical left”, as he has been calling anti-racism protesters.“We are now in the process of defeating the radical left, the Marxists, the anarchists, the agitators, the looters, and people who, in many instances, have absolutely no clue what they are doing,” he said in an Independence Day speech on Saturday at Washington DC. Protestors in Baltimore in the adjoining state of Maryland brought down a statute of Christopher Columbus. Anti-racism protests around the country, triggered by the killing of George Floyd, have put a focus once again on America’s history of slavery and subjugation of indigenous peoples.An armed group of mostly African American protestors marched through South Mountain Park near Atlanta demanding the removal of a giant rock carving considered to be the largest confederate monument and is said to be central in symbolism for white supremacists.On the west coast in Seattle, a woman was killed when a car drove into protesters after crashing through a police barricade. She died after being hit along with another woman on Saturday. The driver is in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-vows-to-defeat-radical-left-columbus-statue-pulled-down/story-JiOWPvYgxQnNLm2EdiMiDN.html
06-07-2020||World||Coronavirus is airborne, say 239 experts in open letter to WHO||Amid a frightening rise in new Covid-19 cluster infections, 239 experts have written an open letter to the WHO, outlining evidence showing that smaller airborne particles containing the virus can infect people, The New York Times reported on Sunday.Whether carried aloft by large droplets that zoom through the air after a sneeze, or by much smaller exhaled droplets that may glide the length of a room, the experts said, the coronavirus is borne through air and can infect people when inhaled.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The scientists from 32 countries are calling on the UN health agency to revise its recommendations and plan to publish their letter in a scientific journal.If airborne transmission is a significant factor in the pandemic, especially in crowded spaces with poor ventilation, the consequences for containment will be significant, NYT reported. Masks may be needed indoors, even in socially distant settings. Health care workers may need N95 masks that filter out even the smallest respiratory droplets as they care for coronavirus patients, it said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Ventilation systems in schools, nursing homes, residences and businesses may need to minimise recirculating air and add powerful new filters. Ultraviolet lights may be needed to kill particles floating indoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-is-airborne-say-239-experts/story-jj6VO3kMdvMeDtbfLj7qwL.html
06-07-2020||World||Nepal power sharing talks fail to end crisis||The crucial talks between embattled Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli and the ruling Nepal Communist Party’s executive chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ on the issue of power-sharing failed on Sunday, but they agreed to meet again on Monday to sort out their differences ahead of the party’s powerful Standing Committee meeting.The Prachanda faction, backed by senior leaders including Madhav Nepal and Jhalanath Khanal, has been demanding that Oli step down both as party chair and prime minister.The two leaders failed to reach any agreement. As both the leaders stick to their respective stands, the talk could not bear any fruit, said a source close to Prime Minister Oli.However, they have agreed to sit again for dialogue on Monday ahead of the scheduled Standing Committee meeting to sort out differences, a senior minister told PTI. “The two leaders discussed a wide range of issues but no common ground was reached,” he said.The twice postponed powerful Standing Committee meeting of the party on Monday is expected to decide on the political future of 68-year-old prime minister.On Saturday, a crucial meeting of the 45-member Standing Committee was postponed until Monday to allow more time for the top leadership to iron out their differences over Oli’s style of functioning and anti-India statements.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Oli met with former prime minister and president of the opposition Nepali Congress Sher Bahadur Deuba. Tere is speculation that Oli might have sought Deuba’s backing to save his government in case the ruling party splits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-power-sharing-talks-fail-to-end-crisis/story-5krK1CcrrVzHd3mAVFlzzM.html
06-07-2020||World||Tokyo’s first woman governor Yuriko Koike wins in coronavirus-clouded election||Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike scored a landslide victory in an election for a second term, as the city tries to keep a fresh surge of Covid-19 in check and maintain hopes of hosting the Olympics in 2021.Koike, the first woman elected to govern the city of 14 million people, prevailed over 21 challengers on Sunday to win another four-year term. She took about 60% of the vote, beating her nearest contender anti-poverty campaigner Kenji Utsunomiya, the former head of the Japan Federation of Bar Associations, by about 46 percentage points, results on Monday showed.Koike, who had gained support over the past few months for her management of the disease, said shortly after declaring victory that “the most urgent problem now is dealing with the virus.”Her win comes after the daily tally of confirmed cases almost doubled in just three days, to 131 on July 4, and Koike asked residents of the capital not to travel to other parts of the country unnecessarily. The count was 111 on Sunday.Koike said she wanted to set up a Tokyo version of the U.S.’s Centers for Disease Control and Prevention with existing resources. Although the current situation may seem similar to March and April when cases spiked, it’s different in that many of the infected are in their 20s and 30s who are less likely to fall severely ill, she said.Local governments had urged residents to cast their votes in advance or early in the day to avoid crowds that could spread the coronavirus. Koike herself shunned public speeches for safety reasons, instead opting to campaign online.Former TV anchor Koike became a constant media presence as Covid-19 infections peaked in the Japanese capital in April, pressing people to stay home and businesses to shut down. Her support rate soared by 20 percentage points to around 70% between March and May, according to one poll, with many respondents rating her as one of the more effective political leaders during the crisis.If all goes to plan, Koike could host a delayed and scaled-back Tokyo Olympics next summer. In the meantime, she has pledged to prepare the capital for another wave of viral infections, while allowing for economic activity.Abe RivalryTokyo’s gubernatorial election tends to attract a colorful array of candidates. They included Masayuki Hiratsuka, who campaigned under the slogan: “Corona is just a cold,” and Taro Yamamoto, who called for the Olympics to be canceled.Just over four years ago, former environment minister Koike gave up her seat in parliament to run in the capital’s election, pledging to slash her own salary and cut the cost of hosting the summer games. She defeated 20 rivals including one backed by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s ruling Liberal Democratic Party, of which she had been a prominent member, then led a new political group to victory in the Tokyo assembly election.Koike next tried to build on her success by launching a national party in a bid to topple Abe, but failed when he called a snap general election before she was fully prepared.Despite their history of bad blood, Koike had at least the tacit acceptance of the LDP, which did not support a candidate against her this time around. It is unclear whether the 67-year-old will seek to return to parliament after her second term ends in 2024.(Updates with election results)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tokyo-s-first-woman-governor-yuriko-koike-wins-in-coronavirus-clouded-election/story-6aqj5Else5ANIOw5E4hSEO.html
06-07-2020||World||US House Speaker Philip Gunn tests positive for coronavirus||House Speaker Philip Gunn says he has tested positive for the coronavirus as state health officials report more than 200 new infections and five deaths linked to the pandemic.Click here for full Coverage of Covid-19Gunn, a Republican, said in a video posted Sunday to Facebook that he got tested because he had been in close proximity to another member of the House who tested positive.“I felt like I needed to go get myself tested just because I had been with this person and this morning was informed that I too have tested positive for Covid,” Gunn said. “I feel very fortunate that I don’t really have very many symptoms and feel fine.”Gunn said he called everyone that he had been in close proximity to recently to let them know of his diagnosis and planned to self-quarantine.Gunn is the state’s highest-ranking political figure to publicly disclose a positive test for the coronavirus. He did not say who the other House member was. The Mississippi Department of Health posted its latest coronavirus statistics Sunday. The state recorded 226 new cases through Saturday bringing the total number of confirmed and probable infections to 30,900 across the state. Five more people also died from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-house-speaker-philip-gunn-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-sQMQ30ImHORO3juAYQCvMI.html
06-07-2020||World||Donald Trump, Joe Biden fight for primacy on social media platforms||On an average day, President Donald Trump sends about 14 posts to the 28 million Facebook followers of his campaign account. His Democratic rival, Joe Biden, delivers about half that many posts to an audience of just 2 million.The numbers are similarly skewed in other spheres of the social media landscape.On Twitter, Trump’s 82.4 million followers dwarf Biden’s 6.4 million. The president has spent years cultivating a ragtag digital “army” of meme makers and political influencers who retweet campaign messages hundreds of times daily. Trump is outspending Biden on Google and YouTube advertising by nearly 3 to 1.As his re-election bid faces growing obstacles, his primacy in the dizzying digital world is one of his top advantages, giving him a massive platform to connect with supporters and push a message that ignores his vulnerabilities related to the pandemic, unemployment and race relations. Biden and his allies are now working feverishly to establish a social media force of their own.Also read: Joe Biden says ‘will lift freeze on H1-B visas on winning 2020 US elections’For the first time, Biden outspent Trump on Facebook advertising in June, pouring twice as much money into the platform as the president. His campaign is recruiting Instagram supporters to hold virtual fundraisers. And it’s plotting ways to mobilize the power of hundreds of teens on TikTok who reserved tickets for Trump’s recent Oklahoma campaign rally and took credit for sinking the event by artificially inflating the crowd count before it began.But Trump’s head start may be tough to overcome.“Vice President Biden and Trump have very different challenges right now,” said Tara McGowan, the founder of liberal digital firm Acronym and former digital director for the Democratic super PAC Priorities USA during the 2016 campaign. “Trump needs to hold his base ... and Vice President Biden needs to define and in a lot of ways introduce himself to you new voters, and potential supporters.”But Trump’s unimpeded access to the digital microphone is facing its limits.Twitter is beginning to fact check Trump’s posts, including one that made unfounded claims that mail-in voting would lead to fraud. The company also alerted users when the president posted a manipulated video, and it hid his Twitter threat about shooting looters in Minneapolis.Also read: Donald Trump campaign reshuffles key staff, hiring ex-NASA officialUnder pressure in June as major companies yanked advertising from its site, Facebook promised it would label Trump posts when they break rules around voting or hate speech. Video messaging platform Snapchat last month also said it would keep the president’s account active and searchable but would stop showcasing his profile on the platform. And in a move to clamp down on hate and violent speech, the online comment forum Reddit decided to ban one of the president’s most prolific fan forums, The_Donald.Trump and Biden have strikingly divergent tactics on social media.A centerpiece of Trump’s digital efforts is the Team Trump Online! nightly live broadcasts streamed on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Twitch, an online streaming platform. The broadcasts feature top Trump surrogates including daughter-in-law Lara Trump and Vice President Mike Pence.Trump also tweets with far greater velocity, sending more than 160 Twitter messages during a seven-day period starting June 14, an Associated Press analysis of Trump and Biden’s accounts reveals. More than 50 of Trump’s posts were retweets from an assortment of users that included the U.S. Army, far-right meme makers, conservative news outlets, little-known congressional candidates and anonymous accounts that in some cases promoted conspiracy theories.The president’s steady retweets of everyday users helps fans feel connected to him, said Logan Cook, a Kansas internet meme maker whose work Trump has regularly promoted on his social media accounts.“President Trump’s team, they’re blending in with social media culture, which is also why they’re getting into so much trouble,” said Cook, whose Twitter account @CarpeDonktum was permanently suspended last week for copyright violations. His memes are controversial because he alters videos to mock Trump’s political rivals, including Biden.Twitter users celebrate being retweeted by the president, or his inner circle, like the president’s son, Donald Trump Jr., who has more than 5 million followers.Trump’s followers see producing sardonic memes or videos as a game where the ultimate prize is a retweet from the president, said Misha Leybovich, a tech entrepreneur who produces social media engagement products that support Democratic candidates and causes.“The fan base is having a blast,” Leybovich said. “If they never gave the fans the ability to be amplified by the president, the stakes would be lower.”Biden has stuck to a more conventional approach, tweeting nearly 60 messages during that same time, only a handful of which were retweets from verified accounts, like former President Barack Obama, or established news outlets. Every video Biden tweeted out over that week in June was produced by his own campaign.But the effectiveness of campaign messaging isn’t just about numbers, said Jennifer Mercieca, a political rhetoric professor at Texas A&M University.“If you want to compare the attention and engagement metrics, it might look like Trump is way ahead, but that attention and outrage isn’t always good,” Mercieca said. “When a child is throwing a tantrum, you’re giving them attention, but it’s not because you approve of their behavior.”Indeed, the Biden campaign argues that despite being outmatched on social media, their engagement is strong.“The way that they treat their supporters, it’s about distraction. It’s about keeping them angry,” said Rob Friedlander, Biden campaign digital director. “For us it’s about, how do we make you feel like you’re brought into the campaign.”The campaign is creating Facebook groups, holding virtual events on Instagram and partnering with social media influencers who create posts in support of the campaign.One such group is an Instagram account called Bake for Biden,which bakes bread and ships sourdough starters across the country in exchange for donations to Biden. The group was born out of what Brooklyn marketing executive Domenic Venuto first saw as an inadequate response from Biden’s campaign to Trump’s taunts and conspiracy theories.Venuto said he’s come to understand the campaign’s digital strategy of ignoring Trump’s attacks.“They’ve been very good at promoting values and shying away from being baited into the same tactics (as the Trump campaign),” Venuto said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-joe-biden-fight-for-primacy-on-social-media-platforms/story-OJRSwhiuA2mZCqxomaiyYP.html
06-07-2020||World||Kanye West eyes US Presidency. Here’s why he may not be serious||If Kanye West is serious about running for president, the American rapper and fashion designer will face major obstacles to mount a serious campaign less than four months before the Nov. 3 U.S. presidential election.West, who said in a July 4 Twitter post that he was running, would have to work fast to get his name on the ballot alongside President Donald Trump, a Republican, and the presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden, in all 50 states plus the District of Columbia.One of Trump’s celebrity supporters, West would have two routes to doing so. He could try secure the backing of a smaller political party, said James McCann, a political scientist at Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana.Without a party helping him get on the ballot, another option would be to try to appear as an independent candidate.But deadlines for registering that way have already passed in a handful of states, including New Mexico and key battleground North Carolina.Getting on the ballot as an independent would also require hiring staff or recruiting volunteers to quickly gather many tens of thousands of signatures across the nation before other registration periods close in August and September, a task currently made more difficult by the coronavirus pandemic.“It’s hard to see Kanye West having a field operation,” said McCann, adding that another option would be for West to ask supporters to write his name on the ballot.It is unclear if West, who is also known for his marriage to reality TV star Kim Kardashian West, has filed any official paperwork to appear on state election ballots. Reuters was unable to reach West’s publicist for comment.West, a celebrity highly skilled in grabbing the spotlight, has previously announced plans to run for president without doing so. Last week he entered a 10-year deal with Gap Inc to create a line of clothing carrying the “Yeezy” brand name.He made headlines during a visit to the White House in October 2018 when he delivered a rambling, profanity-laden speech in which he discussed alternative universes and his diagnosis of bipolar disorder. Three weeks later, he said he was distancing himself from politics and that he believed he had been used to spread messages he did not believe in.Even with a serious campaign, West would be unlikely to draw more than a few percentage points of the vote, peeling away similar numbers of votes from Trump and Biden, said Larry Sabato, director of the University of Virginia’s Center for Politics.“He’s got a long way to go even to convince us that he’s serious,” said Sabato.The most recent candidate to put significant effort into launching a presidential campaign a few months before the election was Evan McMullin, a former CIA operative who announced his bid in August 2016. McMullin only appeared on the ballot in 11 states, receiving 0.53% of the popular vote.“There’s a way to run as an outsider but it’s hard and expensive, and I think West, or anyone else, has missed their window of opportunity to have a meaningful impact,” said Nathan Gonzales, editor of Inside Elections, which provides nonpartisan analysis of campaigns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kanye-west-eyes-us-presidency-here-s-why-he-may-not-be-serious/story-FEie5sp85lmp51kts44ZXO.html
06-07-2020||World||China halts imports from two more Brazil meat plants amid Covid-19 concerns||China has suspended imports from two Brazilian pork plants owned by meatpackers JBS SA and BRF SA, according to the Chinese customs authority, as it cracks down on meat shipments amid concerns about the new coronavirus. China is temporarily halting imports from a BRF plant in Lajeado and a JBS-owned Seara brand plant in Tres Passos, both in Brazil’s southern Rio Grande do Sul state, according to a posting dated Saturday on the General Administration of Customs China (GACC) website.The posting, which only identified the plants by registration numbers, gives no reason for the suspension. But Brazil is reeling from the second worst COVID-19 outbreak in the world behind the United States.China is the largest buyer of Brazilian pork, beef and chicken. It has requested that meat exporters globally certify their products are coronavirus free, which BRF, JBS, and other Brazilian meatpackers have already done.A total of six Brazil meat plants have now been blocked from exporting to China amid rising concerns over thousands of cases of COVID-19, the disease caused by coronavirus, among slaughterhouse workers in the country.A JBS representative said the company would not comment on the decision and stated it was taking various measures to ensure its food is of the highest quality and that its workers are protected.BRF and Brazil’s Agriculture Ministry did not immediately respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-halts-imports-from-two-more-brazil-meat-plants-amid-covid-19-concerns/story-bD23Nf42Xw0ibWk7wb6HAI.html
06-07-2020||World||Italy reports dip in Covid-19 cases after 5 days||After five straight days of small increases, the number of day-to-day confirmed Covid-19 cases in Italy has dipped.According to Health Ministry figures on Sunday, 192 cases were registered in the previous 24 hours, compared to 235 in Saturday’s tally.Feeding some of those recent increases, concerned authorities have said, were hotspots of contagion blamed on infected people entering Italy.Among them was a businessman in northeast Italy who took ill after driving back from a trip in Serbia but despite a fever attended a funeral and a birthday party shortly after he returned home. That man is now hospitalized in intensive care.The majority of Italy’s 20 regions registered a handful or fewer of new cases on Sunday.Italy’s confirmed coronavirus infections as of Sunday total 241,611. But many with mild symptoms, as well as numerous elderly residents of nursing homes, didn’t get tested.Including the seven deaths were registered on Sunday nationwide, 34,861 people with confirmed coronavirus have died in Italy during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-reports-dip-in-covid-19-cases-after-5-days/story-a3BMwMNXc5N52QnoC8UtnL.html
06-07-2020||World||Bubonic plague case in China, human-to-human infection risk possible||A hospital in northern China’s Inner Mongolia reported one suspected case of bubonic plague on Saturday, according to a statement on the local health commission’s website.A third-level warning alert was issued on Sunday; the warning period will extend to the end of this year.The Bayannaoer health commission warned of the risks of human-to-human infection from the plague and urged people in the city to take precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bubonic-plague-case-in-china-human-to-human-infection-risk-possible/story-dkYqgylM5wJlVvgypF9vrI.html
06-07-2020||World||Iran mandates masks as public shrugs off resurgent coronavirus||Iran on Sunday instituted mandatory mask-wearing as fears mount over newly spiking reported deaths from the coronavirus, even as its public increasingly shrugs off the danger of the Covid-19 illness it causes.Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei publicized an image of himself in a mask in recent days, urging both public officials and the Islamic Republic’s 80 million people to wear them to stop the virus’s spread.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBut public opinion polling and a walk through any of the streets of Tehran show the widespread apathy felt over a pandemic that saw Iran in February among the first countries struck after China. Whether rooted in fatigue, dismissal or fatalism, that indifference has scared Iranian public health officials into issuing increasingly dire warnings.“Let me first thank our great people,” a health worker in a hazmat suit in a hospital corridor sarcastically bellows in one dark state TV spot. “You hand in hand with the coronavirus defeated us!”The new rules mark a turning point for Iran, which has struggled in trying to balance provincial lockdowns to stop the virus’s spread with the fears of stalling out an economy already struggling under US sanctions after America’s unilateral withdrawal in 2018 from Tehran’s nuclear deal with world powers. Religious considerations also played a role in this Shiite theocracy as authorities declined for weeks to close shrines where the faithful touch or kiss the tombs’ protective bars.For a moment, it appeared the restrictions and public fear had worked, as reported new cases and deaths from the virus dropped to their lowest levels in May. But new cases soon rose again, with officials initially saying better testing causes the numbers to spike even as they lifted restrictions to boost economic activity.By mid-June, daily death tolls again routinely rose to triple digits. On Sunday, Iran saw its highest single-day reported death toll of the pandemic with 163 killed.Fears persist that Iran’s actual death toll from the virus may be nearly double its reported figures, as a parliamentary report in April suggested. Masoud Mardani, a member of the country’s coronavirus task force, recently said that sampling from random antibody tests suggest that 18 million Iranians have so far been afflicted by the virus, without elaborating. Iran has only reported over 240,000 confirmed cases.“We see that some consider being infected with the virus bad and hide it,” a mask-wearing President Hassan Rouhani said Saturday, according to a transcript on the presidency’s website. “If someone knows that they have been infected with coronavirus, they have a religious and human duty to inform others about it.”To fight the virus’s spread, the Iranian government issued the mask mandate. The new rules require those in Tehran’s subway, riding buses or indoors to wear them. Rouhani said those seeking “public services” also will be required to wear a mask.Up until this point, wearing a mask in Iran had been encouraged but remained a personal choice. It follows the changing views and mixed messages of the scientific community over the usefulness of masks since the pandemic began.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in April began urging Americans to cover their faces to stop the virus. In June, the World Health Organization changed its advice, recommending that people wear fabric masks if they could not maintain social distancing, if they were over age 60 or had underlying medical conditions. Those masks also help prevent the asymptomatic from spreading the virus as well.Worldwide, rules for mask wearing vary by country. In Asia, masks are mandatory in countries like Indonesia, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, and Thailand. In China, people commonly wear masks, which are required in certain areas. Japan urges people to wear masks in certain circumstances, but it’s not mandatory. And despite mandatory masks rules in India, the poor reuse masks for days while physical distancing remains rare.In the Mideast, masks are mandatory in nations including Egypt, Iraq, Israel, Lebanon, Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates, although enforcement varies.In Iran, people remain unenthusiastic about wearing masks, although it hasn’t become a political statement like it has in the US Instead, it appears to be one of fatigue.The state-owned polling center ISPA published a June survey of 1,055 Tehran residents showing only 41% remain highly worried about the virus, down from 46% in May and 58% in April. The survey offered no margin of error.That lack of concern also can be seen in media reports suggesting most of the new coronavirus patients attended weddings, parties and funeral services with large groups of other people. The renewed spike in cases also coincided with Eid al-Fitr, the holiday marking the end of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan that sees people celebrate with their loved ones.At two busy gas stations, an Associated Press journalist counted only 15 of 95 drivers wearing masks, while two of the stations’ 11 employees wore them.“It is useless to wear mask,” argued Mohammad Ghasemi, a 27-year-old employee of one of the stations. “I use the metro twice a day when it’s packed with people without (social) distancing.”The cost and quality of masks also remains a concern. Masks range from the equivalent of 10 US cents to $3, which can be a lot, as the Iranian rial has fallen to historic lows against the dollar.And in a nation where over half its people are under the age of 35, the virus hasn’t been an overwhelming concern for its youth — even as it can be fatal for older people and those with a preexisting condition. That was the feeling 23-year-old Hamid Sharifi had as he smoked a cigarette on a Tehran street.“I think it’s not as dangerous as they said in the beginning,” said Sharifi, unmasked, before walking away into the crowds of the capital.Samad Rostami, a 35-year-old shopkeeper, disagreed.“If we continue like this, our hospitals will be full and patients should lie on streets,” he said. “We are getting closer to the brink of catastrophe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-mandates-masks-as-public-shrugs-off-resurgent-coronavirus/story-TWSKBOWEAdvrBvfJpZm6FN.html
06-07-2020||India||Manipur Dy CM’s portfolios restored after NPP renews support to BJP-led coalition||Manipur’s Deputy Chief Minister and National People party MLA Yumnam Joykumar Singh has been reallocated the portfolios of finance, science and technology, economics and statistics departments that he held earlier before he withdrew support to the government last month.Manipur Chief Secretary Dr J Suresh Babu issued a notification (dated July 5, 2020) of reallocation of the portfolios.As per the notification, Chief Minister N Biren Singh presently holds the charge of Home, Personnel, Planning, GAD, Vigilance, Transport, Minor irrigation, Tourism, Minority affairs OBC & SC, Information Technology, Municipal Administration, Housing & Urban Development (MAHUD),Horticulture & Soil Conservation and any other departments not allocated specifically.Joykumar was reallocated the portfolios 11 days after he and three other NPP MLAs, L Jayentakumar, N Kayisii and Letpao Haokip who had withdrawn support to the BJP-led coalition government, agreed to return to the government. Biren Singh’s government was in trouble after nine MLAs, including the four NPP ministers and three BJP MLAs withdrew support to it on June 17.To resolve the political crisis, NPP chief and Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma and Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma air dashed to Imphal twice. They also flew to Delhi along with NPP MLAs to call on the BJP national leaders to patch up differences in the Manipur coalition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-dy-cm-s-portfolios-restored-after-npp-renews-support-to-bjp-led-coalition/story-hKYCYGZ025bE0iiFvBs9ZO.html
06-07-2020||India||Police arrest MP man who killed woman in hours before her marriage||The main accused in the murder of a woman, who was killed just hours before her wedding on Sunday in Madhya Pradesh’s Ratlam district, has been arrested, police said on Monday. The accused, 27-year-old Ram Yadav, a resident of Ratlam town, was arrested in Rajasthan’s Rajsamand district where he had fled after committing the crime. His accomplice Pawan Panchal was arrested earlier. The duo have been booked for the murder of the 33-year-old woman at Jaora in Ratlam district, more than 290 kilometres north west of Bhopal, police said on Monday.Ratlam superintendent of police, Gaurav Tiwari said Ram Yadav slit the throat of Sonu Yadav, a resident of Shajapur, with a knife in a beauty parlour in Jaora when she was getting ready for her wedding.“After committing the crime, Ram Yadav and Panchal fled on a bike. Later, Panchal returned to Ratlam while Ram Yadav fled to Rajasthan. Police arrested Panchal from Ratlam with the help of CCTV footage on Sunday late evening. Panchal informed the police that Ram Yadav had gone to a Sanwaria temple in Rajsamand district of Rajasthan, more than 300 kilometres from Ratlam. Police arrested him from the temple on Sunday night,” said Tiwari.The SP said, “During the interrogation, Ram Yadav confessed that he knew Sonu for the three years and they met several times. They wanted to marry but five days ago, Sonu called him and informed him about her marriage with another person. This development infuriated him (Yadav) who asked her to break off the marriage but Sonu refused to do so, given her parents’ wishes.”“After that Ram decided to kill her. He purchased a knife and called Sonu to meet him one last time. Sonu asked him to come to the parlour. Ram reached there and killed her,” said the SP. Police have also recovered the weapon used in crime.Ram Yadav worked in a jewellery shop while Sonu was a teacher in a private school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-arrest-mp-man-who-killed-woman-in-hours-before-her-marriage/story-libmK1N4svLNn7JFwL3fSM.html
06-07-2020||India||Odisha’s Covid-19 positivity rate soars, opposition leaders allege low testing||As Odisha’s Covid-19 positivity rate crossed the national positivity rate of 6.73% and more and more hospitals turned into Covid-19 hotspots, opposition leaders accused the state government of failing to control the pandemic by not increasing daily testing.On Monday, Odisha reported 456 new Covid-19 cases from the 4,827 samples tested indicating a positivity rate of 9.44 per cent, a sharp departure from the positivity rate of 4-6 per cent that it reported till July 1. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state shot up to 9,526 and the state reported 38 deaths. There are close to 3,000 active cases currently. For the third day today, the number of local cases was more than 30 per cent of the total cases suggesting the onset of community transmission. Among the positive cases reported was a BJP MLA, a 70-year-old priest attached to one of the prominent temples in Dhenkanal town, two doctors and a pharmacist working at a community health centre of Ganjam district. The MLA is the first legislator in Odisha to get infected by Covid-19.The rise in cases came even as opposition Congress and BJP slammed the state government for falling tests. Senior Congress leader Santosh Singh Saluja said the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Odisha would have been more than 1 lakh had the state government done more testing. “Had all migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra and Gujarat been tested for Covid-19, then we would have known the actual spread of the disease. The government is just picking and choosing a few infected people from a large number of people already infected,” said Saluja.BJP’s state general secretary Golak Mahapatra alleged that the state government has miserably failed in scaling up the daily tests to 15,000 resulting in the current situation. “Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik in April had announced that the government would conduct 15,000 Covid-19 tests a day in June. It’s already July, and we are testing around 4000-5000 samples a day,” said Mahapatra.Referring to Delhi, Mahapatra said increasing testing there has brought the situation under control.Another BJP general secretary Prithviraj Harichandan also raised questions over the Covid-19 management by the state government saying it had become more bureaucratic which is not yielding any results. “Over the last month, we have seen weekly shutdowns. Has it helped bring down the numbers? The state government has just no clue about the spread of the virus,” said Harichandan.Meanwhile, a Covid-19 positive person escaped from a Covid-19 hospital of Nabarangpur district by scaling the boundary wall. Nabarangpur district collector, Ajit Kumar Mishra said a 50-year-old patient who was brought to the Covid-19 hospital on July 3, went missing on July 5 morning. “The patient was missing when the hospital staff went to offer him breakfast. A police complaint has been lodged,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-soars-opposition-leaders-allege-low-testing/story-8HIFAyb2he9brzQYhCk5EJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Manipur’s recovered Covid-19 cases surpass active cases for 3rd straight day||Manipur’s Covid-19 recovered cases surpassed the number of active cases for the third day on Monday. The state reported a total of 1,390 positive cases out of which 734 have recovered and been discharged while the number of active cases stand at 656. The recovery rate is 52.80 percent.Till date, 2,94,024 persons have been screened at various entry points of the state while 56,584 others were tested for Covid-19, according to a report by the state surveillance officer of integrated disease surveillance programme. Meanwhile, the Thangmeiband Polem Leikei locality in Imphal West district was declared as containment zone on Monday after a seven-year-old girl tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday evening. The child was under home quarantine.An order notifying the containment zone was issued by the Imphal West district deputy commissioner on Sunday and necessary measures have been taken by sealing the locality, banning vehicular movement in the area and initiating active surveillance of Covid-19 cases.Giving details of the Covid-19 positive case, Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Managang, additional director and spokesperson of the state health department in a press release on Monday evening said, “She ( the girl) returned from New Delhi on June 22 with her parents. On June 28, the parents were found positive and girl was negative.”The parents were shifted to Imphal’s Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS) while the girl was put under home-quarantine at their Thangmeiband residence in Imphal West District. However, after she tested positive, the girl, too, has been shifted to Covid Care facility at JNIMS.On Saturday evening, Jiribam district was placed under a ‘complete lockdown’ and a curfew until further orders or till July 15 following a sudden spurt in the number of Covid- 19 cases. The decision was taken in a meeting of the state consultative committee on Covid-19 after 28 police personnel stationed in the district headquarter tested positive for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-recovered-covid-19-cases-surpass-active-cases-for-3rd-straight-day/story-Hjv4UH2hqfCRQzrXNuAYLP.html
06-07-2020||India||In Madhya Pradesh, Covid-19 tests to now cost Rs 1980 in private labs||The Madhya Pradesh government has fixed the rate for Covid-19 tests in private laboratories in the state at Rs 1,980 per test reduced from Rs 2,500. Earlier, the rate was Rs 4,500 per test, as per the health department’s order.The order dated July 3, 2020 of the Public Health and Family Welfare department, Madhya Pradesh stated, “In the 20 government hospitals Covid-19 tests are being conducted free of cost. Besides, the test is being carried out in 7 private laboratories approved by NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) and ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research).”The order issued by principal secretary, Public Health and Family Welfare Faiz Ahmad Kidwai said, “The maximum rate of Covid-19 tests in private laboratories was fixed at Rs 4,500 as per ICMR’s circular dated March 17, 2020. This rate was later fixed at Rs 2,500 per test as per a letter dated April 24, 2020 issued by commissioner, Health services. Now, given the manufacturing of RT-PCR testing kits in the country itself the rate has been fixed at a maximum of Rs 1980 for people. The rate includes sample collection, packaging and reporting.”Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said, “We have been demanding for a long time that the rate be reduced considerably so that a common man can afford the expense if he needs it. The state government should implement its order effectively and ensure that the private laboratories don’t realise any other and hidden charge from people in the name of tests.”Meanwhile, as per a letter written to the Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC), Bhopal by the director of Bhopal Gas Tragedy and Relief and Rehabilitation department of Madhya Pradesh Basant Kurre the Covid-19 patients affected by Bhopal Gas Tragedy would be referred to the Chirayu Medical College, a private medical college from the hospital when they are taken there. The letter said the decision was taken as per the instructions given by chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains.Welcoming the order, Rachna Dhingra, co-founder of the Bhopal Group of Action and Information, an organisation working for Bhopal Gas Tragedy victims, said, “We had been demanding for a long time for the shifting of the gas tragedy victims affected by Covid-19 to Chirayu Hospital instead of Hamidia Hospital but the government didn’t listen to us and many gas tragedy victims died. The government should also ensure that not only confirmed cases of Covid-19 disease but Covid-19 suspects too should be shifted to the private medical college. At the same time, referral and shifting should be done promptly without any hassles for the patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-madhya-pradesh-covid-19-tests-to-now-cost-rs-1980-in-private-labs/story-4zdA8dnLnEuf5iAaZIEcjP.html
06-07-2020||India||No sanitation worker will go down manholes to clean sewers, orders Rajasthan CM||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday directed all district collectors and municipal authorities to ensure that no sanitation worker enters sewers through manholes to clean sewage.“This work should be done completely by machines. There should be no incident of death because of entering a manhole for cleaning sewage,” he said.There have been many cases across the country where sanitation workers have died after falling unconscious in sewers because of noxious gases. Gehlot said the dedication with which the sanitation workers and representatives of urban bodies have worked has helped to curb the spread of coronavirus infection.Interacting with the public representatives of urban bodies and sanitation staff of around 196 urban bodies, he said the hard work of all including the sanitation staff, doctors, nursing, anganwadi workers and police has increased the honor and respect of Rajasthan in the country.He called upon sanitation workers to maintain the same spirit for the future that they have shown in the battle against Covid-19.The CM said that for the last four months, Rajasthan has managed to control Covid-19 and sanitation workers have played a big role in keeping the city, street and neighborhood free from infection by risking their lives.The state government provided Rs 1,000 to sanitation staff for masks, gloves, sanitizers and other safety items. Rajasthan is the first state to provide an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh to government and non-government personnel, he said.The Chief Minister interacted with public representatives such as Mayor, Chairman, Councilors and took suggestions from them. He interacted with sanitation inspectors and workers, asked their experience and problems.UDH Minister Shanti Dhariwal said that the state government is going to introduce Indira Rasoi Yojana in all the urban bodies of the state. Under this, twice a day nutritious food will be made available to the poor at a subsidized rate of Rs 8 per plate in the permanent canteens. The number of canteens in each urban body will be determined based on the area and population. The state government will spend Rs 100 crore annually on this scheme. A committee will be constituted for its monitoring under the chairmanship of the District Collector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-sanitation-worker-will-go-down-manholes-to-clean-sewers-orders-rajasthan-cm/story-DV9yuwQ5sMm3zqBgrflbWK.html
06-07-2020||India||Congress’ student wing accuses Delhi University of leaking students’ data||The Congress-affiliated NSUI on Monday filed a police complaint accusing Delhi University (DU) of allegedly leaking the data of lakhs of students online.Akshay Lakra, president of the Delhi unit of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), and former DU students’ union president Arun Hooda approached the Maurice Nagar police station in north police district with the complaint.“Not just mobile number but information like Aadhar card number, bank account number, mode of transportation taken by student from college to home is readily available on the Delhi University website. It is not just a blunder but also breach of privacy of students and endangers the lives of students in DU,” they said.A senior police officer said they have received a complaint and are looking into the matter.Several students here objected to the uploading of their admit cards containing personal information on the Delhi University website, flagging privacy concerns.Final-year students, who will be appearing for an online open-book exam, claimed that access to their admit cards is so easy that anyone aware of their roll numbers and the gateway password can download it.Meanwhile, the NSUI said Hooda also surrendered his LLB degree to dean of examination Vinay Gupta in protest after “the DU completely failed to hold a mock test”, leaving students clueless.Network problems, incorrect question papers and difficulty in logging in are some of the issues that Delhi University students have been facing while attempting to take the mock online exam.Despite opposition from students and teachers, the university is going to conduct online open-book exams for final year students from July 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-student-wing-accuses-delhi-university-of-leaking-students-data/story-sSX3OZT2oPTtTfTy5MrImL.html
06-07-2020||India||Labourer flooded with calls on phone over actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death||A 20-year-old labourer from here in Madhya Pradesh has approached the police fed up with a large number of calls he has been receiving on his mobile phone on the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.Investigation conducted by the cyber cell of Indore unit’s Superintendent of Police Jitendra Singh has revealed that a page created on Facebook in the name of Rajput’s rumoured girlfriend Ankita Lokhande had the mobile number of the labourer mentioned in the ‘about’ section.Lokhande had links with Indore.“After Sushant’s suicide, the labourer is getting many calls daily. While some disconnect the call after realising that it was a wrong number others express their anguish over the Sushant issue,” the SP said.Singh said more than 40,000 people are following this particular page on Facebook.“To find out reality, police had forwarded a message on the messenger to the operator of the page, but yielded no response so far,” he said.Police are trying to unravel the operator of the page.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/labourer-flooded-with-calls-on-phone-over-actor-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death/story-WN8oYCmCEJ2QUPI1ba4I5M.html
06-07-2020||India||ED slaps Kolkata firm with biggest ever FEMA notice of Rs 7,220 cr||In its biggest ever action under Foreign Exchange Management Enforcement Act (FEMA), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has sent a notice to Kolkata-based Shree Ganesh Jewellery House and its promoters - Nilesh, Umesh and Kamlesh Parekh for allegedly resorting to unauthorized foreign exchange dealings, holding of foreign exchange outside India and willfully siphoning off Rs 7,220 crore as export proceeds. According to a statement issued by ED on Monday, “investigation has revealed that Parekhs are serial offenders and various cases are pending against him (Nilesh) in several departments like, Central Bureau of Investigation, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Special Economic Zone, Enforcement Directorate and even internationally.”A Letter of Request is pending in the case in Switzerland. “Contravention of Foreign Exchange Management Act has been noticed against their other company, namely Easy Fit Jewellery Pvt Ltd amounting to more than 250 Crores earlier as well. Shree Ganesh Jewellery House Ltd is one among top 100 willful defaulters as per RBI,” said ED. “The investigation has also revealed that Shree Ganesh Jewellery House has huge outstanding for the foreign bills drawn on M/s Al Marhaba Trading FZC, M/s Sparkle Jewellery LLC, UAE and M/s Astha Jewellery LLC, UAE which are companies promoted by themselves. The bank funds availed by it were ostensibly routed in the garb of export to above foreign entities and others and the proceeds against the same were parked outside India,” the ED said. Nilesh Parekh was arrested by CBI in May 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-slaps-kolkata-firm-with-biggest-ever-fema-notice-of-rs-7-220-cr/story-52qhzg3m2kmznPexNImQMJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Ending terror sanctuaries essential for peace in Afghanistan, says India||India on Monday told a meeting on the development of Afghanistan that putting an end to terror sanctuaries and safe havens is an essential condition for ensuring peace and stability in the war-torn country.JP Singh, the new head of the Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran desk in the external affairs ministry, represented India at “Strengthening Consensus for Peace”, a meeting of regional partners that was hosted by the Afghan government.The meeting was chaired by Afghan President Ashraf Ghani. Twenty countries and international organisations, including the United Nations, participated in the meet.“India highlighted the fact that in order to achieve durable peace in Afghanistan, putting an end to terrorist sanctuaries and safe havens is an essential pre-requisite,” said a statement from the external affairs ministry.Indian and Afghan officials have often blamed Pakistan-based terror groups for fomenting violence in Afghanistan. There is also growing concern in New Delhi over a spike in violence by the Taliban despite the group signing a deal with the US in February.The meeting discussed issues related to the Afghan peace and reconciliation process and support of regional partners for an independent, unified, democratic and sovereign Afghanistan, the statement said.“India, one of the largest development partners of Afghanistan, with a commitment of more than US $3 billion, reiterated the importance of an inclusive, Afghan-led, Afghan-owned, Afghan-controlled peace and reconciliation process,” the statement said.“India expressed support for a constitutional order in Afghanistan, which would protect the interest of all sections of Afghan society, including women, children and minorities,” it added.Ghani thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for extending Covid-19-related assistance to Afghanistan and for hosting the Saarc leaders’ meeting for coordinated efforts in the region to overcome the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ending-terror-sanctuaries-essential-for-peace-in-afghanistan-says-india/story-afE0oPqjXiNS1NH9sbtf7H.html
06-07-2020||India||Cop deployed for Lalu Prasad’s security returns from leave, tests Covid-19 positive||A policeman deployed for the security of incarcerated Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav was found infected with Covid-19 after returning from 12 days of leave on Monday.The policeman had gone to his native place in Bihar and returned to Ranchi on Sunday. As per the set protocols, he was put in quarantine after his return and his samples were taken for testing. The confirmatory test report came on Monday.The ailing Prasad, 72, who has been serving jail term in two fodder scam cases, has been under medical treatment in custody for over two years in Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS).He is currently admitted in the hospital’s paying ward under a tight security manned by nearly 40 police personnel.“The policeman who was found infected with the respiratory disease, had gone to his native village in Bihar on a 12-day leave. After his return, he was in quarantine and tested positive. Since he had not joined duty, there is no threat to anyone,” Sadar deputy superintendent of police Deepak Pandey said.The patient has been shifted to the district’s dedicated Covid-19 hospital.State RJD spokesperson Anita Yadav said, “RJD supporters should not worry about Prasad’s health after the security personnel was found infected with Covid-19. The policeman was not on duty.”Meanwhile, three other police personnel including a woman also tested positive for coronavirus. The three cops are posted at Ranchi’s Hindpiri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-deployed-for-lalu-prasad-s-security-returns-from-leave-tests-covid-19-positive/story-EhZIEm7OXRIy9SOFaBLwkJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Special trains to Bengal from Covid-19 hotspots will now run once a week||Special trains between Howrah in West Bengal and coronavirus ‘hotspot’ areas including Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad will now run only once a week, railway officials said on Monday.The Mamata Banerjee administration in West Bengal had urged the Indian Railways to reduce the number of trains from hotspot areas as Covid-19 numbers in the state have been hitting new highs almost every day over the past one week.A spokesperson of the South Eastern Railway said that instead of daily trains, only one train would run between Howrah and Ahmedabad every week. The Howrah-Ahmedabad special will leave every Friday starting from July 10, while the Ahmedabad-Howrah Special will leave every Monday from July 13.Similarly, the Howrah– Mumbai CSMT special will leave Howrah every Wednesday from July 15, while Mumbai CSMT- Howrah will leave Mumbai every Friday from July 17.“The timings and stoppages will remain the same,” the official said.The special trains between Howrah and New Delhi – both via Patna and via Dhaanbad – would also operate once a week starting from July 11. These trains used to run at least three to four times a week till date. Earlier, the civil aviation ministry suspended flights coming to Kolkata from six cities including Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad between July 6 and July 19. No such restrictions were imposed on flights leaving Kolkata and travelling to the six cities.Till date, West Bengal has registered 22,987 Covid-19 cases with 861 new cases being reported on Monday. The death toll now stands at 779.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-trains-to-bengal-from-covid-19-hotspots-will-now-run-once-a-week/story-sLS34UMeG2xi7dzhGPuDyN.html
06-07-2020||India||Thiruvananthapuram under triple lockdown as Kerala’s Covid-19 tally rises to 5,622||The Kerala government on Monday imposed a week-long triple lockdown in state capital Thiruvananthapuram and in some areas of Malappuram district as the coronavirus graph continued to rise steadily.With 193 new Covid-19 cases reported on Monday, the state’s tally went up to 5,622 while two more deaths reported during the day took the death toll to 28. Active cases in the state now stand at 2,252.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that around 1.60 lakh people are under observation, adding that strict norms were introduced to check the spread of the disease.The announcement about the triple lockdown was made on Sunday, hours after state’s tourism minister K Surendran said the district was ‘’sitting on an active volcano’’ with rising number of Covid-19 cases.On Monday, while acknowledging the fact that the triple lockdown will lead to “some difficulties”, the CM said that it was in the larger interest.“True, there will be some difficulties due to the triple lockdown. But we have to suffer it for the larger interest,” said the CM.During the week-long lockdown, people have been asked not to step outside their homes. In case of any emergency, they can contact the police and seek their help. All streets and roads have been blocked and each locality will have only a single entry / exit point. Each area will be manned by a senior officer and violators will be either arrested or shifted to institutional quarantine. There will be no public transport. However, after protests against the strict rules, the government gave some relaxation in the lockdown, allowing people to purchase essential items between 7 am and 11 am in Thiruvananthapuram. .On Sunday the government had amended the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Ordinance 2020 to give more teeth to lockdown laws. The guidelines, made mandatory for a year, include wearing face masks and observing social distancing . The not wearing face masks can be slapped with an increased fine of Rs 10,000 or face two-year jail term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thiruvananthapuram-under-triple-lockdown-as-kerala-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-5-622/story-dUInIQ89qQlfAhQp9xp84H.html
06-07-2020||India||Covid-19 casualty denied dignity in death, body dumped by earthmover||In yet another instance of inhuman treatment to a deceased Covid-19 patient, municipal staff of the temple town of Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district used an earthmover to dump a body into a grave on Monday.A video of the sanitation staff of the Tirupati Municipal Corporation lifting the dead body of the Covid-19 victim using an earth mover and dumping it into the pit already dug in the graveyard went viral in the social media in the evening.The body was that of a 50-year old man, a resident of a village on the outskirts of Tirupati, who was admitted to state-run Sri Venkateshwara Ram Narayan Ruia Hospitals last week. He died of Covid-19 on Monday.The municipal staff, wearing PPE and masks, brought the body in the ambulance belonging to Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to Harischandra Cremation Ground located in the town. They pulled the body out of the ambulance and placed it on the ground.Also read: Denied cremation over Covid-19 scare, siblings in Odisha bury man’s bodyHowever, instead of carrying the body and lowering into the grave with due respect, they chose to use the earthmover to dump the body. The earthmover was brought there to dig the grave.After a video of the incident found its way into local television channels, Tirupati municipal commissioner P S Girisha hurriedly called a press conference and gave an explanation. “Generally, we cremate the bodies of Covid-19 victims in the electric crematorium. So far, we have cremated 17 bodies without any complaints,” he said.Similarly, the body of this particular Covid-19 victim was also taken to the electric crematorium. “However, it was very heavy, weighing around 175-180 kgs, and tall and it did not fit into the pyre. As it was being lifted, the wrapping around the body was torn. As part of standard operating procedure, the body was again taken to the hospital for re-wrapping,” he said.The municipal authorities finally decided to give it a burial instead of cremation. As per the Covid-19 protocol, they had to dig the pit 14 ft deep using an earthmover. The body was taken to the graveyard in the ambulance.“The municipal staff were exhausted as they had already carried the heavy weight body three or four times. So, they had to use the earthmover to shift the body from the ambulance to the grave, hardly two metres away and bury it. This was done only after taking the consent of the deceased’s relatives,” Girisha said.He, however, conceded that the municipal staff should not have used the machine to dump the body in such disrespectful manner. “They should have engaged another five or six more workers to carry the body physically,” the municipal commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-casualty-in-tirupati-denied-dignity-in-death-body-dumped-by-earthmover/story-n50XDF5qs9MSJpgtAGGXeO.html
06-07-2020||India||‘We need to shoot, alter way we used to live’||As shootings begin under the ‘new normal’, there are many changes in the daily life of actors on TV sets too - from the mode of greeting to make-up in PPE kits, to social distancing, said actor Jiten Lalwani.On going back to the sets, the Kanpurite said, “Shooting and acting is like oxygen for an actor. And though there is a risk factor, no one knows whether all this will get over in a few weeks or few months! We need to shoot but then lead a certain way of life. After our production house, our artiste association and others decided to shoot so I too went with the flow.”His family had apprehensions. “They have loads of advice: wear a mask, maintain distance and sanitise every now and then, which we are doing. Namaste is the new greeting and in scenes too, we aren’t coming close, nor are we touching each other. The crew too has reduced considerably. Now, to check looks in mirror we help ourselves, we drink ample water so it’s not needed in between and so on,” said the actor best known for ‘Kunki Saas Bhi Kabi Bhau Thi’, ‘Nagin 3’ and ‘Sasural Genda Phool’.Lalwani feels that creativity is being compromised with all this but then safety is of utmost importance. “It’s not about one person but it’s about the entire unit as the virus is very contagious. We can’t afford to get over-enthusiastic about creativity.”The actor had a mix of ‘khatte-meethe anubhav’ (sweet and sour experiences) during lockdown. “From workout to rest, we did it all. I wrote a web-series and then a short film on the current situation. I also kept myself busy with master classes and watched a lot of films and series.” He visits Kanpur regularly. “We used to live in Govind Nagar and over the years, my brother shifted to Civil Lines. I got interested in acting through plays in school and college. But, my acting career started when I shifted to Mumbai in 1993. I started with Makrand Deshpande’s play ‘Yatri’ and my debut show was ‘Labella’ and since then, it has been over 25 years now,” he said.Lalwani is currently shooting for ‘Kahat Hanuman Jai Shri Ram’. “The process of getting ready is a little tough in this show. From Jiten to transforming into Kesri is a little tiresome – I have to put on special make-up, mukut (crown), denture and tail. Then you have to be careful that the tail does not hurt anyone! But, once I am in that avatar it’s normal for me. Then, that is the thrill of being an actor!” He is also shooting for ‘Shubharambh’.Expressing his happiness at facing the camera again, he said, “I feel very lucky as so many actors are craving to come in front of the camera. We need to understand that this is a phase and will pass eventually. I will be more than happy if all of us get back to work and we all enjoy the way we used to in the pre-Covid stage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/we-need-to-shoot-alter-way-we-used-to-live/story-X7HYoFb7idaRaEK92QMRLN.html
06-07-2020||India||After panel report blames firm, Andhra govt plans to relocate LG Polymers from Vizag||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday hinted at the relocation of the LG Polymers plant in Visakhapatnam, from where there was a leakage of Styrene gas on May 7, resulting in the death of 12 people and hospitalisation of nearly 500, from the existing place to a distant location.Following a report submitted by an eight-member expert committee headed by special chief secretary (environment and forests) Neerabh Kumar Prasad that probed the Styrene gas leakage accident, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed that a fool proof action plan be brought out to prevent recurring of such accidents.Jagan suggested that based on the recommendations of the report, industries be classified into green and white categories and should be relocated far from residential colonies so that people should not suffer. “All the departments concerned should work out an action plan and protocols in this connection,” he said.In its 4,000-page report, the committee held the management of LG Polymers Ltd solely responsible for the May 7 accident. “There was slackness on the part of the company with regard to safety measures. There was no proper preventive mechanism to avert such incidents,” it said.The report concluded that the accident occurred due to uncontrolled Styrene vapour release from the N6 tank. “The temperature in the tank rose substantially, which resulted in vapourisation of Styrene liquid and increase in the pressure in the tank,” it said.Poor design of the Styrene tank, inadequate refrigeration and faulty cooling system, absence of circulation and mixing systems, poor safety protocol and management systems, inadequate risk assessment response, insufficient knowledge among staff about chemical properties of styrene, especially during storage conditions, total breakdown of the emergency response of the procedures and non-following of safety protocol by the authorities during the lockdown period were responsible for the accident, the report said.It also observed that the alarm system was not used despite having 36 activation points, including one at the factory gate. “Using the alarm could’ve alerted the people in the vicinity,” the report said.The committee also observed that the factory has absolutely no stock of inhibitors and negligible stock of terminators which could’ve been used to minimize the impact of the accident if not neutralise it.None of the LG Polymers Ltd management was available for reaction on the expert committee report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-panel-report-blames-firm-andhra-govt-plans-to-relocate-lg-polymers-from-vizag/story-yZtZGfMIBznZWQkC9DornN.html
06-07-2020||India||Gold worth over Rs 50 lakh seized at airport, 2 arrested||Over Rs 50 lakh worth of gold has been seized from two passengers of a chartered flight at the Karipur airport, sources said on Monday.The two had come by chartered flights from Dubai and were arrested by the Customs, the airport sources said. Sayed Abdul Faiz had concealed 545 gm of the yellow metal in his undergarments while Muhammed Afsar had concealed 582 gm of the gold in the pedal of a cycle he had brought with him as baggage, airport sources said.There have been several instances of attempt to smuggle gold from Gulf countries by passengers coming on chartered flights and Vande Bharat Mission, as part of the Covid-19 triggered evacuation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-worth-over-rs-50-lakh-seized-at-airport-2-arrested/story-wSqfvCNhsnKnlBYlG1rNGO.html
06-07-2020||India||Religious intolerance, majoritarian politics shouldn’t be allowed to undermine India’s soft power: Tharoor||The “precious pluralism” that has been a civilisational asset to India in the globalised world is “sadly” under threat today and religious intolerance and majoritarian politics should not be allowed to undermine the country’s soft power, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Monday. Speaking on ‘India’s Soft Power: Contours of Cultural Diplomacy’ at an event organised by FICCI, Tharoor said India must remain the land of the “better story” as a society with free press and thriving mass media. “We need both soft power and hard power. I do want to stress on the importance of preserving these qualities in India that make us appealing to the world. The precious pluralism that has been a civilisational asset for India in the globalised world and is sadly under threat in our country today,” he said. “Our democracy and dissent, our thriving free media, our contentious civil society forums, our energetic human rights groups, our free elections and our fractious political parties all of this show India in a very positive light in the eyes of the world so the kinds of things the government likes to delegitimize -- dissent is bad, you are anti-national -- actually these are the things that strengthen our image abroad,” he said. He further said it is essential that India does not allow “spectre of religious intolerance and majoritarian politics to undermine our soft power which remains our greatest asset in the world of the 21st century”. “These assets (soft power) may not directly persuade others to support India but it goes a long way in enhancing India’s intangible standing in the world’s eyes and that is why I am talking about soft power in this context as one of actually promoting the assets and products of our society and culture that the world would find attractive,” he said. Calling Information Technology as India’s soft power, he said, “We have gone from being associated with beggars and snake charmers and fakirs and we are now associated with being computer geeks.” Noting that India has been benefiting from the future and the past, he elaborated on the reach of yoga across the world. “International Day of Yoga was a genuine coup for our government because it meant every year one day people will be performing yoga and recalling India in many ways,” he said. He also talked about the popularity of Indian cuisine and the film and television industry. “Indian restaurants have proliferated around the world. You are looking at ways our cuisine has acquired universal ability. It is striking that in the UK, the curry houses employ more people than ship building, coal mining and steel making industries combined but we can go beyond to talk about cinema,” he said. “I can tell you from my international experience of innumerable conversations with African ministers and diplomats who would speak fondly of the expectations of looking forward as young children of the next Bollywood film coming to their village,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-intolerance-majoritarian-politics-shouldn-t-be-allowed-to-undermine-india-s-soft-power-tharoor/story-a5VG4l320fhunjtingBStM.html
06-07-2020||India||In just 10 days, Bengaluru has seen a six-fold rise in active Covid-19 cases||On Friday, July 3, a resident of Hanumanthanagar in Bengaluru who was suffering from fever and breathing difficulties collapsed in the middle of the road even as his family ran from pillar to post across seven different private and government hospitals to get him admitted, but to no avail. Eventually, the man died and his body lay prone on the road as it took four hours for an ambulance to finally arrive, only to eventually cart away the man’s body. His case is not alone. After an initial bout of success, the Karnataka government seems to have lost the plot on containing the rising Covid-19 cases especially in state capital Bengaluru .On Sunday, when Medical Education minister Dr K Sudhakar visited the Jayanagar General Hospital, patients there poured out a litany of woes. From availability of ambulances to arrive at the hospital, hygiene, quality of food to time taken for Covid-19 reports to be provided, they highlighted numerous problems. Sudhakar admitted that there were issues and promised that 400 additional ambulances (at the rate of two per ward for the 200 wards in Bengaluru ) would be provided and complained that as cases mounted private hospitals which had promised to provide 2,734 beds had in fact provided only 116. Expressing his frustration the minister warned of initiating criminal cases against hospitals which did not provide treatment or turned away Covid-19 patients.A day earlier on Saturday Jayanagar MLA Sowmya Reddy, daughter of Congress heavyweight Ramalinga Reddy, tweeted her anger at the government’s mismanagement of the situation after trying to help a constituent get a bed saying, “On the phone calling hospital after hospital. They don’t respond/switched off, if they do they say no beds with oxygen/ICU. So angry...pathetic state of our healthcare.” Pointing out that inspite of being an MLA, this was her experience and said, “Imagine the plight of people who don’t have connections or strings to pull.” Reddy also said a 30-year-old and not just people with co-morbidities had died unable to get a hospital bed.The state government’s response has been a mixture of denial and passing the buck. Ever since the first case was detected on March 8 – that of a software engineer who had returned from the US – the government had been declaring its ‘success’ in containing the spread as well as the ‘low mortality’ rate in the state compared to other states with a similar size of population.As recently as a month back – on June 6 to be precise – Bengaluru had a mere 162 cases of the 3,184 active Covid-19 cases in the state and did not even figure in the top three districts with most cases in the state. It then accounted for a mere 5 per cent of the total cases in Karnataka. However, as of Sunday it has 8,167 active Covid-19 cases and accounted for more than 60 per cent of all active cases in Karnataka.How did things spin out of control so quickly? If opposition parties are to be believed it is gross incompetence and lack of coordination between various ministries. In the cabinet, the health and welfare minister is B Sriramulu and the Medical Education minister is Dr K Sudhakar. However, after some ego clashes, the Chief Minister was forced to nominate the primary and secondary education minister and one of the government’s most articulate spokespersons Suresh Kumar to brief the media and give daily updates on the statewide situation. Sriramulu and Sudhakar themselves were accused of violating quarantine norms and later when the medical education minister had to go on home quarantine after family members tested Covid-19 positive, the CM nominated former Deputy CM and current revenue minister, the ambitious R Ashoka as the new Covid-19 spokesperson for the government.After announcing various relief packages, the CM who saw that the treasury was empty decided to go full throttle on opening up of Bengaluru. Even as some migrant labourers wanted to go back to their native places, initially the state government refused permission and tied to dissuade them. After backlash by civil society and the opposition, the government reluctantly agreed but continued its plan to open up the city for business as it was the main revenue driver. A medical advisor to the Covid-19 taskforce who did not want to be identified said: “The pace at which the opening up of the city took place was probably too fast but the government had made up its mind.”Former Bellary MP and Congress spokesperson V S Ugrappa says lack of co-ordination and one-upmanship between various ministers is one of the key reasons for things spinning out of control. “What was the government doing for the last three months? Were they sleeping? Why was infrastructure not put in place? Why are people dying waiting for ambulances and why are patients being turned away without treatment?”However, a senior official of the health and family welfare department who did not want to be identified – as he is not authorized to speak to the media – said, “I think given the circumstances we have done a good job. The scale of the challenge is humongous. Yes, there might have been some lacunae which we are addressing but remember this is a situation without a precedent. Also, numbers went up as people also did not follow social distancing norms plus the testing has gone up, which all have led to the current situation. Things are under control and it is incorrect to paint a picture of it being otherwise.”On Saturday, as thousands jammed the highways leading out of Bengaluru hoping to escape the city and the deadly spread of the virus, Vignesh Gowda an auto driver who originally hails from Chennapatna told HT, “I have a 3-year-old son and a wife. My younger brother tills some family land in Byrapatna. Instead of dying here, I would rather go back and take up agriculture until things improve.” A worried CM on Monday appealed to people not to leave Bengaluru . “There is no need to panic. Please cooperate with the government. We have added 10,000 more beds as well as 450 more ambulances and if required will add more. Unfortunately, we have to co-exist with this situation as there is no solution for now. Your lives are important and the government is taking all measures to protect you.”For now, though people of Bengaluru are apprehensive and worried about the evolving situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-just-10-days-bangalore-has-seen-a-six-fold-rise-in-active-covid-19-cases/story-Stx8Jw5a66dqdXye0cygoM.html
06-07-2020||India||Kerala sacks IT consultant after Customs allege link to gold smuggling racket||The Kerala government on Monday terminated the service of information technology consultant Swapna Suresh after the Customs department unearthed her alleged links to a gold smuggling racket following the seizure of 30 kg gold from a diplomatic consignment on Sunday.Customs had seized the precious metal from an air cargo consignment from the United Arab Emirates to the country’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram after permission from the Ministry of External Affairs.Swapna Suresh who was working as the operational manager of the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited under the state IT Ministry is said to have gone underground after the seizure.After the Customs department intensified its search for her, an embarrassed state government issued a terse statement saying her contract with the IT department was terminated with immediate effect. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan holds the IT portfolio.The opposition BJP and Congress stepped up pressure on Vijayan asking him to explain his position in the case. BJP state president K Surendran alleged that after the seizure of gold, a senior official from the CM’s office made a desperate call to Customs officials pleading them to spare some people involved in the case.“Before taking up her latest job Swapna Suresh worked in the UAE embassy for some time as a PR consultant and was sacked after some irregularities. There is a case against her in Thiruvananthapuram also. Then how did she take up an important position in the IT department?,” asked Surendran. He said large quantities of gold were smuggled through diplomatic consignment earlier also using her contacts and many got their share of the booty. He also alleged that she was close to IT secretary M Shivashankar who helped her to get plum the assignment.“It is disturbing that the CM’s office has turned into a haven for smugglers and others. The IT secretary should be sacked. Since the case is getting murkier we want the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe it,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. IT Secretary M Shivshankar said he was ready for any investigation and will share all information with the customs department. He said since the investigation was on it would not be proper for him to comment on the case.The CM played down the incident and denied reports that his office made any intervention. “Customs is with the Union government. Let it investigate and find out the truth,” Vijayan said. When asked about the appointment of Swapna in a key position he said it did not come to his notice and he will find out how it happened. He said a recent tendency to drag the CM’s office into all issues will not succeed.Amid the political sparring that the gold seizure has sparked, Customs have refused to comment. “Our investigation is continuing. We have got some information that earlier also the syndicate smuggled gold like this,” said Sumit Kumar, Customs Commissioner in-charge of Kerala and Lakshadweep region.The UAE embassy said in a statement that none of its officials had any role in the smuggling and one of its former employees made use of diplomatic immunity to indulge in such an act. The gold bars and sticks were hidden inside some of the household equipment to avoid detection. The seized gold is worth Rs 15 crore in the market, a Customs official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-sacks-it-consultant-after-customs-allege-link-to-gold-smuggling-racket/story-Fs8CRiG0EafOSig17b6xZN.html
06-07-2020||India||Amid coal mining row, Assam govt decides to upgrade Dehing Patkai wildlife sanctuary to a national park||Guwahati: Assam government on Monday decided to upgrade the Dehing Patkai wildlife sanctuary into a national park amid an ongoing row over allowing coal mining within its jurisdiction.“Our government has decided to upgrade the Dehing Patkai wildlife sanctuary in Assam, which is home to a variety of flora and fauna, to a national park. In a meeting held with senior officials on Monday, I have directed them to take necessary steps in this regard,” Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal tweeted.While a limited number of human activities are allowed in wildlife sanctuaries, national parks are strictly off-limits.The state government appears to have taken a decision with an eye on next year’s assembly polls as the coal mining issue has triggered a raging controversy in Assam.A release from the CM’s office (CMO) mentioned that in order to expedite the process of upgrading the wildlife sanctuary to a national park the forest department has been asked to prepare a draft notification and hold a public hearing to get views from local dwellers residing in and around Dehing Patkai. Reiterating the state government’s commitment to preserving Assam’s natural resources and environment, Sonowal also instructed to prepare an action plan for conserving the adjoining areas of the wildlife sanctuary and include the opinion of the public in it. Assam has five national parks and Dehing Patkai, if upgraded, will increase the tally to 6.Earlier in April, the National Board of Wild Life (NBWL) under the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MOEFCC) had recommended coal mining to be allowed within a portion of Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve with a caveat that fulfiled 28 pre-conditions.Spread across 937 square kilometres, Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve falls in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia and Dibrugarh districts and is located within the periphery of the Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary, which is said to be the largest lowland tropical rainforest in India.NBWL authorities had allowed the state-run Coal India Limited (CIL) to conduct opencast coal mining in 98.59 hectares of the reserve forest. CIL had been carrying out mining in 57 hectares of the reserve and the fresh recommendation allowed it to do mining in another 41 hectares, which was unbroken.Besides elephants, leopards, hoolock gibbons, pangolins and bears, Dehing Patkai is also home to over 200 species of birds, various replies and many species of butterflies and orchids. Concerns were raised that the habitats of these species as well as foraging routes of elephants would be affected due to wanton coal mining.The NBWL order had triggered a howl of protests in Assam, opposing the coal mining move.Assam government had also sent forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya to visit the site in May and assured there would be no compromise on protecting the state’s forests and biodiversity.Though the NBWL recommendation was passed in April, a right to information (RTI) query has revealed that mining in the area was already underway even before the approval was given.A response to an RTI query by environment activist Rohit Choudhury had revealed mining-related work had already started in 17 hectares (or nearly 39% of the area) of the 41 hectares claimed by CIL to be unbroken. “It was confirmed that about nine hectares out of 41.39 hectares has already been broken up and operated and another approximately seven hectares have been cleared,” mentioned a November, 2019, site inspection report by the MoEFCC’s Shillong office.North-Eastern Coalfields, a subsidiary of CIL, had got the lease for coal mining over an area of around 11 square kilometres in the Saleki area of Dehing Patkai for 30 years from 1973.Though the lease had expired in 2003, CIL applied for lease/diversion of forest land in 2012 seeking permission for coal extraction in 98.59 hectares.Taking up a suo motu (on its own motion) case against a proposed move to allow coal mining in the fragile ecological zone, in June the Gauhati high court (HC) issued notices to Centre, Assam government, CIL and others last month.A two-member division bench, comprising Chief Justice Ajay Lamba and Justice Soumitra Saikia, heard two public interest litigations (PILs) on the same issue, and directed the Central and Assam governments, CIL, NBWL, mines and mineral department of Assam, home department, Assam Police and others to appear before it on the next date of the hearing on July 20. However, all respondents were asked to file affidavits by July 14 before the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-coal-mining-row-assam-govt-decides-to-upgrade-dehing-patkai-wildlife-sanctuary-to-a-national-park/story-UzKY10dX7n0Il5A69sszSJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Bengal’s serial killer - Chain man - sentenced to death in rape and murder case||A 38-year-old serial killer, who had murdered at least nine women and raped two of the victims, was sentenced to death in a rape and murder case by a district court in south Bengal’s East Burdwan district on Monday, police said.“The accused Kamruzzaman Sarkar was sentenced to death by the additional district and session’s judge court for raping and murdering a 16-year-old girl in May 2019. He was arrested on June 2, 2019,” said Bhaskar Mukherjee, superintendent of police of East Burdwan district. He has been charged in 15 cases in two districts – East Burdwan and Hooghly. There were two were rape and murder cases, seven murder cases and six attempt to murder cases. The victims were aged between 16 and 75 years.In some cases he was charged with sections related to robbery as he had robbed the victims. All the crimes took place between 2013 and 2019 till he was arrested.“The court observed that it was one of the rarest of the rare cases. I stressed on maximum punishment as the man had hit the minor helpless girl on her forehead and then tried to strangulate her and raped her. Nothing can be more heinous than this,” said Soumyajit Raha, special public prosecutor of the case. The survivors told the police that the accused entered their houses posing an official of the electricity department to take meter readings. In most cases he would strangulate his victims with a metal chain. These common links had earned him the notorious tags of ‘chain man’ and ‘meter man’ in the two districts. “He chose his prey carefully and usually struck in the afternoons, when the men of the houses were away at work. He would conduct a recce for two-three days to find out whether the woman he wanted to target was alone at home,” said MukherjeeOriginally hailing from Murshidabad district, Sarar used to stay with his wife, two sons and a daughter in East Burdwan. He used to deal with scrap metal, police said.Interrogation had revealed that Sarkar’s downfall was brought on by his superstition. Police said his astrologer had told him that red was his lucky colour, so he had stuck to a red motorbike and red helmet even after some of his targets escaped alive.“On June 1 last year, the police shared all clues that they could gather to civic volunteers who help cops in traffic management. The breakthrough came the next day,” said a police official. Two civic volunteers Anirban Ghosh, 28, and Khokon Santra, 30, had flagged down a red motorcycle and was noting down the number when another man on another red motorbike tried to speed past the barricade, lost his balance, and fell. It was Sarkar.Born in a lower middle-class family in Bengal’s Murshidabad district in 1982 as the fourth of nine siblings, Sarkar lost his mother at the age of 13. His father married soon after, and following a few months of trouble, Sarkar dropped out of the local madrasa and left home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-serial-killer-chain-man-sentenced-to-death-in-rape-and-murder-case/story-BCm7uY7ILh6SEXfpXNEozO.html
06-07-2020||India||HC hears case in open court instead video conferencing, grants custody of child to mother||Bhopal: The Indore bench of Madhya Pradesh (MP) high court (HC) held a hearing in an open court in a child custody case to gauge the child’s willingness and overruled a lower court’s verdict of granting custody of the three-year-old to his father after getting a first-hand feel of his love for his mother.Though courts across the country have been holding virtual hearing via video-conference links amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the HC bench made an exception in a bid to fathom the child’s love for his mother.The mother, a resident of Ujjain district, had filed a petition on January 14 in the HC, challenging the Mandsaur district family court’s order on January 6 that had granted the child’s custody to his father under The Hindu Minority & Guardianship Act, 1956. The hearing on the petition was delayed due to the prevailing nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.A hearing was held on June 25, when the court had directed the father to ensure the presence of the child in the court on July 1.The HC bench upheld the woman’s plea and said that she was from a well-off family and she was able to maintain herself “and it is nobody’s case that the wife doesn’t have an income to look after the child”.It granted the custody of the child to his mother, and ordered her to allow the father to meet the infant on every alternate Saturday of a month at Mandsaur.It also directed that the trial court is free to pass a final order and must not be influenced by its own order on January 6 and also the one passed by the HC on July1.RR Bhatnagar, the woman’s counsel, said: “It’s a unique case, when the court decided to hear the plea in an open court, a departure from the usual practice of hearing through a video-conferencing link because of the viral outbreak. All of us had taken adequate precautions such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing norms. However, the moment my client removed her mask, the child rushed towards her and came to her lap. The family court, which is hearing the divorce suit filed by the child’s father, will take a final decision on the infant’s custody.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-hears-case-in-open-court-instead-video-conferencing-grants-custody-of-child-to-mother/story-qemG7HttWT8DlIOUIJnnPL.html
06-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand seals border with UP to stop kanwriyas amid Covid-19 pandemic||Uttarakhand police have warned that kanwariyas found entering the state illegally into the state will be put under paid quarantine to deter them from coming to Haridwar for the kanwar pilgrimage.This year’s pilgrimage was cancelled after consultation among the governments of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Only those pass holders heading to Haridwar for immersing ashes in post-cremation rituals are being allowed at Har-Ki-Pauri in Haridwar with police pickets put up at 1 km periphery of Har-Ki-Pauri with barricades at ten spots. One platoon of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) has also been deployed at Har-Ki-Pauri.Haridwar’s Senior Superintendent of Police D Senthy Aboodai Krishan Raj S said that adequate security forces have been deployed at the interstate border check posts, Har-Ki-Pauri and other sensitive points. He added that local devotees are only allowed to offer Ganga water at temples amidst strict adhering to social distancing norms and wearing masks.“To ensure smooth management, we have deployed police personnel at prominent temples”, he said.Interstate border with Uttar Pradesh has been sealed from Sunday night with the deployment of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) at border stretches of Lakshar’s Balawali village bordering Bijnore district and Badivala which falls on the border of Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh.Similarly other borders posts of Mandavar in Bhagwanpur block and Narsain in Mangalore have also been put under PAC cover with additional deployment of state police.Station house officer Khanpur PD Bhatt said round the clock monitoring is being done at both Balawali and Badiwali posts as they fall near Uttar Pradesh’s bordering districts.At Jhabreda, the border post at Gokalpur and Kharkhadi, Uttarakhand police is allowing only valid pass holders to enter the state.Meanwhile, half a dozen police teams have headed for Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Haryana to disseminate information about cancellation of this year’s kanwar yatra.“These police teams are being sent to neighboring states aided with hoardings, pamphlets, flex and dossiers to ensure they generate awareness about the cancellation of this year’s Kanwar yatra and fair. In case any kanwariya illegally arrives in Haridwar, he or she will be put under paid quarantine. Intense drive on the border check posts is being carried out to ensure no Kanwariya enters the hill state,” Haridwar’s Superintendent of City Police Kamlesh Upadhyay said.The border with Uttar Pradesh has been sealed from Sunday night and Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) personnel have been deployed on the interstate border, said police. Last year 3.60 crore kanwariyas had travelled from Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh to Haridwar to fetch sacred Ganga water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-seals-border-with-up-to-stop-kanwriyas-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-VYayWawqSb1BOp6QWPAhXP.html
06-07-2020||India||With 3,827 new Covid-19 cases, 61 deaths, Tamil Nadu retains 2nd worst-hit state tag||Tamil Nadu’s coronavirus curve continued to rise steeply on Monday with the state reporting 3,827 new Covid-19 positive cases and 61 deaths from the viral infection, the state health department said. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu is now at a staggering 1,14,978.With the 61 fresh fatalities, the southern state’s death toll has now mounted to 1,571.There are at least 46,833 active cases in the state with capital city Chennai having a high concentration of coronavirus patients.ALSO READ | Deadline of Aug 15 for Covid-19 vaccine unrealistic: Indian Academy of SciencesA day earlier, on Sunday, Tamil Nadu had reported over 4,000 fresh cases for the fourth straight day, taking the tally to 1,11,151. At least 60 people had succumbed to the virus on Sunday.A ruling AIADMK lawmaker from Coimbatore had tested positive for the virus, pushing the number of legislators from the state to have contracted the infection to nine.Patients who recovered from the infectious disease climbed to 62,778 with 2,186 people being discharged after treatment from various health care facilities in the last 24 hours.ALSO READ | ‘India’s Covid-19 positivity rate at 6.37 percent’: Ministry of HealthChennai, which has been recording the biggest surge among the 37 districts in the state, saw a dip in new infections over the weekend, reporting 1,713 cases on Sunday as against the earlier 1,842 on Saturday.Besides Chennai, neighboring Chengalpattu reported 274 new cases, Kancheepuram 152, Tiruvallur 209, Tiruvannamalai 141, Vellore 179 and Villpuram 109 new cases.Temple town Madurai also recorded a surge of 308 fresh cases in the last 24 hours.A record single-day jump of 24,248 Covid-19 cases took India’s tally close to the 7-lakh mark on Monday morning, while the death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 19,693 with 425 new deaths, according to the Union health ministry.With this, the country has recorded over 20,000 cases of the infection for the fourth consecutive day. India crossed Russia on Sunday to become the third worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic. The United States and Brazil are ahead of India in terms of the total number of coronavirus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-3-827-new-covid-19-cases-61-deaths-tamil-nadu-retains-2nd-worst-hit-state-tag/story-GxaAUNJF5EbPKxgLvkqLdJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Kuwait approves draft law on expat quota; move may reduce strength of Indian community by up to 700,000||A Kuwaiti parliamentary committee has approved a draft law to set a quota system for expatriates that, if it is passed by the National Assembly, could reduce the strength of the Indian community in the West Asian country by up to 700,000.The legal and legislative committee of Kuwait’s National Assembly decided on July 2 that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and laws. The panel also decided to refer the bill to another committee that will study all legislation related to expatriates with the aim of cutting their numbers, Kuwait Times reported.According to the Indian embassy’s website, Kuwait is currently home to 920,000 Indians. The draft bill proposes the number of Indians – the largest foreign community in Kuwait – must not exceed 15% of the population of Kuwaitis, currently at 1.45 million. If the bill is enacted, a little more than 700,000 Indians will have to leave the country.The bill has come at a time when the Kuwaiti government is grappling with a serious downturn in its economy due to the reduced demand for oil amid the Covid-19 crisis and a growing clamour among parliamentarians for reducing the number of expatriates.During a meeting with editors of local newspapers on June 3, Kuwait’s Prime Minister Sheikh Sabah Khaled al-Hamad al-Sabah said the country is facing a “big challenge” in addressing the population structure, with Kuwaitis making up only 30% of the total population of 4.8 million.“The ideal population structure is to have Kuwaitis being 70% and non-Kuwaitis 30%, so we have a big challenge in the future which is to address the discrepancy in population,” he was quoted as saying by state-run Kuna news agency.The issue should be handled in phases till Kuwait reaches a “final adjustment to the population in future”, he said, adding the government is keen on cooperating with Parliament on this issue.The developments are being closely followed by the external affairs ministry, though people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the draft law has so far only been cleared by a parliamentary panel. Moreover, they pointed out the bill was proposed by only five MPs.The total strength of Kuwait’s National Assembly is 65, including 50 directly elected members.Kuwait Times reported that hundreds of thousands of Indians leaving the country, if the bill is approved, would be “an impossible task by all means”.Another report in the Kuwait Times quoted interior minister Anas Al-Saleh as saying that a separate draft law on amending the residency law will be submitted to the National Assembly within two weeks as Parliament prepares to complete legislation to reduce the number of expatriates within a few months.This draft law calls for Kuwait to benefit from neighbouring and advanced countries with the aim of encouraging only those expatriates who are needed in the country, he said.National Assembly speaker Marzouq Al-Ghanem also told Kuwait TV that he and a group of lawmakers will submit yet another draft law calling for a phased reduction of expatriates. He contended that 1.3 million of the 3.35 million expatriates “are either illiterate or can merely read and write”, and are not the type of people Kuwait needs. He also said 100,000 foreign workers are illiterate.Ghanem said the National Assembly intends to complete the population structure legislation before the end of its term in October.Experts questioned the viability of the move, noting that expatriate workers from India and other countries had played a major role in building the infrastructure and services of Kuwait.Former ambassador Talmiz Ahmad, who served extensively in West Asia, including in Kuwait, said the move appeared to be driven “more by emotions rather than good sense” following the economic crisis due to the pandemic.“These workers have gone on legal work contracts and with visas, which makes the state party to their recruitment. The workers went because there is a need for them. It is demeaning to describe these blue collar, semi-skilled and skilled workers as illiterate. These are the people who transformed Kuwait from a desert sheikhdom into a modern state,” he said.“It appears the move is driven more by the downturn, which is temporary. It is a pipe dream without any understanding of the ground realities.”The Indian population of 920,000 in Kuwait includes nearly 28,000 employed in the government sector and more than 426,000 in the private sector. Their annual remittances to India are about $4.8 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kuwait-approves-draft-law-on-expat-quota-move-may-reduce-strength-of-indian-community-by-up-to-700-000/story-oR0op42vIte6SxjOIyPYUL.html
06-07-2020||India||Hyderabad restaurants wait for customers month after restrictions were eased||It has been nearly a month since restrictions on opening of restaurants were lifted as part of Unlock 1 strategy for Covid-19 pandemic, but many eateries in Hyderabad are yet to attract customers as the sharp increase in the number of cases has kept people away from visiting outlets. A random check in some popular restaurants in the city has revealed that the footfall has been abysmally low and they are finding it difficult to recover even the maintenance cost.For instance, The Paradise Restaurant at Secunderabad, which is known for its authentic Hyderabadi Biryani and kebabs, is one of the worst-hit in the city. The jaunt is a hot favourite of every VIP visiting Hyderabad: from Rahul Gandhi to cricketer Sachin Tendulkar to celebrities from Bollywood and Tollywood.“During lunch and dinner hours, getting a seat was impossible because of the long queue of customers. The hotel staff used to give tokens to the customers asking them to wait for their turn. But now, the restaurant is struggling to lure customers, let alone VIPs,” said D Suresh D, a foodie who used to be a regular customer at the restaurant.The group, which has a chain of restaurants all over the city, is now operating a single centralised kitchen, from where biryanis and kebabs are transported to different branches depending on the customer flow.At one of its branches near Prasad’s Imax Multiplex, there were hardly five to six customers during the lunch hour. There were just two stewards taking the order and serving the biryani. “We just have biryani and a few chicken kebabs sir. Nothing more than that,” said one of the stewards.Same is the case with popular vegetarian restaurant chain Minerva Coffee Shop. One of its branches at Somajiguda circle, which is generally packed with customers right from the breakfast time till late night dinner, is also getting hardly 15-20 customers a day.Following the government order, these restaurants are strictly enforcing the Covid-19 norms, like thermal screening, using sanitisers, wearing masks, maintaining adequate gaps between the tables, no supply of tissue papers etc. “Yet, customers are scared to visit the restaurants. They are preferring take-aways rather than dine-in,” Prasad, manager of a restaurant in Punjagutta said.Mohammad Abdul Majeed, owner of another popular chain of restaurants Pista House, says the total footfall does not exceed 20-30 in his restaurants even at the software hubs of Madhapur and Kondapur. “We are running the show just for the sake of maintenance. We don’t know when we can get back to the normal business,” he said.He said if the same situation continues, it is certain that many of the restaurants would have to wind up their business and look for alternatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-restaurants-wait-for-customers-month-after-restrictions-were-eased/story-07w5BLt4x8ZGN1D3tc5iUI.html
06-07-2020||India||220 Assam police personnel test Covid-19 positive, 932 in quarantine||A total of 220 police personnel in Assam have tested positive for Covid-19 with 932 of them are in quarantine.Director General of Police (DGP) Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta informed on Monday that 171 of those found positive are still admitted at Covid care centres (CCCs) while 49 have recovered.“The number of Covid-19 cases in Assam has surged and it is only expected the police personnel who are involved in carrying out duties related to the pandemic and other law and order issues will also get infected,” he said while addressing a press conference.Mahanta informed all police personnel on Covid-19 duty to take necessary precautions. Four personnel from the DGP’s security ring had also tested positive recently following which he also undertook swab tests, results of which came negative.“We have evolved a system where we follow up each positive case regularly by talking to them about their well being and any other issue that they might have. A dedicated team also remains in touch with their families,” said Mahanta.He informed that police have registered 3,705 cases of lockdown violations since March 25, detained over 35,000 vehicles, arrested 4,777 persons and collected over Rs 4.57 crore during the period. They have also collected Rs 73.24 lakh as fines from people for not wearing masks.Since the lockdown began on March 25, the department has recovered 65 arms including AK-56 and AK-47 assault rifles, 1628 rounds of ammunition, 197 grenades, 3 bombs, 26 detonators and 2 kg explosives.Assam had recorded a total of 11,736 positive cases till date with 7433 recoveries and 14 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/220-assam-police-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-932-in-quarantine/story-M5VlysHiqQoFiqHPyZll5H.html
06-07-2020||India||Nepal ropes in Chinese telco to improve mobile connectivity in border villages||The KP Oli-led Nepal government, whose ties with India has strained of late because of a border dispute in Uttarakhand, will install fourth-generation (4G) mobile telephony services in two villages on the Indo-Nepal open border within three months with the help of a Chinese telecommunication company in a bid to improve connectivity in the remote region, a Nepalese government official said.Tek Singh Kunwar, assistant chief district officer (CDO) of Nepal’s Darchula district in the far western region, confirmed the bid to improve mobile telephony services in the border villages.Plans are afoot to provide 4G in Chhangru and Byas and 3G services in Tinkar villages in Darchula district, said KB Gurung, a Nepal Telecom official.“Mobile telephony services are being upgraded in the border villages, where connectivity is often an issue. Initial work started two weeks ago after officials did a feasibility study,” said KB Gurung, a Nepal Telecom (NT) official.“Work has started to improve the mobile telephony connectivity in three border villages. Though there were mobile towers equipped with 3G connectivity in Chhangru and Byas villages, Tinkar had none,” said Gurung, who was part of the NT team that conducted the feasibility study.“Chhangru and Vyas mobile subscribers can avail of 4G service soon. However, Tinkar will have the basic 3G service for now,” Gurung added.Indian intelligence officials said Nepal is taking the help of a Chinese telecom giant to roll-out 4G services in the two border villages, raising alarm bells about national security and sovereignty amid the border stand-off.In June, Nepal’s National Assembly, the Upper House of Nepalese Parliament, had unanimously passed a constituent amendment bill to update the Himalayan nation’s political and administrative map incorporating three Indian territories that fall in Uttarakhand while New Delhi’s objected to “untenable artificial enlargement” of Kathamandu’s territorial claims.Earlier, Nepal’s House of Representatives, the Lower House of Nepalese Parliament, had also endorsed the new political and administrative map, incorporating these three Indian territories. Gurung, however, downplayed the Chinese hand in the roll-out of 4G services. “We can’t say it’s all Chinese because the components are from various countries, including China,” he said.“It is the Nepalese authorities’ prerogative to opt for a Chinese company to upgrade their mobile telephony services in the border district,” said Amit Kumar Shukla, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Dharchula, Pithoragarh district.In Dharchula, the district authorities are trying to overcome mobile telephony woes on the Indo-Nepal border areas. “We have provided 34 satellite phones to village heads in Dharchula to tackle the connectivity problem to some extent. However, the Centre’s permission is pending to instal permanent mobile towers in the area,” he added.Indian mobile phone users in Uttarakhand’s remote Pithoragarh district use the pre-paid subscriber identification module (SIM) cards of Nepalese service providers for better connectivity for an estimated monthly cost between Rs 150 and Rs 200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-ropes-in-chinese-telco-to-improve-mobile-connectivity-in-border-villages/story-oHTqXJnVSH1j4TworLQL9K.html
06-07-2020||India||With PM Oli under fire, Nepal removes 2 new border outposts near Uttarakhand||The Nepal Sashastra Prahari (NSP) or Nepal Armed Police which was manning six new border outposts set up along border with India near Dharchula area of Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district have withdrawn two of them a few days ago, state government officials said on Monday. The development has come amid reports of Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli coming under attack from his ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) for his anti-India posture. A standing committee of the NCP was also to hold a meeting to decide Oli’s future on Monday but was postponed till Wednesday. The six new border outposts were set up by Nepal about a month ago following a rift in relations with New Delhi after India inaugurated a strategically important road connecting the Lipulekh Pass with Dharchula town in Pithoragarh district.Since then, Oli’s government has claimed that Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura areas of Pithoragarh district were Nepalese territories. Nepal’s Parliament also passed a new map showing the three areas in it. Confirming the removal of the border posts, Anil Kumar Shukla, sub-divisional magistrate of Dharchula said, “The two border outposts manned by NSP were removed two days ago.”Shukla said, “We noticed it during a brief meeting with Nepalese authorities a few days ago at the check post. When we enquired about it, they said it was done on order of higher authorities.”Another official privy to the development said on the condition of anonymity, “The two outposts that were removed were located in Ukku and Bakra areas of their Darchula district near Indo-Nepal border.”“There are reports that three more newly set up Nepal border outposts would soon be removed, which is a major development,” he said. SDM Shukla said the high cost of maintaining the posts at remote areas could have been a factor in their removal.“It seems their move came after the purpose, for which the border outposts were set up, was not served,” he said.“They were largely set up amid the territorial dispute to check on illegal activities, if any, and the movement of Indian forces at the border. But, as illegal activities are mainly confined to drug trafficking or smuggling at a minor scale through this border, their purpose was not served. And on top of that, the cost of maintaining these posts with men at such a remote location was significantly high. Hence, they removed the two posts,” said Shukla. Experts on Indo-Nepal relations in Uttarakhand termed Nepal’s move a significant one amid the tension in bilateral ties. L L Verma, a retired professor of political science at Kumaon University and a close observer of Indo-Nepal ties said, “The removal of the outposts by Nepal signifies the change in its approach towards India amid tensions and PM Oli’s slipping grip in the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-pm-oli-under-fire-nepal-removes-2-new-border-outposts-near-uttarakhand/story-T7CjLPRju1u4mkSvdoBtZO.html
06-07-2020||India||Goa MLA at ‘lockdown party’ hours after CM’s ‘don’t visit’ appeal to people||A BJP MLA finds himself in a bit of a pickle after attending a “lockdown party”, on the very day chief minister Pramod Sawant asked people in the state to double down on social distancing and avoid celebrations.Pointed out that his own MLA was seen at a party, CM Sawant said: “I will enquire into it.”The offending video, circulated widely in Goa, shows a group of young men, including a BJP councillor Francisco Carvalho, enjoying a party and dancing. One person in the clip is heard saying “Special guest in the house… for the special party… lockdown party” as BJP MLA Glenn Souza Ticlo enters.The MLA, speaking on phone, can be seen shaking hands and waving to people. A mask is also seen around his face.Defending himself, MLA Ticlo said he only visited the location “for a few minutes” because he was called there by a close aide.“People are making a big issue out of this. I was there only for a few minutes because my man called me there. I respect social distancing norms,” Ticlo said.The party, held in a small hotel along the state’s coastal belt on Sunday, witnessed a gathering of around 35-40 people who were seen enjoying themselves and dancing to Bollywood numbers.BJP councillor Francisco Carvalho, present at the scene, said that the party was “permitted” and no wrong was done.On Sunday evening, CM Sawant had reiterated the importance of maintaining social distancing even among friends, neighbours and relatives.“Even in such times, people are being invited for birthdays, other functions. This has to stop. We are used to visiting people’s homes especially. Do not even visit your neighbours to inquire about their health,” Sawant had said on Sunday.“We should not hold parties. We should not also not call people home. You never know when asymptomatic persons can spread virus,” Sawant added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-mla-at-lockdown-party-hours-after-cm-s-don-t-visit-appeal-to-people/story-kH8CzYqe7WaeSvrwHhhIrM.html
06-07-2020||India||World Bank, government of India sign $750 mn agreement to support MSMEs amid Covid-19 crisis||The World Bank and the central government has signed an agreement worth $750 million to boost the flow of finance to micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) amid the Covid-19 crisis, the Ministry of Finance stated. The agreement is for the MSME Emergency Response Programme which will provide increased financial support to the MSMEs that have borne the impact of the coronavirus crisis in the past few months.  This just in! @WorldBank's latest $750 million support to help #India's #MSMEs. More on: https://t.co/Xf3F9SbtqJ pic.twitter.com/LK4eHS8Y8m“The World Bank’s MSME Emergency Response program will address the immediate liquidity and credit needs of some 1.5 million viable MSMEs to help them withstand the impact of the current shock and protect millions of jobs. This is the first step among a broader set of reforms that are needed to propel the MSME sector over time,” read a statement released by the World Bank. On the behalf on the Government of India, the agreement was signed by Sameer Kumar Khare, Additional Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance and Junaid Ahmad, Country Director, India on behalf of the World Bank.“This project will support the Government in providing targeted guarantees to incentivize NBFCs and banks to continue lending to viable MSMEs to help sustain them through the crisis,” Khare said.The international baning body, including its private sector arm – the International Finance Corporation (IFC), will support the government’s initiatives to protect the MSME sector by “unlocking liquidity, enabling financial innovations” and supporting “key market-oriented channels of credit such as the NBFCs and Small Finance Bank (SFBs),” the release read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-bank-government-of-india-sign-750-mn-agreement-to-support-msmes-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-CVF2bqnmRTtbhRrJ5fETlN.html
06-07-2020||India||India-China ties in complex situation, says Beijing after Doval-Wang icebreaker||China on Monday said the consensus reached with India to disengage troops at the border should be implemented as soon as possible, indicating cooling down of tension with India at the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC). India and China clashed earlier last month along the disputed border in Galwan Valley, resulting in death of 20 Indian soldiers and purported casualties of Chinese troops. Acknowledging that current bilateral ties were facing a “complex situation”, Beijing said both sides should adhere to the “to the strategic judgement that they do not pose a threat to each other…”.A statement released by the Chinese foreign ministry on a conversation between foreign minister, Wang Yi and India’s national security advisor Ajit Doval on Sunday said both New Delhi and Beijing welcome recent military and diplomatic talks to resolve the last month’s crisis at the border.Also read: Before PLA’s step back, a 2-hr video call between Doval and China’s WangWang was referring to the June 30 meeting – and two previous ones in June -- between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region.ALSO WATCH | China pulls back from Galwan after Ajit Doval-Wang Li chat: The key details “The two sides welcome the progress made in the recent military and diplomatic meetings between the two countries, and agree to continue the dialogue and consultation and emphasise that the consensus reached at the level of the two border defence forces’ commanders should be implemented as soon as possible to complete the process of disengagement of the front-line forces of the two sides as soon as possible,’’ the statement in Mandarin released Monday evening read.China’s statement comes on the same afternoon India released its statement agreeing that both sides “should complete the ongoing disengagement process along the LAC expeditiously” and also “ensure a phased and stepwise de-escalation” in the border areas.India, in its statement, also said that Wang and Doval re-affirmed that both sides should strictly respect and observe the Line of Actual Control, and that they should not take any unilateral action to alter the status quo and work together to avoid any incident in the future that could disturb peace and tranquillity in border areas. This was the first contact between the Special Representatives since the border standoff between the two sides began in May. The two countries have held discussions through diplomatic and military channels, including the corps commanders and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs.Also read | China pulls back troops in Galwan Valley by at least a km: OfficialHowever, China in its statement, also made it clear who Beijing thinks was responsible for the standoff in Galwan Valley and then the violence at the border.“What happened recently in the western part of the border between China and India in the Galwan Valley is very clear. China will continue to effectively defend its territorial sovereignty and maintain peace and tranquility in the border area,” said Wang, who is also state councillor told Doval, according to the statement. It referred to the existing mechanisms between the two countries to resolve the long-standing 3488 km boundary problem – currently the longest land border dispute in the world.“The two sides agreed to strengthen communication through the special representative meeting mechanism, the working mechanism for consultations and coordination on Sino-Indian border affairs, and constantly improve and strengthen confidence-building measures in border areas to avoid the recurrence of incidents affecting peace and tranquility in border areas,” the Chinese statement said, quoting Wang.The relationship between India and China is complex and both sides should work to reverse it, Wang said.“The two sides should always adhere to the strategic judgement that they do not pose a threat to each other and provide each other opportunities for development, attach great importance to the complex situation facing the current relationship between the two countries, and work together to overcome and reverse them as soon as possible,” the Chinese statement said.Wang’s statement emphasised the importance of guiding “public opinion and public will” on the ties between the two countries.“It is hoped that India and China will act in the same direction, correctly guide public opinion and public will, maintain and promote normal exchanges and cooperation between the two countries, avoid adopting practices that expand disputes, and jointly safeguard the overall situation of China-India relations,” the statement said.Unlike India, China is yet to release the PLA’s casualty figures it sustained during the June 15 brawl.A senior Chinese official had told foreign diplomats last month that one of the reasons Beijing hadn’t released official figures was because it did not want to stir sentiments.The other reason, the Chinese official said, was because the casualty numbers were low for the PLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-stand-off-china-says-ties-with-india-complex-situation-agrees-to-pull-back-troops/story-gy0cweRmuo8XsdFOGdsV3O.html
06-07-2020||India||Maharashtra allows hotels outside containment zones to operate from July 8||Further easing coronavirus-induced lockdown, the Maharashtra government on Monday decided to allow hotels and other entities providing accommodation services like lodges and guest houses outside containment zones to operate from July 8 at 33 per cent of their capacity.The government announced the decision through a notification here.The permission has been granted on conditions of these entities adhering to social distancing norms and other protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-allows-hotels-outside-containment-zones-to-operate-from-july-8/story-R8LLXShyLazcZBYP4yYgFP.html
06-07-2020||India||Telangana trails Andhra by a huge margin in numbers of Covid-19 tests||Despite the sharp rise in the number of positive cases of Covid-19 in the last one month, Telangana has been lagging far behind neighbouring Andhra Pradesh in testing, tracing and treatment of the people affected with the virus.The Andhra Pradesh government has claimed to have crossed the one million mark in conducting tests, but Telangana has reported only one-tenth of it till now. By Monday morning, the total number of tests conducted in AP was 10,33,852, whereas only 1,15,835 tests were conducted in Telangana.“Right from the beginning, we have been aggressively implementing the three-pronged strategy of tracing, testing and treating to contain the spread and intensity of Covid-19. We have been trying to cover every household to ensure that no suspect is left untested,” Andhra Pradesh nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Arja Sreekanth said.He pointed out that Andhra had started its journey from zero labs for testing on March 6 and it now has 78 facilities, including government, private and TrueNat labs along with dedicated hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients.“While it took 59 days to complete the first one lakh tests for Covid-19, the state has consistently increased the testing capacity and completed the last three lakh tests in just 12 days,” he said.Stating that extensive testing has been the weapon in the battle against Covid-19, Sreekanth said the state government had made use of the services of village volunteers for community surveillance, monitoring the health condition of the people. So far, the state has reported 238 deaths and 20,009 Covid-19 positive cases.The tests per million population in Andhra Pradesh has reached 19,047 against the national average of 6,878 tests per million. With extensive testing and timely treatment, the mortality rate stands at 1.24 per cent which is much lower than the national average of 2.86 per cent.On the other hand, the rate of testing has been very low in Telangana from the beginning. In fact, the state medical and health department had been reluctant to disclose the total number of samples tested in the regular media bulletins for quite some time.It was on May 16, that the department disclosed, while presenting data analytics of testing based on gender and age distribution among the patients that a total of 23,388 samples were tested till then. It was exactly after a month– from June 16, that the department started sharing the details of testing.On June 16, it disclosed that as many as 44,431 samples were tested since the first case was reported in the state on March 1. So, between May 16 and June 16, only 21,043 tests were conducted in a span of 31 days – an average of just 678 tests per day.Between June 16 and till now, as many as 71,404 samples were tested in a span of 19 days – an average of 3,758 tests per day. This is basically because the Telangana government has stepped up testing and allowed private labs to test the samples, following the visit of central teams and a reprimand from the state high court.“We have taken up 50,000 rapid tests in Hyderabad and surrounding districts, besides allowing private laboratories for the first time. We are going by the ICMR guidelines for testing, instead of doing indiscriminate testing,” state medical and health director, G Srinivasa Rao said.Compared to 78 testing labs in Andhra including seven private labs, Telangana has only 36 testing labs including 22 private ones. However, the Telangana health department has noticed that the positive cases have been shooting up abnormally ever since the private labs have started testing.In the last one month, the number of positive cases for Covid-19 went up by over 19,000 – from 3,290 to 22,312. The number of deaths has also gone up from 113 to 288, an increase of 175 fatalities in one month.“Our expert teams have found a lot of discrepancies in the testing by certain private labs which has resulted in a high positivity rate. In one lab, it was as high as 71 per cent. We have served notices to 13 private labs seeking an explanation and asking them to rectify errors in testing,” Rao said.Health expert Somasekhar Mulugu, however, said the figures being furnished by the state government cannot be taken for granted and there had been several discrepancies between the bulletins and actual figures.“What is more important for the government is to create sufficient health infrastructure in state-run hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. The existing infrastructure is grossly insufficient to tackle the increasing pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-trails-andhra-by-a-huge-margin-in-numbers-of-covid-19-tests/story-yhpdwAdvsF8Elb4yeRsZKI.html
06-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand woman constable allegedly commits suicide||A woman constable of Uttarakhand Police allegedly died by suicide at her government accommodation on Sunday night in Haridwar.The deceased constable was a resident of Dehradun district and was posted at Jharbeda police station in Haridwar a few months ago, said police.The constable had gone to her room after duty hours on Sunday. However, calls were on her mobile phone from the police station went unanswered. This raised the suspicion that something was amiss, said the police.“Her door was found locked from inside and her mobile phone, too, went unanswered. We had to break into her room, where we found her dead,” said Jhabreda Abhay Pratap Singh, circle officer, Jharbeda police station.Her body has been sent for an autopsy and her family members have been informed.“It’s not clear what made her take this drastic step,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-woman-constable-allegedly-commits-suicide/story-6O6EgcywuYQImqwAeSP58M.html
06-07-2020||India||Jitan Ram Manjhi’s party preps to switch sides again ahead of Bihar elections||Former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) –(HAM-S), in all likelihood, may become a part of the NDA. If party sources are to be believed, an announcement in this regard will be made on July 10.The party, which contested the Lok Sabha elections as part of the Grand Alliance, had issued an ultimatum for formation of a coordination committee in the alliance by June 25, to start seat sharing talks.“Now that our deadline is over, the party core committee at a recently held meeting has authorized party president Jitan Ram Manjhi to take a call on the party’s future course of action. The core committee is meeting on July 10 and the picture will become clear after that,” party’s spokesperson Danish Rizwan said.HAM-S has one member each in the Bihar Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council.Sources in the party said that HAM-S becoming a part of the NDA is all but a formality. “The party has laid no pre-conditions on seats,” said a senior party leader, who wished not to be quoted.Party sources said that despite assurance of an early settlement on issues related to seat adjustment and demand for a co-ordination committee at a virtual meeting of Grand Alliance parties, there seems to be no urgency for bigger parties of the alliance,” Rizwan said.Manjhi had demanded a discussion on the forthcoming polls on issues of seat adjustment, candidates, etc., and had also demanded a co-ordination committee in the GA. “In case a co-ordination committee could not be formed by June 25, I will be free to take a call on my future course of action,” Manjhi had said.NDA leaders feel that if at all Manjhi joins the alliance; the JD (U) will use it to silence LJP, which of late has been embarrassing the government by raising different issues. “If somebody shows trust in NDA’s leadership and policy, we do not have any problem in anybody’s joining,” said BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand.Manjhi was with JD (U) before he was picked as chief minister in 2014. He, however, had to resign a year later, as he lost the trust of his own party and went on to form a new party.The RJD does not seem rattled by Manjhi’s ultimatum. Instead, it accused him of weakening the alliance. “RJD is the biggest party in the GA and allies should remain united to defeat the ruling NDA in the forthcoming polls,” he said. In fact, leader of the opposition in the Bihar assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, had said on Sunday that “everybody should be ready for a bigger sacrifice,” in an oblique reference to pressure politics by some partners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bihar-s-assembly-polls-jitan-ram-manjhi-s-ham-s-likely-to-join-nda/story-g8VAzGl8jwmhcLo6fmT9CJ.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Govt making all efforts to increase ICU beds in Delhi hospitals’: Kejriwal||Delhi chief Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that the administration is making all efforts to increase ICU beds amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Kejriwal’s comments came after he visited Rajiv Gandhi Hospital and reviewed the Covid-19 preparedness at the facility. “We are increasing ICU capacity today from 45 beds to 200 beds for Corona treatment,” the chief minister tweeted. He also stated that ICU beds at Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi hospital have been increased to 180 and 200 respectively from 60 and 45. Earlier in the day, Kejriwal urged Covid-19 patients to donate blood plasma after 14 days of recovery from the disease. Also read: ‘India’s Covid-19 positivity rate at 6.37 percent’ - Ministry of HealthTill a few days back, LNJP had 60 ICU beds and Rajiv Gandhi hospital had 45 ICU beds. They have been increased to 180 and 200 respectively. After making sufficient arrangements for COVID hospital beds, Govt is now making all efforts to increase ICU beds.“I request recovered coronavirus patients to come forward and donate their plasma in large numbers,” he said.During a virtual address on Monday, Kejriwal said that there has been a major spike in demand for plasma over the past 4-5 days, after the opening of the country’s first plasma bank in Delhi.“I also appeal to all hospitals to counsel their Covid-19 patients for five minutes to donate their plasma after 14 days of recovery from the disease,” he said.Covid-19 patients in the national capital near the one lakh-mark with the tally touching 99,444. Delhi’s coronavirus death toll stands at 3,067 while 71,339 people have recovered from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-making-all-efforts-to-increase-icu-beds-in-delhi-hospitals-kejriwal/story-I6mGdNCzjR9Fs0tf6xw37O.html
06-07-2020||India||Mylan to launch generic version of Covid-19 treatment drug remdesivir in India this month||Drugmaker Mylan said on Monday it would launch its generic version of Gilead Sciences Inc’s Covid-19 treatment remdesivir in India this month at 4,800 rupees ($64.31) per 100 mg vial, as infections surge in the world’s third worst-hit country.The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approved Mylan’s remdesivir version, to be called Desrem, for the treatment of suspected or laboratory confirmed severe incidences of Covid-19 in adults and children, the company said in a statement.Mylan’s version comes after two Indian drugmakers, Cipla Ltd and privately-held Hetero Labs Ltd, launched their generic versions of the drug.Cipla will price its version, Cipremi, at less than 5,000 rupees, while Hetero has priced its version, Covifor, at 5,400 rupees.Gilead has priced remdesivir at $2,340 per patient for wealthier nations. It has agreed to send nearly all of its supply of the drug to the United States over the next three months, stirring concerns about availability elsewhere. Remdesivir is in high demand after the intravenously-administered medicine helped to shorten hospital recovery times in a clinical trial. On Friday, it got conditional approval from the European Commission for use in severe Covid-19 patients. Mylan said it was working toward expanding emergency use access for patients in the 127 low- and middle-income countries where it is licensed by Gilead Sciences to do so.Gilead has signed licensing agreements with India’s Dr.Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd , Jubilant Life Sciences Ltd , Syngene International Ltd and Zydus Cadila, listed as Cadila Healthcare Ltd , to make and sell remdesivir.Cases of the novel coronavirus in India stood at 697,413 on Monday, health ministry data showed, while the death toll stood at nearly 20,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-treatment-drug-remdesivir-s-generic-version-to-be-launched-in-india-this-month/story-3lO9WyDlmz5UuFhwJtFRBO.html
06-07-2020||India||NIA files charge sheet against J-K rogue cop Davinder Singh, 5 others||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a charge sheet against suspended deputy superintendent of Jammu and Kashmir Police Davinder Singh for his association with terrorist groups in Kashmir valley, officials said Monday.The charge sheet which also names five others including Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu and Rafi Ahmad Rather, Irfan Shafi Mir, Tanveer Ahmad Wani, a former trader on the LoC and Syed Irfan Ahmad (brother of Naveed Babu) was filed in a NIA Special Court in Jammu, the agency said in a statement.The charge sheet was filed under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and the Explosive Substances Act..“The investigation has revealed that accused were part of a deep-rooted conspiracy hatched by the Pakistan-based terrorist organization Hizb-ul-Mujahideen and Pakistani State Agencies to commit violent acts and to wage war against the Union of India,” the NIA statement said.Singh was arrested in January this year for providing safe passage to terrorists Naveed Babu, Rafi Ahmed Rather and Irfan Shafi Mir.“Accused Devender Singh was also in touch with certain officials of Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi through secure social media platforms. Investigation revealed that he was being groomed by Pakistani officials for obtaining sensitive information,” the NIA said.It also said that in February 2019, in order to shield Hizbul Mujahideen Syed Naveed Mushtaq from the heightened surveillance of security agencies, Devender Singh along with Irfan Shafi Mir and Syed Irfan Ahmad, arranged safe shelter for him and his associate in Jammu.” Accused Devender Singh used his own vehicle for the movement of HM terrorists and also assured them help in procuring weapons,” the NIA said.Earlier last month, a Delhi court had granted bail to Davinder Singh after the Delhi police failed to file charge sheet against him during the statutory period of 90 days in a conspiracy case.The Delhi police’s special cell (anti terror unit) had filed a case against Singh, for alleged criminal conspiracy and activities against the interest of the country.Despite the bail, Singh has remained in jail in the case being probed by the NIA following his arrest while ferrying Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu highway in January.Singh’s bail in the conspiracy case drew fire from the opposition. The NIA had then tweeted that the investigation was in full swing and that the agency would file a charge sheet against Davinder Singh and other accused persons in the first week of July.The police officer who is suspected to have turned rogue, was arrested under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, or UAPA, the anti-terror law.The J-K Police had seized an AK-47 assault rifle, three pistols, five hand grenades, 174 rounds of AK-47 and 36 rounds of pistol ammunition and other incriminating material from his carThe NIA later took over the case from the Jammu and Kashmir Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-j-k-rogue-cop-davinder-singh/story-sjs8FvWOpjeK8eBgv7x0dJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand can’t radio collar this elephant, points to its ‘size’||The Uttarakhand forest department and researchers from Wildlife Institute of India (WII) have come across a ‘giant’ elephant near Haridwar in Rajaji landscape recently which they say is so huge they can’t radio collar it. They said it is one of the biggest elephants they have come across in the Himalayan state, where the elephant population has crossed the 2000 mark, according to the elephant census released a few days back.Bivash Pandav, a senior scientist from WII, who is heading the identification and selection process, confirmed that this was one of the largest animals found in the particular landscape.“This elephant is likely to be one of the largest animals in the area around Haridwar forest division, where it primarily roams around and goes up to Uttar Pradesh. We have also seen it in the eastern part of Rajaji Tiger Reserve occasionally. It moves in the human-dominated area, except crop-raiding it has not attacked anyone,” said Pandav.He added that this adult male elephant, approximately around 50 years of age, “roams around solitary and does not stay with the herd.”The forest officials came across the jumbo while identifying elephants that need to be radio-collared ahead of Maha Kumbh 2021. The elephant is a suspected ‘problem elephant’ which ventures alone in the forests.“There are many bulls (male elephants) roaming in the area and he is one of them. It would be difficult to radio-collar this elephant given its size as it is one of the largest elephants we have come across. We are still identifying problematic elephants which venture into human habitations that will be radio-collared for monitoring to ensure they don’t come into conflict with pilgrims during Maha Kumbh 2021. We have roughly identified around nine bulls who frequently use that area (where Maha Kumbh will take place),” added Pandav.The researchers are trying to find out where the elephants spend time during the day so that a plan on tranquilising and radio-collaring them can be formulated. The elephants usually come out at night, when radio-collaring the animal is difficult.Dr Aditi Sharma, senior veterinarian of the Rajaji Tiger Reserve, said, “This elephant is most likely a full-grown nine feet animal. Usually, dominant male elephants found in this region grow eight feet, but this particular elephant is most likely around nine feet given its physical features.”Uttarakhand forest department authorities with the WII are working on radio-collaring some of the elephants prone to straying into human habitations in a bid to prevent attacks on pilgrims, who are expected to congregate in Haridwar for the next year’s Mahakumbh.The state government is waiting for approval from the Central government before putting into motion the radio collar exercise. State forest department officials said elephants usually venture into areas, where tents are set up for the Mahakumbh pilgrims.Tedhipuliya and Shyampur regions, near Haridwar, are found to be some of the areas most prone to man-elephant conflict, forest officials said. “Those elephants, which stray into human habitations, will be radio-collared. We’ll get a sense of their movement pattern after they’re radio-collared and work out a mechanism to prevent man-animal conflicts,” Sharma said.The forest officials had started their preparations since last November, when man-animal conflict hotspots were identified and geo-tagged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forest-officials-can-t-radio-collar-this-elephant-point-to-its-size/story-sfQP3SBFwSykzu8BhboomI.html
06-07-2020||India||‘India’s Covid-19 positivity rate at 6.37 percent’: Ministry of Health||The national positivity rate of Covid-19 - the average rate of samples testing positive for the coronavirus disease across the country - stands at 6.73 percent, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare stated on Monday. The ministry added that the central government had emphasized increasing testing, prompt contact tracing and timely clinical management of Covid-19 cases.The ministry said that with the help of effort undertaken by the central government, a big jump in Covid-19 testing in Delhi has been achieved while the positivity rate has gone down. The rate of positivity is an important marker in assessing the trend of an outbreak. According to Johns Hopkins University, the rate can provide insights into whether a community is conducting enough tests. Also read: Deadline of Aug 15 for Covid-19 vaccine unrealistic - Indian Academy of Sciences Union Government has emphasized on increasing testing, prompt contact tracing and timely clinical management of the COVID19 cases. The national Positivity Rate stands at 6.73% : Ministry of Health and Family Welfare“If a community’s positivity is high, it suggests that that community may largely be testing the sickest patients and possibly missing milder or asymptomatic cases,” it says. A lower positivity rate, on the other hand, may indicate testing of patients with milder or no symptoms. “The WHO has said that in countries that have conducted extensive testing for Covid-19, should remain at 5% or lower for at least 14 days,” it states. India overtook Russia on Sunday as the third-worst affected country with Covid-19. India’s Covid-19 death toll stands at 196,93 while the tally now nears 7 lakh with a total of 697,413 cases. More than 60% of people have recovered from the deadly contagion across the country with 424,432 patients recovering or getting discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-stands-at-6-37-percent-ministry-of-health/story-yrI4LUeuRHwvswMpaUB7OO.html
06-07-2020||India||No unilateral change to status quo, agree India-China: 10 points||The Chinese army on Monday begun falling back in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, which last month saw the worst flare-up of violence in four decades.Behind this development is a video call between National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister and State Councilor Wang Yi. During the call, they had a frank discussion on the recent developments, people familiar with the matter said.Here are the latest developments in the India-China border face-off:1. Both NSA Doval and minister Wang agreed that both sides should maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas as it is essential for further development of bilateral relations between India and China, top government officials said. They also agreed that both sides should complete the ongoing disengagement process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) expeditiously, the officials added.2. During the discussions, both the Special Representatives on the boundary issue re-affirmed that India and China should strictly respect and observe the LAC and not take any unilateral action to alter the status quo, an external affairs ministry statement issued later said.3. It was also agreed upon that the diplomatic and military officials of the two sides should continue their discussions, the statement said.4. The disengagement came six days after commander-level talks took place (on June 30) to cool the situation in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley area.5. China on Monday said “progress” had been made between the two militaries, and that the two sides will continue to work to implement the consensus reached at the two previous rounds of talks.6. The Chinese troops agreed to move back in the Galwan Valley on Monday. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has possibly moved back by 1 to 1.5 km from the friction site, people familiar with developments said.7. “Disengagement with the PLA has started as per agreed terms in the Corps Commander’s meeting. The PLA was seen removing tents and structures at Patrolling Point 14,” said a person aware of the developments.8. The Chinese foreign ministry on July 1 had welcomed the June 30 military-level talks.9. During the talks, th military commanders had agreed to work on an “expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation” of the ongoing border conflict “on priority”.10. There have been several rounds of talks between top Chinese and Indian army commanders in the Ladakh region since 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese troops were killed on June 15 in their worst clash in 45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-unilateral-change-to-status-quo-agree-india-china-10-points/story-jdFyPov3xTM67bVbJgomVI.html
06-07-2020||India||NSA Ajit Doval talks to China’s Wang Yi, troops pulled back along LAC: Read full statement here||A day before China and India took first step indicating truce on Monday at the site of clash in Galwan Valley, India’s national security advisor Ajit Doval had a telephonic conversation with China’s minister of foreign affairs Wang Yi. India and China reached an agreement during the conversation to expeditiously complete the disengagement of their border troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). India and China initiated talks focussing on expeditious de-escalation last week, days after India’s demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from several friction points along the LAC. India had also sought the restoration of status quo ante in key areas including Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and the strategic Depsang plains, apart from emphasising the need for thinning the military buildup in the region.Here is the full statement released by Ministry of External Affairs on NSA Doval’s conversation with China’s Wang:1. The Special Representatives of India and China on the Boundary Question - Shri Ajit Doval, National Security Advisor of India and H.E. Mr. Wang Yi, State Councillor and Minister of Foreign Affairs of China had a telephone conversation on 5th July 2020. The two Special Representatives had a frank and in-depth exchange of views on the recent developments in the Western Sector of the India-China border areas.2.The two Special Representatives agreed that both sides should take guidance from the consensus of the leaders that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas was essential for the further development of our bilateral relations and that two sides should not allow differences to become disputes. Therefore, they agreed that it was necessary to ensure at the earliest complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquillity. In this regard they further agreed that both sides should complete the ongoing disengagement process along the LAC expeditiously. The two sides should also ensure a phased and stepwise de-escalation in the India-China border areas. They re-affirmed that both sides should strictly respect and observe the line of actual control and should not take any unilateral action to alter the status quo and work together to avoid any incident in the future that could disturb peace and tranquillity in border areas.3.The two Special Representatives agreed that the diplomatic and military officials of the two sides should continue their discussions, including under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC), and implement the understandings reached in a timely manner to achieve the above outcomes. It was also agreed that the two Special Representatives will continue their conversations to ensure full and enduring restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsa-ajit-doval-talks-to-china-s-wang-yi-troops-pulled-back-along-lac-full-text/story-WZ2c3lnSrYs4pz9SX5u5xI.html
06-07-2020||India||Deadline of Aug 15 for Covid-19 vaccine unrealistic: Indian Academy of Sciences||The Bengaluru-based Indian Academy of Sciences has said that the Indian Council for Medical Research’s (ICMR) aim to launch a vaccine for the coronavirus infection by August 15 is simply “unfeasible” as well as “unrealistic”.Admitting that there is a crucial and urgent need for a vaccine to curb the spread of the disease, the body of scientists said that development of a vaccine for use on human beings needs scientifically done clinical trials conducted in a staggered manner.“Administrative approvals can be expedited, but the “scientific processes of experimentation and data collection have a natural time span that cannot be hastened without compromising standards of scientific rigour,” the IASc said in a statement on Monday.ALSO READ | India races to release first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine by August 15It also referred to the ICMR’s letter which states that “it is envisaged to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by August 15th, 2020 after completion of all clinical trials”.The Indian Council for Medical Research in collaboration with Bharat Biotech India Limited, a private pharma company, is jointly developing a vaccine against the coronavirus or Covid-19. A target of August 15 has been set by the ICMR for the launch of the vaccine in the countryThough the scientists’ body has welcomed the development of a candidate vaccine, it feels that the idea is “unrealistic”, the statement said.ALSO READ | August 15 deadline for Covid-19 vaccine has dented ICMR’s credibility: Experts“However, as a body of scientists – including many who are engaged in vaccine development – IASc strongly believes that the announced timeline is unfeasible. This timeline has raised unrealistic hopes and expectations in the minds of our people,” the statement read.Looking at launching an indigenous Covid-19 vaccine by August 15, the ICMR had written to select medical institutions and facilities to fast-track clinical trial approvals for the vaccine candidate.Health experts too have cautioned against hastening the process for developing a Covid-19 vaccine and stressed that it is not in keeping with globally accepted norms to fast-track vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential.The IASc said trials for a vaccine involve evaluation of safety (Phase 1 trial), efficacy and side effects at different dose levels (Phase 2 trial), and confirmation of safety and efficacy in thousands of healthy people (Phase 3 trial) before its release for public use.Clinical trials for a candidate vaccine require participation of healthy human volunteers. So, many ethical and regulatory approvals need to be obtained prior to starting the trials, it added.The IASc cautioned the immune responses usually take several weeks to develop and relevant data should not be collected earlier.“Moreover, data collected in one phase must be adequately analyzed before the next phase can be initiated. If the data of any phase is unacceptable then the clinical trial is required to be immediately aborted,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-of-aug-15-for-covid-19-vaccine-unrealistic-says-indian-academy-of-sciences/story-WXfhr5WNj0wEICyTJP7qFI.html
06-07-2020||India||LAC stand-off: India, China agree to expeditiously complete disengagement of troops, says MEA||India and China have agreed to expeditiously complete the disengagement of their border troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and not to take any unilateral action to alter the status quo along the disputed border, the external affairs ministry said on Monday.The agreement was reached during a phone conversation between the Special Representatives of the two sides on the boundary issue, India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and China’s foreign minister Wang Yi, on Sunday, the ministry said in a statement.This was the first contact between the Special Representatives since the border standoff between the two sides began in May. The two countries have held discussions through diplomatic and military channels, including the corps commanders and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs.Also read | NSA Ajit Doval talks to China’s Wang Yi, troops pulled back along LAC: Read full statement hereThe statement was issued against the backdrop of reports that troops from both sides had pulled back in a limited manner at several key points in the Ladakh sector.The Special Representatives agreed it was necessary to “ensure at the earliest complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquillity”, the Indian readout said.They agreed that both sides “should complete the ongoing disengagement process along the LAC expeditiously” and also “ensure a phased and stepwise de-escalation” in the border areas.“They reaffirmed that both sides should strictly respect and observe the Line of Actual Control and should not take any unilateral action to alter the status quo and work together to avoid any incident in the future that could disturb peace and tranquillity in border areas,” the statement said.Also read | China pulls back troops in Galwan Valley by at least a km: OfficialDoval and Wang, who had last met in New Delhi on December 21, had what was described as a “frank and in-depth exchange of views” on recent developments in the western sector of the India-China border areas, or Ladakh, which has been the focus of tensions that have taken bilateral relations to a fresh low.The two sides had deployed additional forces at several key stretches of the LAC after Chinese troops trespassed across the disputed border and hindered patrolling by Indian troops. A violent face-off in Galwan Valley on June 15 had left 20 Indian soldiers dead and resulted in unspecified Chinese casualties.The Special Representatives agreed that both sides should take guidance from the consensus of leaders of India and China that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas is essential for further development of bilateral relations and that the “two sides should not allow differences to become disputes”.They further agreed that diplomatic and military officials of the two sides should continue their discussions, including under the framework of the WMCC, and implement understandings reached in a timely manner to achieve the disengagement and de-escalation.The Special Representatives also agreed to continue their conversations to “ensure full and enduring restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-stand-off-india-china-agree-to-expeditiously-complete-disengagement-of-troops-says-mea/story-KyCJSrxruVsynMrJUgAIIO.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Himachal Pradesh first state where cent percent households have LPG gas connections’: CM Thakur||Himachal Pradesh has become the first state in the country to have cent percent households with LPG gas connections, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Monday. “Today, Himachal is the first state in the country where every family has a gas connection. Women have got the most relief because of this scheme. The work that women used to do in smoke on the stove is easily done with the help of gas connections,” Thakur tweeted.Thakur’s comments after his virtual interaction with the beneficiaries of Himachal Grihini Suvidha Yojana on Monday. आज हमने "हिमाचल गृहणी सुविधा योजना" के लाभार्थियों से वीडियो कॉन्फ्रेंसिंग के माध्यम से संवाद किया । हर्ष का विषय है कि इस महत्वाकांक्षी योजना की वजह से हिमाचल प्रदेश के उन लाखों परिवारों को राहत मिली है जिनके घर गैस कनेक्शन नही था।#शिखरकीओरहिमाचल pic.twitter.com/MEPVeXju3vToday we interacted with the beneficiaries of ‘Himachal Grihini Suvidha Yojana’ through video conferencing. It is a matter of joy that due to this ambitious scheme, lakhs of families of Himachal Pradesh who have no gas connection have benefitted,” the chief minister posted.Last month, CM Thakur said that over 1.36 lakh women across the state were provided free gas connections under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna besides three free gas cylinders during Covid-19 pandemic.  आज हमने "हिमाचल गृहणी सुविधा योजना" के लाभार्थियों से वीडियो कॉन्फ्रेंसिंग के माध्यम से संवाद किया । हर्ष का विषय है कि इस महत्वाकांक्षी योजना की वजह से हिमाचल प्रदेश के उन लाखों परिवारों को राहत मिली है जिनके घर गैस कनेक्शन नही था।#शिखरकीओरहिमाचल pic.twitter.com/MEPVeXju3v“Besides, over 1.12 lakh beneficiaries were benefitted under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana by giving them two installments of ₹ 500 each. The Union government also deposited ₹500 each for three months from April to June, into the accounts of 5.90 lakh women under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna,” Thakur said last month while addressing a virtual rally of office bearers and workers of Hamirpur parliamentary constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-first-state-where-cent-percent-households-have-lpg-gas-connections-cm-thakur/story-KP2Rtj7hzJSUGi5ehzNiwL.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Integrity doubtful’: Officer killed in Kanpur had warned about fellow policeman||One of the policemen killed in Bikru village in rural Kanpur had alerted his senior that station officer of Chaubeypur police station Vinay Tiwari was saving gangster Vikas Dubey, the man behind the brutal killing of eight cops.Circle Officer Devendra Mishra, who was killed along with seven of his men, had sent a special report on March 14 this year to then Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) which said that Twari’s inaction could lead to something major.Almost prophetic Mishra mentioned in the report, which is in possession of HT, that Tiwari’s integrity was doubtful, and he was sympathetic to the gangster. Mishra also said that Tiwari tries to save Dubey. Officials now admit in private that Mishra was regularly complaining about Tiwari to then SSP.The officials said Mishra asked for preliminary enquiry (PE) against Tiwari eight times; he sent the special report the ninth time based on his findings. Questions are now being asked as to why the then SSP did not act against Tiwari or initiate tough action against Dubey whom Mishra described as “one of most hardened criminals”.ADG Kanpur Jai Narayan Singh said that the report has been brought to his knowledge and he has asked for all the documents for examination. “If the report is true it is damning,” he said.The special report was sent on basis of Mishra’s review of a case lodged against Dubey this year under Section 386 (extortion), and other sections pertaining to threat, intimidation and violence. Mishra mentioned in the report that there were 150 criminal cases of heinous nature registered against the gangster. “He (Dubey) killed a man in Shivli police station, I had instructed SO Chaubeypur to initiate strict action against such a hardened criminal. I have already spoken you (SSP) about the criminal and the case,” he said in the report.During the review, Mishra outlined that the investigating officer of case, Azhar Ishrat, had dropped Section 386 and mentioned in his report that the case pertained to an old rivalry. While Mishra said he had communicated the lapse and asked for action, Ishrat told him that Tiwari had told him to do so.In such a scenario, the integrity of the SO was clearly doubtful, he said, adding that he had learnt from other mediums that Tiwari is in regular touch with Dubey. “If SO Chaubeypur doesn’t mend his ways a major happening could take place. As for getting the Section 386 dropped I recommend action against SO Chaubeypur,” he said in the report.The Chaubeypur SO, for the record, was beaten up by Dubey a day before the killing of the policemen when he went to Bikru with Rahul Tiwari who had filed a complaint of attempt to murder against the dreaded criminal. He hid the incident from his superiors and did not register Rahul’s case, which eventually was lodged following intervention of Mishra, the investigation has revealed.Tiwari is currently under investigation and has been suspended.Mishra had also unearthed a gambling den last month in Chaubeypur with SHO Shivrajpur Mahesh Yadav, who was among those killed on Thursday. And in his report sent to then SSP, he had mentioned it was being run under Tiwari’s patronage. Officials admit that Tiwari and Mishra had extremely strained working ties and the latter was closely monitoring the Chaubeypur SO’s activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/integrity-doubtful-officer-killed-in-kanpur-had-warned-about-fellow-policeman/story-DtZS81QYbLUIZVp2ZxiPCI.html
06-07-2020||India||Before PLA took a step back, a 2-hr long video call between NSA Doval and China’s Wang Yi||National Security Advisor Ajit Doval held talks with Chinese Foreign Minister and State Councilor Wang Yi over video call on Sunday, right before soldiers of the People’s Liberation Army were reported to have taken the early steps to move back from the standoff points in the Galwan area and near Pangong Tso, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times on Monday.NSA Ajit Doval and the Chinese foreign minister Wang’s conversation is learnt to have focused on “full and enduring restoration of peace and tranquillity” along the Line of Actual Control. The two sides also spoke about working together to avoid such incidents in future, a top government official said.Also Read: China pulls back troops in Galwan Valley by at least a km: OfficialAn external affairs ministry statement issued later said NSA Doval and minister Wang - two Special Representatives on the boundary issue - had “a frank and in-depth exchange of views on the recent developments in the Western Sector of the India-China border areas.”Ice-breaker meeting: What Doval, Wang agreedNecessary to complete disengagement of troops along LACShould complete the disengagement process expeditiouslyShould also ensure phased, stepwise de-escalation in border areasShould strictly respect and observe the line of actual controlShould not take any unilateral action to alter the status quoShould work together to avoid any incident in the futureDiplomatic and military officials of the two sides should continue discussions“They agreed that it was necessary to ensure at the earliest complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquillity. In this regard they further agreed that both sides should complete the ongoing disengagement process along the LAC expeditiously,” an external affairs ministry statement issued later said.The first impact of the ice-breaker meeting started becoming visible soon after. Officials said the PLA appeared to have moved about a kilometre from the standoff point in Galwan where soldiers of the two armies had clashed on June 15, leading to casualties on both sides. The violent scrap had led to a sharp slide in relations between the two countries, provoking New Delhi to ban Chinese mobile applications and keep out China-linked firms from future contracts across sectors.In their conversation, Doval and Wang agreed that both sides should take guidance from the consensus of the leaders that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas “was essential for the further development of our bilateral relations and that two sides should not allow differences to become disputes.”The two sides should also ensure a phased and stepwise de-escalation in the India-China border areas. They reaffirmed that both sides should strictly respect and observe the line of actual control and should not take any unilateral action to alter the status quo and work together to avoid any incident in the future that could disturb peace and tranquillity in border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/before-pla-took-a-step-back-a-video-call-between-nsa-doval-and-china-s-yi/story-kAsrvMlrf3eSWVBdut5YjM.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Progress on frontline troops to disengage’: China on talks with India||China on Monday said “progress” had been made between the two militaries to disengage and ease tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), six days after commander-level talks took place to cool the situation in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley area.The Chinese foreign ministry did not elaborate on the details of the progress that were made in the past six days.“Chinese and Indian troops held a commander-level talk on June 30. The two sides continue to work to implement the consensus reached at the two previous rounds of talks,” Zhao Lijian, foreign ministry spokesperson, said at the ministry briefing on Monday.Lijian was answering a query on whether China, as per reports in Indian media on Monday, had withdrawn troops from the area of tension. In his response, Zhao referred to the June 30 meeting – and two previous ones in June -- between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region.“There is progress made on frontline troops taking effective measures to disengage and ease the tensions,” he said.“We hope the Indian side will move towards China and through concrete actions implement the consensus and continue close communication through military and diplomatic channels to jointly push for the de-escalation on the border region,” Zhao said.The reaction from China came within hours of Indian media reporting that Chinese troops had agreed to move back around 1.5 km from the area of friction in the Galwan Valley.At least 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a bloody brawl with People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers in the Galwan Valley area on the night of June 15. China has admitted casualties on its side but has not revealed details.The PLA “…has possibly moved back by 1 to 1.5 km from the friction site in Galwan Valley”, people familiar with developments told HT in New Delhi on Monday.“Disengagement with the PLA has started as per agreed terms in the Corps Commander’s meeting. The PLA was seen removing tents and structures at Patrolling Point 14,” said a person aware of the developments. The Chinese foreign ministry on July 1 had welcomed the June 30 military-level talks.“China welcomes that. We hope the Indian side will work with the Chinese side towards the same goal, keep up close communication through military and diplomatic channels, and ease the situation and reduce the temperature along the border,” Zhao had said according to a statement published on the website of the Chinese foreign ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/progress-on-frontline-troops-to-disengage-china-on-talks-with-india/story-A3F8AtesRuSkSSGJ4aFtPK.html
06-07-2020||India||Rajasthan registers 99 new Covid-19 cases, state tally reaches 20,263||As many as 99 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in Rajasthan since Sunday night. Three patients have also lost their lives due to the deadly pandemic.With this, the total number of cases in the state has gone up to 20,263. Of them, 15,968 have already recovered and 3,836 cases still remain active. So far, the virus has led to the deaths of 459, the state health department said on Monday.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here At present, Rajasthan is among the top 10 states in the country affected by the virus. It is closely behind West Bengal, which has 22,126 total cases, 14,711 recovered and 757 deaths. Maharashtra is the worst affected state in the country with 206,619 confirmed cases, 111,740 recovered and 8,822 deaths.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Across the country, there are 697,413 confirmed cases, 424,433 recovered, while 19,693 people have lost their lives due to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-registers-99-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-reaches-20-263/story-20COgOpV7Uo7fBovuyY00H.html
06-07-2020||India||Fire breaks out at ATM in Ahmedabad, fire-fighting ops underway||A major fire broke out in an Indian Bank ATM booth in the CTM area of Ahmedabad on Monday.Fire-fighters are present on the spot.No casualties or injuries have been reported as yet. The cause of the fire has still not been determined as the investigation will only start when it gets doused. More details are being awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-atm-in-ahmedabad-fire-fighting-ops-underway/story-XXtAksv8Se996FI0GkZreJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Bhansali records statement with Mumbai cops||Bollywood filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali reached Bandra police station on Monday around noon to record his statement in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.On June 14, Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment following which a probe was ordered to ascertain the cause of his death by suicide.So far, Mumbai Police authorities have recorded the statements of 28 people in connection with Rajput’s death, including his cook Neeraj Singh, domestic house Keshav Bachner, his manager Deepesh Sawant, his creative manager Siddharth Ramnath Murti Pithani, his sisters Neetu and Meetu Singh, his father KK Singh, his friend and small-screen actor Mahesh Shetty, casting director Mukesh Chhabra, his business manager Shruti Modi, his public relations (PR) manager Ankita Tehlani, actor Rhea Chakraborty, employees of Yash Raj Films (YRF), among others.Also read: ‘Sushant Singh Rajput’s father still in deep shock’: Shekhar Suman after meeting actor’s familyAbhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police, (DCP), (Zone 9), Mumbai Police, said, “We have called Sanjay Leela Bhansali to record his statement in connection with the ongoing investigation of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-filmmaker-sanjay-leela-bhansali-records-statement-with-mumbai-police/story-INwdKmGmrwG5KAnkAFWpyO.html
06-07-2020||India||From chemistry to fiction, how a Kota teacher wrote a book on lockdown||Dhiraj Tak (39), who teaches chemistry at an institute in Kota – the coaching hub of the country for aspiring engineering and medical students – took to fiction to capture the tales of coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions for her baby daughter and her generation for posterity.The 197-page labour of love – called Lockdown 5:0 – has been brought out by a Hyderabad-based publisher. “My daughter was born a month before the lockdown restrictions were announced in end-March. I wrote a book on lockdown tales for my baby daughter and others of her generation, which they can read when they grow up,” said Tak.The teacher said the lockdown gave him ample time to pursue creative writing, his second love after teaching.“I have had time at hand to pursue creative writing because the coaching institute was closed due to the pandemic,” he said.“The book deals with human psychology. I have tried to explore the diverse aspects of lockdown in a nuanced manner,” said Tak, who has been a teacher for 16 years. The teacher-turned-author said the lockdown triggered a lot of negativity amid the prevailing uncertainty over when the restrictions would end as the raging viral outbreak is yet to show any sign of abating.“But, I would like the readers to remember my book as a tribute to the lockdown’s positive aspects,” he said.He explained the reason behind the book’s title, Lockdown 5:0.“Even though the restrictions ended in Rajasthan with lockdown 4:0, many are still adhering to the norms, as if a new variant is still in place,” he said.The book’s central theme is that the ongoing viral outbreak, too, will pass in a transient world. However, positive thinking holds the key in dealing with the pandemic, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-chemistry-to-fiction-how-a-kota-teacher-wrote-a-book-on-lockdown/story-gvB61Rg5EKMdJkEo44vKOJ.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Criminalisation of politics has scaled new heights’: Nadda calls for TMC govt ouster||BJP president JP Nadda Monday launched a broadside against the TMC government in West Bengal, alleging criminalisation of politics and corruption have scaled new heights under it and calling for its ouster.Lauding Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee for fighting for a united India and opposing the “appeasement politics” of Jawaharlal Nehru, Nadda said it is an honour to celebrate his birth anniversary at a time when the Modi government has fulfilled his dream of scrapping Article 370 that bestowed on Kashmir a special status.On one hand we have Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who fought for a united India and always kept his ideals and principles above anything, and on the other we have the present TMC government in Bengal for which clinging to power by any means is everything.“Criminalisation of politics has scaled new heights, now we all hear about cut money in Bengal. We need to cut to size these leaders who demand cut money. We need to restore Bengal’s glory and remove this government lock, stock and barrel, Nadda told a virtual rally for West Bengal on the birth anniversary of Mookerjee.Speaking about Mookerjee’s contributions to the nation, Nadda asserted it was because of the efforts of the Jana Sangh founder that West Bengal and large parts of Punjab are with India.It is due to Syama Prasad Mookerjee that Bengal and Punjab are with India. Otherwise they would have gone to Pakistan during Partition...He opposed the appeasement politics of Nehru in post-Independent India.... but the Congress has a bad habit of stifling democratic voices, he said.He also attacked the state’s Mamata Banerjee government over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis.“The West Bengal chief minister doesn’t believe in cooperative federalism. She is not keen on sharing COVID data with the Centre,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criminalisation-of-politics-has-scaled-new-heights-nadda-calls-for-tmc-govt-ouster/story-awhdx4YsmAJNq5qROpQz3J.html
06-07-2020||India||3 more Kanpur cops suspected of ‘leaking raid info’ to Vikas Dubey suspended||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh on Monday suspended three more policemen over allegations that they were in regular contact with Vikas Dubey, the main accused behind the killings of eight personnel of the force in Kanpur Dehat district last week.Dinesh Kumar P, Kanpur’s senior superintendent of police, said two sub-inspectors Kunwar Pal and KK Sharma and constable Rajeev of Chaubeypur police station were among those who have been suspended.The role of these three policemen has been confirmed in the in-house investigation conducted by the force, officials have said. Their calls records were checked threadbare before they were suspended. They said the process to terminate them from service would begin soon.Officials said they are under investigation for leaking the information about the raid as well.Dubey’s aide, Daya Shankar Agnihotri who was arrested on Sunday, said in a video statement that a caller from a police station informed the 48-year-old Dubey, who faces 60 criminal cases, about the raid.Agnihotri is suspected to be part of the gang that laid a trap for the police team raiding Kanpur Dehat’s Bikru village and attacked them on Thursday night.Officials suspect it could be the police station in Chaubeypur, about 14km from Bikru. It is the place where an attempt to murder case was registered against Dubey by a villager on Wednesday. The team that went to raid Dubey’s village past Thursday midnight left from Chaubeypur.Before this, Chaubeypur’s station officer (SO) Vinay Tiwari was suspended and shifted to Lucknow last Saturday after being questioned for nine hours over his role in leaking information about the raid. Officials have not specified the nature of allegations against him.Officials have said they are investigation 30 policemen for their links with the 48-year-old gangster, who is on the run.Officials believe that Dubey, an influential gangster whose criminal records date back to 1993, has support within the police force and that they helped him and his gang enjoy a free run despite cases of murder, attempted murder and abduction against them.Mohit Agarwal, inspector general of police, Kanpur range, had said earlier at least three policemen were suspected to be in touch with Dubey and that an investigation was underway.“Services of police personnel in league with him will be terminated and they will face a criminal trial,” Agarwal had said.Hitesh Chandra Awasthy, Uttar Pradesh’s police chief, has also increased the reward amount for his arrest on Vikas Dubey to Rs 2.5 lakh from Rs 1 lakh after Agarwal sent a proposal on Sunday night.The police have launched a massive manhunt for Dubey, who they believe slipped out of Uttar Pradesh before the state’s borders were sealed. An alert has been sounded in all 75 districts of the state for the arrest of Dubey and the search for the gangster intensified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-more-kanpur-cops-suspected-of-leaking-raid-info-to-vikas-dubey-suspended/story-WGbwFTqh834p78mDReC4WI.html
06-07-2020||India||UP Police increase prize money for arrest of gangster Vikas Dubey to Rs 2.5 lakh||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Monday further increased the prize money for the arrest of dreaded criminal Vikas Dubey, who headed the gang which shot dead eight policemen who came to arrest him.The prize money has been increased to Rs 2.5 lakh, news agency ANI quoted Uttar Pradesh Director General of Police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy as saying. The prize money was increased from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh on Sunday for the arrest of Dubey, who has been on the run since the killing of the policemen near his home in Bikru village in Kanpur rural late on Thursday night.Fifty dedicated teams and over 3,000 police personnel across the state have been deployed in a massive manhunt to nab the gangster.DGP Awasthy had said that an alert has been sounded in all 75 districts of the state for the arrest of Dubey and the search for the gangster intensified.His photo was put up at Unnao toll plaza on Monday by the police.A huge cache of arms and ammunition were recovered from Dubey’s house after it was demolished on Sunday.The police are also probing how did Dubey get the information about the police raid. At least 30 cops are being investigated for their links with the gangster.Meanwhile, three more policemen have been suspended after investigation revealed that they were in regular touch with Dubey. The suspended policemen include two sub-inspectors and a constable.News agency PTI reported SSP as saying that an FIR will be lodged against these policemen. Their role was confirmed in the in-house investigation conducted by the force, officials said.The call records of these cops were checked to arrive at the conclusion that they were speaking to the gangster regularly. The process to terminate them from service will also begin, senior officials said.Before this, Chaubeypur’s station officer (SO) Vinay Tiwari was suspended and shifted to Lucknow on Saturday.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had earlier announced Rs 1 crore each ex-gratia for the families of the policemen who were killed in Bikru village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-increase-prize-money-for-arrest-of-gangster-vikas-dubey-to-rs-2-5-lakh/story-Bo7Wv8Uvexcl2PQcF54VKL.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Let gyms reopen as allowed for restaurants’: CM Baghel writes to PM Modi||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking permission for conditional reopening of gymnasiums, which continue to remain shut since the first lockdown came into effect on March 25.Citing the Centre’s plan to unlock economic activities in a phased manner, the CM drew attention to the financial issues being faced by the gym and fitness centre owners. Referencing the permission to reopen restaurants, hotels and various other activities, the CM also pitched for the reopening of gymnasiums, adding that strict compliance to standard operating procedures (SOP) will be observed. “I urge you to allow opening of gyms with the condition of compliance to SOP, as it has been permitted for restaurants, hotels and other economic activities,” the CM said in his letter to PM Modi.The fresh Unlock 2 guidelines said schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31. It added that Metro rail, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will also remain shut. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations will also continue to be banned.“Dates for opening of these will be decided separately, based on the assessment of the situation,” the Centre had said.The government has said that the plan to unlock the country has an “economic focus”, as it looks to bring stalled businesses and activities back on track.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-gyms-reopen-as-allowed-for-restaurants-cm-baghel-writes-to-pm-modi/story-AlwIhXHemHa27TYQ21inUK.html
06-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ’No need to panic’, says Delhi CM as Covid-19 cases cross 1 lakh mark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘No need to panic’, says Kejriwal as Covid-19 cases in Delhi cross 1 lakh markDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that though the number of coronavirus disease cases has crossed one lakh in the national capital, there is no need to panic. Read moreChina pulls back troops in Galwan Valley by at least a km: OfficialSix days after top Indian and Chinese military commanders agreed to work on an “expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation” of the ongoing border conflict “on priority,” the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has possibly moved back by 1 to 1.5 km from the friction site in Galwan Valley, people familiar with developments said on Monday. Read moreRahul Dravid turned down opportunity to be India’s head coach: CoA chairman Vinod RaiVinod Rai, Chairman of the Committee of Administrators, has revealed that the panel approached Rahul Dravid for the post of the head coach of the Indian men’s cricket team but the former batsman turned down the offer to give preference to his family. Read moreNetflix India asks tweeple to ‘caption this’ still from Kuch Kuch Hota Hai. Netizens hilariously complyMany of you probably still remember some lines from Kuch Kuch Hota Hai. From, “Pyar dosti hai” to the classic, “Kuch kuch hota hai Rahul, tum nahi samjhoge”. Read moreHappy birthday Ranveer Singh: Why he remains one of the most versatile actors of his generationExactly a year back, on Ranveer Singh’s 34th birthday on July 6, the first look of his upcoming Kabir Khan directorial, 83, had been unveiled. Read moreCovid-19: India ranks no. 3 in total cases after US and BrazilHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, after US and Brazil, India ranks no. 3 in total number of cases, improvement in the country’s daily tests, community spread begins in Assam and more. Read moreHappy Birthday Ranveer: Celebrating the best looks of the king of quirk fashionTo talk of eccentric fashion and not take Ranveer Singh’s name in the same breath might be nearly as good as making a huge folly. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-cross-1-lakh-mark-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YGGZjXOQoLVcAg05HexW2O.html
06-07-2020||India||China pulls back troops in Galwan Valley by at least a km: Official||Six days after top Indian and Chinese military commanders agreed to work on an “expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation” of the ongoing border conflict “on priority,” the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has possibly moved back by 1 to 1.5 km from the friction site in Galwan Valley, people familiar with developments said on Monday.“Disengagement with the PLA has started as per agreed terms in the Corps Commander’s meeting. The PLA was seen removing tents and structures at Patrolling Point 14,” said one of the persons cited above.Disengagement will involve rival troops pulling back a few hundred metres from face-off sites, with further retreat taking place in phases as the complex plan progresses on a verifiable basis on the ground every 72 hours by both sides, as reported by Hindustan Times on Thursday.Rearward movement of vehicles of the PLA was also seen at “General area Galwan, Hot Springs-Gogra Post,” said a second person. Specific distances can be confirmed only after verification, he said.At the June 30 meeting, the Indian side reiterated its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from several friction points along the LAC and sought the restoration of status quo ante (early April) in key areas including Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and the strategic Depsang plains, apart from emphasising the need for thinning the military buildup in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-pulls-back-troops-in-galwan-valley-by-at-least-a-km-official/story-W6dcjoOSpNTtHv1zZo8b8N.html
06-07-2020||India||Covid-19 antigen test for every patient in four hospitals in Odisha||The Naveen Patnaik-led Odisha government has decided to conduct the rapid antigen test (RAT) for all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients and healthcare staff in four hospitals in Cuttack city after they reported 135 viral outbreak cases in the past week. Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra, additional chief secretary (ACS), health department, said RAT would be conducted on the following hospitals in Cuttack city -- SCB Medical College & Hospital, Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre, Sishu Bhawan, and City Hospital.Data showed that these four hospitals have reported 135 Covid-19 positive cases in the past week, including Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre (111) and SCB Medical College & Hospital (22).On Monday, a warden in Cuttack’s Choudwar Circle Jail also tested Covid-19 positive after he reportedly came in contact with an inmate, who is undergoing treatment at Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre.The ACS said all patients undergoing treatment in these hospitals would undergo RAT along with those who are seeking fresh admission.He said that patients have been urged not to visit these hospitals’ outpatient departments (OPDs) until Wednesday (July 8), unless there is an emergency.The Cuttack Municipal Corporation (CMC) authorities have enforced lockdown restrictions in the ancient and densely-populated city until Wednesday and would quarantine people, who are found to be visiting its slums from Covid-19 hotspot districts such as Khurda and Ganjam.Cuttack district has reported 813 Covid-19 positive cases to date, including 190 under CMC’s jurisdiction.RAT can quickly detect SARS-CoV-2 and the procedure is also inexpensive, as compared to the conventional reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.In the case of RAT, mucus is collected from the back of a person’s throat or nose using a swab that is dipped into a liquid to release the virus. Later, the liquid is applied to the surface of a test slide coated with antibodies.A second mixture of antibodies, which is chemically modified with a dye, is subsequently applied to the slide. These antibodies are visible to both the naked eye and fluorescent light. If the swab sample contains SARS-CoV-2, the dye will become visible, underlining the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-antigen-test-for-every-patient-in-four-hospitals-in-odisha/story-2GhzFMifjesNPBmgXiJrvL.html
06-07-2020||India||Kuwait expat bill cleared, 8 lakh Indians could be forced to leave||The legal and legislative committee of Kuwait’s National Assembly (Parliament) has approved a draft expat quota bill which could result in eight lakh Indians leaving the country.According to the committee, the draft bill is constitutional and seeks to limit the number of Indians to 15 per cent of the population. It will now be transferred to the respective committee so that a comprehensive plan is created.The move comes a month after Kuwait’s prime minister had said that the country’s expatriate population should be reduced from 70 to 30 per cent of the total.“We have a future challenge to redress this imbalance,” Sheikh Sabah Al-Khalid Al-Sabah told a local media publication, and the statement was released by state-run Kuwait News Agency or KUNA.Foreigners account for 3.4 million of Kuwait’s 4.8 million population, according to government data cited by local news outlets.Gulf News cited local media reports to say that the new bill could see eight lakh Indians leaving Kuwait, “as the Indian community constitutes the largest expat community in Kuwait, totalling 1.45 million”.There are, however, many critics of the quota approach (thereby reducing the number of expats) propounded by some of the Kuwaiti lawmakers since the prime minister’s statement.On Twitter, users reacted with anger.“The deputies at Kuwait National Assembly should have their mental health regularly checked!” tweeted a user who goes by a single username M. The deputies at Kuwait National Assembly should have their mental health regularly checked!#JustSaying“Wait, next shocking news will be from UAE,” tweeted Salem Faisal. Wait, next shocking news will be from UAE.The anti-expat rhetoric have spiked since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic with lawmakers and governmental officials call for reducing the number of foreigners in Kuwait.According to latest data from Johns Hopkins University, more than 49,000 cases of coronavirus have been reported in the Gulf country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kuwait-expat-bill-cleared-8-lakh-indian-could-be-forced-to-leave/story-Hd2PNfm0hlUs223FWiaYDJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Rajasthan crosses 20,000-mark, Delhi nears one lakh cases: Covid-19 state tally||India is now the third worst-affected country by the coronavirus pandemic after overtaking Russia on Sunday. The country has reported a steep rise of 24,248 new cases of coronavirus in the last 24 hours, the Ministry of Health stated on Monday. As many as 425 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, taking the national death toll to 19,693. India’s Covid-19 tally now nears 7 lakh with a total of 697,413 cases. More than 60% of people have recovered from the deadly contagion across the country with 424,432 patients recovering or getting discharged from the hospitals. Rajasthan has seen its Covid-19 tally breach the 20,000-mark while the cases continue to surge across India and much rapidly in states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, among others. Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 6.97 lakh, death toll at 19,693Here’s taking a look at the statewise situation of Covid-19 infections across the country. MaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 206,619 on Monday. Over 111,740 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 8,822 have died.Tamil NaduWith 111,151 coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu is the state with second-highest coronavirus cases in the country and has witnessed 1,510 coronavirus fatalities. The number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the state stands at 62,778.DelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 99,444 on Monday. As many as 71,339 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi while 3,067 have succumbed to the infection.GujaratGujarat has seen Covid-19 cases reach 36,037 on Monday. The state has seen 25,892 people recover from coronavirus while 1,943 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 27,707 while the number of recoveries has touched 18,761. The state’s death toll stands at 785.TelanganaThe state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 23,902 coronavirus cases. While 12,703 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 295 in the state.Karnataka The South India state has witnessed 23,474 coronavirus cases till date while three hundred and seventy two people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion in the state. Nearly 9,847 patients have recovered from the disease in Karnataka. West BengalAs many as 22,126 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 14,711 recover from coronavirus while 757 people have been killed.RajasthanThe state has reported 20,164 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 456 while 15,928 patients have recovered.Andhra Pradesh The state has 18,697 Covid-19 patients while the death toll stands at 232. Over 8,400 people have recovered from the contagion in Andhra Pradesh.Situation in other statesThe coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 17,005. Over 14,930 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar nears 12,000, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir stands at 8,429. In Odisha, cases have jumped to 9,070 while Assam has reported over 10,000 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 6,283, and the number of cases in Kerala is 5,429. Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand is over 3,000 cases.States with less than 3,000 casesNagaland, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases.Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Mizoram, Chandigarh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have reported 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya is the lone state with less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-crosses-20-000-mark-delhi-nears-one-lakh-cases-covid-19-state-tally/story-jXqs0DShEiZQ7Mfnm7y6DP.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Really sad’: JP Nadda questions Rahul Gandhi’s attack on govt, raps ‘dynastic tradition’ too||JP Nadda, president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Monday once again trained his guns at Rahul Gandhi for what he called was the Congress leader’s irresponsible behaviour as an opposition leader.Nadda’s tweet attacks came after Rahul Gandhi’s comments on the government’s policies, including its handling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), saying they become case studies for the Harvard Business School.The BJP president, on his part, questioned Gandhi’s absence from the meetings of Parliament’s committee on defence-related matters.“Rahul Gandhi does not attend a single meeting of Standing Committee on Defence. But sadly, he continues to demoralise the nation, question the valour of our armed forces and do everything that a responsible opposition leader should not do,” Nadda tweeted. Rahul Gandhi does not attend a single meeting of Standing Committee on Defence. But sadly, he continues to demoralise the nation, question the valour of our armed forces and do everything that a responsible opposition leader should not do.The senior BJP leader has questioned Rahul Gandhi in the past as well over his continuous criticism of the Centre after the June 15 violent border standoff with China in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh.Before this, Nadda had accused Rahul Gandhi of trying to “divide the nation” and “demoralise” the country’s armed forces after the Congress leader’s allegations that Prime Minister Narendra Modi surrendered Indian territory to the Chinese.Nadda had asked him last month whether it was the “effect” of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) the Congress had signed with the Communist Party of China.He has also hit out at the Congress, alleging that its leaders were demoralising the Indian Army. He had, in a series of tweets, questioned Manmohan Singh’s statement over the June 15 brutal clash in Galwan Valley.Nadda also focussed on the “glorious dynastic tradition”. “Rahul Gandhi belongs to that glorious dynastic tradition where as far as defence is concerned, committees don’t matter, only commissions do. Congress has many deserving members who understand parliamentary matters but one dynasty will never let such leaders grow. Really sad,” Nadda added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/really-sad-jp-nadda-questions-rahul-gandhi-s-attack-on-govt-raps-dynastic-tradition-too/story-S9DX8IHGLXVnh3hPgK65IK.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Vikas Dubey operated like Maoists’: Police after bunker, explosives found in gangster’s demolished house||Vikas Dubey, head of the gang that laid a trap for the police team in Kanpur, operated like Maoists, a senior police officer said after huge cache of arms and ammunition was recovered from his house.“A huge cache of arms and ammunition recovered from the residence of Vikas Dubey, during search. Some of the weapons recovered are licensed under names of people associated with him, but they were used by Vikas. This is similar to how naxals operate,” BK Srivastava, Superintendent of Police, Kanpur Rural told mediapersons on Sunday.A bunker, two kg of explosives, six country-made pistols, 25 live rounds and shrapnels were found in Dubey’s house when it was demolished by the police.“Heavy explosives were kept there, it could be so powerful that it would blow up the whole house. He has about 12 licensed weapons in his family. Vikas Dubey used to issue arms licenses in the name of people living with him and then used them for himself,” Srivastava added.Kanpur inspector general (IG) Mohit Agarwal said that the bunker that Dubey built was stocked with items on which he and his men could have survived for days in case of a prolonged siege. Police had taken the decision to pull down the house following inputs that the criminal had hidden firearms on the premises, he said.The police are looking for Dubey, who they believe slipped out of Uttar Pradesh before the state’s borders were sealed. UP’s Director General of Police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy said that an alert has been sounded in all 75 districts of the state for the arrest of Dubey and the search for the gangster intensified.Fifty dedicated teams and over 3,000 police personnel across the state have been deployed in a massive manhunt to nab the gangster.Dubey is the main accused in the case in which eight policemen, part of a team whch had gone to arrest the gangster, were killed after being attacked by his men late on Thursday night.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has announced Rs 1 crore each ex-gratia for the families of the policemen who were killed in the Bikru village encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-operated-like-maoists-police-after-bunker-explosives-found-in-gangster-s-demolished-house/story-xu4JBLFaWHIdFnwXOZXPQJ.html
06-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 6.97 lakh, death toll at 19,693||The Union health ministry on Monday reported there were 24,248 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 425 deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing the overall tally to 697,413.India had on Sunday overtaken Russia to become the third-most affected country globally in terms of the numbers of Covid-19 cases. More than 11 million infections and 536,776 deaths have been reported worldwide, data from Worldometers shows.The country’s death toll stands at 19,693 and there are 253,287 active cases of the disease so far, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here With 15,350 patients cured between Sunday and Monday morning, there are 424,432 people who have been discharged from hospitals across the country. It has pushed the recovery rate to 60.85%.Maharashtra has most of the country’s Covid-19 cases at 206,619 and the state has reported 8,822 deaths so far. Tamil Nadu with 111,151 infections is the second worst-affected state and has also reported 1,510 fatalities.The national capital has seen 99,444 patients of the viral disease and 3,067 deaths to date. The Union health ministry had said on Sunday that 21 states and Union territories, including Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, have a recovery rate higher than the national average of 60.77%.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage It said collective and focused efforts for containment and management of Covid-19 by the Centre along with the states and Union territories have led to the number of recovered patients to rise.The United States is the worst-hit country in the world with 2,982,928 cases and 132,569 deaths, followed by Brazil, which has nearly 1,604,585 cases and 64,900 deaths, according to worldometers.info. Russia now has 681,251 Covid-19 infections and 10,161 deaths, followed by Peru with 302,718 cases and 10,589 deaths on Sunday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-surges-past-6-97-lakh-death-toll-at-19-693/story-49CWbhygrYYVWMlaK2P5YJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Devotees throng Lord Shiva temples on first Monday of Sawan||On the first Monday of ‘Sawan’ (Shravan) month, devotees started coming to Lord Shiva temples in different parts of the country from the early morning to offer prayers.At Gauri Shankar Temple in Delhi’s Chandni Chowk, the temperature of devotees is being checked with thermometer gun, as a precautionary measure that has become a new normal.However, the usual hustle-bustle is missing at the temple due to coronavirus outbreak which has affected the lives of people across the globe.A priest at Gauri Shankar Temple said: “We pray to Lord Shiva to free us from coronavirus. We have done barricading, ensuring social distancing and temple premise is being regularly sanitised. We are not allowing anyone to offer water.”“Many things have changed at the temple. Social distancing is being maintained. People are not allowed to gather at one place,” a devotee told ANI.In Varanasi, devotees in large numbers throng Kashi Vishwanath temple. Police was present at the temple to maintain social distancing. Shravan, the fifth month in the Hindu calendar, is considered to be the most auspicious month of the year. It is dedicated to Lord Shiva who, according to Hindu religious beliefs, is the creator, preserver, and destroyer of this universe.While Lord Shiva is worshipped on Mondays throughout the year, Mondays during this particular month are considered highly significant and auspicious. The festival is predominantly celebrated in North Indian states.It is believed that on ‘sawan ke somwar’ (Mondays falling in the month of Shravan), devotees observe a special fast and visit Shiva temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devotees-throng-lord-shiva-temples-on-first-monday-of-sawan/story-w6KhpolHHjAzZE4bvDwkNL.html
06-07-2020||India||Gandhi lists 3 potential case studies at Harvard. It’s a dig at the Centre||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has once again targeted the Narendra Modi government, calling its demonetisation policy and implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST) failures. He also said that these policies along with the government’s failure in handling of the coronavirus situation will be studied by the Harvard Business School.“Future HBS case studies on failure: 1. Covid19. 2. Demonetisation. 3. GST implementation,” Gandhi said on Twitter. Future HBS case studies on failure:1. Covid19.2. Demonetisation.3. GST implementation. pic.twitter.com/fkzJ3BlLH4He also attached a clip of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation, superimposing a graph which shows the number of Covid-19 cases rising in the country and India reaching the third spot globally.Gandhi and his Congress party have been attacking the government over the Covid-19 situation in the country, comparing its policies with those of the western countries. He has also held a series of talks with public intellectuals and business leaders where Gandhi accused the government of centralising the power. He also talked about the migrant workers and the poor people who were hurt the most by the Covid-19 lockdown.When the number of Covid-19 cases crossed the five lakh mark last month, Gandhi had said that the Modi government is refusing to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Gandhi posted a media report on his Twitter handle in support of his comments and remarked that while coronavirus is rapidly spreading into new parts of the country, the government “has no plan to defeat it”.The prime minister is silent, Gandhi had tweeted.During a conversation with former US diplomat Nicholas Burns in June, Gandhi had accused the central government of taking decisions unilaterally. “We have a government which takes decisions unilaterally. It decided to impose a hard lockdown and the result was for everyone to see. You had thousands of migrant workers walking thousands of kilometres to their hometowns. This type of episodic leadership is very very disruptive,” he had said.India, meanwhile, went past Russia in terms of the number of Covid-19 infections to become the third biggest hotspot of the coroanvirus disease. The grim milestone came after four consecutive days of record highs in new cases of Covid-19.The country reported 24,422 new cases and 421 new deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of infections to 697,284 and fatalities to 19,700.Public health experts, however, say that while India has a high Covid-19 caseload, its case fatality rate, at 2.8%, is much lower than the global average of 4.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-on-failures-will-include-gst-demonetisation-and-covid-19-rahul-gandhi-targets-govt/story-LZDLrHXfABuetSWZImj73O.html
06-07-2020||India||BJP MP alleges car vandalised by workers of Trinamool Congress, party denies claim||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker in West Bengal claimed on Monday that his car was vandalised by the workers of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC).Arjun Singh, the Member of Parliament (MP) from Barrackpore, alleged that the incident happened in Halisahar area of North 24 Parganans district on Sunday.Singh said the incident took place when he had gone to a party worker’s home. “I had gone for a meeting there but as soon as I joined it, supporters of TMC started throwing bricks at my vehicle,” Singh told mediapersons.Some motorcycles parked outside the home were also vandalised, alleged the MP.TMC leaders, however, refuted the charge and instead alleged that BJP workers had ransacked one of the offices of their party.Partha Bhowmick, TMC legislator from Naihati, told the media that Singh was making false allegations to be in the news as his party was losing ground.No senior police officer could be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-alleges-car-vandalised-by-workers-of-trinamool-congress-party-denies-claim/story-LFHMSKAk6gqyVdirE5pohL.html
06-07-2020||India||Several monuments to reopen today: Time slots, separate entry and exit points||Several monuments across the country will reopen from Monday for the first time in more than 100 days since the lockdown to fight the spread of coronavirus disease was clamped in March.However, only those monuments that are in non-containment zones will be open for visitors.District authorities in Agra have said the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Akbar’s tomb in Sikandra and other monuments will remain closed until further orders as they fall under containment zones.The Archeological Survey of India (ASI) had shut down more than 3,400 monuments on March 17, days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown.Some 820 religious places under the ASI were reopened when the government announced a graded exit from the total shutdown under “Unlock1”.The Union culture ministry had on June 8 allowed 820 monuments to open, including the Taj Mahal. But the Agra administration decided against opening the Mughal-era monument in view of the rising number of coronavirus disease cases in the city. The Nizamuddin Dargah also got approval but its administration decided against opening the site.The culture ministry had given its approval last week for the reopening of monuments, places of worship, museums and heritage sites controlled by ASI. Officials said the decision to open these sites outside containment zones was taken in consultation with ASI.Here are the rules visitor have to follow while visiting these places:* No physical tickets will be issued until further orders and visitors will have to buy entry tickets through e-mode only* They will have to mandatorily use the contact-tracing Aarogya Setu mobile application* They will have to compulsorily wear masks and use sanitisers regularly* There will be separate paths for entry and exit* There will be thermal scanners at the entry points* Visitors’ status on Aarogya Setu will be checked before they are allowed to get in* There will be staggered entry and a cap on the number of people who can be present in a monument at a given time* ASI will also collect visitors’ phone numbers in case contact-tracing needs to be done later* E-ticketing facilities will also be ramped to ensure smooth and easy access* The number of visitors will be capped and there will be slots every day. * Visitors will have to stick to a time limit in order to ensure social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-monuments-to-reopen-today-time-slots-separate-entry-and-exit-points/story-q1BDAsl8suCzLaXi9FTE8M.html
06-07-2020||India||China to supply 4 attack drones to Pak, prompts India to revive Predator-B plan||China is in the process of supplying four armed drones to Pakistan, ostensibly to protect the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor and the People’s Liberation Army Navy’s new base at Gwadar port, according to people familiar with the development said on Sunday.Gwadar, in the highly restive southwestern province of Baluchistan, is described as the crown jewel of China’s $60 billion investment in Belt and Road Initiative projects in Pakistan.The supply of two systems (each has two drones and a ground station) comes ahead of Beijing’s plan to jointly produce 48 GJ-2 drones, the military version of Wing Loong II, designed in China for use by Pakistan’s air force. Also Watch | India-China border: IAF uses attack choppers, fighter jets for surveillanceChina has already been selling the reconnaissance and strike drone Wing Loong II to several countries in Asia and West Asia and emerged as the largest exporter of armed drones. According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) arms transfer database, China had delivered 163 UAVs to a dozen-odd countries including Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Algeria, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates from 2008 to 2018.Unlike the US that follows an elaborate process to determine and regulate the end-use of its high-end weapons, China has no such qualms.China’s attack drone, said to be armed with 12 air-to-surface missiles, are currently being used by UAE-backed forces in Libya against the Turkish-backed government in Tripoli with limited success. Four of them were shot down in the last two months in Libya, according to data compiled by non profit Drone Wars UK.China’s aggressive postures in Ladakh where the two armies are engaged in a standoff that has lasted two months and its supply to Pakistan has prompted India to conveyed to the US its renewed interest in the medium-altitude long-endurance (MALE) armed Predator-B drone, which not only collects intelligence through surveillance and reconnaissance but also locates and destroys the target with missiles or laser-guided bombs.The Indian Navy has been in negotiations with the US for its unarmed naval variant, but national security planners feel that due to the prohibitive cost of the UAV, it would be better to have an all-in-one drone rather than separate ones for surveillance and targeting. Also called the MQ-9 Reaper, the armed remotely piloted aircraft is battle-proven in the Iraq, Afghanistan and Syrian theatres with the capability of carrying four Hell-Fire missiles and two 500 pounds of laser-guided bombs.For the future, Indian private sector companies on the outskirts of New Delhi are in the process of developing medium-altitude long-endurance drones for India. But the capacity to acquire armed drones within the country is some distance away. The Defence Research and Development Organisation also has plans to produce the Rustom drone prototype by the end of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-to-get-4-attack-drones-from-china-prompts-india-to-revive-predator-b-plan/story-M5jUeCOLPnyyofzh03LSzI.html
06-07-2020||India||Indian Railways may run more special trains from Delhi to several cities: Report||The Indian Railways is planning to operate about 40 pairs of additional special trains from Delhi to several other cities across the country, a report said on Tuesday.According to HT’s sister publication Hindustan, the Indian Railways has sent a proposal to the Union ministry of home affairs for running these special trains. If given a nod, the railways will announce these trains soon.Hindustan reported citing unnamed sources that an action plan is being prepared on the number of passengers on these routes, ways to prevent the spread of coronavirus infections and adequate means of investigation, expenses etc before these trains are run. No final decision regarding the stoppage and route has been taken yet, it reported.These special trains will be regularly sanitised and passengers will have to arrive at the stations 90 minutes early. They will have to undergo thermal screening before they start their journey. Plans are being made to control the number of passengers at stations, Hindustan reported.It reported that tickets for these trains can be bought up to 120 days ahead. Some seats will also be kept under the Tatkal quota system in these trains. The ministry of railways is already operating 15 pairs of special Rajdhani trains from May 12 and 200 mails and express trains from June 1 onwards. Here is a list of expected trains:Trains from DelhiNew Delhi-Amritsar Old Delhi- Ferozepur Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Porbandar Delhi-BhagalpurNew Delhi-Chandigarh Delhi-Ghazipur City Train to BalliaTrains to DelhiJodhpur-DelhiKamakhya-DelhiDibrugarh-New DelhiGorakhpur-DelhiIndore-New DelhiMuzaffarpur-Anand Vihar, Kovid coach, this train will go to Old Delhi Habibganj-New DelhiLucknow-New DelhiMadhupur-Old DelhiTrains through DelhiKota-Dehradun-Nanda DeviDibrugarh-AmritsarDibrugarh-LalgarhMuzaffarpur-PorbandarYeshwantpur-Bikaner||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-may-run-more-special-trains-from-delhi-to-several-cities-report/story-wiYU0I5K9DRlgvMvYatJGI.html
06-07-2020||India||UP hospital offers Covid-19 negative report for Rs 2,500, licence suspended||The licence of a private hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut has been suspended after a video showing its staff member providing fake Covid-19 report had gone viral.“A video had gone viral in Meerut. We have registered a case in this regard. We have suspended the licence of the nursing home. Today, we have sealed it also. Strict action will be taken against anybody who will do something like this in this time of crisis,” said Anil Dhingra, District Magistrate, Meerut.In the video, the person can be heard saying that they provide Covid-19 negative report for Rs 2,500, Dhingra stated.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Meerut CMO Rajkumar said, “In the video, a man from the hospital can be heard saying that he can arrange COVID-19 negative report and the person can get operation or other things done. We have identified the man. We have suspended the licence of the hospital and an FIR has been registered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-hospital-offers-covid-19-negative-report-for-rs-2-500-licence-suspended/story-sXi4ioRJGVzbdoM9V1KerO.html
06-07-2020||India||Four Maoists killed in gunfight with security forces in Odisha’s Kandhamal district||At least four Maoists including two women were killed in an encounter with policemen of district Voluntary Force in Odisha’s Kandhamal district in a forest early Sunday morning.Inspector general of police (anti-Maoist operations) Amitabh Thakur said based on intelligence inputs, a team of Special Operation Group and District Voluntary Force policemen of Kandhamal district went on a combing operation at Sirla forest near Tumudibandh area of Kandhamal district on early Sunday morning. In the encounter that ensued, four Maoists were killed. “While the search operation was going on, the police team saw a large group of Maoists camping in the jungle area. Police party tried to approach them but they came under heavy fire from the Maoist side. When the police asked them to surrender they continued to fire and also lobbed grenades. When police fired back, the Maoists escaped taking cover of dense forest cover,” said Thakur. There were around 35-40 armed Maoists in the camp when the encounter happened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-maoists-killed-gunfight-with-security-forces-in-odisha-s-kandhamal-district/story-N0i6cacYt4mvyt2FSwNsaN.html
06-07-2020||India||Parts of Gujarat receive heavy rains; 434 mm rainfall in Khambhalia tehsil||Several districts in Gujarat witnessed heavy rains on Sunday, with Khambhalia tehsil in Devbhoomi Dwarka district receiving as much as 434 mm rainfall during the day, 292 mm between 6 and 8 pm alone, which led to major water-logging, officials said.Heavy rains also lashed parts of Porbandar, Gir Somnath, Junagadh and Amreli districts in Saurashtra region, as well as Valsad and Navsari districts in south Gujarat throughout the day, they said. The Ahmedabad centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in Saurashtra, north and south Gujarat over the next three days.A farmer was killed in a lightning strike in Surendranagar district, while one person was feared drowned after a pickup van he was travelling in was swept away in a strong current of water following the downpour, police said.“A 33-year-old farmer, identified as Vikram Natubhai, died after lightning struck him when he was working at his farm at Umarda village of Surendranagar district,” a police official said.An Aji Dam police station official said that a pickup van carrying three persons was swept away in strong current of water in Khokhardar river near Rajkot Sunday afternoon. “The van was trying to cross a bridge over the river when it was swept away in overflowing water rushing with strong current. While two persons managed to escape from the van, a third one was swept away along with the van and he is yet to be traced,” the official said.As per the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC), Khambhalia tehsil received a very heavy rainfall of 434 mm, with 292 mm rainfall occurring in just two hours, causing heavy waterlogging in the Khambhalia town.Ranavav in Porbandar received 152 mm rainfall, Porbandar 120 mm, Sutrapada in Gir Somnath 103 mm, Chikhli in Navsari 99 mm, and Pardi in Valsad received 98 mm rainfall from morning till 8 pm Sunday, the SEOC said.As per the IMD’s Ahmemdabad met centre, a low-pressure area has formed over Kutch and neighbouring regions, which is very likely to become more marked during the next 24 hours.The IMD has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places in Saurashtra, north and south Gujarat regions over the next three days.Light thunderstorm accompanied with lightning, moderate rain with maximum surface wind speed less than 40kmph very likely to occur at isolated places in Sabarkantha, Aravalli, Mahisagar, Dwarka, Jamnagar and Kutch districts, it said.The SEOC has asked the local administrations to remain alert in view of the heavy rainfall warning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parts-of-gujarat-receive-heavy-rains-434-mm-rainfall-in-khambhalia-tehsil/story-ofBVGQq9qjLRL51bVi3FKL.html
06-07-2020||India||Over 6 lakh people affected in 17 Assam districts due to floods||Around 6,80,931 people have been affected in 17 districts due to flood in the state, as per the Assam State Disaster Management Authority.4,852 people staying in 62 relief camps, the authority said.India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-6-lakh-people-affected-in-17-assam-districts-due-to-floods/story-crqJ0wZE24HzsvHZmeZUXI.html
06-07-2020||India||The political economy of petrol-diesel price hike||Petrol and diesel prices have gone up by Rs 9.17 and 11.14 per litre respectively between June 6 and July 3 in Delhi. An HT analysis published on June 24 showed that the gap between retail prices in Delhi and international crude price reached an all-time high in March 2020; this still continues to be significantly higher than pre-pandemic levels. This is because of an increase in taxes on petrol and diesel. Between April 1 and July 1, the share of central and state taxes in petrol and diesel prices in Delhi increased from 45% to 63% for diesel and 54% to 64% for petrol. Central taxes per litre are almost twice state taxes. And while fuel prices vary across states, the trend across India is pretty much the same.See Chart 1: Build up of petrol-diesel prices in Delhi on 1 April and July 1 As is to be expected, the tax-driven hike in petrol-diesel prices has become a political issue. The Congress and other opposition parties are demanding a reduction in taxes. The central government has justified the move by saying that the tax proceeds are being used for spending on “healthcare, generating employment and giving people financial security” and claimed that the common man has not been hit by the price hike as their consumption has decreased due to the lockdown . The truth, as is often the case, lies somewhere in the middle.Unlike developed countries, a very small share of Indians own cars. According to the 2011 census, only 4.5% of households owned a car, jeep, or van. The 2015-16 National Family and Health Survey (NFHS) puts the share of households owning a car or truck at 6%. To be sure, the share of households owning a motorized two-wheeler is significantly higher, 21% according to the 2011 census and 38% as per the 2015-16 NFHS. The 2011-12 Consumption Expenditure Survey (latest available data) shows that an overwhelming majority of Indian households either do not spend or spend very little on petrol and diesel. Petrol and diesel had a share of 2.4% in average Monthly Per Capita Expenditure (MPCE) in 2011-12. This increased from 0.1% for the bottom 10% of households to 4.2% for the top 10%. So, there is some merit to the claim that an increase in petrol-diesel prices does not affect household budgets directly.See Chart 2: Share of petrol-diesel in total MPCE by decile classDoes this mean that rise in petrol-diesel prices are a non-issue for the common man? Not necessarily. Petrol and diesel are crucial inputs for some of the poorest entrepreneurs in the Indian economy.Farmers use diesel as fuel in tractors and irrigation pumps. According to farmers activist Ramandeep Singh Mann, the diesel price hike might wipe out the benefit of the entire increase in Minimum Support Price (MSP) for paddy. It takes 25-30 litres of diesel to prepare an acre for cropping and another 75 litres of diesel over the entire season for irrigation, Mann said. Now, a hike of Rs 11 per litre in diesel prices means an additional expenditure of Rs 1,100, which is roughly equal to the MSP hike, assuming a yield of 22-23 quintal per acre, he added. To be sure, not all farmers use diesel pumps for irrigation purposes, as electricity is heavily subsidised for farmers.Another area where a fuel price hike can adversely affect poor people is in the transport sector. According to the 2018-19 Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), 2.9% of India’s workforce is directly employed in the motorised road transport sector. This excludes railways and non-motorised transport. Of the 11 million who are employed in this sector, 40% are self-employed. This is higher than the average share of self-employed people (36%) in India’s non-agricultural workforce. Some states have a significantly higher share of workers in this sector than others.See Chart 3: State-wise share of motorised road transport in total employment The passenger transport sector is bound to have suffered a huge fall in revenue due to the lockdown and continued fears about using public transport due to the Covid-19 virus. A rise in fuel prices must have made matters worse, as passenger volumes continue to stay low. The poor financial health is certain to affect workers in the sector.What about the cascading effect of higher fuel prices on other commodities? Transport operators say that diesel prices comprise around 65% of their operational cost. Mahendra Arya, President, All India Transporters Welfare Association, said that diesel prices have increased by around 22% since the lockdown was imposed on March 25. Accordingly, their transport costs have increased by around 14%, he added. The operators also complained of their inability to transfer the increased transport costs to their customers at present. With transportation demand down by almost half in the last few months due to Covid-19 , operators do not have much leverage over customers and are not able to fully pass on the cost , said Naveen Gupta, secretary general at the All India Motor Transport Congress.The increase in the basic transport cost will eventually affect many sectors, said Himanshu, associate professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University. This includes the food sector which has seen inflation in the last few months , he added. Even if the market is bad, transporters will have to increase prices to cover their costs, Himanshu said. Not everyone agrees. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at CARE Ratings, said that with the quantum of goods transported being lower than before, operators may not increase the cost and bear it themselves, in the hope that this is temporary.With economic activity collapsing during the pandemic, petrol and diesel prices have emerged an important cushion for revenue mobilisation for both central and state governments. Given that even non-Bharatiya Janata Party state governments have resorted to its use, any blanket calls for a rollback in central taxes will not pass the hypocrisy test. Data available with the petroleum ministry shows that taxes imposed on fuel by states governments have gone up significantly during the pandemic. For example, in Delhi, state tax on diesel almost doubled between April 1 and July 1. State taxes on petroleum do not follow a uniform structure across India. All states except Kerala, Gujarat, and Telangana have increased taxes on petrol and diesel in the post-pandemic period. Madhya Pradesh, for example, has increased the ad valorem VAT on petrol from 28% to 33% and the fixed VAT from Rs 1.5/litre to Rs 3.5/litre in May this year. Rajasthan increased the ad valorem VAT from 26% last year to 36% in May this year and to 38% in June. Because the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell website does not give a historical archive of state taxes, this analysis has compared June tax rates with online archives for February 2019 and May 2020.Petrol and diesel consumption fell sharply because of the lockdown. April consumption in physical terms was less than half the consumption last year. Things improved in May, and the annual contraction was to the tune of 29% for diesel and 35% for petrol. With the easing of lockdown restrictions, June consumption should be closer to normal . With sales volumes increasing, the government can realise the same amount of revenue for lower per-unit taxes. A transparent revenue forecasting exercise, given the fact that institutions such as the International Monetary Fund and World Bank have already made their economic growth projections for the current fiscal, can be used to draft a plan about how much extra revenue should be drawn from petroleum products. State government could also argue that greater share of petroleum revenues be transferred to the divisible pool of taxes, rather than the centre keeping it all. The entire increase in central taxes on petrol and diesel after the pandemic has been under the heads of special additional excise duty and additional excise duty (road and infrastructure cess), neither of which forms a part of the divisible pool of central taxes.As far as vulnerable consumers such as farmers and the poor making a living in the passenger transport sector are concerned, concessions can be made through special channels such as Kisan Credit Cards or some sort of a limited subsidy against vehicle registration certificates. These, however, require nuance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-political-economy-of-petrol-diesel-price-hike/story-n1wUkMkOa86mPvgNng0LsJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Community spread of Covid has begun in Assam, total lockdown may get extended||Assam government on Sunday said that community spread of Covid-19 has begun in Guwahati and rest of Kamrup Metro district. The government added that the ongoing total lockdown to control the pandemic might get extended.The development comes a day after 777 Covid-19 positive cases, the single biggest spike in a day, were reported from Kamrup Metro taking the district’s tally for 10 days between June 24 and July 4 to 2,741 cases. The state has reported 11,001 cases so far.“In the last 10 days we have recorded 2741 positive cases in Guwahati and rest of Kamrup Metro. Almost all of these cases are from community transmission,” state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Sunday.“We have formally entered pandemic since June 24 and can no longer blame Karnataka, Mumbai, Tamil Nadu or Delhi (from where returnees came back during May and June) for COVID-19 spread in our state,” he said.Assam government had imposed a 14-day total lockdown in Kamrup Metro from June 28 allowing only pharmacies to operate. However, with the number of cases not coming down, Sarma has indicated that the lockdown might get extended after the 14-day period on July 12.“Extension of lockdown in Kamrup Metro depends on the number of cases. We might have to extend it by another week. There will be a need to find balance between allowing economic activity and risking lives of people,” he said.“We had to announce total lockdown from June 28 due to special circumstances and the present situation in Kamrup Metro shows the government move was timely and needed,” Sarma said.While Covid-19 patients were kept in government hospitals till now, the surge has forced the government to consider keeping some in private hospitals. Sarma indicated that the government might take over a few private hospitals in Guwahati for management of Covid patients.The minister also informed that a plasma bank has become operational in Guwahati Medical College Hospital and a doctor who recovered from Covid-19 was the first donor. The health department has also started administering Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug, to Covid-19 patients with serious complications.“Till Sunday, we have conducted 455,223 tests across the state and with 13,471 tests per million, Assam is placed fourth after Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu among all states in the country. As part of our community surveillance, we have conducted nearly 82,000 tests till now,” said Sarma.On Sunday, Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna announced a fresh set of guidelines for Kamrup Metro for the period between July 5 and July 12 allowing opening of grocery shops and sale of fruits and vegetables.All standalone grocery shops in the district will be allowed to open between 11 am and 4 pm from July 6 to July 10 and house to house sale of fruits and vegetables allowed from 8 am to 2 pm on July 6 and July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-spread-of-covid-has-begun-in-assam-total-lockdown-may-get-extended/story-Qenid30HZuJOu8JT5E2jUL.html
06-07-2020||India||5 start-ups in shortlist for Make in India video app||A video conferencing solution challenge launched by the ministry of electronics and information technology, aimed at finding an Indian alternative to Zoom, has thrown up a surprise – the top five companies to make it to the ministry’s list are all start-ups.The top three, which will be provided ₹20 lakh each as support from the government to develop an indigenous video conferencing application, are PeopleLink Unified Communications Pvt Ltd, Hyderabad; Sarv Webs Pvt Ltd, Jaipur; and Techgentsia Software Technologies Private Ltd, Alappuhza.The other two companies, Instrive Softlabs Private Ltd, Chennai; and Soulpage IT Solutions Private Ltd, Hyderabad, will be given ₹15 lakh each to develop the final product.Officials in the information and technology (IT) ministry said on condition of anonymity that over 2,000 applications had come in by potential participants in the video conferencing app challenge, which was launched on April 13. The challenge came in the backdrop of the nationwide lockdown that led to the need for video conferencing apps to support the country’s shift to working from home and comply with social distancing norms.Initially, American-origin application Zoom gained wide popularity, with even certain ministries and a number of officials taking to it to communicate. Security concerns surrounding Zoom led the central government to ask all ministries and departments to refrain from using the app and shift to the National Informatics Centre’s Vidyo application instead. Vidyo too is an American-origin company, but is vetted by the National Informatics Centre to ensure data privacy.After a series of presentations, the five start-ups were shortlisted. IT ministry officials told HT that tech giants such HCL Technologies Ltd and Zoho Corporation Private Ltd had also applied, but could not make it to the top five. Zoho, however, has been awarded a certificate of appreciation by the ministry.“PeopleLink is a slightly older company,” an IT ministry official said. “But Sarv and Techgentsia are nascent start-ups.”The official added that the latter two have devised “homegrown” solutions, from coding to ensuring that all information is encrypted in a secure fashion. “Sarv, for example, did their entire presentation in Hindi,” the official said.“Most tech solutions are built on Jitsi (an open source video conferencing application for web and mobile),” the official added. “That is the easy thing to do. However, the top three have unique design and were created independent of Jitsi. The entire architecture of the app is specialised. ”The official added that final versions of the solutions are likely to be rolled out by the end of the month.Ramesh Chaudhary, CEO of Sarv that has developed SARV wave, launched his company in 2011. “The product is completely indigenous,” said Chaudhary. “No data will travel out of India and it has been certified by CERT.”Chaudhary added that the solution is a one-click product that does not require a user to download the app. “You can view up to 50 people in one screen and will especially be able to cater to educational institutions. Its end-to-end encryption matches the standards of the European Union.”According to Techgentsia CEO Joy Sebastian, the beta version of the product has already been vetted by the IT ministry. “Ours is a server-site mixing solution,” said Sebastian. “The main aim was to enable the government to save money by reducing reliance on legacy video conferencing applications.”Techgentsia was founded in 2009 and has 50 people working on the project.“The servers will be in the government’s custody; so that ensures data security,” said Sebastian. “Nothing will be posted on a public cloud.”According to the essential and desirable features of the applications issued by the ministry and accessed by HT, the apps are required to provide end-to-end encryption for audio, video, data and files. They also have to store the data on the cloud for at least a month and provide multiple factor authentications for a user. Among desirable features were a CERT-In security audit and data privacy.According to Srinivas Kodali, an independent researcher working on technology, data and governance, the move to choose start-ups is a “logical one.”“If the ministry had picked an HCL or a Zoho, it would have helped those companies garner profits,” Kodali said. “However, by picking newer companies, it will help the government retain its money and create more jobs in the sector.”Kodali added that the privacy concerns will still remain as any product takes “time to stabilise.” “Zoom marketed itself as end-to-end encrypted, but it turned out otherwise,” Kodali said. “Even though CERT may have done an audit, they still have to prove it. It’s an evolution cycle. Moreover, the question remains whether compliance with local laws will ensure that these companies have to disallow what the government doesn’t want to grant access to, say an NGO holding a talk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-start-ups-in-shortlist-for-make-in-india-video-app/story-nRgq9RxD82at8hW1YudL4H.html
06-07-2020||India||Another grim milestone: India No.3 in total coronavirus cases||With four consecutive days of record highs in new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), India on Sunday went past Russia in total infections to become the third biggest hot spot of the virus, ranking only behind the US and Brazil.The country reported 24,422 new cases and 421 new deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of infections to 697,284 and fatalities to 19,700.With nearly three million cases and 132,000 deaths, the United States is the worst-hit country in the world, followed by Brazil, which has nearly 1.6 million cases and over 64,000 deaths, according to worldometers.info. Russia, now at the fourth spot, has 681,251 Covid-19 infections and 10,161 deaths. Peru was placed fifth with over 299,000 cases and 10,000 deaths on Sunday night.Public health experts say that while India has a high Covid-19 caseload, its case fatality rate, at 2.8%, is much lower than the global average of 4.7%. Also read: Delhi’s Covid-19 case count likely to hit 100k today, fatality rate at 3%Another statistic that offers hope is that 424,596 patients, or 60.9%, have recovered from the disease — better than the global recovery rate of 56.6%. The recovery rate in India has been climbing steadily — it was 48% a month ago and 28.5% 30 days before that. This means that 36.4% of the total case count is currently “active”. Active cases are a crucial metric because they directly influence the patient load faced by the country’s health care infrastructure.  The three worst-hit states – Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi – account for more than 60% of all cases recorded in the country, indicating how the virus has created urban hot spots of the infection. Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai have remained the cities with the highest numbers of infections, with 99,444, 84,524 and 68,254 confirmed Covid-19 cases (36.2% of the national tally) as of Sunday. Nearly 85% of all cases in the country can be traced to the 10 worst-affected states.New Covid-19 cases have dropped substantially in China, the country where the pandemic originated, but surged in India and ravaged South America. Experts say that in countries with weak health care systems and impoverished populations, fighting the virus has proven to be difficult.Latin America has become the latest epicentre of the highly contagious disease, with Brazil and Mexico both reporting massive spike in cases over the past month.In India, the latest 100,000 infections were recorded in just five days. India recorded its first 50,000 Covid-19 cases in nearly 67 days, with a wave of infections beginning in March after three isolated cases were first reported in Kerala in January.The disease’s doubling rate, which is defined as the average period it takes for a twofold rise, is 20.3 days. Across the world, many governments are easing restrictions as they face political and economic challenges triggered by the pandemic. So far, the disease has killed at least 535,000 people worldwide and infected more than 11.4 million.Also read: India tests 10 million samples for Covid-19, experts say more requiredConcerns are rising in India, where new cases showed another record jump on Sunday, going past 21,000 for the fourth straight day amid easing restrictions on travel and business activity. States with relatively few cases have seen spikes in recent days as residents, including migrant workers travelling in special trains, have returned home. On average, India has reported 22,377 cases over the last five days.Delhi reported 2,244 new cases on Sunday, taking the total infections to 99,444. A total of 3,067 people have died of the disease in the Capital so far. The numbers of daily cases in Delhi have remained under 3,000 for the last nine days, prompting chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to say that situation had been controlled by joint efforts of his government and the Centre.While at the national level the new cases have risen by 3.5% on average over the past week, two states — Karnataka and Telangana — have shown nearly double the rate of increase in the same period. Though still considerably behind the “big three” in terms of total cases, Karnataka and Telangana have been climbing the national tally steadily, reporting the highest single-day cases outside the “big three” every day over the last week.India broke into the top three hot spots of the infectious disease on a day the country completed testing 10 million samples for Covid-19, with more than 230,000 being tested every day on average over the last week. This places India on the fifth spot in the world in absolute numbers of tests — behind China, the US, Russia and the UK. However, once the population of the country is factored in, India drops to the 135th position globally, with over 7,500 tests conducted for every million residents of the country.Experts, however, say that the death toll is a more effective indicator of how a country is performing against the pandemic. “Case counts are not a reliable indicator as there are too many variables. Cases detected depend on the number of tests, types of tests and false positives and false negatives associated with it, criterion for testing (who’s eligible, who’s not), and repeat testing. Given the fact that testing rates are different on each day and the numbers are not standardised, daily deaths are a more stable indicator of whether there is a decline in the epidemic,” said Dr Srinath K Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.“Since deaths lag behind cases by 10-20 days, a fall in daily deaths over 10 consecutive days is a more stable indicator of decline in new cases. Europe didn’t talk about case counts, they opened up when daily deaths started coming down. Italy, Spain and France all did that. But you need total deaths and deaths per million to assess the overall impact of the epidemic after it’s over,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-grim-milestone-india-no-3-in-total-cases/story-lJPkEouOjojcdp6HrxizVI.html
06-07-2020||India||Heavy Saurashtra rains: Van swept away, man feared drowned||A man was feared drowned while two others managed to save themselves on Sunday when their pick-up van was swept away due to strong river current on the outskirts of Rajkot in Gujarat, officials said.The Bolero vehicle was crossing a bridge that had been overrun by water from the Khokhardar river, an Aji Dam police station official said.“There were three people in the van, two of whom managed to come out of the vehicle in time. The third person is missing and rescue efforts by fire brigade and police are continuing,” he said.Saurashtra, of which Rajkot is a part, has received heavy rainfall during the day.The State Emergency Operations Centre said districts of Saurashtra like Gir Somnath, Junagadh, Amreli, Morbi, Jamnagar, Devbhoomi Dwarka received heavy rainfall.Sutrapada taluka of Gir Somnath got 99 millimetres of rain in just four hours between 12 noon and 4pm.Visavadar taluka of Junagadh received 77 mm rainfall between 6 am and 4 pm, and Amreli’s Khambha got 69 mm rainfall during this period.The Ahmedabad centre of the India Meteorological Department said a low pressure area has formed over Kutch and neighbouring regions which is very likely to become more marked during the next 24 hours.The IMD predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places in Saurashtra, north and south Gujarat over the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-saurashtra-rains-van-swept-away-man-feared-drowned/story-2H4z8HhGDv169Pkw2iNuSO.html
06-07-2020||India||Fire at Ghaziabad’s illegal factory kills 8; probe ordered||Seven women and an 18-year-old man were charred to death and 11 others injured in a fire that swept through an illegal factory manufacturing party poppers in Ghaziabad district’s Modinagar town, officials said on Sunday.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath took note of the incident and asked authorities to conduct an immediate probe, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, adding that he has already ordered a magisterial inquiry into the accident. A first information report (FIR) will be lodged against the person operating the factory and he will be sent to jail, Pandey told reporters in Bakharwa village, where the factory is located.“We have found laxity on part of the local police post in-charge as he was prima facie expected to have knowledge about the factory. The CM has announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the family of the deceased,” Pandey said.Senior superintendent of police Kalanidhi Naithani said: “The factory was illegal as we have found no documents or records of its operation or permission.”Fire department officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said manufactured items stocked at the complex caught fire around 4pm. Forensic experts were roped in to ascertain the exact cause of fire. All the 11 injured are women.“There were no safety measures and the factory did not have any licence. It was operating illegally. There were 25-30 women who were employed as workers; even children used to work here,” said Bupender Kumar, a villager.Villagers alleged that the factory was operated illegally by one Nitin Chuaudhary and his partner, Momeen. A police raid was conducted about a fortnight ago but the operations continued unaffected, they said.After the incident, officials in the Ghaziabad administration and the police rushed to the spot. Modinagar legislator Manju Siwach, too, visited the site.“The factory was manufacturing poppers which are used for birthday celebrations. The work was going on illegally and explosive chemicals which were also stored, caught fire,” she said.Later, villagers blocked a road and shouted slogans against officials.“Villagers were demanding strict action as the factory continued its operations. My aunt had been working there for the past year...She was given a job for Rs 4,500 a month. She went to work at 8am and later we found that she died in the fire,” said Sahil, the nephew of one of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-at-ghaziabad-s-illegal-factory-kills-8-probe-ordered/story-JqMenqZiy1ukUY3fXL3YEN.html
06-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey’s aide held; search on for informers in police||Police in Uttar Pradesh arrested an aide of criminal Vikas Dubey and intensified search for suspected informers in the force who could have tipped him off about a raid that eventually led to the killing of eight personnel by his gang, officials said on Sunday.Daya Shankar Agnihotri, suspected to be part of the gang that laid a trap for the police team raiding Kanpur Dehat’s Bikru village and attacked them on Thursday night, was arrested after a gunfight in Kalyanpur area near Kanpur city.Agnihotri, who has three criminal cases including two cases of attempted murder against him, suffered a bullet wound in his right leg. He carried a reward of Rs 25,000, and was allegedly Dubey’s domestic help. Agnihotri said in a video statement that a caller from a police station informed the 48-year-old Dubey, who faces 60 criminal cases, about the raid. HT has seen the video.Officials suspect it could be the police station in Chaubeypur, about 14km from Bikru. It is the place where an attempt to murder case was registered against Dubey by a villager on Wednesday. The team that went to raid Dubey’s village past Thursday midnight left from Chaubeypur.Agnihotri said at least 25 people were waiting with Dubey for the police team, which walked straight into their trap and was ambushed in a 15-minute onslaught, according to the official.Dubey’s gang fired at them indiscriminately, killing a deputy superintendent, three sub-inspectors and four constables in an ambush that the police later said was a “well-planned conspiracy”.Hours later, security personnel launched a massive search for the criminals who escaped in the dark, and gunned down two suspected gang members about 3km from the village.In a first information report (FIR) filed on Friday night, the police named a total of 22 people, including Dubey and Agnihotri, and 10 unidentified people.INSIDER LINK?On Saturday, Chaubeypur station officer (SO) Vinay Tiwari was questioned for nine hours over his role in the raid. He was later suspended and shifted to Lucknow. Officials did not specify the nature of allegations against him.Officials believe that Dubey, an influential gangster whose criminal records date back to 1993, has supporters in the police force and that they helped him and his gang enjoy a free run despite cases of murder, attempted murder and abduction against them.Mohit Agarwal, inspector general of police, Kanpur range, said at least three policemen were suspected to be in touch with Dubey and an investigation was underway. “Services of police personnel in league with him will be terminated and they will face criminal trial,” he said.DUBEY’S WHEREABOUTSThe police are yet to trace Dubey, who has been missing since the ambush. Director general of police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy has sounded an alert in all 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh. On Saturday night, a reward of Rs 1 lakh was announced for his arrest. Fifty teams and over 3,000 police personnel across the state have been deployed for the mission.Police officials associated with the investigation, who did not want to be named, said an abandoned SUV parked on the roadside in Auraiya, 60km from Bikru, was recovered on Sunday. Bloodstains were found on the car window. “There are multiple shortcuts and interior roads from Auraiya that lead to the Madhya Pradesh border,” a senior police official in Kanpur said. There is a possibility that Dubey moved further to other states after entering Madhya Pradesh, he added.DGP Awasthi said in Lucknow several inputs were being received that hinted Dubey entered Madhya Pradesh or Nepal. But nothing substantial has emerged, he said.He confirmed that police recovered an abandoned SUV in Auraiya registered in the name of one Amit Dubey, a close aide of the gangster. Local authorities were trying to verify if Dubey and his aides were travelling in the vehicle and left it on the roadside.ARMS FOUNDA day after the police demolished the palatial house of Dubey in Bikru village, two kilograms of explosives, six country-made pistols, 25 live rounds and sharpnels in a bunker there, according to officials. Police said Dubey built a bunker inside his house for stocking items in case of a siege. Police pulled down the house following inputs that criminals had hidden firearms on the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dubey-s-aide-held-search-on-for-informers-in-police/story-BCERiyO9imlRRBEXuryc0N.html
06-07-2020||India||Govt plans measures to create more jobs in post Covid-19 scenario||Promoting herbal and medical gardens in tribal areas, providing street vendors access to credit and using the infrastructure of the Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) are among a slew of measures that the Centre is examining to generate employment in the post-Covid scenario.Realising the challenges posed by the migration of lakhs of workers to their home states, the Modi government had been quick to appoint a group of ministers, headed by social justice and empowerment minister Thaawaar Chand Gehlot, to ensure that new means of livelihood are generated and the skill training is accelerated.The group has zeroed in on a gamut of measures to ensure a plethora of employment opportunities to meet the current scenario.Also read: Govt tweaks MGNREGS for benefit of unskilled workersAccording to a person familiar with the development, one of the focus areas of the group is to come up with strategies for promoting rural manufacturing, including handicrafts, terracotta, brass and khadi industries, etc.A key aspect that the group is examining is the possibility of promoting herbal and medicinal gardens especially in the tribal areas to benefit the local population. Tribal affairs minister, Arjun Munda, is a also a member of the group.Another aspect the government is exploring is improving the prospects of street vendors, by providing them credit at accessible rates. “This is one of the ideas being explored. The city of Indore in Madhya Pradesh has done some work for the welfare of the street vendors. The group has examined the possibility of adopting ideas and the learning from these experiences to improve the situation of street vendors,” said the person cited above.Another aspect that the government is looking at is using the infrastructure of skill development ministry’s ITIs to impart skilling to workers to prepare them for job opportunities in the pandemic-affected world.The skill development ministry, led by Mahendra Nath Pandey, is already holding consultations with various sector skill councils to improve the employability of the country’s workforce. The Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, is also chipping in by conducting a study on skill gaps, according to the person cited above.Also read: Railways urges states to send back labourers for construction work of projectsSeveral other measures, including a National Employment Policy, a National Electronic Employment Exchange and building of a skill based database, are also in the pipeline.“There will be brainstorming and presentations on all these aspects in the coming days. And many of these measures will soon be launched as the government is increasingly focusing on giving a boost to employment and livelihood,” said a government official, when asked about the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-measures-to-create-more-jobs/story-zsfzdn6OLLVhMgqQZ14pXL.html
06-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Kerala imposes safety rules for one year||The Kerala government tightened measures on Sunday to check the spread of Covid-19 cases by making wearing of facemask and observance of social distancing mandatory for one year. The government backed the measures, saying people had begun to take safety rules casually after relaxations. However, traders in the state said the tightening of norms may prove to be counterproductive for businesses.Fine for those not wearing a mask has been increased to Rs 10,000 or to a two-year jail term. These measures will be in force for one year unless notified otherwise, said a statement from the government.“We don’t want to lower our guard at the critical juncture. After norms are eased, some people are behaving like pre-Covid days; we want to check this. As long as the virus is in our backyard, we have to follow three basic norms, social distancing, masks and hand hygiene,” state health minister K K Shailaja said.The government amended the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Ordinance 2020 on Saturday to give it more teeth. Earlier, the fine for not wearing a mask was Rs 2,000. The amendment has also made social distancing mandatory for at least one year and restricted the number of participants for wedding parties to less than 50. For all social gatherings, protests and rallies, a written sanction of authorities will be needed, said the statement. Spitting in public places has been made an offence punishable with a fine or jail term. In shops and other business establishments, the amendment limits the presence of people to a maximum of 20, depending on the size of the trading area. Even at work places, masks are mandatory and wearing them casually will also invite a fine. Business establishments have been asked to avoid air-conditioning and closed enclosures and told to maintain office temperature in the range of 25 and 27 degree Celsius.While Indian Medical Association’s Kerala chapter, which wanted stricter norms, welcomed the move, traders and businessmen were guarded in their reaction.“Containment measures are welcome but at the same time the government will have to ensure proper atmosphere for traders. Even at worst-hit areas in Tamil Nadu and Mumbai these norms are not extended to one year,” said MP Prashanth, a trader in Chalai market in Thiruvananthapuram.The decision came in the backdrop of a steady rise in coronavirus disease cases in the state. On Sunday, Kerala reported 225 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 5,429. One person succumbed to the infection, taking the toll up to 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kerala-imposes-safety-rules-for-one-year/story-ZaQ0sbAjhdULCj76iL3zgP.html
06-07-2020||India||India tests 10 million samples for Covid-19, experts say more required||India has tested 10 million samples for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past five-and-a-half months, with at least 200,000 samples being tested between January 22 and July 5 on average daily in the 11,00 laboratories that were identified, upgraded or established across the country at a breakneck speed to ramp up testing and prevent the spread of infections. Covid-19 testing labs in the country approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) are capable of performing about 350,000 tests a day currently, an increase from about 10,000 tests per day in early February. ICMR has been reiterating how developing an intelligent testing strategy helped India stay ahead of the Sars-CoV2 virus that causes Covid-19.From 13 labs in the first week of February to 123 labs on March 24, India now has 1,100 testing labs in all states, and the numbers are only growing as ICMR continues to expand the testing laboratory network. Of the approved laboratories, 786 labs are in the government sector and 314 are private testing facilities.Also read| Covid-19: Delhi govt orders hospitals to test all ‘high-risk’ individualsICMR has also collaborated with other science and research agencies such as the department of science and technology, department of biotechnology, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Defence Research and Development Organisation and the Department of Atomic Energy for use of their testing labs and developing research solutions.Amitabh Kant, CEO of the government policy think tank Niti Aayog, emphasized the need for aggressive testing.“…We can succeed against #Covid-19 only with 3T strategy of testing, tracing and treating. This is the moment to act, and to act fast,” Kant tweeted. Kant chairs the empowered group number 6 on coordinating with private sector, NGOs, and International Organisations for Covid-19-related response.Experts also say that testing is crucial to determine the disease burden.“Unless you test you cannot know the actual disease prevalence. Targeted approach is about being able to know the disease burden as exactly as possible, and we now have the expertise and technology at our disposal to break things down to the lowest level. Looking for syndromic cases or guessing cases on the basis of clinical assessment doesn’t make sense in today’s day and age when science has advanced significantly. We have the resources and it is a good idea to make use of them,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology, ICMR. The national testing strategy is being constantly revised in line with the current trend of the outbreak.Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) is the gold standard testing method for the Sars- CoV-2 diagnosis and is in place in all the identified laboratories for diagnosing the disease, says ICMR. To ramp up testing, ICMR has also been exploring other testing mechanisms for diagnosis along with RT-PCR testing.“Testing remains a cornerstone in our fight against Covid-19 and therefore ramping up testing is essentially critical to track, trace and treat all cases of Covid-19,” said the director general of ICMR, Dr Blaram Bhargava, in one of its letters to the Union health secretary, Preeti Sudan, last month.Also read: Karnataka sees 1,925 new Covid-19 cases, Bengaluru accounts for 60% of patients“Since the gold standard RT-PCR test has essential requirements in terms of biosafety and biosecurity as well as specialized equipment, ICMR had been exploring alternate, quick and reliable options for diagnosis of Covid-19.”On June 15, ICMR validated first point of care rapid antigen test for Covid-19 diagnosis that states can deploy on the field in containment zones, hotspots and hospitals, and get results in a maximum 30 minutes as opposed to five hours in a conventional RT-PCR test.This is the first such rapid test in the world that can be used for diagnosis as positive cases need not be confirmed through an RT-PCR test.An antigen is a foreign molecule that induces an immune response in the body, especially the production of antibodies, and detecting its presence determines a present infection.Apart from antigen testing, ICMR also included antibody-based (blood) tests for sero-surveillance.“However, antibody tests are not suitable to diagnose live Covid-19 infections,” advises the ICMR.The ICMR advisory says to start rapid antibody based blood tests for Covid-19 as a strategy for areas reporting clusters (containment zones) and in large migration gatherings and in, evacuees centres.ICMR has developed guidelines ranging from the preparation of a network of government and private laboratories to ensure efficient validation and evaluation of new diagnostic kits.ICMR is also considering other scale-up interventions such as moving to a 24x7 working model at existing labs, coordinating with states to increase staff for various functions including data-entry, re-deploying automated and manual RT-PCR machines already in the country to aid Covid-19 testing, and optimising in-lab processes such as RNA extraction to reduce the turnaround time between sample receipt and testing.Experts say India would need to test more as not even 1% of the country’s total population has currently been tested.“It is important to test more because you cannot devise strategies for the remaining 99% of the population by looking at statistics coming from just 1% of the country’s population,” says Dr T Jacob John, former virology head at the Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tests-10mn-samples-experts-say-more-required/story-33hpi4QEmahyUj7TxNDfgO.html
06-07-2020||India||40 websites with Sikhs For Justice links banned by Centre||The Centre on Sunday blocked 40 websites linked to the banned Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) group which were being used to propagate anti-India sentiment across the world and for trying to recruit young Sikhs to join militant ranks, people familiar with the development said. The ministry of electronics and information technology took down the websites on a recommendation from the ministry of home affairs after it was found that SFJ, primarily operating from the United States, was aggressively using them to push its anti-India agenda, the people said on condition of anonymity. SFJ was banned by the government in July 2019 while its leader, Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, was declared an “individual terrorist” under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act on Wednesday. Both MHA and the IT ministry refused to disclose details of websites that have been blocked. One of the key websites associated widely with the group – www.referendum2020.org - through which it sought support from Sikh youth for the formation of a separate Khalistan state, could not be accessed as it has been blocked by the Department of Telecommunications. According to a gazette notification issued last year when SFJ was banned, “The outfit is involved in anti-national and subversive activities in Punjab and elsewhere, intended to disrupt the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India.” “SFJ is in close touch with the militant outfits and activists, and is supporting violent form of extremism and militancy in Punjab and elsewhere to carve out a sovereign Khalistan out of territory of Union of India; SFJ is encouraging and aiding the activities for secession of a part of the Indian territory from the Union of India and supporting separatist groups fighting for this purpose in India and elsewhere by indulging in activities and articulations intended to disrupt the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India,” the central government order said The declaration banning the group was upheld by the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Tribunal headed by Delhi high court chief justice DN Patel. In its judgment, issued on January 6 this year, the tribunal said, “The notification dated July 10, 2019 issued by the Union of India under the Act declaring Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) to be an unlawful association is hereby confirmed. The reference is answered in the affirmative.”It was in the judgment that the website, www.referendum2020.org, “which is replete with pro-Khalistani posts and anti-India insinuations” was mentioned.Agencies are trying to get an Interpol red notice issued against Pannun. Indian officials have claimed that Pannun was getting support from Pakistan for his anti-India activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-websites-with-sfj-links-banned/story-DT68GdAV8nc1Q52s8cLI3I.html
06-07-2020||India||India may change hydroxychloroquine policy after WHO halts trials||India could be taking a relook at the use of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for treatment of Covid-19 after the World Health Organisation (WHO) on Saturday announced that it had discontinued HCQ clinical trials because it did not reduce mortality in hospitalized patients, based on the results of interim trials.India uses HCQ as a prominent drug not just for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, but also as a prophylaxis (for prevention) medicine for use among fron tline workers involved in managing Covid-19 patients or close contacts of a laboratory positive case.“Covid-19 is a new disease and it is an extremely dynamic situation that we are dealing with, and newer data is constantly being generated. What we knew of the virus’ behaviour say a couple of months ago has undergone a sea change now, and same is applicable for the drugs and other treatment modalities being given to the patients,” said one of the members of the National Task Force constituted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), to tackle the pandemic. The person requested anonymity The evidence generated from across the globe is being constantly scrutinized by experts here and guidelines and protocols are being revised accordingly. The same is true for HCQ or any other drug given to Covid-19 patients. The experts will be reviewing the guidelines and protocols and if they feel a need for a revision, they will change them, the member added.The recommended dosage for HCQ is 400mg twice a day for one day, followed by 200mg twice a day for four days; and for treatment it was being given along with antibiotic azithromycin, as part of the Union health ministry protocol on Covid-19 management. In its review of the protocol, the health ministry had dropped the antibiotic from the regimen. “When you start a drug for a condition based on some evidence then there is a need for even stronger evidence to withdraw that drug. Science works on evidence,” Dr RR Gangakhedkar, ICMR’s former epidemiology head said about the HCQ controversy earlier.A section of doctors has been saying that more evidence was required to keep the drug a part of the treatment protocol for Covid-19 management.“I would say I have not been as confident about this medicine now as I was earlier,” says Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman of the critical care department at Medanta Hospital.Based on its Solidarity Trial’s International Steering Committee recommendations, WHO also discontinued the trial’s Lopinavir and Ritonavir arms for the same reason. Both these drugs are antivirals meant for HIV/AIDS treatment, and had shown promise initially in treating Covid-19. India dropped these medicines from its list of drugs used to treat Covid-positive cases in April.“These were initially being given under the emergency use authorization but later ICMR had withdrawn these drugs from the regimen as the results weren’t really great,” said an official of the Union health ministry, requesting anonymity. ICMR has also collaborated with WHO in the public health emergency Solidarity Trial – an international randomised trial of additional treatments for Covid-19 in hospitalised patients, and will be stopping these arms of the trial.“It is a WHO trial and the rules are governed by them. Since they have suspended these arms of the trial, it will obviously be suspended at trial sites in India also,” said an ICMR official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-review-hcq-use-for-covid/story-3VI5swOS69bk8eCzc6o1DM.html
06-07-2020||India||Railways in talks with states to get infra workers back||Indian Railways is in talks with states to get back labourers for construction work on its biggest infrastructure projects—the dedicated freight corridors. The project implementation agency, the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL), which had been left with about 50% of its workforce after the lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was enforced on March 25, has begun the process of getting back nearly 20,000 labourers, officials said.DFCCIL has sought help from state governments including those of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand to arrange workers for the Rs 81,000 crore project, scheduled to be completed by 2021, officials aware of the development said. DFCCIIL has begun booking special trains in bulk and deploying buses to get the labourers back.“ We had nearly 40,000 labourers working for us before the lockdown. After the first lockdown was announced, a bulk of migrants went back in the first 15 days. Once the Shramik Special trains began plying, nearly 50% of our workforce {around 25,000 labourers} had gone back. We have major agencies including L&T, Tata, GMR group etc who requested us to get the labour back. We have written to the UP government, we are also talking to the governments of Bihar and Jharkhand for the same as a majority of the workers comes from the eastern states,” said Anurag Sachan, managing director, DFCCIL.Also read: No job cuts but profiles of employees may change, says RailwaysRailways until now has transported more than 6.28 million migrants on board 4,594 Shramik Special trains that began plying from May 1 to ferry stranded migrants to their home states.“So far around 8,000 labourers have returned and we are arranging transportation for more to return. Several of the special trains that are plying were returning nearly empty, we managed to make bookings in bulk for the labourers. States like UP and Bihar have also made of the migrants and their skills and we are in touch with them. At present we are still at 50% of our total workforce,” Sachan added.These workers are needed for technical jobs like electrification, mast casting, track works, operating high-end machines and others which cannot be done by local labour. Around 11,000 workers of the total workforce were skilled labour, officials said.The ministry of railways is implementing two dedicated freight corridors, namely the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor from Ludhiana to Dankuni (1,856 km.) and Western Dedicated Freight Corridor from Dadri to Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (1m504 km.). These corridors are targeted to be completed in phases by December 2021. DFCCIL had completed a total of 500 kilometres till January this year.Also read| Can’t convert coaches into ICUs for Covid patients: Railways to Bombay HCThe railway ministry last month said the trend of migrants returning by special trains from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal --states with a high migrant worker population – showed signs of economic activity picking up.Special trains returning from high migrant population states have shown over 100% occupancy from June 26 till June 30, according to railway ministry data, indicating that many of them may be migrants who had gone back to their home states on Shramik Specials during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlys-urges-states-to-send-back-labourers/story-DRbFkOwwxwrtMpV0L91Z9K.html
06-07-2020||India||Coronavirus vaccine trial beginning of pandemic’s end: Govt||The announcement of indigenous vaccine candidates COVAXIN by Bharat Biotech and ZyCov-D Vaccine by Zydus Cadila against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will mark the beginning of the end of the pandemic, the Union ministry of science and technology said on Sunday.“…Now the nod given by the Drug Controller General of India CDSCO (The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation) for the conduct of the human trial for the vaccines, marks the beginning of the end,” read parts of a feature published in the India Science Wire, a science and technology news portal under the ministry.Indian institutions have also engaged in research and development on vaccines in India, including the India Council of Medical Research-run National Institute of Virology in Pune, and Hyderabad based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, which works under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. The virus strain isolated for Bharat Biotech’s COVAXIN was isolated in NIV and transferred to the company on May 9.The Zydus vaccine candidate that received the drug controller’s nod for conducting phase 1-2 human trials, was developed indigenously at the company’s Vaccine Technology Centre in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. The company plans to start the human clinical trials in July 2020.The ministry’s press release had initially mentioned that it would take anywhere between 15 and 18 months before a licence is issued for the vaccines, and that “none of these vaccines is unlikely to be ready for mass use before 2021.”The ministry, however, later retracted the portions that mentioned a timeline for the vaccine.Even though the science ministry officially did not issue a statement on the retraction, an official in the press information bureau of the government of India said on condition of anonymity that it had happened advertently; and that the purpose was to explain how vaccines work and the whole feature {published in the India Science Wire} was about that. There was no time frame and that’s why it had been modified. Along with the two Indian vaccines, COVAXIN and ZyCov-D, the world over, 11 out of 140 vaccine candidates have entered human trials.One of the leading candidates is AZD1222, developed by the Jenner Institute of University of Oxford and licenced to AstraZeneca, a British-Swedish multinational pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical company based in Cambridge, England.The MRNA-1273 vaccine developed by Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research Institute, Washington and taken up for production by the US-based Moderna pharmaceutical is just a step behind.Both these firms have already inked an agreement with Indian manufacturers for production of the Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-trial-beginning-of-pandemic-s-end-govt/story-3rZmHzqLUkWs4EMY6uIwxI.html
06-07-2020||India||Govt tweaks MGNREGS for benefit of unskilled workers||With millions of unskilled migrant workers in the cities having returned to rural India in the aftermath of the lockdown imposed for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Narendra Modi government has tweaked the flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) for the benefit of the workers.The government notified on July 2 that unskilled workers can now participate in the construction of community sanitary complexes under its flagship Swachh Bharat scheme—a priority welfare measure for the government.The phrase “Unskilled wage component for construction of Community Sanitary Complexes in convergence with Swachh Bharat Mission (Grameen)” has been added to schedule 1 of the MGNREGS where it talks about “Rural sanitation related works, such as, individual household latrines, School toilet units, Anganwadi toilets either independently or in convergence with schemes of other Government Departments to achieve “open defecation free‟ status, and solid and liquid waste management.The arrangement, officials said, would in getting more hands for Swachh Bharat-related construction and for the unskilled workers, opens a dedicated area of work. MGNREGS promises 100 days of manual work a year to at least one member of every rural householdThe government recently announced a targeted programme comprising 25 types of existing work to offer jobs to migrant labourers who have returned home in the wake of the Covid pandemic. Out of these 25, construction of community sanitation complexes was mentioned at the top of the presentation made at a press conference.Public works worth Rs 50,000 crore would be offered to create jobs for migrant workers through this programme.The skill mapping done in 116 districts across six states for the rozgar (employment)programme has revealed the high share of unskilled workers from the construction sector who came back to rural India during the pandemic. While construction workers comprised nearly 60% of all migrant daily-wagers, about 40% were unskilled.Officials pointed out that last year too, the MGNREGS laws had been tweaked when the government renewed its emphasis on rain water harvesting. In November 2019, schedule 1 was amended to allow “rooftop rain water harvesting structures in Government or Panchayat buildings.”MGNREGS was cleared by Parliament in 2005 and subsequently, many changes have been made to make the programme more attractive to the poor beneficiaries. An official pointed out, “the changes are only made in the schedule or an appendix of the main law. So, it doesn’t require the Parliament’s sanction.”The union government is heavily banking on the MGNREGS to provide relief to India’s vast rural sector. It has pumped in an additional Rs 40,000 crore to beef up the MGNREGS annual budget to Rs 1.05 lakh crore--the highest ever allocation to the rural jobs scheme. The government also plans to create 300 crore persondays of work under MGNREGS this financial year.“MGNREGS is anyway demand-driven and works of swachh bharat were already included. creating job opportunities for unskilled workers is good but the main question is where is the money? the government has hiked MGNREGS budget by Rs 40,000 crore but the budget won’t be sufficient for the entire year given the very high demand for work,” said Himanshu, an associate professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-tweaks-mgnregs-for-benefit-of-unskilled-workers/story-gupzSnNBYnkwUIscQ2md2M.html
06-07-2020||India||Italian marines’ case verdict may not hit India’s fishing rights||The ruling of the Permanent Court of Arbitration (tribunal) at the Hague in the Italian marines case will not affect India’s rights in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) for fishing, exploration of gas and so on, former additional solicitor general (ASG) PS Narasimha, who headed India’s legal team during the initial stages of the case before the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, said.The EEZ is a sea zone prescribed under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and extends upto 200 nautical miles (370 kilometers) from the coastline of the country. UNCLOS is an international agreement that defines the rights and responsibilities of nations with regard to their conduct and use of world seas and oceans and management of marine natural resources. As per Article 56 of UNCLOS, every country has sovereign rights within the EEZ including the right to exploit natural resources, living or non-living.The shooting of Indian fishermen in 2012 happened within the Indian EEZ. Despite that, the arbitral tribunal came to the conclusion that Italy had not violated India’s sovereign rights.But the tribunal’s observations should be seen in the context of the specific incident of Enrica Lexie, an Italian oil tanker, wherein it held that a vessel can take action to protect itself from what it assumed was an attack by pirates, Narasimha said in an interview with Hindustan Times.“The Tribunal’s ruling does not impact India’s rights in the EEZ for fishing, exploration of gas, fishing in any manner whatsoever. The Tribunal’s observations (on Italy not having violated India’s sovereign rights) are limited to the extent of stating that a vessel has a right to protect itself from potential piracy attacks including in the EEZ of another state. These observations are only a reflection of the rights vested in a country’s vessel to protect itself in certain circumstances and not in derogation of the coastal state’s rights in the EEZ”, he said.Narasimha made it clear that the finding of the Tribunal need not be categorized as Italy not having violated India’s sovereign rights at all. The Tribunal, he said, recorded in clear terms that India has the freedom of navigation in the high seas and that Italy had acted in breach of India’s freedom of navigation.“The tribunal has only held that in the specific incident of the Italian vessel, which was otherwise traversing peacefully through the EEZ, the action taken by Enrica Lexie due to its supposedly bonafide assumption of a potential piracy event, may not have been in violation of India’s sovereign rights in the EEZ. The Tribunal’s ruling only proceeds to examine whether a vessel is entitled to take defensive steps to defend itself in the event of an attack in the EEZ of another country. To this particular question, it has answered in the affirmative”, he said.Narasimha also pointed out that the tribunal rejected Italy’s claim that India is expected to make reparations for its actions of arrest and investigation of the marines.“On India’s counter- claim of violation of Articles 56 by Italy, the Tribunal has held that no foreign flagged vessel can proceed to act against Indian sovereign interests and rights in the EEZ in any manner”, he added.While the tribunal held that Italy interfered with India’s right to navigation when Enrica Lexie fired at the India fishing boat St. Antony, it also held that India should stop exercising criminal jurisdiction over the marines because the marines enjoyed state immunity since they were acting in their official capacity. Are these two findings contradictory?Narasimha said that while there might be problems with regard to tribunal’s finding on marines enjoying state immunity, it is not contradictory to the finding on violation of India’s right to navigation. “Though the issue of territoriality has been held in India’s favour the issue of immunity is not contradictory but a different issue entirely”, he said.The Tribunal, he said, correctly observed that the act of shooting by the Marines which caused St. Antony to change direction and head back to shore was in violation of India’s freedom of navigation.But despite specifically holding that India has jurisdiction over the incident, the tribunal also observed that whether or not India can subsequently try the Marines would also depend on the outcome of the question of immunity. The question of immunity was then answered in favour of Italian marines based on which India was asked to stop the criminal proceedings against the Marines.“The Tribunal’s finding that immunity was applicable to the Marines in these facts and that they were “State officials of the Italian Republic” and “acting in their official capacity as officers of the Italian Navy is questionable. This approach is rather dangerous for the serious implications they entail in how countries are expected to act in similar situations in the future”, Narasimha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/italian-marines-case-verdict-may-not-hit-india-s-fishing-rights/story-NiRzJr5zj0hfChXuzpqFZI.html
06-07-2020||India||China’s new boundary dispute with Bhutan targets India’s Arunachal Pradesh||The Chinese government’s decision for the first time to publicly put on record that it has a boundary dispute with Bhutan in the eastern sector is a calibrated manner of launching a diplomatic attack on Thimphu’s ally India on a new front.The key could be the proximity of Bhutan’s “eastern sector” to Arunachal Pradesh – which China claims in its entirety as part of “south Tibet” : It could be the primary reason for Beijing to talk about differing boundary perceptions with Bhutan now.First at a multilateral environment forum in June, where India was present, and then through a statement to HT, the Chinese foreign ministry has said it has a border dispute with Bhutan in the eastern sector, surprising many who are following developments in the region.Also read: China says it has border dispute with Bhutan tooBesides multiplying pressure on New Delhi during the ongoing, and most serious border tension with India in decades, it is also a ploy by China to simultaneously internationalise an issue it has seldom done before – the boundary problem with its tiny neighbour.Though China might not have said it publicly, it’s not surprising if Beijing was opposed to the India-Bhutan boundary delimitation agreement, which was signed in 2006 -- more so because of Bhutan’s borders with Arunachal Pradesh.The Chinese foreign ministry, in a statement issued to Hindustan Times last week, said the China-Bhutan boundary has never been delimited and there “have been disputes over the eastern, central and western sections for a long time”. The statement in Mandarin further said “a third party should not point fingers” in the China-Bhutan border issue – an apparent reference to India.Referring to Chinese foreign ministry’s statement saying the disputes in the three areas have been there “for a long time”, Constantino Xavier, fellow in foreign policy studies at the think-tank Brookings India, said the timing chosen by Beijing to raise the issue – amid the ongoing Sino-India border tension -- was important.“Even while this Chinese claim may not be new, the timing and the multilateral setting of Beijing’s statement reflect intent to put pressure on Bhutan and India, seeking to create a wedge between both countries,” Xavier said.“You got to see the Chinese claims in continuation to their strategy of territorial claims elsewhere,” a New Delhi-based Asia expert said on condition of anonymity.Also read: Chinese PLA’s rear defences in Ladakh’s Galwan valley face an icy challengeChina’s state-controlled media and Chinese academics consistently blame India for Beijing-Thimphu not having diplomatic ties.“As far as I know, the China-Bhutan boundary issue was almost resolved 20 years ago. The two sides have a common understanding on how to sign the final agreement. But for Bhutan, it is difficult because of the India factor. That is the same reason why China and Bhutan have not signed the agreement,” Lin Minwang, assistant dean at the Institute of International Studies at Shanghai’s Fudan University, said.Will publicising the problem now help China?“But using Bhutan to target India may turn out to be counterproductive for China: it will lose political capital in Bhutan and is actually facilitating closer diplomatic coordination between Thimphu and Delhi.”In 2018 July, vice foreign minister Kong Xuanyou led a rare high-level visit from China to Bhutan; he was accompanied by Luo Zhaohui, the then Chinese envoy to India.The Chinese foreign ministry statement released at the end of his visit said: “China highly values its traditional friendly relations with Bhutan, and will as always respect Bhutan’s independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, respect the political system and development path chosen by Bhutan based on its own national conditions, and respect the independent foreign policy of peace upheld by Bhutan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-bhutan-move-aimed-at-india/story-JS0A3gx4FQVlwSrZ4NPfgI.html
06-07-2020||India||With army in mind, Pakistan chooses China over United States||Ever since the world started pointing a finger at Beijing for the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Pakistan has gone out of its way to express solidarity with China. Even to the extent of refusing to let its 1,000-odd students stranded in Wuhan, the original epicentre of the outbreak, return to Islamabad in February. It is no secret that Beijing had been soliciting support from all its friends, or clients, as some analysts describe the relationship between China and Pakistan. Islamabad, indebted to China for more than one reason, had gone a step further. China was being panned by countries across the world, particularly the United States, over what was widely perceived to be gross negligence on the part of China that led to the rapid spread of the disease that has infected 11 million people across the world and killed nearly 530,000.In the cacophony that followed as countries took sides, Pakistan was understandably the loudest voice in support of China despite some uneasiness in the foreign policy circles of Islamabad.Before the world was able to visualise the impact of the pandemic, Pakistan was in a comfortable position on the foreign policy front, particularly the China-US matrix. It was effectively leveraging its influence over the Taliban to extract concessions from the US in the global terror financing watchdog Financial Action Task Force. Washington was soft pedalling on Pakistan’s failure to comply with the FATF Action Plan and had allowed it extra time at the Paris Plenary in February. The reprieve, by any standards, was a fair indicator of the Pakistan foreign office’s successful handling of a tricky situation.Much of this effort by Pakistani diplomats to navigate the sensitivities in Washington appeared to come undone as the Pakistani establishment rushed to comply with signals from Beijing that it wanted Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government to continue to back it. The worldly-wise officials at the foreign office and, some at the Prime Minister’s Office, were the first ones to spot the change in Washington’s approach. The officials, including the US-educated special advisor on national security Moeed Yusuf and British-educated Zulfi Bukhari, special assistant to the PM for overseas Pakistanis and HRD, realised the impossibility of balancing relations with Washington and Beijing in the face of the establishment’s inflexible and decades-old mindset characterised by suspiciousness of the West.The Pakistan military’s tunnel vision and stranglehold over key foreign policy aspects have prevented the country from benefiting from the available expertise at home and evolving a pragmatic and non-confrontational foreign policy. At a time when world opinion is sharply against Beijing, Pakistan has chosen to be the devil’s advocate.Like when foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi put out a statement on his phone conversation with Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, the foreign ministry had to make a pointed reference to underline Pakistan’s commitment to the “One-China policy” and express support to China on its “core interests including Hong Kong, Taiwan, Tibet and Xinjiang”.In Pakistan, the army has been in a pivotal position irrespective of the regime in power. It also, maybe, doesn’t have anything to lose if Pakistan is again clubbed with the likes of North Korea. In fact, it has been argued by its critics that the army’s clout over politics and civilian life tends to proportionately increase with Pakistan’s marginalisation, as does the access to material riches for its leadership.The army was the biggest beneficiary of the billions that the United States poured into Pakistan in the name of support for the war on terror.When that well seemed to be drying up, it found a willing donor in Beijing for which the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor became a flagship project for its ambitious Belt and Road Initiative. It could also lead Pakistan into a debt trap.Thousands of Pakistanis paid with their lives for the establishment’s short-sighted strategy of arming and nurturing terrorists and turning terror into an instrument of foreign policy.What woes the new strategy of trying to milk China and the CPEC will bring to the Pakistanis, only time will tell. The more erudite officials of the foreign office can visualise the implications for Pakistan, such as the heightened possibility of graduating to the FATF blacklist if it does not deliver on its action plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-army-in-mind-pak-chooses-china-over-us/story-FORHrwRxchUJ8OCVMINfZJ.html
06-07-2020||India||60 days after violent Pangong Tso clash, LAC remains tense||Exactly two months after a violent face-off near Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh brought the latest round of border tensions with China to the fore, the situation along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) remains tense and unpredictable with the standoff showing no signs of easing even five days after top military commanders agreed to work on an “expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation” of the ongoing conflict “on priority,” people familiar with the developments said on Sunday.“Neither has anything changed on the ground nor is it expected to anytime soon. There has been no disengagement of troops at the friction points or de-escalation of conflict in the region,” one of the persons cited above said on condition of anonymity.Also read: China’s Bhutan move aimed at IndiaThe two months saw hostilities grow between the two armies, aggressive posturing by both sides, multiple rounds of military and diplomatic-level negotiations yielding no breakthrough and tensions spreading to other sectors such as Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.  The disengagement of Indian and Chinese troops at face-off sites and the de-escalation of the conflict may make slow progress because of deep distrust and the continuing Chinese build-up that questions the People’s Liberation Army (PLA’s) intent, as reported by Hindustan Times on July 3.Also read: India eyes acquisition of Predator drones from USIt is becoming increasingly clear that both armies are likely to hold their positions in the region till the onset of winter (September), said a second person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-days-after-violent-pangong-tso-clash-lac-remains-tense/story-bNnxjt4GiJUD7T7hgseXpI.html
06-07-2020||India||India eyes acquisition of Predator-B drones from US||In the wake of multiple prolonged stand-offs with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh, India has conveyed to the US its renewed interest in the medium-altitude long-endurance (MALE) armed Predator-B drone, which not only collects intelligence through surveillance and reconnaissance but also locates and destroys the target with missiles or laser-guided bombs.While India is operating Israeli Heron unarmed drones in eastern Ladakh, the acquisition of an armed drone has acquired urgency with China not only using Wing Loong II armed drone but also in the process of supplying two systems (one system has two drones and a ground station) to Pakistan, ostensibly to protect the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and the PLA Navy’s new base at Gwadar in the highly restive Balochistan province. Pakistan is also tying up with China to jointly produce 48 armed drones for use by the Pakistan Air Force. The GJ-2, military version of Wing Loong II, is said to be armed with 12 air-to-surface missiles and is currently being used in the Libyan civil war with limited success.Also read: China’s Bhutan move aimed at IndiaAlthough the US has offered to sell 30 Sea Guardian (unarmed naval variant, or UAV, of the Predator-B made by General Atomics) for over $4 billion, national security planners feel that due to the prohibitive cost of the UAV it would be better to have an all-in-one drone rather than separate ones for surveillance and targeting. Even though the Indian Navy is playing a lead role in negotiations with the US, the Indian Army is all in favour of the Predator-B. Also called the MQ-9 Reaper, the armed drone is battle-proven in the Iraq, Afghanistan and Syrian theatres with the capability of carrying four Hell-Fire missiles and two 500 pounds of laser-guided bombs.While the US is willing to support India’s high-tech weapon requirements, it is wary of supplying the Predator-B drone for fear of leakage of the technology to Russia, New Delhi’s other hardware supplier. As it is, Washington is unhappy with India purchasing the S-400 missile system from Russia as it fears that the surface-to-air missile system may acquire signatures of US aerial platforms with India and convey them to Moscow. China has already acquired the S-400 system from Russia and currently deployed it across Arunachal Pradesh.Also read: In China vs US, Pakistan has taken a side. It serves the armyEven though Indian private sector companies based in Noida, on the outskirts of New Delhi, are now in the process of developing MALE drones for India, the capacity to acquire armed drones is some distance away. A number of experiments done in Ladakh have not been entirely successful with the drone being lost in high-velocity winds on the Tibetan plateau. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has plans to produce the MALE Rustom drone prototype by the end of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eyes-acquisition-of-predator-drones-from-us/story-nVOOMnUWNh7KokbqE9uVYM.html
06-07-2020||India||Amid India-China face-off, Dalai Lama’s 85th birthday spotlights uneasy ties||As soldiers of India and China stay locked in a bitter stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, another aspect of the uneasy relationship between the two countries will be under a spotlight on Monday when India, and the world celebrates exiled Tibetan supreme spiritual leader His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama’s 85th birthday.On Twitter, the Dalai Lama has announced plans for a special online screening of a new film about the American physicist David Bohm, who the spiritual leader describes as “one of my science gurus”. On Sunday, the Dalai Lama gave what he described as a general teaching on mind training to mark his 85th birthday celebrations being held in Taiwan.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called to wish him on his birthday last year. The Dalai Lama had been travelling and was on his way back home when the call came. Home Minister Amit Shah couldn’t call in 2019 but his wife and son had stepped in for him, and wished the Tibetan spiritual leader on his behalf.India had given refuge to the Dalai Lama when he, as a 23-year-old, crossed into Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang in April 1959 to escape the Chinese that had invaded Tibet nine years earlier and had brutally suppressed the uprising against Beijing’s rule. India settled the Dalai Lama and the thousands of Tibetans who followed him in the Himalayan town of Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh where he has been living in exile ever since. There are over 80,000 Tibetans living in exile in India; 150,000 more around the world particularly in US and Europe.But China hasn’t let him, or the Tibetan people be. Beijing has called the Dalai Lama who delivers a message of humanity, harmony and peace with his infectious smile names, even a terrorist, and attempted to dismantle Tibetan Buddhism. It arrested a young boy Gedhun Choekyi Nyima in Tibet, just three days after he was proclaimed as the 11th Panchen Lama, the second highest Lama of Tibetan Buddhism, on 14 May 1995. He has never been seen since. Instead, Beijing selected its own six-year old Gyaltsen Norbu as the 11th Panchen Lama six month later and enthroned him at Shigatse monastery.China is determined to replay this tactic for the next Dalai Lama too to further divide the world of Tibetan Buddhism, where religious leaders of all the four major schools have sought refuge sometime or other in India.On his part, the Dalai Lama told Hindustan Times in a 2018 interview that he had made it clear far back in 1969 that the Tibetan people should decide if the institution of the Dalai Lama should continue. “My thinking is more liberal than Chinese thinking which is more orthodox,” he told HT.The Chinese have already initiated the process to identify the reincarnation of the 14th Dalai Lama, declaring that it was not the Dalai Lama’s decision to cease the reincarnation just as it was not his decision to become the temporal and spiritual head of Tibet.That means if the Tibetan people decide to continue with the institution of the Dalai Lama, there could be two Dalai Lamas. Just as there are two Panchen Lamas and two claimants to the title of the 17th Karmapa, the head of wealthy Karma Kagyu school.There has been no indication yet that the Dalai Lama could change his stance on this. But he has spoken, in a reflection of the values of Tibetan Buddhism, that there was nothing to prevent a woman from being chosen as the next Dalai Lama. She should be attractive, he said last year in a lighter vein but apologised when some pointed out that it amounted to objectifying women.It was in context of his democratic values that in 2011, the Dalai Lama relinquished his political and administrative powers over the Tibetan exile movement. “Tibetans need a leader, elected freely by the Tibetan people, to whom I can devolve power,” he had declared.He didn’t give up the opportunity to take a hard, but polite swipe at Beijing though. “Modern times call for a democratically elected political leadership so I have, sort of retired and we have achieved, at least within our refugee community, an elected political leadership”.Also Read: In 2012, Dalai Lama spoke of Chinese plot to murder himHe continued: “The Chinese won’t allow (this in Tibet) as their own leader is not elected through free elections”.To be sure, the Dalai Lama hasn’t directly commented on the stand-off at the border triggered by China’s misplaced aggression through the occupied territory of Tibet. But he did deliver his message to Beijing when he underlined that the concept of warfare is an outdated one.“In the past, the feudal system, king, queen, sometimes even religious leaders who are thinking and concerned about their own power. So then very strong concept of ‘we’ and ‘they’, then conflict, killing. So I feel, warfare, killing is related with feudal system. So that is gone. Now democratic world,” he said.A section within the ruling BJP’s mentor RSS wants the government to send out a strong message to China by conferring India’s highest civilian award Bharat Ratna to the Dalai Lama. The Nobel Peace Prize winner is despised by China’s communist party and vilified as a “wolf in monk’s clothing”. There have also been suggestions on social media that the government rename Shantipath, the road running through the national capital’s diplomatic enclave to Dalai Lama Marg (road), that would force the Chinese embassy to put the Dalai Lama’s name on its official address. But then Tezin Gytso is all about compassion, not confrontation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-india-china-face-off-dalai-lama-s-85th-birthday-spotlights-uneasy-ties-with-beijing/story-piImrv7W23rYKSXaSAGsUK.html
06-07-2020||India||Covid-19 safety guidelines mandatory for a year in Kerala; Rs10K fine for not wearing masks||In a major step to curb the spike in the coronavirus infections, Kerala has made it mandatory for people to follow Covid-19 safety guidelines for a year. The state government has amended the state Epidemic Disease Ordinance which will be effective till July 2021. The guidelines have been issued under ‘Kerala Epidemic Disease Corona Virus Disease (COVID-19) Additional Regulations, 2020’.Kerala was the first state in the country to report Covid-19 cases. It has 5,204 coronavirus infections including 2,131 active cases and 25 deaths, as per the Union health ministry dashboard at 8 AM on Sunday morning. Here are the new guildelines: 1) Wearing of mask/ face cover:  All persons shall cover their mouth and nose with the mask / face covers in all public places, work places, all kinds of vehicles and during transport. 2) Social Distancing: All persons shall maintain social distance of six feet at public places and functions.3)Fine : Rs 10,000 will be fined for not wearing masks in public places.4) Marriage Function: A maximum of 50 people will be allowed for marriage celebrations in Kerala. All people at the function must use sanitiser, wear face masks, and keep a social distance of six feet. 5) Funeral Functions: For the funeral of non-Covid-19 patients, up to 20 people will be permitted.6) Social Gathering: For any social gathering, permission from local authority will be required.7) Prohibition of spitting in public places: Spitting in public places will be strictly prohibited.8) Registration of those visiting Kerala: Those who are coming to Kerala from other states need to register themselves via Kerala government’s Jagratha e-platform. However, a pass is not required for inter-state travel.9) Shops and commercial establishments: Up to 20 people will be allowed in any shop across the state to maintain social-distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-makes-following-covid-19-guidelines-mandatory-for-a-year/story-Jd0qeqO7KsargqPeUKPvTO.html
06-07-2020||India||Pratham Aarti done at Amarnath cave shrine, yatra to start on July 23||Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, GC Murmu performed ‘Pratham Aarti’ or the first prayers at the holy cave shrine of Amarnath in south Kashmir on Sunday morning.He was accompanied by his principal secretary and chief executive officer of Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) Bipul Pathak, additional CEO AK Soni, division commissioner Kashmir Pandurang K Pole and other senior officials.“The LG along with senior officials reached the cave shrine early Sunday morning and performed Pratham Aarti,” said an official of the SASB.Prasar Bharati, India’s official broadcaster, showed the aarti live. It will do so daily till August 3 at 3 am and 7 pm.Speaking to the official broadcaster after paying obeisance at the cave shrine along with his family members, Murmu said that he felt the divinity after performing ‘Pratham Aarti’.“We prayed for peace, development and progress of the entire nation and its people,” he added.A Special Poja will be held at holy Amarnath Cave for the early end of Covid19 pandemic, said Mahant Dipinder Giri after performing bhumi poojan of Chadi Mubarak at Pahalgam in South Kashmir on Sunday.The chief secretary of Jammu and Kashmir BVR Subrahmanyam had said on Saturday that this year’s Amarnath Yatra would have to be undertaken in a restricted manner, so that the SOPs for Covid-19 are strictly adhered to.J-K Chief Secy says SOPs for Amarnath Yatra to be strictly enforced amid pandemic“Given the constraints, a maximum of 500 yatris will be allowed per day by road from Jammu. Therefore, arrangements will have to be limited to this number,” he had said while chairing a meeting of the sub-committee constituted by the Supreme Court.The curtailed yatra (pilgrimage) is likely to be held from July 23 to August 3 this year from the shorter Baltal route.On June 5, the top officials of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) performed ‘Pratham Pooja’ in the state’s winter capital Jammu on the occasion of ‘Jayestha Purnima’ signifying commencement of the annual pilgrimage.The ‘Pratham Pooja’ at SASB’s Chaitanya Mahaprabhu Ashram was conducted by principal secretary to J&K Lieutenant Governor and CEO of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board, Bipul Pathak, ACEO AK Soni.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesLast year, the yatra was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 that gave Jammu and Kashmir its special status. In 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days.Thousands of pilgrims either trek the traditional and longer 45-km-long Pahalgam route or the shorter 16-km Baltal route to the holy shrine every year.One of the holiest pilgrimages in Hinduism, the Amarnath Yatra attracts pilgrims from India as well as across the world. There have been terror attacks on the route of the yatra in the past. The last attack took place in 2017 on a bus from Gujarat in Anantnag district that left seven pilgrims dead.Meanwhile, the Jammu and Kashmir high court has sought to know about the arrangements and various safety precautions in place for Amarnath Yatra in view of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pratham-aarti-done-at-amarnath-cave-shrine-yatra-to-start-on-july-23/story-4MiV5monui04TEaAAjFLbM.html
06-07-2020||Editorials||India must stand up for Tibet | HT Editorial||The Dalai Lama marked his 85th birthday on Monday. He has now lived for 61 of those 85 years as a treasured guest of India, and has added value, in both tangible and intangible ways, to Indian public life, its soft power and its global reputation. The Dalai Lama is a symbol of an oppressed community which had to flee its homeland because of China’s territorial aggression; he is representative of the great Gandhian tradition of non-violence; he is a religious and spiritual icon who has inspired hundreds of thousands of people, outside his own community, to seek the true meaning of life; and he is a living reflection of the shared Buddhist heritage of India and its independent neighbour for centuries, Tibet.But it is equally true that India’s hospitality has been often tempered with geopolitics. The fear of antagonising China has often meant that Indian governments — including the current dispensation — have been inconsistent in their approach to Tibet. From recognising Chinese suzerainty over Tibet to giving the Dalai Lama a home and collaborating with the United States in encouraging a rebellion, from deploying the “Tibet card” sporadically to refusing to even engage with the Tibetan leader, India’s approach, to Tibet, has, for too long, been subject to its dynamic with China at any particular point.It is now time to evolve a consistent approach. China, of course, sees Tibet as a “core interest” — an ever expanding circle to make its redlines clear. India has sought to respect this. But clearly, China has no hesitation in attacking India’s core interest, of which territorial integrity is at the top. Delhi now needs to shed its hesitation, not just because Tibet is a “card”, but is intertwined with the values of freedom and peace central to the vision to resist China. Delhi must take the following steps. One, honour the Dalai Lama with the Bharat Ratna. Two, speak up for Tibetan rights at international platforms. Three, deepen linkages with the new generation of Tibetan activists who are at the forefront of the new resistance. Four, rebuild links with all Tibetan sects, some of which have got caught in the web of bureaucratic battles in India. And most important, declare that India will respect the wishes of the Dalai Lama on his succession — making it clear that China will not have its way in installing a puppet Dalai Lama. Taking on “an expansionist” China must begin from a commitment to Tibet where it first displayed imperial ambitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/india-must-stand-up-for-tibet-ht-editorial/story-WpA38xTQljcUKpLB6bBRAO.html
06-07-2020||Editorials||The pre-poll bargaining in Bihar | HT Editorial||Political bargaining for the Bihar election, scheduled for the end of the year, has picked up in both the ruling and Opposition camps. Within the Janata Dal (United)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Lok Janashakti Party (LJP) combine, the Ram Vilas Paswan-led LJP has been critical of the Bihar government and hinted it will not accept Nitish Kumar as the chief ministerial candidate of the alliance. Mr Paswan has an interesting position in the combine. He is the weakest of the three players, but he brings in an important segment of Dalit votes. The BJP and JD(U)’s calculation that he will be a greater threat outside the alliance drives up his bargaining power, which is being leveraged by his son, Chirag. But all actors realise that this is pre-poll posturing for a better seat-sharing arrangement. The real contradiction in the alliance — between the JD(U) and BJP over leadership — has been resolved. The LJP will eventually come along. It is the contradiction in the opposition which is of greater import. The Bihar leadership of the Congress as well as smaller parties are resistant to the idea of projecting Tejashwi Yadav, the current leader of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), as the chief ministerial face. There is an element of power play here too, for all these parties want a better seat-sharing deal. They are right in pointing to the limitations of Mr Yadav, who hasn’t displayed his father’s charisma or mass connect. But the fact is that the RJD remains the only opposition party with a substantial vote base of Muslims and Yadavs, and there is no likelihood of the Yadav family giving up its leadership claims. This combination of a weak CM face, an insufficient vote base, and warring parties within the Opposition gives Nitish Kumar a clear edge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-pre-poll-bargaining-in-bihar-ht-editorial/story-YK60knWGZtHmaL89qG1ALL.html
