10-07-2020||News||Vikas Dubey symbolises the failure of the State | Opinion||Semi-urban policing has rarely witnessed a slaughter of the kind that took place on July 2, when a police team went to the outskirts of Kanpur on a mission to apprehend the notorious criminal Vikas Dubey. The police party was ambushed by Dubey’s henchmen and eight policemen were brutally massacred. The team was showered with gunfire from the rooftops, before it could reach the criminal’s citadel. The policemen were chased, shot at close range, and hacked to death in a manner reminiscent of Naxal barbarity. The gangster, tipped off about the raid, escaped and was eventually arrested in Ujjain on Thursday.Dubey’s rise through the ranks of crime hierarchy began as a grassroots worker in the 1990s when he was patronised by local politicians. Grassroots is the prefix buzzword for planning, politics, NGO and worker. In reality, grassroots politics at the village level reflects myriad vested interests represented by caste, money, political parties, officialdom, landed gentry and various individuals vying for power. The overriding theme of grassroots politics is domination of the rural bureaucracy comprising the patwari, tehsildar, thanedar, kotwar, ranger and compounder. When institutions do not deliver justice, the political dispensation takes over, offering justice selectively to its own set of people. Hence, there is a vested interest in keeping the grassroots institutions in a state of inertia. Thus, Dubey grabbed land from some people for his citadel but also freed land for others aligned with him. He directed the sarpanch to build a road. In such a vitiated environment, can panchayat elections be immune from political influence? His diktat would keep the electric substation functioning round-the-clock. This is how the mafia displays power, exercises influence and garners support. The Brahmin-dominated villages in the area became a veritable vote bank under Dubey, attracting legislators and other netas.In 2001, Dubey killed a state minister, and, that too, in a police station in front of more than 20 witnesses — reaching the zenith of his career. All 20 witnesses turned hostile. Everyone was relieved — from the police, bureaucracy and prosecution to his patrons. Prosecution falls under the collector, who couldn’t be bothered over a case acquittal. The world over, the investigation of a crime is prosecution guided in order to create an ironclad case. But, in India, a babu with no interest or qualification, heads the prosecution. After the acquittal, no appeal was filed, nor action taken against the hostile witnesses. Most rural problems are land-related but land grab by Dubey was ignored by the tehsildars. All these examples illustrate how a weak, pliant regime cannot bring the mafia to book.After the encounter in Bikru, the top brass of the police needed urgent, serious thinking to address core issues and plot a future course of action. Instead, it went on a media drive — demolishing houses, airing interviews of criminals in custody, conducting forensic studies of cars in the glare of TV cameras, announcing enquiries and names of co-plotters within the police in what seemed like a knee-jerk reaction. But they chose to ignore important questions. Why did a police team go to arrest a notorious gangster without being well-armed and equipped? Why was a Special Investigations Team not sent instead? Why was no action taken on the deceased deputy superintendent of police’s complaint against the thanedar who was allegedly mixed up with the gangster? Who will fix this broken criminal justice system and the shoddy revenue administration which impact the poor the most? People faced with biased or non-performing local officers and unable to access the senior ones, turn to public representatives, who, in turn, first check their credentials according to the way they voted. As per the Association of Democratic Reforms (ADR), 143 of 403 UP’s legislators have criminal cases against them. Legislators rely heavily on influencers of vote banks and the Dubeys provide invaluable service during election campaigns, especially on the voting day, when some voters have to be ferried to the booths and others threatened to stay away. They can delay polling and create disturbances as the situation demands. Thus, while Dubey rose to fame in one regime, his wife fought elections in another regime under the then ruling party’s banner.Why can’t the state government stem the rot? It is often the chief minister (CM) or a heavyweight who holds the home portfolio. But handling home is a serious business and cannot be run by dispensing security on-demand or issuing transfer orders based on sifarish. Addressing the broken criminal justice system is a long haul and needs time, application and energy. It also requires political will and domain expertise. The UP CM promised, when he took over, that he will wipe out the mafia. Now he should make good on his promise because, ultimately, it is only he who can set things right. He has examples of a few fearless CMs in the Hindi belt who took on the mafias and smashed their networks. Such politicians are remembered for long.To begin with, he should post fearless and honest district magistrates and SPs (UP has quite a few of them) in the vulnerable districts on the basis of merit alone. He should give them all the resources they need and the freedom to function as they see fit and shield them from politics. The mafia will be on the run in one year’s time.If the blood-splattered village road in Bikru does not teach us any lessons, India’s democratic credentials will be flawed and irreparably scarred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/vikas-dubey-symbolises-the-failure-of-the-state-opinion/story-8JlpLwU4AgTVqA631BBJaN.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Covid positive MBBS students can confirm postgraduate admission online||The state common entrance test (CET) cell on Friday, allowed the MBBS students who have tested positive for Covid-19, and are under quarantine, to complete their admission process for postgraduate courses online.The circular came a day after HT reported about the Covid positive MBBS students unable to confirm their admissions to postgraduate courses. This circular, however, only gives relief to students who have tested positive and are under quarantine or after one or more family members have tested positive for the virus. All other students will have to physically report to their allotted colleges by July 14.“In view of various representations from candidates who cannot physically join the allotted college, it is hereby decided by the authority that if the candidate or his/her parents have tested positive for Covid-19 and are currently in quarantine, they should send their scanned documents to the allotted college for confirming the admissions,” stated the circular signed by CET cell commissioner Sandeep Kadam. The circular further states that allotted colleges will verify documents of students online and accordingly confirm seats.“I am currently working at a civic hospital in Mumbai, while my allotted college is in Nanded district. The travel will have to be arranged by me and that will be expensive considering the travel restrictions in place. We have repeatedly requested the CET cell to allow us to complete the process online, but have been denied the option, which is unfair,” said a student on condition of anonymity.Officials from the state CET cell said their decision as announced in the latest circular stands final and students will have to abide by the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-positive-mbbs-students-can-confirm-postgraduate-admission-online/story-Uwvb5yAeruJZepbKPSLxeI.html
10-07-2020||City||Bhayandarpada Covid facility gets community kitchen||After complaints of poor food quality at a quarantine centre in Bhayandarpada, Thane, the facility has now ensured to serve fresh food to patients. The food will be prepared at their community kitchen, which is set up within the premises.Around 35 staff members working in the kitchen will ensure that food is prepared based on every individual’s diet. Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has outsourced the food facility to a popular food joint in Thane.“Warm food is being served to patients every day through community kitchen. There is a fixed schedule of breakfast, lunch and dinner, and food is prepared based on the patient’s age and health requirements. Also, there is a separate staff who delivers food to the patients wearing PPE kits to ensure safety,” said medical staff at Bhayandarpada.A proper kitchen with all facilities has been set up by Thane Municipal Corporation with the help of a local food joint, wherein 35 kitchen staff is deployed all through the day.“I am diabetic and also have allergies to certain food items. I have specified these to the administrative authorities and they ensure I am served food as per my diet. We are served three meals and evening snacks, and I get sufficient quantity and warm food on time,” said a 54-year-old woman under quarantine at Bhayanderpada.Those working in the kitchen are provided facilities to stay within the premises. They ensure social distancing is maintained as well. “Having a live kitchen within the premises of a quarantine centre is not common, but we are trying to provide patients, better facilities,” said an official from TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhayandarpada-covid-facility-gets-community-kitchen/story-u9HdQ2yMyPBvRrTHeKLJlK.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Final-year exams: Aaditya Thackeray called decision ‘absurd’, urges UGC, HRD ministry to not make it ‘silly ego issue’||Maharashtra cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray has criticised the Centre’s decision to hold final-year exams amid the increasing number of Covid-19 cases across the country. Aaditya, who also heads the Shiv Sena’s youth wing, Yuva Sena, called the decision “absolutely absurd” and urged the University Grants Commission (UGC) not to make it a “silly ego issue”.Yuva Sena had opposed the decision earlier in the week and asked the Union minister of Human Resource Development (HRD) Ramesh Pokhriyal to reconsider. Aaditya’s attack on the Centre occurred the same day Congress leader Rahul Gandhi criticised the move and said it would be “unfair to hold exams during a pandemic”.In a series of tweets, Thackeray took on the Union government asked if the Centre realises that Covid-19 cases in the country are still on the rise. He said that the students would experience mental stress and face the highest risk of contracting the disease.“The decision of the HRD Ministry of Union Govt, and the UGC is absolutely absurd and probably from an alternate universe. I urge UGC to not make this a silly issue of egos and realise that lakhs of lives of students, teachers, non teaching staff are at stake. Unless the HRD Ministry and UGC take responsibility for the health of each student appearing for exams, one wonders what is the guarantee apart from just that the ministry and UGC don’t realise the growing number of cases in India… It seems that while the entire country- Union Govt, State Govts, ULBs and Panchayats are trying to manage covid, reduce new cases and save lives, the HRD Ministry and UGC wants to just do the opposite,” Thackeray tweeted.Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has already decided to cancel final-year exams while giving students the option of voluntary exams for better grades. Students who choose not to answer the exams will be graded based on their performance in the previous academic year and internal assessment.Earlier this week, Yuva Sena secretary Varun Sardesai wrote to the HRD minister on the issue. “When exams were originally scheduled, Covid cases were far lesser, and it [the pandemic] had not reached all parts of our country. The cases have been steadily rising, and we cannot be sure they will decline by September,” Sardesai said in his letter. “Lakhs of final-year students have secured jobs through campus placements or enrolled in private Indian universities or foreign universities. Exams in September would mean they effectively lose all these opportunities,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/final-year-exams-aaditya-thackeray-called-decision-absurd-urges-ugc-hrd-ministry-to-not-make-it-silly-ego-issue/story-wpxx0MxwtIcCCD3fv124IN.html
10-07-2020||City||Suppression of Sikhs will intensify separate territory demand: SGPC magazine||Increase in suppression of Sikhs in the country will lead to intensification of demand for independent territory among them, the monthly magazine of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has stated in its recent editorial.This has come around a month after the gurdwara body president Gobind Singh Longowal endorsed the remark made by Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh in favour of Khalistan, the idea of an independent Sikh state.Written by its editor Satwinder Singh Phoolpur, the editorial appeared in the July 2020 edition of the magazine titled Gurmat Parkash. It raises the issue of confiscation of farmland of scores of Sikh farmers living in Uttar Pardesh by Yogi Adityanath-led state government.Strongly lodging protest against the UP government’s move, the editorial reads, “Seizing land of the Sikhs by the government is not an action that has been taken all of a sudden. This is the policy of the government to eliminate the Sikhs….This environment of alienation has given rise to demand of independent territory for Sikhs. As suppression on Sikhs increases, the demand for independent territory will get more intensified.”“Today they have seized farmland and tomorrow they take over outlets, factories and other Sikh establishment, if we keep mum,” it further reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suppression-of-sikhs-will-intensify-separate-territory-demand-sgpc-magazine/story-KqL122iBhIzjsljUh5yhxI.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||HC asks Thane civic body to grant additional TDR of 6,913sqm to developer||In a major relief for a Thane developer, the Bombay high court (HC) last week directed the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) to grant the additional transferable developer rights (TDR) of 6,913 square metres (sqm) in lieu of construction of two development plan (DP) roads for the use of citizens.The developer, M/s Siddhi Real Estate Developers, moved HC in 2015, after the civic body refused to grant the TDR.The petitioner developed a residential project, Highland Residency, at Dhokali in Thane. As two DP roads – one 25-metres-wide and the other 15-metres-wide – passed through the project spread over 85,778 square metres, TMC in 2001 sanctioned the plans for the project on the condition that the developer shall construct the roads and handover them over to the civic body.Later, TMC decided to construct the 25-metre-wide road through its public works department, and asked the developer to deposit ₹31.67 lakh for the road’s construction, which the developer paid between 2005 and 2007.The developer later constructed the 15-metre-wide road too and handed over both the roads to TMC and the civic body’s name was registered in the record of rights as owner of the area of the roads, 6,913 sqm.In 2014, the TMC, however, refused to compensate the developer by granting him TDR in lieu of the area consumed for the DP roads. The civic body maintained that that there was no provision in the Development Control Regulations (DCR), 1994, to grant TDR for the consideration paid towards the construction of the first DP Road. It claimed that the roads were approach roads for the project, and the developer was bound to construct it for the benefit of flat purchasers.However, a HC bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice BP Colabawalla found both the reasons legally unsustainable. The bench said that merely because TMC constructed the first DP road on its own, it would not disentitle the developer from claiming TDR for its construction as a public amenity.The bench said this is because section 126(1)(b) of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966, contemplates that when an owner also develops a public amenity at his cost, he would be entitled to additional floor space index or TDR.“In the facts of the present case, even though the construction of the first DP road was done by the public works department of TMC, the same was admittedly done entirely at the cost of the petitioner.”The bench said the roads were neither access roads nor an alternative access for the residential project, but were roads reserved in the DP for Thane city and despite passing through the residential project, are used by the public at large.The bench said even if one of the roads was assumed to be an alternative means of access, as envisaged in Regulation 47 of the development control regulations for Thane city, it does not contemplate that the same would be free of cost or without any compensation to the land holder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-asks-thane-civic-body-to-grant-additional-tdr-of-6-913sqm-to-developer/story-6MgBKBVUcmMnlE0rALLSQM.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Questioning Vikas Dubey encounter would demoralise cops: Sena||Shiv Sena on Friday backed the encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey by the Uttar Pradesh police. Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that he does not support any fake encounter, but no questions should be raised on the encounter as it would demoralise the police.Dubey’s henchmen killed eight police policemen, including a deputy superintendent of police, on July 2 when they went to arrest the gangster in connection with an attempt to murder case. The gangster from Kanpur was arrested from Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh on Thursday.On Friday, while the convoy was on its way to Kanpur, it allegedly met with an accident in which one of the vehicles in the special task force (STF) overturned. The police said that Dubey tried to escape and snatched a weapon from one of the policemen. He then ran to a nearby field and was asked to surrender, which he refused to do, they added. There was an exchange of fire and he was killed, the police said.Sena leader Raut said that the encounter was “bound to happen” and called it a “revenge” of the policemen for the martyrdom of the eight policemen. “I have never supported a fake encounter and will never do so. But if policemen are killed, if there is no fear of the police uniform, there would not be law and order in the country… When such an incident happens where policemen are killed, it impacts the image of the state. Then there is no other option left for the police and the government but to act in this manner against such a don. If this encounter is not backed, it would demoralise the police. No political party should take such a stand [opposing the encounter], Raut told TV reporters in Mumbai.The Sena leader blamed the entire politics for the creation of goons like Dubey and no single party or government should be held responsible. He added that the killings of policemen in Kanpur would become a “matter of prestige” for any government. “Whether you call fake encounter or anything else, but the police always avenge the murder of their colleagues. The incident should not be politicised. It would demoralise the police,” he added. He added that a probe can be conducted to ascertain the facts on how Dubey fled UP and entered another state.He dismissed the theories that Dubey was silenced in a fake encounter so that he does not name any key persons backing him. “I do not think so. The is revenge taken by the police. Every gangster has several secrets, why only Vikas Dubey. How many will you kill?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/questioning-vikas-dubey-encounter-would-demoralise-cops-sena/story-okw5rf1gwm8QuhYZDTXsoO.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||PMC Bank fraud: Court rejects bail pleas of Rakesh, Sarang Wadhawan||A city civil and sessions court refused to grant bail to HDIL promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and his son Sarang who have been accused in the multi-crore Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud case. The court said the two accused are trying to shift the burden on bank officials and may threaten witnesses.The duo had approached the sessions court for bail on the grounds that the charges of cheating the bank is not applicable for the accused. As per the prosecution case, PMC Bank granted loans to realty group HDIL without following due process. The principal loan amount of ₹2,400 crore snowballed into ₹6,670 crore as HDIL failed to repay multiple loans between 2008 and 2019. However, senior management of PMC Bank covered up the irregularities to avoid scrutiny by the Reserve Bank of India.The Economic Offences Wing (EOW), in it charge sheet, claimed that Rakesh Wadhawan is the key accused in the fraud as the ‘patriarch’ of HDIL’s business. Wadhawan plotted the fraud and obtained loans from the bank with the help of other accused, the agency alleged.In their bail plea, Wadhawans claimed that the loan was taken in the form of overdraft and that they had submitted 32 title deeds of properties in return, which show they had intention to repay the loan. Lawyers for Wadhawans also claimed that the loan amount calculated by the prosecution is not correct and claimed that the allegations of cheating should be against bank officials.Special public prosecutor Ajay Misar objected to the plea and submitted that Wadhawans, along with the bank’s chairman Waryam Singh and other Board of Directors are the masterminds and key beneficiaries in the ₹6,670-crore fraud. Misar further submitted that Wadhawans commanded control over the financial affairs of the PMC Bank.The prosecution alleged that Wadhawans conspired with bank’s managing director Joy Thomas along with Singh and other Board of Directors, and did not pay outstanding dues, which is calculated as ₹2,400 crore. The prosecution further submitted that adequate properties were not mortgaged by Wadhawans and that those properties furnished as mortgage against overdraft facilities did not possess bonafide titles.After hearing both sides, the session judge rejected Wadhawans’ plea for bail and observed, “They cannot shirk their involvement by contending that the offence is committed by the officials of PMC Bank and they have no role in it. There is evidence to infer the involvement of applicants (Wadhawans) in the offence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-fraud-court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-rakesh-sarang-wadhawan/story-iIaQCC4nu16XgfkwxT48bJ.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Contractor expelled, MMRDA gives Metro-7 works at higher costs||Months after a contractor was ousted over delayed works of the Mumbai Metro-7 (Dahisar East-Andheri East), the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) awarded contracts at costs higher than what it had estimated for the pending works. In February 2020, MMRDA had invited bids for pending works of line-7 in two separate tenders - for the 6.25km viaduct and for four station works. While MMRDA had estimated viaduct works at ₹149.45 crores, the works were awarded to J Kumar Infraprojects Ltd at ₹174.76 crores, 16.93% higher than the estimated cost. For the station works, MMRDA had estimated the cost to be ₹103.89 crores, which was awarded to NCC Limited at a cost of ₹127.78 crores, 22.9% higher than the estimated cost. According to the minutes of the executive committee meeting, uploaded on Wednesday, the higher estimates were studied carefully by the general consultants. The authority has also quoted various reasons for the higher costs including a shorter deadline for the contractors which would mean deploying more machinery and manpower on the site. BG Pawar, joint metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA said, “The works were awarded after the meeting was conducted via video-conferencing. The contractors have also started work on-ground.” J Kumar has also been awarded the works of the Sewri-Worli elevated corridor, which recently got a CRZ nod. In January 2020, Simplex infrastructure was ousted over delayed works. The company had been awarded the contract in May 2016 and the works were expected to be completed in a 30-month period by November 2018. The company was issued several notices and letters over slow progress of works, MMRDA stated. The authority had also ousted a joint venture of RCC-MBZ over slow-progress of Metro-2B (DN Nagar to Mandale). The tender process of 2B is in the process, Pawar added. Metro-7 is being implemented at a cost of ₹6,208 crores and is now expected to be operational by April 2021. Box: MMRDA spent ₹53 crore on Covid centres MMRDA spent ₹53 crore for constructing the Covid hospital in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC), as per a Right To Information (RTI) query filed activist Anil Galgali. According to the RTI, MMRDA spent ₹14.21 crore for constructing Phase-1 of the hospital and it spent ₹21.55 crore for Phase-2. Both the phases have been handed over to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/contractor-expelled-mmrda-gives-metro-7-works-at-higher-costs/story-Y234e6m1qbRSna1jPUfm1L.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||9 DCPs transferred, this time after CM nod||Four days after Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s order of transferring 10 deputy commissioner of police (DCPs) was overturned with immediate effect by the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), a fresh list of transfers was issued by the home department on Friday, this time with an approval from CMO.It is being said that the fresh shuffling of nine DCPs, which includes three Indian police service (IPS) officers,was prepared keeping the CMO in the loop.The previous staying of DCPs’ transfer order had indicated strong discontent among the ruling partners — Congress and NCP — over several decisions taken by Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.In the fresh list of transfers which is approved by the CMO, most of the names and postings are from the same list which was cancelled by the CM earlier. Only some DCPs have been given different posting. For instance, DCP Zone 7, Paramjit Dahiya, an IPS officer has been moved to zone 3, which covers areas such as Nagpada, Byculla, Tardeo, Mahalaxmi and most importantly Worli, under which the tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray’s constituency falls. This post was vacant after previous DCP Abhinash Kumar was promoted to deputy inspector general (DIG) of police-rank. DCP (headquarter-1), N Ambika was given an additional charge of DCP zone-3 in previous transfer.As per the home department’s order, DCP (protection) Prashant Kadam has been moved to Dahiya’s place in zone 7. DCP special branch-1, Ganesh Shinde has been transferred to ports zone, which was earlier held by DCP Rashmi Karandikar. She has now been entrusted with DCP, cyber police’s task. Previous DCP of cyber, Vishal Thakur has been moved to Zone 11, whose DCP Mohan Dahikar has now been shifted to Tardeo local arms division. Previous DCP at this post, Nandkumar Thakur has now been moved to the crime branch, while the crime branch DCP Shahaji Umap has been transferred to special branch-1. Umap would also hold additional charge of DCP protection and DCP security. IPS Pranaya Ashok who was holding charge of DCP (operations) has now been shifted to zone 5. This post was lying vacant after previous DCP Niyati Dave Thakur took over a new assignment in the central deputation. DCP zone 1 Sangramsinh Nishandar, who was previously transferred to DCP operation’s post, has not been included in the fresh list of transfer.CM Thackeray had ordered on Sunday to scrap the order of transfers of the ten deputy commissioners in Mumbai. The orders, issued by Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, on July 2. Though the orders were given go-ahead by home minister Anil Deshmukh, they were reportedly issued without keeping the CM in the loop.“Though there are police establishment boards at the state and commissionerate levels and the police commissioner has powers to transfer deputy commissioners, the transfer of senior officers from the civil services never takes place without informing the CM. Moreover, in the appointment of such an important post in Mumbai, where ruling Shiv Sena has its interest, the earlier transfer orders were a surprise for us too. The transfer of the DCP to zone-3 was the triggering point as the area covers the constituency of Aaditya Thackeray. The fresh order issued has no significant changes to it, but the political message sent out is important,” a senior officer said.Deshmukh had said on Sunday, “the orders of transfers of DCPs issued by Mumbai Police commissioner has been cancelled by me and the CM after due deliberation. The reports about the rift between three ruling parties are baseless.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/9-dcps-transferred-this-time-after-cm-nod/story-3kODTkNyij8mcbZPpSVblJ.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar hits back at Hooda, asks Cong to field its strongest leader in Baroda bypoll||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday responded to leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s Baroda byelection challenge by asking the Congress to field its strongest candidate in the polls.While addressing a press conference here, Khattar said the Congress will face a humiliating defeat in the upcoming bypoll in the same way it suffered in the Jind byelection last year. “The Congress should pitch its strongest candidate in the byelection so that it cannot blame anyone for their defeat. We will win the Baroda bypoll with a huge majority in the same way we won the Jind byelection, where the Congress candidate was reduced to the third position. I will represent Baroda until the election is conducted. I am sure that the people will elect our nominee as we have delivered a transparent and corruption free government in the state,” the CM said.Khattar hit out at the previous Congress government in the state and termed it synonymous of corruption. “Hooda and Randeep Surjewala should wash their hands and mouths with ‘Gangajal’ and join some other party. If the Congress wants to do a new experiment, they should pitch their strongest candidate in the Baroda bypoll,” he added.Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday had dared Khattar to contest the Baroda byelection, saying he is ready to face him in the fray.Baroda assembly seat in Sonepat district fell vacant in April following the demise of sitting Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda. No poll date has been announced as yet.Khattar said the state government has suffered a revenue loss of ₹ 5,000 crore in the last three months and has received ₹ 290 crore through Covid relief fund. He said 300 government employees have deposited a month’s salary in the relief fund.Khattar meets senior BJP leaders in DelhiThe CM visited New Delhi on Thursday to meet a section of central BJP leaders, including party president JP Nadda. On Friday morning, he called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to apprise him of the Covid-19 situation in the state. He then came to Rohtak, where he addressed a meeting of party workers to discuss the Baroda bypolls. Khattar went back to Delhi in the evening and will be visiting Karnal on Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-hits-back-at-hooda-asks-cong-to-field-its-strongest-leader-in-baroda-bypoll/story-iuXlKe4eaJybeAWjRjNpkI.html
10-07-2020||City||Three deaths, 565 fresh infections in Haryana||Haryana on Friday recorded three deaths and 565 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of cases in the state to 19,934, officials said.The volatile national capital region (NCR) district of Faridabad did not report any case due to data glitch, health officials said. The active cases in the state stand at 4,740. The health bulletin said 394 infected patients recovered on Friday and now the total number of cured patients is 14,904.Three more people from Rohtak, Ambala and Fatehabad have succumbed to the virus. With this, the death toll in the state has risen to 290. Ambala chief medical officer Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The samples of a 100-year-old woman of Palam Vihar in Ambala Cantonment tested positive for Covid-19 after death. Her 34-year-old relative has also tested positive for the disease.” The fresh infections reported on Friday were evenly spread across many districts with the NCR district of Gurugram reporting 111 cases, Rewari 66, Sonepat 50, Panipat 38 and Rohtak 24. These districts accounted for 51 % of the new cases.Among other districts, Mahendragarh reported 68 new cases followed by Hisar 66, Ambala 27, Karnal 24, Nuh 18, Jhajjar 16, Palwal 15, Sirsa 10, Jind 8, Bhiwani 7,Panchkula, Fatehabad and Kaithal 5 cases each, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar one case each.The bulletin said there were 73 critically ill patients including 16 on ventilator support, and patients with mild symptoms are 4,667.In Bhiwani, 12 people, including Loharu BJP block president, have tested positive for the disease. Hisar BJP MP Brijendra Singh, who is infected with the virus, was shifted to a hospital in Delhi on Friday and kept under observation. Singh had tested positive on July 4. The MP had also tweeted about his health on Thursday stating that his condition continues to be stable but he still has fever.In Yamunanagar, three new cases were reported and four patients were discharged.Twelve more people have also tested positive for the virus in Karnal, taking the total number of cases in the district to 493. Chief medical officer Ashwini Ahuja said the infected persons have been admitted in a hospital and their family members have been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-deaths-565-fresh-infections-in-haryana/story-eK00icq5SXHtXzWjTowicI.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||2015 SACRILEGE CASES: CBI puts Punjab govt on notice, asks it to file reply by July 20||Acting on an appeal filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for restraining the special investigating team (SIT) constituted by the state government for investigating the Behbal Kalan and Bargari sacrilege cases of 2015, the special CBI judge, Gurkirpal Singh Sekhon, on Friday put state on notice and asked it to file a reply by July 20, the next date of hearing.On July 8, the CBI moved a Mohali court urging it to stop DIG Ranbir Singh Khatra-led special investigation team from carrying out “parallel probe” in sacrilege cases. The move came two days after the SIT named named Sirsa dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh as an accused in the 2015 theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib. The CBI plea claimed that the agency is still conducting probe in these cases and there can’t be two simultaneous investigations by two agencies in same cases.The judge observed that “in a single criminal incident, investigations are being conducted by two agencies i.e. by the CBI and the Punjab Police SIT, which is not permissible under the statutory provisions of law”. After hearing the arguments, the CBI judge directed the central probe agency to supply the copies of special leave petition (SLP) and review petition filed in the Supreme Court to the counsels for state as well as accused and complainants.The reply filed by advocate R K Handa, who appeared on Friday itself and has filed the power of attorney on the behalf of the accused, namely Sukhjinder Singh and SS Kler, and Gagan Pardeep Singh Bal, the counsels for the complainants made similar requests to the court for adjournment for filing the reply to the application filed by the CBI seeking stay on probe being conducted by SIT. The court observed that ‘the counsels for the accused have strongly pressed upon for passing any interim order in the favour of the CBI, accused by restraining the SIT to proceed further in the further investigation, which is to be conducted by them in these cases. Gagan Pardeep Singh Bal, counsel for the complainants, argued that about five years had already passed but due to the internal fight between the CBI and the Punjab Police/State of Punjab, no relief has been granted to the complainant party till date and has strongly prayed to expedite the proceedings of these closure reports. The court ordered that all the parties, who have not filed the reply to the application filed by the CBI, will file the replies in this Court on July 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2015-sacrilege-cases-cbi-puts-punjab-govt-on-notice-asks-it-to-file-reply-by-july-20/story-otLgYBFrw3Xu3FtgGSm8JJ.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||PG entrance test may be waived in Panjab University’s affiliated colleges||The members of the Panjab University syndicate will take a final decision on waiving the Other Common Entrance Test (OCET) for admission in postgraduate courses in its affiliated colleges for the next academic session.Panjab University has 196 affiliated colleges in Punjab and Chandigarh.At least 20 items of the agenda will be tabled in the meeting of the PU syndicate scheduled on July 13. A final call will also be taken on the admission guidelines of affiliated colleges for 2020-21.The syndicate was earlier scheduled to meet on June 25, but the meeting was postponed after a woman staffer of the varsity tested positive for coronavirus.The members will take a final decision on the suggestions made by a committee to finalise the admission guidelines for the upcoming session. The committee has suggested that the OCET for admissions in PG courses may be waived for the 2020-21 academic session.‘WAIVE BED ENTRANCE TEST’The committee has also suggested that admission in BEd courses at the affiliated colleges of Chandigarh be given without conducting entrance tests and on the basis of merit. The panel has recommended that admissions in affiliated colleges should be given through both online and offline mode for the new session.The committee also recommended that a provision for dual-degree courses, one from regular and other from distance education mode may be incorporated in the admission guidelines.The members of the committee unanimously resolved that all UT colleges should follow UT administration policy in terms of reservation under the EWS (economically weaker section) category and no additional seats be allowed in UT colleges.Some decisions related to the senate elections of 2020 will also be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pg-entrance-test-may-be-waived-in-panjab-university-s-affiliated-colleges/story-MGOWu0oVMB7YYWCSbXYXYO.html
10-07-2020||Dehradun||Eight-month-old tests positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand, state tally rises to 3,373||Uttarakhand on Friday reported 68 fresh Covid-19 positive cases including that of an eight-month-old baby, taking the state tally to 3373.Out of 3373, a total of 2706 people have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 80.23 %.Dr HS Hyanki, chief medical superintendent at government hospital in Champawat’s, Tanakpur said the 8-month-old baby tested Covid-19 positive on Friday.“The baby’s parents had come from Sonipat area of Haryana recently. His father had tested positive for Covid-19 following which samples of other family members were sent for testing. The baby tested positive following which we have isolated the child in trauma centre here”, he said.68 new cases were reported on Friday, including maximum 41 from US Nagar district, followed by 11 from Dehradun, seven from Haridwar, four from Nainital, two from Champawat and one each from Tehri, Pauri and Uttarkashi districts.Most of the fresh cases have a travel history to Delhi, Saudi Arab, Hyderabad, Uttar Pradesh, Kuwait, Bihar and Ghaziabad. Travel history was not available in case of 38 people who tested positive on Friday.Nineteen of the fresh cases included contacts of earlier positive cases. One healthcare worker from Nainital district has also tested positive. Thirty-four Covid-19 patients were also discharged from different hospitals in the state on Friday with a maximum of 21 from Dehradun district.According to the state records, 46 people have succumbed to the virus in Uttarakhand so far, of which 42 died due to comorbidities and other causes.The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 53.34 days, while the infection rate is 4.18 per cent. The state has so far tested over 77,000 samples of which results of over 5,600 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 83 containment zones in six districts including maximum 59 such in Haridwar, followed by 13 in US Nagar, 4 each in Uttarkashi and Dehradun, two in Nainital and one in Tehri.The state had reported its first positive Covid-19 case on March 15. The cases started increasing after May 23, when people started to return to the state in huge numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/eight-month-old-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttarakhand-state-tally-rises-to-3-373/story-CilXWjPTZnkjBkXkPa4xUN.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn revokes conditions on resale of defence colony properties||In a major relief to the allottees of freehold residential plots on concessional rates, the UT administration has removed the condition of 15-year lock-in period on the resale and transfer of properties.What’s more, allottees will no longer have to pay to the administration one-third of unearned profits on the resale of such a property.The administration on June 8 notified the Chandigarh Estate (Amendment) Rules, 2020, replacing the existing Rule 7, sub-rule (I) with new rules.Before the latest notification, the allottees could not transfer or sell their properties until the completion of 15 years of possession. At the time of the transfer of the property, they had to pay to the administration one-third of the unearned increase in the value (the difference between the price paid by the original allottee/lessee and the market value/collector rate of the site at the time of permission of transfer).The new relaxation will be applicable only if the allottees have paid fully the cost of the plot to the administration.“There was strong opposition from the allottees, and many people had even approached the courts. Now, the administration has made the necessary relaxations,” said a senior UT official. EVen the courts had asked UT to relax the rules.The major beneficiaries of the new order are the allottees in defence sectors of 33, 34 and 35 that were allotted to defence personnel. “These were also known as defence colonies. The order will also benefit those group housing societies where plots were allotted on a freehold basis but on concessional rates,” said Sanjay Arora, a city-based realtor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-revokes-conditions-on-resale-of-defence-colony-properties/story-sW6Khmgz3DAGOcH5HQhvkK.html
10-07-2020||City||Delhi Police’s PCR vans to be fitted with cameras; control room to get live feed||New Delhi: Last December, when three teenagers from central Delhi’s Turkman Gate were killed in a road accident near the Maulana Azad Medical College, nearly 800 people staged a protest and blocked traffic for seven hours, alleging that the trio’s two-wheeler was rammed “deliberately” from behind by a police patrol vehicle giving them chase. Even though senior police officers told the crowd that their records do not show any police van in that area at the time of the accident, the agitators did not buy their version and demanded video proof for the claims, which the police did not have. The protesters dispersed only when a “thorough investigation” was promised.In the December 16, 2012 gang-rape case as well, there had been allegations from the public against the Delhi Police that the PCR van reached the spot late. In addition, agitators had alleged that the officials of two police stations had argued over territorial jurisdiction of the spot where the 23-year-old paramedic student and her friend were thrown out of a moving bus, after she was gang-raped and tortured by five men and a juvenile.To deal with allegations of foul play, inaction and delayed response against personnel deployed in patrolling vehicles, commonly known as PCR vans, which come up time and again, the Delhi Police have decided to install cameras in the vans so that the footage may be used as evidence to counter such charges, senior officials who are in the know of the initiative said.In all, the city police have an almost 800-strong fleet of PCR vans against their sanctioned strength of 1,000. The prime objective of the PCRs is to patrol the streets and be the first responders to distress calls or at crime scenes. However, as street crimes such as robbery and snatching have become a headache for the force’s top brass, PCR personnel have been given the added responsibility of curbing street crimes by chasing and catching criminals.“The availability of video footage from their vehicles will make their operations smooth and more effective. The cameras shall be equipped with the facility to send live feed to the centralised police command and communication room, which may be used to ascertain the routes the suspect is taking during the chase. Accordingly, the nearest patrol vans and police staff can be alerted and involved in the operation to nab the suspect,” said special commissioner of police (operations) Muktesh Chandra.Each police control room (PCR) van will have two high-definition cameras – one of them will be static while the other one will be movable so that officials can change its view and focus as per the demand of the situation. “The cameras will be placed in such a way that they can capture everything happening at its front as well as the rear side,” added Chandra.Police statistics show that as many as 299 criminals – including 39 snatchers, 27 robbers, 53 bootleggers and 43 thieves – were arrested by personnel deployed in PCR vans between January 1 and June 28 this year. They seized nearly 50,000 liquor bottles, 57 stolen mobile phones, eight illegal guns with 17 cartridges and 10 knives from the arrested persons.According to deputy commissioner of police (PCR) Sharat Sinha, the cameras in the PCR vans will help the police record the crime scene as well as the gathering of people and areas around the spot, all in digital format. “The video footage can also be used as digital evidence and make the case stronger against the accused. It will help us address allegations of inaction or excesses made against PCR personnel,” said DCP Sinha.The initiative is still in the planning stage and the tendering process is likely to be started soon, said senior officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-s-pcr-vans-to-be-fitted-with-cameras-control-room-to-get-live-feed/story-r2CxUkkTg3DpmjSJTSazhM.html
10-07-2020||City||12 child workers rescued from Gandhi Nagar||New Delhi: The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on Friday rescued 12 children illegally engaged at a garments factory and a mechanic workshop from east Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar. The children were working without masks in unsafe and unhygienic conditions, the commission said in a statement. A team of the commission led by its member Roop Sudesh Vimal, along with officials of Delhi Police, labour department, SDM Vivek Vihar and NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan conducted the rescue operation. The DCPCR and Delhi Police have sealed the establishments and the contractor has been arrested, it said. A DCPCR member said the statements of the rescued children will be recorded at the SDM’s office, followed by medical tests, including Covid. The children will be produced before a Child Welfare Committee (CWC) for further proceedings and rehabilitated. “The commission is in process of evolving a comprehensive long-term strategy to make Delhi Child Labour Free by 2023,” said Anurag Kundu, chairperson, DCPCR. Kundu urged citizens to proactively report instances of child labour. He said with the outbreak of Covid-19 and the lockdown, there has been a drastic impact on the income of families. According to a joint report by UNICEF and International Labour Organisation (ILO), released to mark the World Day Against Child Labour on June 12, loss of employment and rising poverty is likely to force more children to seek exploitative and hazardous jobs as families use every available means to survive. Delhi minister for social welfare and women and child development (WCD) Rajendra Pal Gautum said that such coordinated joint efforts will help eradicate the malpractice of child labour in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-child-workers-rescued-from-gandhi-nagar/story-XEi9vzdJxd4mRsAd3pwE0K.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||ARMS ACT CASE: Moose Wala fails to join probe despite court orders||Defying the court orders, Punjabi singer Shubhdeep Singh, alias Sidhu Moose Wala, has failed join Sangrur police investigation in an Arms Act case.While granting interim bail to Moose Wala on June 30, the court directed the singer to join the investigation before the investigating officer or the SHO within seven days from date of issuing orders. As per the court’s direction, Moose Wala was to join the investigation by July 6. On May 4, Barnala police booked Moose Wala and eight others for violating curfew after a video of him firing an official assault rifle went viral on social media. Seven cops, including a DSP, have been suspended in the matter.On May 5, Sangrur police booked the singer, his friends and some cops after another video surfaced where he was seen firing from a private pistol at Ladda Kothi shooting range. Police stations in Barnala and Sangrur added provisions of the Arms Act in the first information reports (FIR) on May 18.The next hearing in the case is schedule for July 15, in which the court has asked the police submit the report with regard to the joining of the investigation by Moose Wala.One of the officials privy to the investigation said: “Even the special investigation team (SIT) looking into the matter has misinterpreted the court orders, giving more time to Moose Wala to join investigation by July 15. The orders clearly mentioned that he was to join investigation within stipulated time period of seven days.”“No summon has been issued to the singer even by the SIT even after he jumped the deadline,” he added. Superintendent of police, Punjab Bureau of Investigation, Gurmeet Singh said the singer has not reported before the investigation team as yet. “Though he missed the deadline, the singer is likely to join the investigation before hearing of the case. We will submit the report in the court accordingly,” he said.IG Patiala range Jatinder Aulakh could not be contacted.The court also directed Moose Wala to make himself available in the investigation of the case, as and when required, and not tamper with the prosecution evidence, besides restricting the applicant to leave the country without prior permission of the court.Going through the judicial file, the court also observed that “the video shown by the prosecution in the court, which had gone viral on social media and which was also one of the basis of registration of FIR makes it look like an event organised by the police itself and even a proper green carpet has been laid out on the ground”. Raising questions over police theory, the court said when the firing event was organised by the police and the police themselves helped the accused in firing weapons at a police firing range.The court had further observed that it seems that only when the video was circulated on the social media, FIR was registered by the police to save their face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/arms-act-case-moose-wala-fails-to-join-probe-despite-court-orders/story-MZk4tJ9ptowwgQ2SSVf8hM.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four deaths, 217 new Covid cases in Punjab||Punjab reported 217 fresh infections and four deaths on Friday, taking the state’s Covid-19 positive cases to 7,357 with 187 deaths.Two residents of Amritsar died of Covid-19 at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). The dead include a 72-year-old man of Vijay Nagar, and a 48-year-old man of Lahorian Wali Gali.The district also reported 16 fresh cases of which 14 are fresh community transmission cases and two are close contacts of the Covid-19 patients. Also, seven fresh cases were reported in Gurdaspur district.49 FRESH CASES IN JALANDHAR A total of 49 persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Jalandhar. The health officials said that a total 1,091 positive cases have been reported in the district, including 709 recoveries and 23 deaths, so far. 22 CONTRACT INFECTION IN PATIALAAs many as 22 persons tested positive for coronavirus in Patiala district. Of the total cases, 18 are from Patiala city, three from Nabha and one from Rajpura. Fifteen persons, including 13 migrant workers, tested positive for Covid-19 in Bathinda. Spokesperson of Guru Gobind Singh Refinery, a joint venture of HPCL-Mittal Energy, said these workers were put in home quarantine by the contractor. Five persons tested positive in Ferozepur.Mohali reported one death and 22 fresh cases. IAS officer Vipul Ujjwal, posted as director, rural development and panchayati raj, tested positive. Rural development minister Tript Bajwa also got himself tested.Ujjwal is husband of Rupnager deputy commissioner Sonali Giri, who was confirmed positive for the virus on Thursday evening and on Thursday attended meeting of rural development department chaired by minister Bajwa. Fourteen PCS officers, who had attended a meeting of their association in Chandigarh on July 3, contracted the infection on Wednesday and Thursday. The UT administration on Friday said they are looking into lapses, if any, in the case of PCS officers meeting which took place in a Sector 42 hotel on July 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-deaths-217-new-covid-cases-in-punjab/story-uwvyUlLW8GZywWmQ0YcEZO.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||MULTANI DISAPPEARANCE CASE: Being lured by Pinki at Chahal’s behest to depose against Saini: UT ex-cops||In a new twist in the 32-year-old disappearance case of a CITCO employee, Balwant Singh Multani, registered against former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, two retired inspectors of the Chandigarh Police, also co-accused in the case, came out with audio recordings that they were being lured to give statement against Saini by dismissed Punjab Police cop Gurmeet Singh “Pinki” at the behest of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s political advisor Bharat Inder Singh Chahal.In their complaint to Punjab Police director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta and his Chandigarh counterpart Sanjay Beniwal, retired inspectors Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh claimed that they were invited by Pinki at his farmhouse near Landran on June 3 and 6 where he offered jobs of sub-inspector in Punjab Police to their children on behalf of Chahal. Pinki, a dismissed inspector of Punjab Police who was once close to Saini, is the second witness in the case registered at the Mataur police station in Mohali on May 6. His interview to a private channel in 2015, in which he said he had seen Saini torturing Multani, also finds mention in the FIR registered against ex-DGP and eight retired officials of Chandigarh Police.The case pertains to kidnapping of Multani, son of an ex-IAS officer, who was allegedly tortured and went missing after he was picked up by Chandigarh Police after a terrorist attack on Saini in 1991 when he was the Chandigarh SSP.In the audio recordings, the transcript of which has been submitted along with a written complaint, Pinki is heard telling the ex-cops that the case was registered against Saini as Chahal wanted to avenge his humiliation as he (Saini) had booked him in a corruption case when he was the vigilance chief. “Bharat is a sachaa-pakka (true to his words) jatt and he wants to avenge the torture which he met during his probe by the vigilance bureau. You are not the targets as revenge has to be taken from Saini only. He had promise me to settle my son also and has asked me to convey to you that your children would also get jobs in the police,” Pinki is heard telling both the ex-cops in the audio CD.Pinki is heard mentioning that Bharat has already settled scores with ex-SSPs of vigilance bureau, Surjeet Singh Grewal and Shiv Kumar and Grewal, who are in jail for the past two years. The ex-inspectors have also given affidavits of the CDs authentication, which they claimed were recorded during their two meetings with Pinki on June 3 and June 6.“We knew Pinki already and started getting offers via common persons. We recorded this conversation because we were suspicious that he may use our presence at his farmhouse to influence the case as he was the main witness. He even assured us that he will call Chahal in the next meeting,” Anokh Singh said.Pinki also told them that the head of the SIT conducting probe against Saini and others, IPS officer Harmandeep Singh Hans, was a “shareef afsar” and would follow Chahal to record their statement as they want. Pinki did not reply to repeated calls and text messages. Chahal, when contacted, said he did not know any Pinky. “Which Pinky you are referring to? I don’t know any pinki shinki,” said Chahal, when asked for his reference in the audio. Pinki also claimed in the audio that first witness in the case GK Maan, who had been claiming that she had met Multani in the Sector 17 Police station in an injured condition, was lying.The retired inspectors have demanded a fair probe into the audio recordings, saying that they were being framed in the 32-year old case because Chahal wants to settle scores with Saini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/multani-disappearance-case-being-lured-by-pinki-at-chahal-s-behest-to-depose-against-saini-ut-ex-cops/story-cX1NQOIInZpzTKSGZvYvlL.html
10-07-2020||City||Security forces launch search operation in Kashmir’s Bandipora||Two days after the killing of a BJP leader and two of his family members by militants in Bandipora, security forces have launched cordon and search operations in different parts of the district.Police also claimed to have arrested an over-ground worker of Lashkar-eToiba (LeT) from Bandipora’s Hajin town during a raid on Friday.On Wednesday evening, militants killed former BJP district president Waseem Bari, his brother Suhail Bashir and father Bashir Ahmad inside their shop by fired on the trio from a close range.Following the incident, the security has been beefed up in the district. As per the police, two militants have already been identified, who according to them are responsible for these killings. One of them is an active militant, Abid, who is a resident of Bandipora and has been associated with the LeT, police siad.Inspector general of police (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar had on Thursday acknowledged the presence of militants in the area and said they would be neutralised soon.Meanwhile, the recent killings have left BJP leaders and members of other political parties scared, especially those who don’t have any security. On Friday, a BJP leader from Baramulla, Marouf Bhat, resigned from the party. He announced his departure on Facebook without giving any reason. He is the first BJP leader to have resigned after Waseem Bari’s killing. Bhat was the president of BJP’s Yuva Morcha for Baramulla district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-forces-launch-search-operation-in-kashmir-s-bandipora/story-GJbrsH5Tz9xOIyoR9KDaCM.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cancels pending exams of Class 12, open school||Punjab Government on Friday decided to cancel the pending examinations of various classes which were earlier announced to be conducted after July 15 by Punjab School Education Board (PSEB).As per school education minister Vijay Inder Singla, the state government has decided to cancel all the pending examinations of Class 12, open school and several other categories, including reappear and golden chance students. He added that the decision has been taken in view of the students’ safety amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The minister informed that it would not be possible for the education department to conduct the examinations in the near future due to the challenges posed by the coronavirus.He added as per the direction of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, now the result will be declared on the basis of the best performing subjects as examinations of some subjects have already been taken by the PSEB before the virus outbreak. He added that it was also need of the hour to declare results to enable the students to choose their desired courses in higher education in a timely manner.“For example if any student has appeared in the examinations in only three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in the best two performing subjects will be awarded in the subjects for which examinations have not been conducted,” said Singla said while elaborating best performing subjects formula.He added that the marks of practical subjects and on the job training, for vocational subjects will also be awarded on this basis.Singla said that in case of open-school students, the board will declare the results on the basis of credit carry formula. Students will be awarded average marks on the basis of the marks obtained by them in the subjects (credit carry formula), which were passed by them in earlier sessions.“The students, who were to appear under golden/final chance category of the PSEB for reappear or compartment, will also be awarded average marks on the basis of the subjects earlier passed by them,” he clarified.He added that for students having pending chances for division improvement or reappear and submitted fees for only one paper which was not conducted, additional chance will be given in the future without paying extra fees and separate date sheet will be issued later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cancels-pending-exams-of-class-12-open-school/story-dXavaE7jrH5n9g1fhGjyoK.html
10-07-2020||City||Srinagar hospital starts plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients||Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) here has started convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) to treat Covid-19 patients, and doctors say the results could be encouraging.SKIMS is the only referral tertiary care hospital for Covid-19 and other patients.So far, the plasma therapy has been given to two very sick patients and one of them recovered. Senior doctor Dr Salim Wani, who recently recovered from the disease, donated his plasma early this week to encourage others to do the same.“SKIMS has started CPT for critically ill patients as one of the modalities of supportive treatment of the deadly infection that has been approved by central government as well as ICMR. SKIMS Institutional Ethics Committee had also given a nod for the treatment. The Jammu and Kashmir administration has also been apprised of the recent developments at SKIMS where critically sick patients received the therapy on compassionate grounds,” said SKIMS director A G Ahangar.He said Dr Sajad Bhat, a third year resident (general medicine), was the first one to donate plasma for the noble cause at SKIMS, which was done in collaboration with blood transfusion and immune-hematology department.“This mode of treatment is being enhanced and more manpower is being adjusted for this service, based on the clinical judgment and status of the patients in need,” Ahangar added.Stating that recovered patients can be the saviours of humanity amid this crisis, the SKIMS director said, “The patients who have recovered from Covid-19 should come forward for plasma donation. The management team for CPT would screen these donors and the recipients based on the scientific principles of the quantum of the antibodies detected in the donors.”He said given the surge in cases, CPT has tremendous scope in saving lives. “This has been debated thoroughly by the members of the recently constituted apex advisory committee for Covid-19 management protocols in J&K,” he added.The medical institute has also set up a helpline for patients and donors for the plasma therapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/srinagar-hospital-starts-plasma-therapy-to-treat-covid-19-patients/story-sYTkWRykRdr1HUtzF7TTdP.html
10-07-2020||City||As cases jump in Kashmir, experts warn of collapsing healthcare systems sans lockdown||With no let-up Covid-19 cases in Kashmir, health experts have warned that hospitals could “crumble under pressure” if the administration doesn’t go for another lockdown soon.In the past week, more than 1,000 cases have been reported from different districts of Kashmir and every day five to six people succumb to the disease in hospitals, which many doctors have termed as an alarming situation, especially when patients reach hospitals with the signs of bilateral pneumonia.Some doctors have already written to the administration for imposition of a phased lockdown in the valley to bring down the cases. Head of social and preventive medicine department Dr Salim Khan said the current spike in moderate to severe Covid-19 cases and rising number of deaths is an indication that we are moving towards a catastrophic phase of no return with considerable quantum of severe morbidity, while our hospitals continue to get overwhelmed at this incipient stage. “This could lead to considerable mortality within and outside hospitals. We have very limited resources in the government sector to cater to severe cases with no back up from the private sector,” he cautioned.Khan, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19, said all covid-dedicated hospitals are fully occupied with moderate to severe cases in majority. “The chest diseases hospital in Srinagar has over 75% cases with moderate and severe conditions and 5-10% critical patients,” he said.“There is an urgent need to revisit the lockdown relaxation policy and a strict re-enforcement of the same is quintessential if we have to salvage our limited health resources. Else, no effort will be sufficient to prevent deaths among the vulnerable population,” he warned.Besides Khan, at least a dozen health experts and medicos working in different hospitals across Kashmir have flagged the issue and asked people to take it seriously.“Now we are in the more serious stage, but there is no lockdown. With people not following SOPs like wearing masks in public, the outcome could be catastrophic,” said a senior consultant posted at Government Medical College and Hospital in Baramulla.“We get around a dozen cases with pneumonia and other symptoms related to Covid-19. We send them to Srinagar hospitals, but they are not admitted as they are not tested prior to it. Compared to the past, we are getting many more suspected cases,” the senior consultant revealed.“Despite these warnings, neither people nor top administrative officials seem to have taken the issue seriously as the latter recently decided to open parks and gardens in the city,” said Mir Faheem, a Srinagar resident.Meanwhile, when asked why Kashmir had far more cases than Jammu division, Kashmir health services director Dr Samir Mattoo said, “Travellers (returnees) to Kashmir are far more and our testing rate is also very high. These are the basic reasons for more positive cases in the valley.”A senior doctor from Jammu said, “The population of Kashmir is more than Jammu’s and the regions bear different climatic conditions. Lifestyle disorders are higher in the valley. As per a study, Kashmiris tend to have higher cholesterol levels than their counterparts in Jammu and the valley people are more habitual of smoking.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-cases-jump-in-kashmir-experts-warn-of-collapsing-healthcare-systems-sans-lockdown/story-QogPCwQw2KyQkfWaaTwNHO.html
10-07-2020||City||Exiled Tibetans launch movement to boycott Chinese products||Under the banner of Tibetan Youth Congress (TYC), the exiled members launched a movement to boycott Chinese products in McLeodganj here to raise awareness about the expansionist policies of China.While leading a protest here on Friday, TYC president Gonpo Dhondup said over 10 million cases of coronavirus disease affecting 216 countries and killing more than 500 thousand innocent human beings all across the world should be sufficient reason to boycott products “Made in China”, and make the country accountable for causing so much chaos.He said all the countries must also raise a voice against the atrocities being committed by regions under China’s forceful occupation.The Tibetan activists also burnt Chinese products, Chinese national flag and an effigy of President Xi Jinping during the protest.They also raised slogans in support of the Indian Army. Some from the local community also joined the stir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/exiled-tibetans-launch-movement-to-boycott-chinese-products/story-kGw6kNtZ339nT0R7LqurDK.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER accountant among 13 fresh Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, tally now 536||A 58-year-old junior accounts officer at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, was among the 13 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the city’s tally to 536 cases.A 76-year-old man from Sector 21, and two Manimajra men, aged 60 and 30, who are contacts of already positive cases, have contracted the infection.A 34-year-old man from Ram Darbar was also found positive. He has four family members and all are asymptomatic. A 24-year-old man from Khuda Lahora and a 52-year-old woman from Sector 45 are family contacts of already positive patients in these areas.An 18-year-old woman from Sector 41 is a community contact of a positive case from Sector 55.Four cases, also contacts of a positive patient from Sector 55, include four females, aged 82, 64, 29 and a one-month-old baby.The remaining case is of a 61-year-old man from Manimajra. His seven family members are asymptomatic, officials said.They added that 10 contacts of the PGIMER employee had been quarantined and sampled. She had visited the staff clinic to see a doctor as well and had fever. Meanwhile, five patients were discharged on Friday. These include a 60-year-old woman from Sector 29, a 36-year-old man from Manimajra and three patients from Sector-23 — a 39-year-old man, a 36-year-old woman and a 65-year-old woman.The total number of people cured in the city now stands at 408, with seven deaths reported so far, leaving 121 active cases.STAY INDOORS OR LOCKDOWN MAY BE REINFORCED: BADNOREUT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Saturday said many residents were not taking the threat of coronavirus pandemic seriously and were blatantly violating the guidelines issued. The administrator warned that, if necessary, lockdown will be imposed again, especially on weekends to contain the spread of infection.He said people must stay indoors and come out only when absolutely necessary. They must wear masks in public places and strictly follow social distancing norms. Dr G Dewan, director, health services, said they had started a fresh house-to-house survey of the entire union territory to detect asymptomatic cases. Sector 41 was being covered first. As many as 14 teams, comprising doctors and paramedical staff, will cover the entire sector comprising 5,000 households, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-accountant-among-13-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-tally-now-536/story-ZRMtK58HcWAjm41KeN4bHO.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana vet varsity pays tribute to fish farmers||College of fisheries, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), celebrated “National Fish Farmer’s Day” by paying online tribute to fish farmers on Friday.On the occasion, Harish Kumar Verma, director of extension education, GADVASU; RS Chauhan, dean, college of fisheries, GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar (Uttrakhand) and Dr RA Pawar, professor, college of fisheries, Ratnagiri (Maharashtra), apprised farmers of innovative interventions for sustainable development of aquaculture sector and role of academia and farmer linkages in technology transfer and capacity building. This was followed by an interactive session.An online poetry and poster competition on the theme “Gratitudinal tribute to fish farmers of the nation” was held to depict their contribution towards food and nutritional security of the country. Entries were invited from students of fisheries colleges of the country.The top three posters and poems were selected by a jury. The winning posters were displayed, while poems were recited by the winners during the meet.Prabjeet Singh and Sachin O Khairnar, assistant professors at college of fisheries coordinated the meet. Dr Meera D Ansal, head, department of aquaculture, thanked the fish farmers for their contribution and making India the second largest aquaculture producer in the World.Recognising the perseverance of the farming community, Dr Kulbir Singh Sandhu, dean, college of fisheries, and Asha Dhawan, consultant fisheries, GADVASU, lauded their role in providing healthy nutrition. Krishi Vigyan Kendras of GADVASU situated at Booh (Tarn Taran), Majra (Mohali) and Barnala also celebrated this day.Fisheries scientists working at these KVKs spoke about the need to uplift fish farming in their respective areas.Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor, GADVASU, assured continued assistance to the farming community for sustainable development of the fisheries, animal husbandry and dairy sectors of the state through innovative technological interventions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-vet-varsity-lauds-fish-farmers/story-JfbzSswgvaqQAg1d55M55N.html
10-07-2020||City||GMADA to hold e-auction of 65 properties from July 21||Trying its luck amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) will hold e-auction of 65 residential and commercial properties from July 21 to 31. Being held after four months, the auction was earlier planned from July 1 to 10, but was postponed due to the lockdown. GMADA had last conducted an auction in February, after a gap of three months, and had managed to sell just 32 of the 67 properties, despite slashing the reserve price by 20%.The 65 proprieties on offer this time include 16 residential properties, with plots ranging from 100 square yards to 500 square yards, and having reserve price between Rs 79 lakh and Rs 1.98 crore. These properties are located in Eco-City 1, and Sectors 64, 61 and 56. As many as 25 booths to be auctioned are in Sectors 59, 60, 61, 63 and 65. Their reserve price ranges from Rs 81 lakh to Rs 1.93 crore. For six SCO/SCF/SSS located in Sectors 61, 53, 56 and 64, the reserve price is between Rs 3.55 crore and Rs 5.30 crore. Seven IT industrial plots in Sector 83 and 101 will also be up for grabs for Rs 3.89 crore to Rs 15 crore depending upon the location and size. Besides this, a hotel site in Sector 66-B, with reserve price of Rs 12.70 crore, one school site in Eco-City 1 with reserve price of Rs 30 crore, three group housing sites —one in Sector 66 and two in Medicity, with reserve price ranging from Rs 71 crore to Rs 86 crore, will also be on offer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-to-hold-e-auction-of-65-properties-from-july-21/story-P274ZHSldNR3BcHgAnd91H.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sherpur Chowk flyover: Crater in retaining wall repaired; only rain chute damaged, say NHAI officials||Around two weeks after the Sherpur Chowk flyover, part of Jalandhar-Panipat highway (NH-44), was opened for traffic, a rain chute of the bridge was damaged on Thursday, spreading panic among the city residents as a crater formed in the retaining wall of the bridge’s approach road. While a hue and cry was raised that the retaining wall of the approach road had been damaged, National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officials said only a chute drain was damaged due to heavy rainfall and no damage had been reported to the retaining wall of the bridge. The damaged portion has been repaired, officials said. Social activist Gurnoor Singh, who had highlighted the issue on Thursday, said, “The retaining wall was also damaged as the soil underneath the road eroded. Fortunately, any major tragedy was averted. An inquiry should be marked in the case as the damage has been caused due to the inferior quality material used by the contractor.”NHAI officials however said that it was a minor incident, which is normally reported during monsoon. The rain chutes are established to drain out water from the bridge and rainwater might have eroded the soil underneath the chute, they said.Yogesh Chandra, NHAI project director, said, “No damage was reported to the retaining wall and the rain chute was repaired by Thursday night. The bridge is open for traffic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sherpur-chowk-flyover-crater-in-retaining-wall-repaired-only-rain-chute-damaged-say-nhai-officials/story-SoMjOJfiEd7T2zGrV2bZWJ.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||HC notice to Punjab, law varsity over fee collection||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday put Punjab government and Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL), Patiala, on notice over a plea from students challenging the varsity’s decision to charge full fee for next semester, among other issues, amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The high court bench of justice BS Walia has sought response from the varsity and the state government by July 17 and asked that in the meantime no late fee should be charged from the students, said senior advocate Chetan Mittal, who appeared for the students. A detailed order is awaited.The petition filed by Aditya Kashyap and five other students alleges that the varsity has asked them to deposit full semester fee of ₹1.13 lakh by July 10 which was beyond tuition fee. They had submitted that around 50 percent of the same is being charged towards allied fee for campus development fund, moot court fees, examination fee, library and hostel fee even as students are not residing there since March.It was stated that RGNUL is getting huge grants from Punjab and as per records, there is FDR of ₹48 crore available with the varsity. RGNUL waived off rent up to 25 percent to shops, canteen, mess etc, but students are being charged fully along with late fee. However, when approached, the varsity did not take into account the grievance of students, the court was informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-punjab-law-varsity-over-fee-collection/story-SSfoHUf4OZDdVZusKRS86M.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Hygienic conditions necessary to prevent waterborne diseases: Ludhiana vet varsity experts||Experts from school of public health and zoonoses, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), have cautioned residents to take necessary precautions to prevent waterborne disease during the monsoons as it could prove dangerous in the current scenario when the entire health system is focused on curtailing the spread of Covid-19.Dr RS Aulakh, director, school of public health and zoonoses, said waterborne disease can be parasitic, bacterial and viral, many of which are intestinal pathogens.Many waterborne diseases including giardiasis, cryptosporidiosis, hepatitis A and E viral infections (jaundice), leptospirosis, typhoid, cholera and food poisonings can occur due to drinking contaminated water, he said.Infection commonly occurs when contaminated water is used for bathing, washing, drinking and preparation of food.He said that according to the World Health Organisation, diarrheal diseases account for more than 4% the total daily diseases worldwide and is responsible for the deaths of about 20 lakh people every year. It is estimated that about 90% of these can be attributed to unsafe water supply, sanitation and hygiene, and is mostly concentrated in developing countries.During monsoons, blockage and overflow of sewage pipes is a major source of contamination of drinking water supply. Further, the resulting stagnant waters act as breeding grounds for mosquitoes leading to increased risks of diseases such as dengue and malaria.Therefore, people should take preventive measures like ensuring that water does not accumulate in and around their houses.Moreover, water storage tanks may be a major source of contamination and their periodic maintenance and disinfection is necessary to preserve water quality. Experts from GADVASU have recommended that the water tanks be sanitised at least twice a year, and water should be periodically tested for the presence of bacteria and other contaminants.In addition, water purifiers or filters installed in houses should be of good quality. There should be proper maintenance of filters that may act as a potential source of microbial contamination of water, if not cleaned properly from time to time.In case of any doubt, the water sample should be got tested from authorised laboratories. Such facility is also available at the school of public health and zoonoses in the university. Thus, a significant amount of disease can be prevented through better access to safe water supply, adequate sanitation facilities and better hygiene practices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hygienic-conditions-necessary-to-prevent-waterborne-diseases-ludhiana-vet-varsity-experts/story-nwuk4hBevToH2rxtbYNuuI.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Readers’ take: With pet care comes responsibility||Officials should be accountableThe administration should build more dog shelters with catcher teams doing rounds of sectors to capture strays and pets that have bitten people previously but are not controlled by the owners. The animals should also be neutered and accountability of officials in charge fixed if the dog population increases and hefty fines imposed on pet owners not following rules. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliTrack stray dogsThe UT administration’s new notification on rules and regulations for pet dogs in the city – with a manifold increase in application fee and penalty for non registration of pets and maintenance charges – appears to be a move to generate more revenues by the fund- starved authorities. All the clauses in the notifications pertain to pet dogs and not stray dogs, which actually rule the streets of the city. Most of the pet lovers have got their animals registered, vaccinated and take care of their medical needs through veterinary facilities in and around the city. There are likely be some cases of dog bites by pet dogs, but such occurrences are far and few and mostly stem from disputes between neighbours. The real problem in the city is that of stray dogs and their increasing numbers. Municipal authorities wake up once in a while, when cases of dog bites are repeated and the public makes a hue and cry about it, but things go back to normal once again. The authorities should start tracking all strays by putting collars on them with magnetic chips or GPS like device to keep their numbers under control. Suresh Verma, ChandigarhClean up after pets Making registration of pet dogs compulsory with heavy penalty for those not abiding by the rules is doubtlessly right. It is also advisable that dog owners muzzle the pet and carry bags and scoops to pick up the animal’s excreta. Surprisingly, however, controlling the dog population remains a continuous challenge for the administration.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, Mohali.Pets need to be exercised tooIn revised rules for pets, prohibiting owners from taking pet dogs to parks/gardens/public places I feel is totally unfair to the poor dogs. As much as it’s important for humans to maintain their health, dogs require proper physical exercise daily. If not done so they will develop health issues and anxiety/depression. It can also make them more aggressive. This is denial of their rights. Walking dogs on narrow pavements is difficult due to other pedestrians and sometimes many people are scared of dogs. The solution is with the pet owners who should religiously follow rules by carrying a scoop and disposable bag with them to remove the excreta of the dog and deposit it in the garbage. A leash should be carried to ensure the safety of people in the park. Also, separate timings can be set for allowing dogs into parks. It’s all about co-existence. We can choose to live in harmony with other species and not act selfishly. Prabhjot Kaur Bawa, Chandigarh.More dog shelters pleaseOne needs to be very responsible to own a pet and ensure that the animal causes no harm to others and is well trained. As for strays, they need to be vaccinated so that they do not bite people and expose them to high risk of rabies etc. A separate authority should be set up to look into the matter. Dog shelter homes should be opened by government to provide food and shelter to street dogs. Shweta Kapoor, Ludhiana MC needs more funds, staff to sort out problem The municipal corporation must be given adequate funds and staff to sterilise dogs and eliminate those that attack people. The authorities should also ensure that hospitals are well equipped to deal with increasing dog-bite cases. Dog pounds must be created. Those who wish to adopt young pups can do so from these pounds on reasonable payment. The money thus collected can be used to run these pounds. Human lives are precious and laws should be amended to ensure no one faces the risk of dog attacks.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhPeople need to be trained in pet etiquetteOnly by making the registration of pet dogs compulsory we will not be able to save the tricity from going to hell in a handbasket. As responsible dog owners people should be imparted training in pet etiquette before owning one. Classes should be mandatory and conducted by experts in the field. Stray dogs should not only be caught and sterilised but also sent to shelters. They should not be released at spots where they were caught. Sunil Chopra, LudhianaOwners need to keep pets under controlThere should be strict rules of dog ownership like not letting unleashed dogs out in the open or leaving them alone at home when the owner goes to work or leaves town. It has been seen that often in multistorey housing owners tie up their dogs in a common area or entrance point causing inconvenience to the rest the residents. Fines must be imposed on those who don’t keep their dogs within specified boundaries. The government should ban feeding of stray dogs and ensure the animals are sterilised. Well maintained dog shelters should be set up to ensure that the animals are looked after well in the owners’ absence. A separate cell should be formed to look after the stray dogs and to keep an eye on rule violators. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliInvolve PETA, RWAs in drives A toll-free number should be set up to help citizens report strays. Regular vaccination campaigns should be undertaken with support from the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Strays should be taken to shelters and cared for. Special teams should be allocated sector wise for strict implementation of laws and take the help of RWAs. All rules should be enforced strictly.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhDog lovers should not inconvenience othersA stiff penalty for registering pets will hardly serve the purpose of controlling the dog population. What the MC authorities can do in this scenario, is to stop registering pet dogs if the owner is living in flats or in houses measuring less than 10 marla. Keeping pet dogs is no doubt a noble gesture but it must not inconvenience people. In Manimajra’s Modern Housing Complex about a 100 pet dogs, mostly unregistered are taken out for walks and defecate and urinate regularly in the lanes, but the owners do not bother to clean up after them. SC Luthra, ChandigarhStrays need chips on collars/ID numbersThe bylaws for registration of pet dogs aptly put the onus for their vaccination and training on owners. Pets ‘imprisoned’ in small society-flats should be rescued. Civic authorities must own liability as ‘owner’ of the strays who need identity numbers/chips on collars. There have been instances galore of crowds reacting to or even assaulting staff deputed for corralling stray dogs for sterilisation. They require adequate protection. However, neutering is not enough to contain the dog population that often attacks pedestrians. I have been compelled in the past to rescue a little girl, surrounded by ferocious dogs, crying inconsolably. The elderly too are afraid of going for walks with the strays around. Since the VVIPs are isolated/protected from the strays, they are oblivious of the gravity of the menace. An equitable mix of regular culling and sterilisation of dogs can assure people of their safety.Lalit BharadwajNo anti-rabies vaccines availableThe area around the tricity has no facilities for dog sterilisation, especially in Dera Bassi and Zirakpur, where over 1,200 dog-bite incidents took place last year. Anti-rabies vaccine is normally out of stock in sectors 16, 19, 38(W), Chandigarh, Kharar, Mohali and Dera Bassi hospitals and most clinics. Even the orders of the Punjab governor and Chandigarh administrator of July 12 last year, failed to spur the UT bureaucrats to undertake urgent measures to prevent cases of dog bite. The Panchkula MC has taken the lead by establishing a kennel house in Sukhdarshanpur village, near Barwala, which is a welcome step and the Chandigarh administration should request for permissions to use it, irrespective of the territorial areas of governance. Rajiv Boolchand Jain, Zirakpur, PunjabWhy is admin going after pet dogs?Pet dogs have the right to exercise. Why is the MC going after pets when they have been incompetent in resolving the stray dog menace? In the locality I live in there is a small block with multiple packs of strays which keep breeding even though many of them get killed in accidents or starve to death. There is urgent need to isolate them in shelters and neuter them with a proper adoption programme and care by volunteers. The MC seems to have given up as of now as laws and the present infrastructure is majorly flawed. Hardil Kamboj||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/readers-take-with-pet-care-comes-responsibility/story-8ZCFfeqvecbvKNMaOpHqMJ.html
10-07-2020||City||As Punjab records 70 dengue cases in 30 days, state may not be prepared for another outbreak||At a time when the state is already grappling with Covid-19 outbreak, the health department is facing yet another challenge — dengue.Punjab has seen 70 dengue cases in the last 30 days, while National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP) has recorded 45 cases of malaria in the same period in the state.As monsoon has already hit the region, cases of dengue fever, an illness caused by a viral infection transmitted by the Aedes mosquito, have started creeping up. The disease currently has no cure.“In the last 30 days, 70 people were tested positive for dengue and 45 for malaria. Compared to corresponding period last year, the situation is under control as 120 dengue and 150 malaria cases were reported back then. Nearly 10,400 cases of dengue and 1,100 of malaria were recorded in 2019. Till now, no death due to the illness has occurred in the state,” said Dr Gagandeep Singh Grover, Punjab programme officer for NVBDCP.He added, “Out of the 70 dengue cases, nearly 45 are from Ferozepur district. Most of the malaria cases have been reported from Bathinda, Mohali and Hoshiarpur. No clustering of dengue and malaria has been found in any district and orders have been given to health officials to start surveillance and preparations to handle the outbreak.”As the Punjab health department’s focus right now is combating Covid-19, the state is ill-equipped and not ready to handle yet another outbreak with the limited resources. Since most government hospitals are treating Covid-19 patients, special dengue wards are yet to be set up in most districts. Also, health department officials and civic bodies across the state are yet to start fogging.Besides Apheresis machines, most government hospitals do not have sufficient number of Apheresis medical kits, which are used to treat critical dengue patients.Lockdown measures may also be contributing to increased mosquito larvae in areas such as unmanned construction sites, where pools of stagnant water form due to rains, creating the perfect breeding site for these mosquitoes.Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said, “A majority of health officials are assigned Covid-19 related duties, but we will soon call a meeting for checking dengue preparations. We will ask municipal corporations to start fogging at the earliest. Also, we will set up dengue wards in local hospitals where Covid-19 patients are not being treated, to control the outbreak.”When asked about the state’s preparedness against dengue outbreak, Dr Grover said, “It is true that the health department is focusing on controlling coronavirus disease, but preparations are on to handle other diseases. Since most health teams are engaged in Covid-19 duties, we are planning to hire more manpower for dengue control. We have sufficient funds and required equipment has been procured at state headquarters and we will soon distribute them in the districts.”“Also, regular meetings are being conducted and wards have been set up in several areas. We have also prepared 8 to 9 lakh testing slides for malaria and dengue,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-punjab-records-70-dengue-cases-in-30-days-state-may-not-be-prepared-for-another-outbreak/story-WkH6Qs9zbsBFje6sRQfluK.html
10-07-2020||City||Indian School Certificate Class-12 result: Mehak Bakhshi is district topper with 99.25% marks||Mehak Bakhshi, a student of Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri, scored 99.25% marks in the humanities stream to emerge as the district topper in the Indian School Certificate (ISC) Class-12 exams, results of which were declared on Friday. The second position in district is bagged by Suvidhi Jain (non-medical) who secured 98.25% marks, while the third spot has been grabbed by Ritin Malhotra (commerce) with 97.75% marks. Both of them also studied at Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri. Due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases, all board-affiliated schools asked the students to access the result of Class 10 and 12 at home. The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) announced the results on its website www.cisce.org at 3pm on Friday.Sat Paul Mittal School principal Bhupinder Gogia lauded the efforts of the students and congratulated the parents and staff on the stellar performance.HUMANITIES TOPPERName: Mehak Bakhshi, 99.25%School: Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri Aim: To be a professor of political science Success mantra: Written practice and interest in all subjects of humanitiesStudy hours: Devoting quality hours to studies and taking frequent breaksHobbies: Taking part in national-level debate competitions Parents: Father Neeraj Bakhshi is in defence services; mother Juhi Bakhshi is a homemakerNON-MEDICAL TOPPERName: Suvidhi Jain, 98.25%School: Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri Aim: To be an architect Success mantra: Self-study and self-belief Study hours: Thorough studies and adherence to schedule Hobbies: Playing badminton Parents: Father Avnish Jain is a businessman; mother Shallu Jain is a homemakerCOMMERCE TOPPERName: Ritin Malhotra, 97.75%School: Sat Paul Mittal School, DugriAim: To be an economist/analyst Success mantra: Being regular in schoolStudy hours: Studying three to four hours after school Hobbies: Computer programmingParents: Father Navneet is a businessman; mother Harvineet Malhotra is a housewife||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indian-school-certificate-class-12-result-mehak-bakhshi-is-district-topper-with-99-25-marks/story-2GEQQ9rIdaPD0q8cbqUGmM.html
10-07-2020||City||Muslims offer 330 quintal wheat for langar at Golden Temple||AMRITSAR Muslims from Malerkotla town on Friday offered 330 quintals of wheat to Guru Ram Das Langar, the community kitchen of Golden Temple here.The delegation that brought the foodgrain was led by Sikh-Muslim Sanjha Manch president Nasir Akhtar. They paid obeisance at Darbar Sahib and also met acting Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh. They also partook of langar at the community kitchen.For offering the wheat, Golden Temple chief manager Mukhtiar Singh and additional manager Rajinder Singh Ruby honoured the delegation members with siropas. “Cooperation between Sikhs and Muslims has prevailed since the times of Gurus. There is a dire need of enhancing the same,” said Akhtar, who was accompanied by Anwar Khan, Shabir Khan, Mohammad Arphan, Mohammad Liyakat, Sadaq Ali and Mohammad Hanif.Appreciating the services being rendered at the community kitchen for needy people, he said, “The people irrespective of their faith, colour, caste and creed, are distributed free food here. This is the greatness of Guru Darbar.”Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal thanked the delegation for their kind gesture saying, “The Muslim community of Malerkotla has set a rare example and such efforts promote communal harmony.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/muslims-offer-330-quintal-wheat-for-langar-at-golden-temple/story-mOE8YfGTBrYkQmS8IFRApM.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||ISCE Class 10 result: Kriti Garg grabs top slot in Ludhiana district||By scoring 98.8% marks, Kriti Garg of Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri, topped the Ludhiana district in the Class-10 exams, results of which were announced by the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on its website www.cisce.org on Friday.The second position is bagged by Nazampreet Kaur, a student of Sacred Heart Convent Senior Secondary School, Sahnewal. She scored 97.8% marks in the exam. At 97.4%, the third slot has been shared by three students — Ravneet Kaur Dhillion of Sacred Heart Convent School, Samrala; Hardil Singh of Sacred Heart Convent Senior Secondary School, Sahnewal and Rohan Gupta of Sacred Heart Convent School, Bhattian. Aiming to become a computer science engineer, Kriti has opted for non-medical stream in Class 11. Sharing her other interests, she said, “I am very fond of poetry and have played table tennis at national level.”Her father Pardeep Kumar Garg is an engineer and mother Tusha is a homemaker.Nazampreet Kaur, who belongs to Rajgarh village, wants to become a cardiologist. The 16-year-old said, “I love to perform science experiments at home to gain practical knowledge. I am very fond of reading books. My school director William Sohata, principal Sister Crispin Maria and teachers supported me throughout and I’m thankful to them.”Her father Balpreet Singh is an engineer and mother Harpreet Kaur is a homemaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/isce-class-10-result-kriti-garg-grabs-top-slot/story-qg2hghFLWxqW0Jc4wJuIsN.html
10-07-2020||City||Computer institute owner held for violating state directives||Basti Jodhewal police on Thursday registered an FIR against a computer institute owner and arrested him for violating the state directives to shut down operations amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The accused has been identified as Prince Mehra of Bhamiyan Kalan.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Radhe Shyam said he came to know that a computer institute on Kakowal Road was functioning in violation of state government’s orders. “The institute owner had also invited his friends to attend classes. Students were not wearing masks,” he added. The students fled when the police reached the spot, but the owner was arrested. The ASI added that the accused was aware of the ban, but did not take the orders seriously.A case under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Section 3 of the Epidemic Act and Section 51 of Disaster Management Act has been registered against the accused, who was later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/computer-institute-owner-held-for-violating-state-directives/story-YRj3j9HUlBWG42X4Ow61uN.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Part of southern bypass road near Ferozepur road caves in||Five days after a major portion of Kaka Marriage Palace road caved in, a part of the southern bypass road caved-in near Ferozepur road on Friday.No casualty was reported but, a 10-feet long and two-feet wide crater was formed at the spot.Public works department (PWD) officials said the soil underneath the road might have eroded after the city received heavy rainfall over the last few days, causing the road to cave in.PWD superintending engineer Kulwant Singh said, “We have inspected the area and field staff is working to repair the road and it will be done by Saturday.”Chanpreet Singh, a resident of Model Town extension, said, “The condition of roads in the city is deteriorating but authorities are paying no heed to the problem. The administration should find a solution for the problem as roads cave-in every year and lives of commuters are being put at risk.”Waterlogged underpass gives commuters tough timeEven after a day has passed since the city received heavy rainfall, the underpass of the southern bypass below Ferozepur road is still waterlogged.While traffic jams are being witnessed at the site, few vehicles also developed snags in a bid to cross the inundated flyover. A social activist, Gurkaran Tinna, raised the issue on social media on Friday. PWD executive engineer, Davinder Pal said, “The wires of motor pumps installed under the bypass to pump out the rain water have been stolen, due to which we have made temporary arrangements to pump out the water. The pumps can be repaired only after draining out the water and it will take around two days to streamline the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-part-of-southern-bypass-road-near-ferozepur-road-caves-in/story-3UCfkD42nyVBxxTeVLlPBL.html
10-07-2020||City||Forced to change vocation, local gym owners struggle to make ends meet||Lockdown, loss of income and liabilities are forcing gym owners to change their course of life as they struggle to earn bread and butter for their families. Running their own establishment (gymnasium) in the pre-lockdown period, the owners are now left with no other option but to take up jobs, either permanent or commission-based, to meet the expenses and support their families at this time of crisis. The gym owners’ associations have been protesting against the central government lately, stating that every other sector such as markets, banks, government offices have been opened, but gyms are not under their purview, due to which owners and their staff are struggling to survive.Once an owner, 48-year-old Jagdish now does supervising jobA gym owner in Model Town Extension, 48-year-old Jagdish Singh, who had been running his facility in a rented accomodation for the last 13 years, is now working as a supervisor in a gym machines’ manufacturing unit in Janta Nagar and has to perform odd commission-based jobs for earning a livelihood for his family. “I was running out of ways to stay afloat. I had to find some job for myself as my wife, two children and parents are dependent on me. My younger brother who once worked in the quality control department of a hosiery unit also lost his job in the first two months of the lockdown. Though gyms are closed, we still have to pay school fees, electricity charges and other bills. I also take up commission-based jobs like getting orders for the factory owners so that I could meet the household expenses,” he said. “The government should pay heed to the crisis being faced by gym owners and allow them to open. A middle-class family does not have that much savings on which it can survive such a prolonged lockdown. I had a choice to sell steroids and other gym products to customers like many others are doing, but it is not good for the health of customers, so I chose to look for a job,” Jagdish added. Baljinder is back to square oneSimilar is the plight of Baljinder Singh, 33, who ran a gym in a rented accommodation in Ramgarh village. Now, he has moved back to work as a design engineer in an auto-part manufacturing factory, six years after he had left the job and to pursue his aspirations. “I was shattered after the lockdown was announced and it was extended subsequently. I was fortunate enough to get my job back after six years, but I am forced to work on a meagre salary as compared to what I used to earn through the gymnasium,” he said. “I used to earn profit of around ₹35,000 to ₹40,000 after meeting all my expenses including rent, electricity bill and salaries of staff. But now, I am earning only ₹15,000. After paying the rent of my gym, I am left with only Rs 5,000. I have a family to feed, which includes my parents, a sister, wife and my 18-month-old son. My ailing father, who works as a machine operator in a factory, had to retire this year, but he continued with his job to support me at this time of difficulty,” Baljinder added.He said there were more than 700 gyms in the city and “everyone, including the owners, staffers and trainers, are now struggling in one way or another”. Even if the gyms are allowed to open, the future of this sector will remain bleak, but it will give us a ray of hope and business will slowly come back on track, he added. Till now, no relief has been announced by the government for the gym owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/forced-to-change-vocation-local-gym-owners-struggle-to-make-ends-meet/story-mwxe4Irj64XFl6wbNMCISI.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||31 test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal; count mounts to 1,171||Thirty-one more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal on Friday, taking the state’s count to 1,171. Sixteen cases were reported from Solan, three each from Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Shimla, two cases from Kangra and one each from Kullu, Chamba, Kinnaur and Una. Nine of the patients who tested positive in Solan had been home quarantined. One of the patients to test positive in Kangra was a 31-year-old man from Daulatpur. He had a travel history from Kerala and had reached his house on July 3. The patient has been shifted to a Covid-care centre Dadh.One CRPF man tested positive in Kullu district. The 42-year-old soldier had returned from Jammu and Kashmir on July 4 and was home quarantined.In Kinnaur, a 19-year-old man from West Bengal, who works at a tower company tested positive. Three cases each were reported in Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Shimla. One case was reported in Chamba.275 ACTIVE CASES, 872 RECOVER Till date, 872 people have been cured of the contagion. Active cases have come down to 275.The death rate is around 1% with nine casualties recorded so far.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 300 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 271 cases, Una with 133 cases , Solan with 175 cases, Chamba with 59 cases, Shimla with 56 cases, Bilaspur with 51 cases, Sirmaur with 41 cases, Mandi with 38 cases, Kinnaur with 35 cases, Kullu with eight cases and Lahaul-Spiti with four cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/31-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-count-mounts-to-1-171/story-gCbg6mqBdeW513fcysNsfM.html
10-07-2020||City||Jail head warden, warden among seven held for drug smuggling in Amritsar||Unearthing a drug smuggling module run from the Amritsar Central Jail, the special task force (STF) has arrested seven persons including head warden and warden of the jail and recovered 277gm heroin and Rs 7.33 lakh drug money from them.Confirming the development, the STF officials said that Vijay Kumar alias Vicky is the prime accused. With the help of both the wardens and his wife, Vicky was running the racket. His wife has also been arrested. The recovery was made from his wife Rupa and friend Pardeep Kumar.“Belonging to Islamabad locality here, the prime accused lured the wardens to be part of the module. Both facilitated his meetings with his wife and friend to run the racket. Following this, he lured another jail inmate Gurpreet Singh, who is a resident of Guru Nanak Pura locality. Gurpreet’s brother also joined them,” said the officials.The STF brought Vicky and Gurpreet on production warrants after registration of FIR against them. The STF officials are questioning them to unearth their links and names of others involved in the illicit trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jail-head-warden-warden-among-seven-held-for-drug-smuggling-in-amritsar/story-WSAnmIdfjJPsmKAmBczgNK.html
10-07-2020||City||10-year-old boy dies of power shock in Kanganwal||A 10-year-old boy was electrocuted while playing on the roof of his house during rain in Mahadev Nagar of Kanganwal. He was rushed to a private hospital, where the doctors declared him dead on arrival.The victim was a student of Class 5 in a private school.Om Shankar, father of the victim, said on Thursday afternoon when showers lashed the city, his son went to the rooftop to play in the rain. He said rainwater had accumulated on the roof. “There was a joint in power cables due to which current ran into water. As my son came in contact with them, he got electrocuted,” the father added. The boy was the youngest of two siblings.Sahnewal police have handed over the boy’s body to his family after conducting postmortem examination at the civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-year-old-boy-dies-of-power-shock-in-kanganwal/story-OGQbttnF8EMxxx58k1aXDL.html
10-07-2020||City||Sidhwan waterfront project: Picnic spot with dedicated cycle tracks open to public||With the first phase of Sidhwan canal waterfront project nearing completion, a picnic spot with dedicated cycling and jogging tracks have been opened for the public. The 600-m long green stretch alongside the canal, starting from Ferozepur road till BRS Nagar canal bridge, with a playing zone for children, has also been opened for public. The work on the second phase of the project starting from BRS Nagar canal bridge to Pakhowal road canal bridge is ongoing. The ₹4.5 crore project is being taken up under Smart City Mission and the contact for establishing the same was awarded in August last year.The authorities are currently working to establish the parking site and to install a solar-based lighting system, which is expected to complete in a month. The green belt on the road, adjoining the canal has also been converged to increase the area.Cabinet minister and MLA (Ludhiana west), Bharat Bhushan Ashu said, “Similar project would be taken up till Gill road canal bridge in three phases and NOCs regarding the same have already issued by the forest and irrigation department. Proper fencing has been done alongside the canal and two cafeterias would also be set up in the next phases. We are also planning to commence a boating facility and establish a floating restaurant near Gill road canal bridge, but the permissions regarding the same are awaited.”“A ramp has also been established to facilitate physically-challenged persons and an open gym is also being set up. A project to light up the pillars of southern bypass flyover moving parallel to the site is also being taken up,” said Ashu. Chief executive officer of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL), Sanyam Aggarwal said, ”People have already started coming to the waterfront for morning and evening walks and it is open for cycling also, but the residents should not interfere with the ongoing works, which would be completed in a short span.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sidhwan-waterfront-project-picnic-spot-with-dedicated-cycle-tracks-open-to-public/story-6mH872zCfDCQBZak3hoYTO.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab challenges high court order on private school fee payment||Punjab government on Friday challenged the judgment of the high court (HC) in the matter pertaining to payment of school fees for the lockdown period.In a Letter Patents Appeal (LPA), filed under Order 41, Rule 5, read with Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the state government has sought a stay on the operation of the single judge order and judgement of June 30 “in the interest of justice and fair play.” In the ruling, a single judge of the HC had given relief to the private schools to effectively collect all types of fee irrespective of whether or not it offered online classes.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had earlier expressed concern over private schools charging fee from students even when no online or offline classes were held in wake of the Covid-19 lockdown. The matter had come up for discussion at Wednesday’s cabinet meeting and advocate general Atul Nanda had been asked to file the LPA in the HC.The LPA points out that the private schools, despite pleading financial hardship and incapacity to meet their expenditures, did not place on record any evidence or material to prove the same. It was further noted that the HC, in its ruling, had completely ignored the fact that the Punjab government had been constrained to issue orders directing private schools to charge only “tuition fee” (in respect of online education provided by them), in order to mitigate the emergent hardship faced by the parents due to the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-challenges-high-court-order-on-private-school-fee-payment/story-bSCmlV02ENTbXFBv2sEHOP.html
10-07-2020||City||Passport office to handle appointments via video calls||In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the regional passport office in Ludhiana will be handling enquiry appointments through only WhatsApp video calls. The applicants will no longer have to appear in person for the interview and a four-members team will conduct it via video call. The applicants can send the required documents via email or post. If required the authorities will also verify the documents submitted by the applicant and if any document is found fake, then the applicant will not be considered eligible to get the passport.The passport office in Ludhiana receives a footfall of 4,000 applicants on a daily basis. Regional deputy passport officer Amit Kumar Rawat said, “The idea is to ensure the safety of people and the staff working at the passport office. A dedicated team will handle the enquiry appointment process through video calls and this way public dealing to some extent can be avoided.”“For senior citizens, children and pregnant women who are at a higher risk, we are issuing VIP coupons and conducting the entire process before 9 am, he said. Surinder Singh, an applicant who has recently applied for a passport said, “I have filled the form online yesterday and received a message of appointment for next week. The authorities have also said that they will conduct the interview through video call and asked me to stay home. This is a good move by the passport office.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/passport-office-to-handle-appointments-via-video-calls/story-JtuFgmvP7D7ZvbaLPibuHO.html
10-07-2020||City||Ludhiana civic body scrambles to stem infections as joint chief tests +ve||Panic gripped the staff of Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) after its joint commissioner-cum -zonal commissioner (Zone D), Kulpreet Singh, tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday.The MC sanitised its various offices and also decided to restrict the movement of public on the premises.Meanwhile, the staff working at the joint commissioner’s office has been home quarantined. MC additional commissioner, Sanyam Aggarwal and joint commissioner Swati Tiwana have already been home quarantined after additional deputy commissioner (general), Amarjit Bains was tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The staff has now been demanding that the MC should shut down its offices in order to thwart the spread of the virus. Requesting anonymity, an MC official said, “The news of the joint commissioner testing positive created a flutter. He used to conduct regular meetings with staff before he was home quarantined himself. One of the employees deputed in the health branch has also been told to home quarantine himself after he developed Covid-19 symptoms. The MC should shut down the offices or conduct the Covid-19 test of their employees.”Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “I had conducted a meeting with MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and we have decided to restrict the entry of public in MC offices. The public would be directed to submit their application at Suvidha Kendra only. If someone has to meet any official, they will have to go through thermal screening. No decision has been taken to shut down the offices or testing of employees.”No check at entry gatesWhile the MC officials were organising awareness programmes under ‘Mission Fateh’ to spread awareness among the residents, there was no check on the entry of the public in MC offices and they were allowed to enter without thermal screening, till Friday. Mayor Sandhu has now directed the staff to depute a person with a thermal scanner at the entry to avoid the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-civic-body-scrambles-to-stem-infections-as-joint-chief-tests-ve/story-a2JZ31kCVzCT4UTHqHtPHP.html
10-07-2020||City||Man dies by suicide in Bhiwani, live streams death on FB||A 38-year-old man shot himself with a licensed revolver in a park in Bhiwani on Friday. He live streamed his death on Facebook, police said.The victim, Sibu was a resident of Sector 13 in Bhiwani. He was working as an administrator at a private hospital in Rewari.Civil lines police station in-charge Vidya Nand said the victim had accused a hospital employee, Rishi, of harassing him and blamed two other employees - Gopal and Mamta - of not helping him sort out the issue.“The Facebook live stream showed him firing gunshots at himself around 2am on Friday morning. Later, his uncle rushed to the park and took him to the Civil Hospital in Bhiwani, where doctors declared him brought dead,” the policeman said.Police have registered a case of abetment to suicide against Rishi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-dies-by-suicide-in-bhiwani-live-streams-death-on-fb/story-q9s55mjj6Lav3gPbE5vL2M.html
10-07-2020||City||21-year-old beaten to death in Panipat village, 11 booked||A 21-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death over a land dispute at Luhari village in Panipat district on Thursday. The victim, Ankush Kumar, is a resident of the Luhari village. However, family members of the victim refused to accept his body and held a protest at the civil hospital and mini-secretariat, demanding arrest of the accused.Family members said the victim had a dispute with the accused over a cattle yard. They said the matter had been resolved by the village elders but on Thursday, the accused allegedly beat him up with sharp-edged weapons and sticks. He was taken to the civil hospital but the doctors declared him brought dead.On the complaint of the family members of the deceased, an FIR was registered against 11 people, including the sarpanch of the village, Sandeep Kumar, under Sections 302 (murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 452 (house-trespass), 148 (armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code.Panipat Superintendent of Police Manisha Chaudhary said an FIR was registered and an investigation was on.The victim’s family members allowed the police to conduct a postmortem after the police intervened. The SP said the investigation was handed over to the Crime Investigation Agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-year-old-beaten-to-death-in-panipat-village-11-booked/story-805iUadYEk8EFESRdQnpGL.html
10-07-2020||City||Fake Covid-19 reports: Row over transfer of probe from VB to Amritsar police deepens||The row over transfer of probe into alleged fake Covid-19 reports from the Punjab vigilance bureau to the local police has deepened after the local MP wrote to Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh to revoke the orders.In the letter, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla said, “The vigilance bureau, in its preliminary investigation, found that private labs, in connivance with some health department officials and doctors, were making fake Covid-19 positive reports. Now as the VB was about to bring conclusive results, the probe got transferred to local police which seems to have happened for the first time in the history of Punjab Police.”“I request the CM to personally intervene into the matter and transfer the probe back to the VB or order a judicial probe under the supervision of a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court,” Aujla said.Social activists and family members of the victims have also shown disapproval over the transfer of probe and claimed that the move was made with a clear motive to give clean chit to the accused.The scam had surfaced in June when at least four patients, who were found positive by the private labs, turned out to be negative in retesting conducted at GMC, Amritsar.The VB had registered a case against four doctors on attempt to murder, fraud, criminal conspiracy and corruption charges on June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-covid-19-reports-row-over-transfer-of-probe-from-vb-to-amritsar-police-deepens/story-6wirR414zV8bzvHedyd4MP.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Green ministry confirms faster forest clearances for state agencies||The Union environment ministry has confirmed that it will be easier for state bodies working on national highway projects to garner faster forest clearances.The ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) responded to the Maharashtra forest department’s query, which was received by them on Thursday, said, forest officials.“Contents of the MoRTH letter have been confirmed and ratified by the environment ministry, making this a norm. Those state agencies executing national highway projects on behalf of road transport projects are exempted from the mandate under FC Act,” said Sanjeev Gaur, additional principal chief conservator of forest and nodal officer, Maharashtra forest department.HT reported on Wednesday that the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) had expressed its intention to make it easier for state bodies to garner faster forest clearances on national highway projects. On June 30, MoRTH issued a letter to all state governments informing them agencies like the state public works department working on national highway development projects be exempted from purchasing non-forest land in lieu of forest area being diverted. This is mandatory for state agencies as per the Forest Conservation (FC) Act, 1980. Instead, MoRTH said agencies, working on the Centre’s highway projects, be allowed to carry out compensatory afforestation (CA) on degraded forest land, which applies to certain small projects. MoRTH said the decision was taken in consultation with the Union environment ministry. However, the Maharashtra forest department had asked MoEFCC to clarify and issue formal instructions last week.According to MoEFCC’s annual report 2019-20, released on June 8, 11,467 hectares (ha) of forest land was diverted for non-forest projects between January 1 and November 6, 2019, in India under the FC Act. Of this, 227 were road projects that accounted for the diversion of 1,488 ha.MoEFCC in its letter, which HT reviewed, shared the minutes of the meeting conducted on June 24 including MoEFCC, MoRTH and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Since Central bodies like MoRTH and NHAI are already exempted from the rule (purchasing non-forest area for loss of forest cover), state bodies should use the name ‘MoRTH’ as ‘user agency’ while applying for clearances on MoEFCC’s Parivesh portal - a web-based application for monitoring and submission of project proposals. “As the user agency is MoRTH, the dispensation of CA over double the degraded forest land, instead of equivalent non-forest land will be available in such cases,” MoEFCC’s decision said.“This will only help expedite the approval process for forest land diversion and avoid unnecessary delay in identification for transfer of non-forest land for state agencies, which used to stall on-ground work by months before this decision,” said Sanjeev Kumar, chief engineer, MoRTH.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/green-ministry-confirms-faster-forest-clearances-for-state-agencies/story-rsrCJoscGrOQWPAZWjGHyM.html
10-07-2020||Lucknow||UP speeds up herbal belt project||In these corona times, when the Ayush department is emphasising on the value of herbs and medicinal plants, the Uttar Pradesh government has scaled up its ‘Herbal Roads’ project.By July 15, the government would plant traditional Indian medicinal and herbal plants on both sides of 800 km of existing state and national highways, to keep air-borne and bacterial diseases at bay.An initiative of the UP public works department (UP-PWD), the drive for this year began on July 1 and would go on till July 15.“These plants would protect the environment, add greenery to the roads, cut soil erosion and at the same time would be a repository of medicines for people. We began the herbal roads programme in 2018 by making 18 roads (total length 187 km) in the state herbal by planting 6,690 saplings. Then the following year, a total of 16,029 saplings were planted on 53 roadsides (total length 311 km). This time the programme will be replicated in all the 175 PWD divisions of the state,” said deputy chief minister and PWD minister, Keshav Prasad Maurya in a statement.The department is planting Mashaparni (Blue Wiss), Saptparni (Seven Leaf tree), Ratnajot (Jatropha), Sahjan (Drumstick tree), Mentha, Lemon Grass, Bhringraj (False Daisy), kapur (Camphor), Brahmi, Aonla (Indian Gooseberry), Harsingar (Night Jasmine), Mandukparni (Spade Leaf), Vach (Flag Root), Giloy, Sindwar (Chaste tree), Tulsi, Ashwagandha, turmeric and several others plants and shrubs. All these plants have varied medicinal uses.“After this year’s drive ends, nearly 1,300 km of roads in UP would become herbal roads and the total length of the herbal green belt would be 2,600 km as it would stretch on both sides of the roads,” said a PWD officer.At least one road in each district would become a herbal road and all saplings that require protection from animals would have tree-guards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-speeds-up-herbal-belt-project/story-AUMK1FwXX19uCD7B9fkOaI.html
10-07-2020||City||Multani disappearance case: Give 3-day notice to Saini before adding murder charges in FIR, Mohali court tells police||In a relief to Punjab’s former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case, the court of additional district and sessions judge (ADJ) Rajnish Garg told the police to give three-day notice to the former top cop before adding murder or other criminal charges in the FIR against him.Dismissing the interim bail granted to him by the previous judge, in anticipation of murder charges, ADC Garg termed it as premature.Special public persecutor Sartej Singh Narula had, in the previous hearing, argued that the former judge had ignored the facts and gravity of the offence and granted the bail in a “blanket manner”.After Friday’s hearing, Narula said, “We are quite satisfied now. We will contest the anticipatory bail if Saini applies for it after the police add Section 302 (murder) of IPC or any other criminal charge in the FIR.”Multani, an employee of the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, was allegedly picked up by two officers in 1991 after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then Chandigarh SSP. Four cops in his security posse had been killed in the attack. Police later claimed that Multani had escaped from the custody of the Qadian police. The case was registered against Saini on May 6 this year. Multani’s brother, Palwinder, who is the complainant in the case, had filed for transfer of the case from the court of ADJ Monika Goyal citing unfair and biased trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/multani-disappearance-case-give-3-day-notice-to-saini-before-adding-murder-charges-in-fir-mohali-court-tells-police/story-9f4AItU5XIC5GsW2t2rNFK.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: HC seeks details of jail where Sudha Bharadwaj is lodged||The Bombay high court on Friday directed the state and prison authorities to submit details about the conditions of inmates in Byculla women’s jail after Dr Sudha Bharadwaj, former professor and an accused in the Elgar Parishad case who is currently kept in the women’s jail approached the court challenging the refusal of interim bail by a special NIA court in May.On Friday, while hearing the application of Bharadwaj, the bench of Justice SS Shinde and Justice Madhav Jamdar was informed by senior advocate Yug Choudhary that the conditions in Byculla women’s prison were deplorable due to congestion and as Bharadwaj suffered from co-morbidities there was a threat to her well-being and hence should be granted interim bail. In an earlier hearing on June 30, Choudhary had submitted that in light of Supreme Court directions to decongest jails to avoid the spread of the coronavirus among inmates and in light of her comorbid condition Bharadwaj had sought interim bail before the special NIA court but it was refused on May 29, hence she approached the HC.The NIA had however submitted that Bharadwaj was using her co-morbid condition and the SC directions as an excuse to get bail as the UAP Act under which she is booked did not have provision for bail. The NIA had assured the court that Bharadwaj was getting proper medical facilities in the jail and was also provided with the medication she had been taking since 20 years and hence her application should be rejected.On Friday, after the state reiterated the submissions of NIA in the previous hearing, the court sought to know from the authorities the conditions of inmates in the jail. The court directed the prison authorities and state to submit an affidavit regarding enlisting the condition of inmates in Byculla women’s prison and posted the matter for hearing on July 17.Bharadwaj along with five others had been arrested by Pune police in August 2018 on her alleged role in the Elgar Parishad event after which violence broke out during Bhima Koregaon programme and resulted in the death of one and left several persons injured. Pune police alleged that Bharadwaj along with other activists which included Arun Ferreira, Varavara Rao, Surendra Gadling, Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Shoma Sen, Gautam Navlakha, Dr Anand Teltumbde and Mahesh Raut were working of the banned CPI (Maoist) group and had conspired and instigated the people which led to the violence at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-hc-seeks-details-of-jail-where-sudha-bharadwaj-is-lodged/story-bgtOMlRNaNjS23ixCAKbkM.html
10-07-2020||City||Palava residents may approach court over inflated bills||Over 500 residents of Palava city Dombivli who had complained about the exorbitant electricity bills during the lockdown period, have now decided to approach the court if their grievances are not addressed in seven days. The residents have also written to the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) and energy minister Nitin Raut against the excessive, exorbitant bills.Rohini Pathak, 32, one of the residents of Palava city who received a bill of 35,000 said, “We have complained about the excessive bills and have decided to take legal steps against the authorities if they don’t address it. We have given a seven days period to respond and solve our complaint. If they fail to do so, we will approach the court.”When a complaint was emailed to MSEDCL, Pathak received a reply, that said, “Your bill not subjected to any revision and it is requested to pay the energy bill immediately”.“There are more than 500 residents in Palava City who demand government and judicial inquiry of electricity bills, which possibly may lead to mental trauma, depressions and even termination of life by many,” she added.The residents have received bills ranging from ₹28,000 to ₹60,000 for the months of April, May and June.Manoj Aiyer, 45, another resident said, “I have already complained about the excessive bills since last two years, but there has been no response from the MSEDCL. This time they have crossed the limit. My average bill for the month April and May month was 6,500 which I had already paid and despite this I got the bill worth ₹60,780.”An officer from MSEDCL Dombivli division said, “The company is taking complaints and addressing them one by one. The complaint from Palava residents will also be looked into.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palava-residents-may-approach-court-over-inflated-bills/story-1LMKI6MU2bAWJLpWDbu6uN.html
10-07-2020||City||Missing 7-year-old boy found dead in bushes in Kharar village||A day after a seven-year-old boy went missing while playing with children in Shakrullapur village in Gharuan, Kharar, his body was found in the bushes at the village on Saturday.Police suspect he may have died by the bite of a poisonous animal, and are awaiting the autopsy report for further action.The victim’s father, Gurdev Singh, said his son, Harpreet Singh, was playing outside on Friday. When he did not return home after several hours, they started searching him, but could not find him. Gurdev lodged a report in this regard at the Gharuan police station on Friday night. On Saturday, the child’s body was found in the bushes. Gharuan SHO Kailash Bahadur said they had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and the exact cause of death will be known after the autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-7-year-old-boy-found-dead-in-bushes-in-kharar-village/story-jGesh6sHsfwnyT3OqgpcuL.html
10-07-2020||City||Tractor snatched in Mohali’s Saneta village, three booked||Three unidentified man snatched a new tractor from an Uttar Pradesh man near Saneta village on Thursday night.The victim, Mahipal, a native of Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh, told the police that he was on his way to Jagadhri in Haryana to deliver the new Swaraj 855 tractor.When he reached the Landran-Banur road, three men on a motorcycle intercepted him and threatened to handover the vehicle to them. One of the accused then took his tractor and the trio sped away.“We have started the investigation. CCTV footage from near the crime spot is being scrutinised to track the snatchers,” said Mohali DSP (City 2) Deep Kamal.A case under Section 379-B (snatching after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint in order to the committing of snatching) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unidentified accused at the Sohana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tractor-snatched-in-mohali-s-saneta-village-three-booked/story-7ykvD9M8pkGhiH8K3fIf6I.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||‘Offence serious’: CBI court denies bail to suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur||A special CBI court on Saturday dismissed the anticipatory bail application of suspended Jaswinder Kaur, who is accused in a graft case. Stating that Kaur, being a public servant, has been charged with an offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, which is a serious crime, the court dismissed her application.The CBI in its reply to the bail plea has sought her thorough custodial interrogation to unearth the “larger conspiracy”.“At this point of time, when the investigation is in progress, very clinching and important material has been pointed out by the learned public prosecutor appearing for the CBI,” said Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI.He observed that the telephonic conversation on record spoke for itself, subject to the verification of its authenticity in the course of the investigation. As on date, there is no reason for me to disbelieve the case put up by the complainant.“It would be too far-fetched for this court to take the view that the accused, Jaswinder Kaur, has been falsely involved in the offence… the allegations levelled (by Kaur) do not inspire any confidence, yet the materials on record do prima facie indicate her involvement,” the court held.The Manimajra SHO, along with an alleged conduit, Bhagwan Singh, was booked under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act on June 29 on charges of seeking Rs 5 lakh bribe from a Manimajra resident, Gurdeep Singh. Gurdeep had told the CBI that he had already paid Rs 2 lakh to Jaswinder for not lodging a cheating case against him and was to pay Rs 3 lakh more.Fearing arrest, Kaur had filed an anticipatory bail application in the CBI court on Thursday. SHO’S CONTENTIONClaiming false implication, Kaur had said that the amount recovered was actually compromise money and not bribe.She had said that as part of the compromise done on June 21, Gurdeep was to refund Rs 28 lakh to one Randhir Singh, who had accused the former of duping him, his wife and one Narpinder Singh, all residents of Sangrur, on pretext of providing them government jobs.A compromise document was signed by Gurdeep, Randhir, Narpinder, and the mediator, Bhagwan Singh, following which a DDR entry was made about this.CBI’S RESPONSEIn its reply to the bail application, the CBI said the SHO took Gurdeep’s signatures under pressure on a blank paper and the compromise was written on it later.One of the constables, Sarabjeet Singh, even revealed this in his statement before the judicial magistrate. The CCTV footage of Manimajra police station from June 21 corroborated Sarabjit’s statement.The CBI also stated that Kaur “deliberately and intentionally absconded” despite being asked twice to join the investigation.“She was informed in person by CBI team, which conducted search at her house in Zirakpur to join investigation at CBI Office, Sector 30A, on June 30. She was also informed telephonically in the morning of June 30, to attend the CBI office at 12pm. But she deliberately and intentionally absconded and did not join investigation in order to avoid confrontation with accused Bhagwan Singh,” the investigating agency said.CBI stated that she even created false evidence in a DDR at the Manimajra police station that she had returned from CBI Office, Sector 30.“If she was not having any role, she should have joined the investigation at the first instance, but she did not do so and in fact absconded,” the CBI stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/offence-serious-cbi-denies-bail-to-suspended-sho-jaswinder-kaur/story-9dpJ6ktQTQM8nB2rJ1oodK.html
10-07-2020||City||52-year-old Dhakoli man is Mohali’s seventh Covid fatality||The district’s death toll due to Covid-19 rose to seven on Friday after a 52-year-old man from Dhakoli, Zirakpur, succumbed to the virus.Four of these deaths happened in the past 11 days, with the very first being reported on March 31. As many as 15 people have died of Covid-19 in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula in the past four months.The patient who died on Friday was a shopkeeper in Dhakoli.“He was suffering from type-2 diabetes mellitus and developed fever on June 20. He was admitted to the Panchkula civil hospital on June 27 and was found positive for Covid-19 on June 30. He was shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, where his condition worsened. Though he was put on ventilator support, he died on Friday,” said Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali.He added that the deceased was cremated as per protocol under the observation of health officials.HIGHEST SPIKE OF 22 CASES Mohali on Friday also witnessed the highest ever spike of 22 new cases, most of them from the Dera Bassi sub-division. The district’s Covid-19 tally is now 362.Four patients, including a 50-year-old woman, a 23-year-old man, a 20-year-old man and an 18-year-old man are from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi.Three females, aged 42, 20 and 12, are from Sunny Enclave in Kharar, while three males, aged 38, 25 and 18, were found positive in Majat, Kharar. A 45-year-old woman and a 22-year-old man tested positive in Gillco Valley, Kharar; two patients, a 19-year-old man and a 50-year-old woman, in Nayagaon; and two males, aged 73 and 19, in Baltana.A 57-year-old man and a 30-year-old woman were confirmed infected in Dera Bassi, a 27-year-old man in Mubarakpur and a 52-year-old man in Banur.Besides, a 35-year-old man in Phase 4 and a 32-year-old man in Sector 116 also tested positive.The civil surgeon said all patients had been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital and they will be taking more samples of their family members.On Friday, three patients were discharged from the hospital, leaving 99 active cases. As many as 256 patients have recovered and seven have succumbed to the virus.THREE NEW COVID CASES IN PANCHKULAThree fresh Covid-19 cases were confirmed in Panchkula, where the number of cases now stands at 136.The patients are all males - a 34-year-old from Sector 25, a 64-year-old from Maranwala, Kalka, and a 45-year-old from Sector 26. Reports of 62 persons are awaited.Of the 136 confirmed cases, 110 have recovered from the infection and discharged, while one person has died, leaving 25 active cases. Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said 775 people were under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/52-year-old-dhakoli-man-is-mohali-s-seventh-covid-fatality/story-J148UNEbEykyaBvGcXYJnL.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal govt has constructed 10,000 houses: CM||Interacting with beneficiaries of housing schemes through video conference on Friday, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that state government had constructed 10,000 houses in the last two-and-a-half years under different housing schemes. The CM said, “Himachal is the only state in the country that had provided Rs 1,50,000 to each beneficiary for constructing a house. Initially the amount was Rs 1,30,000 but it was enhanced by the government for all rural housing schemes.”  He said during the current financial year an increase of Rs 20,000 had been made under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) Scheme.Jai Ram Thakur said the government has set a target to construct 10,000 new houses under various housing schemes in rural and urban areas of the state to facilitate the poor . “The government is also allowing beneficiaries to avail 95 days under MNREGA to construct their houses under these schemes,” he said. The CM said, “Earlier under the Mukhya Mantri Awas Yoja na only BPL families of the general category were provided financial assistance for construction of houses but now the government in 2018-19 decided to provide financial assistance to BPL families of all the categories.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-govt-has-constructed-10-000-houses-cm/story-kInzB2YFtNlMf6aWKo7d5O.html
10-07-2020||City||HC refuses to stay Haryana govt’s notification on crop diversification||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday refused to stay a government notification asking gram panchayats in some parts of Haryana not to sow paddy on the village common land.The high court bench of justice Rajiv Sharma and justice HS Sidhu directed the Haryana government to take steps to revive, preserve and conserve water bodies in the state and boost the re-charge mechanism for the protection of these water bodies.The order came on the plea of Jasbir Singh and others from Kurukshetra who had challenged the May 20 orders of principal secretary, development and panchayat department and subsequent orders of deputy commissioner, Kurukshetra, asking panchayats not to sow paddy on village common land. The orders were issued for implementation of crop diversification under the scheme ‘Mera Paani Meri Virasat’ and prohibited panchayats from cultivating paddy and raising nursery in agricultural fields. “There is over exploitation of groundwater leading to grave threat to aquifers of Indo-Gangetic plains due to excessive/intensive pumping of water. There will be rapid desertification of fertile land leading to dust storms blowing away the top soil,” the bench said, adding that the excessive exploitation of ground water is a threat to environment and ecology. The bench lauded the steps taken by the state government on diversification of crops. It, however, said the aquifers are “over stressed/extremely stressed” and if the remedial measures are not taken, it will lead to classification of certain over exploited blocks/zones as “dark zones”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-refuses-to-stay-haryana-govt-s-notification-on-crop-diversification/story-cV28tBuUGxesw6lm0Amd7I.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Online bi-monthly exams for students of classes 6 to 12 in Punjab schools||The Punjab school education department will hold online bi-monthly house exams for students of classes 6 to 12 from Monday.The online bi-monthly assessment will be followed by ‘virtual parents-teachers meetings (PTMs) to apprise the parents about the progress report as well as to take feedback from them about the problems and suggestions to make the online education during the Covid-19 more effective, according to the school education department.A webinar was conducted via a video-sharing site to impart training to 3,000 teachers for smooth conduct of online examination and evaluation of the answer sheets. School education secretary Krishan Kumar said that teachers were consistently devising innovative techniques for transforming the challenge into an opportunity to prove their mettle. “The enrollment has increased to the tune of 11.58% and more than 1.26 lakh students have migrated from the private schools to government schools,” he said. Bi-monthly tests are regularly held in government schools of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-bi-monthly-exams-for-students-of-classes-6-to-12-in-punjab-schools/story-VzY6UK885GOg1xrIOzT5xH.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four Himachal Pradesh Police Service officers transferred||In another reshuffle, the state government on Friday transferred four Himachal Pradesh Police Service (HPPS) officers. Sushil Kumar, who had earlier been transferred to the post of Sirmaur additional superintendent of police(ASP)has been transferred to the post of Shimla ASP.Manmohan Singh, who is currently posted as Shimla ASP, has been transferred to the post of ASP, CID, against the post of deputy superintendent of police (DSP), CID, Shimla.Puneet Raghu, who was earlier transferred to the post of First Indian Reserve Battalion (IRBn) Bangarh in Una has been transferred to the post of ASP, 3rd IRBn Pandoh, Mandi.Babita Rana who is presently posted as ASP 6th IRBn Dhaula Kuan, Sirmaur has been transferred to the post of Sirmaur ASP.On July 4, state government had transferred as many as 35 HPPS officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-himachal-pradesh-police-service-officers-transferred/story-wCP4gwfC6Hwg5YXvj2fyWN.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal cabinet meeting: Undergraduate sixth semester exams to start from August 16||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet decided to hold the sixth semester examination of undergraduate classes from August 16 and exams for postgraduate classes in September during a meeting held on Friday. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur presided over the meeting. Education minister Suresh Bhardwaj said the examination process will be completed before September 30 as per UGC guidelines. “If a candidate fails to appear for the examination, he will get another chance to write the paper in this academic session,” he said. A decision regarding first and second semester examinations of undergraduates will be taken by the Himachal Pradesh University administration.Bhardwaj said college admissions will be held from July 13 to 25. Online classes in schools will begin on July 13. Schools will remain closed till July 31. However, principals can call teachers to schools, as per requirement.TRAINING ACADEMY FOR YOUTH WILLING TO JOIN ARMYThe cabinet gave consent to establish a training academy centre at Barchwad in Sarkaghat area of Mandi district to train youth willing to join the Indian Army, navy, air force and other paramilitary forces.It also decided to provide a monthly ‘Loktantra Prahari Samman Rashi’ of ₹8,000 – ₹12,000 per month to those who were jailed during 1975-1977 national emergency as a token of respect to them for standing up to protect the democracy and fundamental rights.The cabinet gave nod to a draft policy for engaging part-time multi-task workers in government schools. As many as 7,852 people will be provided employment under the scheme. These workers will be paid an honorarium of ₹ 31.25 per hour for six hours a day for ten months in an academic year.It was also decided that a horticulture division of the public works department at Shimla will be opened. All existing sub-divisions of horticulture will be brought under the administrative control of this division.The division will be entrusted the task of building green roads by ensuring road side plantation and slope stability activities through bio-engineering technology.APPROVES CHANGES IN LABOUR LAWSWith the view of providing flexibility to the employer in order to meet the challenges of globalisation and methods of doing businesses, besides benefitting the workers, the state cabinet approved the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Himachal Pradesh (Amendment) Rules, 2019. This would extend the provision of ‘Fixed Term Employment Workman’ in respect of industrial establishments under their domain as per provisions of Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 and Rules .The ‘Fixed Term Employment Workman’ will get the same statutory benefits as were being given to regular workers in a proportionate manner and thus decrease exploitation of contract workers as the employer will directly hire workers without any mediator in the form of contract for a fixed term.It decided to lease the skill development institute constructed by the Himachal Pradesh Buildings and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board at Palkwah Khas in tehsil Haroli of Una district to the Indian Institute of Information Technology.In order to reduce the number of registers, forms essentially required to be maintained under various acts and for expedient compliance of the requirements for different labour laws in the state, the Cabinet gave approval to the Himachal Pradesh Ease of Compliance to Maintain Register under Labour Laws, Rules, 2019.The Cabinet gave its nod to hire resource persons of M/s Ernst and Young (EY) LLP for providing consultancy services for implementation of ease of doing business (State Business Reforms Action Plan and District Business Reforms Action Plan) and investment promotion in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-cabinet-meeting-undergraduate-sixth-semester-exams-to-start-from-august-16/story-occjQzytL8LZr6BljMG8nM.html
10-07-2020||City||Consider district-level regulatory authority to deal with unscrupulous travel agents: HC to Haryana||The Punjab and Haryana high court has suggested the Haryana government to consider a regulatory authority in each district to check cheating cases by unscrupulous travel agents.The high court bench of justice Arun Monga requested the home secretary and the director general of police to have a meeting to explore the possibility of preventing illegal immigration/human trafficking. “..they may constitute some kind of regulatory body and/or nominate an officer in every district who would have to necessarily issue an accreditation certificate as a pre-requisite to every agent claiming to be in business of immigration/naturalization and/or offering overseas jobs to the public at large in their state,” the bench said, adding that accredited agents list can be uploaded on the website so that a background check can be carried out on their genuineness/credentials, before anyone hires their services.The order came on the bail plea of a travel agent, who was accused of sending a Kurukshetra resident abroad illegally for an amount of ₹20 lakh. The court termed the content of the FIR ‘no less chilling and shuddering than a goosebumps giving’ and observed that factual narrative of the FIR and the ordeal suffered by the complainant, is a sordid tale on how unscrupulous immigration agents deceive gullible Indians who are aspirants of overseas jobs.As per the FIR, the agent took ₹10 lakh from the complainant and the remaining money was to be paid on his successful arrival in USA. The complainant reached South America instead of the United States. He was made to take a flight from Delhi to Sao Paulo in Brazil and then to Ecuador (South America). He travelled from Ecuador in a bus to Columbia (South America) and then by sailing in a boat to Capurgana (Colombia).There he was bunched with illegal immigrants, who then trekked the thick forests of Panama (Central America), where they stayed for five days and another 24 days in an army camp before travelling to Nicaragua (Central America) and onward to Honduras (Central America) from where he was taken to Mexico for entering the United States of America. When the complainant reached the USA, he was arrested in California for illegally entering the country and lodged in a jail in Georgia. For ten months, he continued to languish in Georgia prison but due to Covid-19 outbreak and was deported to plug the community spread of coronavirus infection in jails. The FIR was lodged after his return to India in May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/consider-district-level-regulatory-authority-to-deal-with-unscrupulous-travel-agents-hc-to-haryana/story-m8fCsSj43gxTKfdZzeGngP.html
10-07-2020||City||657 women were raped in Haryana between January-June: DGP||More than three women were raped everyday in Haryana during the first six months this year despite the Covid-19 lockdown, director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said on Friday, claiming 20.46% drop in incidents of crime against women.He said as many as 657 rape cases were reported between January and June 2020 as compared to 803 last year. “The rape cases show a reduction of 18.18%, while the kidnapping/abduction cases have dropped by 27.41%.There has been a sharp drop of 20.46% in crime against women during the first six months of 2020 in comparison to the corresponding period of 2019,” the DGP said.He said in past six months 4,893 cases pertaining to rape, molestation, kidnapping, eve-teasing etc were registered as compared to 6,152 similar cases reported last year between January and June. The DGP said 1,259 less number of cases were registered during first six months of 2020 in comparison to last year which is “the sharpest decline in crime against women” and attributed this to “round-the-clock vigil by Haryana cops.” The Covid-19 lockdown was imposed in the last week of March and continued till May. In June, the state exited the lockdown in a phased manner with restrictions on movement of people. Despite this, 4,893 cases pertaining to rape, molestation, eve teasing etc were registered in first six months.The DGP said the overall crime rate has also reduced due to increased patrolling, new initiatives, presence of police and certain restrictions due to Covid-19 lockdown.In the first half of the year, the DGP said, around 99% rape cases, 85.33% cases of kidnapping and 96.63% cases of molestation were successfully solved.The cases registered under the POCSO Act also came down from 850 to 756, which is a dip of 11.05%, the DGP said. During the same period, cases of kidnapping/abduction of women have also witnessed a fall of 27.41%. The total number of such cases dropped to 1,152 in 2020 from 1,587 reported last year during the same period.The cases of molestation of women dropped by 7.99% as 1,128 cases were reported in the first half of 2020 in comparison to 1,226 in corresponding period of 2019.The cases of cruelty against women under Section 498-A of the Indian Penal Code also went down to 1,588 as compared to 2,140 last year. This suggests a drop of 25.79%.The DGP said the police are continuously trying to ensure technology driven preventive measures to ensure safety of women and children in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/657-women-were-raped-in-haryana-between-january-june-dgp/story-eCmxVlitVvgSaOinmYp2VM.html
10-07-2020||Pune||Centralised admissions for Class 11 in PMC’s newly merged villages||PUNE The admissions for Class 11 students in newly added villages in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits will be done through a centralised process, said Meena Shendekar, deputy directorate of education (DyDe), on Thursday.The admissions for Class 11 for this academic year have started from July 7. This will be the first time when the colleges in these villages will come under the DyDe admission procedure.These newly added villages under PMC jurisdiction are Kalas, Dhanori, Lohegaon (north and east region), Mundhwa (Keshwanagar East), Hadapsar (Sadesatranali), Phursungi, Urali Devachi (southeast), Mohammadwadi, Undri, Yewalewadi, Katraj, Dhayari, Vadgaon Budruk, Ambegaon Budruk, Ambegaon Khurd, Shivane, Bavdhan Khurd, Vadgaon Khurd, Baner and Balewadi.The admissions for the students will be done on https://pune.11admission.org.in.According to officials, all the colleges from these villages have been instructed that they should not do offline admissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/centralised-admissions-for-class-11-in-pmc-s-newly-merged-villages/story-QfGMHRXcDoZMNLONOm5VuM.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Christian Medical College, Ludhiana, starts testing for bleeding disorder caused by low levels of clotting protein||Ludhiana: Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Ludhiana, has announced the started testing to diagnose patients suffering from a bleeding disorder called von Willebrand disease (VWD).VWD is the commonest form of bleeding disorder in the world with a prevalence of 1 in 100 people. Though most of this are milder forms, patients may not get diagnosed. This occurs equally in males and females and 95% of females having this disease, present with menorrhagia or heavy menstrual loss. Due to the lack of availability of this test, few patients have been diagnosed.Dr William Bhatti, director, CMC, said that he is “delighted that this test is now available in Ludhiana”. Earlier, patients had to be referred to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), as it was the only other institution having this facility in North India.TRAINING AND ACCURATE DIAGNOSISDr Poojitha Byreddy and Markas Masih from the clinical haematology department, were sent to CMC, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, for training, before the Covid-19 lockdown.On their return, they mastered the techniques to establish the procedure at CMC, Ludhiana, over the past few months. The lab is now able to perform von Willebrand’s antigen test and RiCof on an automated platform. The two tests are important to diagnose this disease.It is important to process the sample immediately and maintain below freezing temperatures, to analyse the samples in bulk. Sending the unprocessed samples, in room temperature, to outstation private labs is not a suitable alternative.The VWD patients can also be often misdiagnosed as mild haemophilia A. This facility will accurately diagnose and give the necessary treatments.Dr Kavita Bhatti, head of the gynaecology department, said this disorder is under diagnosed in India, which has a significant impact on the health and socio-economic status of affected patients, especially post-pubertal females.Medical superintendent Dr Anil Luther termed it a welcome addition on the 10th year of establishing the comprehensive haemophilia care set-up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/christian-medical-college-ludhiana-starts-testing-for-bleeding-disorder-caused-by-low-levels-of-clotting-protein/story-6Y6bgWODGhJ2RpXN2QugyH.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Strategic Bhanupali-Leh rail line to be given priority: Himachal transport minister||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh government will accord priority to building the strategic 475-km Bhanupali-Bilaspur-Manali-Leh railway line, state transport minister Govind Singh Thakur has said.Reviewing railway projects in the state at a virtual meeting on Thursday, Thakur said that in view of the nation’s security, land acquisition for the project will be expedited. As many as 22 surveys have been conducted through satellite imagery for the rail line on which 30 stations have been proposed between Bhanupali in Anandpur Sahib tehsil of Punjab’s Rupnagar district and Leh. A survey has also been proposed to be conducted with the help of radar.The state transport minister urged the railways and the National Highway Authority of India to conduct a joint survey to curb land sliding along the world heritage Kalka-Shimla railway line. He said that safety measures such as building parapets and retaining walls will be undertaken to check landslips.The minister directed that formalities be completed for land acquisition for the Una-Talwara road.Chief general manager, Ropeway and Rapid Transport System Development Corporation (RPDC), Ajay Sharma conducted the proceedings of the meeting that was also attended by principal secretary, transport, KK Pant, deputy commissioners concerned and officials of the forest department and National Highway Authority of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/strategic-bhanupali-leh-rail-line-to-be-given-priority-himachal-transport-minister/story-UTFHRMZQCPYSM63I8Zf1sI.html
10-07-2020||Patna||Four Maoists killed in Bihar close to the Indo-Nepal border||Four alleged Maoists were killed early on Friday by security personnel in Bihar’s West Champaran district, close to the India-Nepal border, in an operation that also led to the recovery of sophisticated weapons from a hideout, a top official of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) said here.According to Sanjay Kumar, IG, SSB, Patna, the gun battle took place at around 4.45 am and one security personnel was injured by a bullet.“We had received specific information about a group of Maoists hiding at the forest surrounding the Valmiki Tiger Reserve. Accordingly, an operation was planned taking in the loop the police station concerned, Lokeria in Bagaha,” the official told PTI over phone.Kumar said the Maoist group was led by Ram Babu Sahni alias Rajan, who fled the scene, though his deputy ‘Bipul’ besides three others were killed in the encounter.A search operation was underway to nab Sahni, the SSB official stated.“The recoveries include an AK-56 rifle, three SLRs and a .303 rifle. Gunshots were fired by the Maoists and one of these hit the forearm of SSB jawan Rituraj, though he is out of danger,” Kumar added.Meanwhile, in Munger district, which is several hundred kilometres away, naxals struck at a village where they killed two persons by slitting their throats, a police officer said.DIG, Munger Range, Manu Maharaj, said the deceased were identified as 39-year-old Brijlal Tuddu a reformed naxalite and fellow villager Arun Ray (36).“The incident took place in Kharagpur police station area of Munger district late on Thursday. After killing the duo, the naxals fled leaving behind hand-written pamphlets, accusing them of becoming police informers. Their bodies were dumped on a hill on the outskirts of a village,” the DIG added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/four-maoists-killed-in-bihar-close-to-the-indo-nepal-border/story-OQNxynAFakB33QySxwOVfM.html
10-07-2020||Pune||Pune records highest single day spike of 1,803 Covid-19 cases||Pune district in Maharashtra reported its highest single-day spike of 1,803 new Covid-19 cases, which pushed its overall count to 34,399, a health official said on Friday.This single-day rise was reported on Thursday, he said.The death toll in the district reached 978 with 34 more people succumbing to the infection on Thursday, the official said.“Of the 1,803 cases, as many as 1,032 were reported from the areas located in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, where the number of patients has reached 24,977,” he said.A total of 581 patients were discharged from hospitals post recovery across the district during the day.With 573 new cases in Pimpri Chinchwad on Thursday, the Covid-19 count in the industrial township stood at 6,982.The number of coronavirus positive cases reported from the district’s rural parts, areas in the Pune Cantonment Board as well as the civil hospital rose to 3,138, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-1-803-covid-19-cases/story-E05p5PyFl60vnB5hi85DkO.html
10-07-2020||Delhi||Lounge manager at Delhi airport held as sacked employee alleges sexual harassment||A 42-year-old general manager of a lounge at the Delhi airport and his 37-year-old colleague were arrested on Thursday after a woman employee accused them of sexual harassment at workplace, police said.The lounge is operated by a tenanted privately-run third party operator. The 26-year-old woman worked as a Food and Beverages Assistant in the lounge at Terminal-3 of the Indira Gandhi International Airport, they said.In her complaint filed on Tuesday, the woman said that she was sacked from the job the same day, and alleged sexual harassment by the lounge’s general manager and the duty manager, police said.According to the complainant, the two allegedly used to harass and threaten her that she will be fired if she raised a voice against it. The woman was eventually thrown out of her job after she refused their sexual advances, the complaint stated.In her complaint, the woman also alleged that she was sexually harassed by her duty manager who passed lewd remarks and forced her for sexual favours on several occasions.Also, she has alleged, that there have been instances when her general manager followed her at the workfloor and ask her to come to a separate room, but she managed to escape the situation.The woman further alleged that she has been facing sexual abuse from her seniors for the past six months. On several occasions, she has alleged, the two misbehaved with her and touched her inappropriately.She was also forced to do certain shifts during the ongoing pandemic and was threatened she will be fired if she didn’t comply, she had complained.The woman alleged that she was targeted and her job was terminated because she didn’t give in to their advances.Deputy Commissioner of Police (IGI Airport) Rajeev Rajan said that based on her complaint, an FIR was registered and the General Manager and the Duty Manager of the lounge have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lounge-manager-at-delhi-airport-held-as-sacked-employee-alleges-sexual-harassment/story-uM1IRf8Ra9sqQ9zLallBcP.html
10-07-2020||Ranchi||Govt offices, police stations, post offices hit by Covid-19 in Jharkhand||The Covid-19 pandemic is taking its toll on government offices and police stations across the state with the virus now impacting the frontline workers, including policemen, journalists, government officials and politicians.Chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren and several top officials have already quarantined themselves after a Cabinet Minister and a JMM legislator were found infected with the virus.The CM on Thursday, however, said this won’t hamper any work as citizens of the state can reach out to him with their problems through social media.Meanwhile, entry of common people has been restricted to three major government office buildings of Jharkhand- the Nepal House, Dornada, Project Building, Dhurwa and the CM’s office-after drinking water and sanitation department minister tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday night.Attendance at Nepal House and Project Building was also poor on Thursday, while civilians were made to return from these places.However, department of personal, administrative reforms and Rajbhasa secretary Ajoy Kumar said, “Entry of common people has not been banned to these offices. But, they have to take prior permission from now on from the concerned authority before entering the office building.”More and more policemen are also testing positive in the state even as more than a dozen police stations in different districts, including five in Ranchi, three in Koderma, two in Hazaribag and one in Jamshedpur have been shut for civilians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/covid-takes-toll-on-government-offices-police-stations-post-offices-in-jharkhand/story-mCS8dODRduxcQKwQqh0a5O.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, cancels exams after hackers access question bank||Bathinda: Central University of Punjab (CUP), Bathinda, has cancelled 13 exams held from July 6-8 after it found that its question bank had been hacked.Vice-chancellor RK Kohli said on Friday that the system was found compromised on Wednesday and all 13 exams conducted from July 6-8 were cancelled. “Teachers have been asked to prepare question papers for all subjects and new dates of tests will be announced soon,” he said.Kohli said the matter came to light after a few faculty members and his office received an email from an unknown person, claiming that the question bank had been hacked. “The email was sent from ProtonMail, an end-to-end encrypted and paid email service, where a link was given. Clicking on it gives access to all questions. It is a serious matter and a police complaint was lodged on Thursday,” the vice-chancellor said.According to police sources, ProtonMail is a highly sophisticated cyber platform where it is difficult to identify the email sender.In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the university had decided to conduct examinations online where only the schedule was released and students had the flexibility to choose dates to write their tests while sitting at home.ONLINE MODE ADOPTED DUE TO PANDEMICUniversity sources said the unidentified email sender had stated that the “online examination application (developed by CUP) is faulty and a number of students were unable to sit for the test”.However, faculty members said the online mode of examination was optional for students and most of them had enrolled for it.Previously, the exams were conducted on the campus by using intranet. To facilitate students during the pandemic, this year the online mode was adopted by the CUP.The university administration said two mock exams were conducted successfully to check firewall efficiency.The vice-chancellor said that to upload question papers, online access to the question bank was given to teachers. The system was password-enabled but it was compromised at some unknown level, he added.10 STUDENTS FROM ONE STATESCORED EXCEPTIONALLY WELLInterestingly, the university administration has zeroed down on a group of 8-10 students from a particular state who secured exceptionally well in the semester tests conducted on the first three days.“It was found that these students had average marks in the previous semesters but in this session of online exams, they scored more than 92%, much higher than other students. We have shared these details with the police for cyber scrutiny of the matter,” Kohli said.Registrar Kanwar Pal Singh Mundra had earlier stated that a mock test was successful and out of 500 students, about 400 had participated from home without much difficulty.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Aswant Dhaliwal, the investigating officer, said the police is probing the matter from all angles and are checking if the hacker is associated with the university or a trained individual or a part of a team behind the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/central-university-of-punjab-bathinda-cancels-exams-after-hackers-access-question-bank/story-QZ91rYPf7Gdvxx2lfuMtEP.html
10-07-2020||City||Maharashtra: Streets deserted in Aurangabad as city observes 9-day long Janta curfew||People in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad kept indoors on Friday as the city observed a Janta Curfew or a self-imposed curfew amid the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Called by the local administration, the Janta Curfew is in effect from 12am on Friday and will continue for nine days till July 18. All services except the essential ones have been prohibited during this period.“I thank people of Aurangabad for their cooperation. We believe that the nine-day long curfew will help us slow down the spread of Covid-19,” Chiranjeevi Prasad, Aurangabad’s police commissioner, said.The curfew will be implemented strictly and all arterial roads will be monitored closely, Prasad had said while speaking to the reporters on Thursday. He also said that action will be taken against people driving around without permission.More than 7,400 people have been infected with the coronavirus in Aurangabad, according to Maharashtra health department data. It has said 314 patients have lost their lives to Covid-19 so far.Maharashtra is the worst-affected state in India with more than 2.30 lakh cases of Covid-19 and 9,667 deaths related to the viral disease.Meanwhile, the number of infections across India spiked to 793,802 after more than 26,500 new Covid-19 cases were recorded on Friday, according to the Union health ministry.It said 475 Covid-19 patients succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 21,604.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-streets-deserted-in-aurangabad-as-city-observes-9-day-long-janta-curfew/story-sol3tHnx1tB9T63qD7c9TN.html
10-07-2020||Noida||SC disposes plea seeking release of Noida ex-engineer||The Supreme Court Friday disposed of a plea seeking release of Noida’s former chief engineer Yadav Singh from alleged illegal custody of the CBI in a corruption case after being informed that the Allahabad High Court has already granted him bail on Thursday.A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and B R Gavai recorded the statement of Singh’s lawyers on the high court bail order and said the petition has now become infructuous and disposed of the matter.A division bench of the high court had granted the bail while hearing a habeas corpus (produce the detained person before court) petition seeking Singh’s release from the alleged illegal CBI custody.The CBI counsel had told the high court Wednesday that the delay in filing of charge sheet was not intentional as courts were closed due to the coronavirus pandemic.Rejecting the argument, the high court said the probe agency’s claim was not justified, and directed that the petitioner be set free forthwith on fulfilling the conditions to be laid down by the special court.The top court had on July 8 asked the high court to decide the plea seeking release of Singh and pass appropriate orders.Singh, former chief maintenance engineer in Noida, is in judicial custody since February 11, 2020 after the CBI arrested him in the third case of corruption registered against him on January 17, 2018.His son, Sunny, had approached the Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court with a habeas corpus petition alleging that Yadav Singh has been wrongly incarcerated as only 60 days of judicial custody is permissible under Section 167 (2) of Code of Criminal Procedure and that the duration expired on April 10, 2020.Sunny contended that the CBI failed to file charge sheet within the statutory period of 60 days but the trial court rejected the prayer for default bail.On May 6, the Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court has “dismissed as withdrawn” the habeas corpus petition seeking Singh’s release as the CBI raised objections on the court’s territorial jurisdiction but granted liberty to the petitioner to move a fresh petition before its principal bench.Besides the latest corruption case wherein Yadav Singh is accused of favouring companies of his friends and associates in doling out lucrative contracts in Noida, the CBI had booked him in two other corruption cases.These cases pertain to misusing his official position to favour firms in awarding contracts worth over Rs 1,000 crore in Noida and amassing illegitimate assets worth over Rs 23 crore.The agency had produced 62-year old Yadav Singh before the Ghaziabad Special court after his arrest which sent him to judicial custody. His bail petition was rejected by the special court on April 17, 2020.Before the Lucknow bench of the High Court, the CBI had contended that the territorial jurisdiction over Ghaziabad Special court is of Allahabad High Court hence, the matter should be heard by it and not by its Lucknow Bench. The agency had also argued that there was no question of illegal detention as the accused was produced before the special court which remanded him to judicial custody. It said the accused was not in CBI custody.During the course of enquiry, the agency had found that he had allegedly favoured five companies belonging to his friends, associates and family members in awarding huge contracts in Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/sc-disposes-plea-seeking-release-of-noida-ex-engineer/story-5pOkyDUO9L3HzsvTo7xm2I.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Swiss govt issues notices for sharing of bank details of Haryana Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi, wife||New Delhi/Berne: Switzerland government has issued public notices for sharing of details with India about Swiss bank accounts and other financial assets of Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi and his wife Renuka following receipt of an “administrative assistance”request from the Indian authorities.The Bishnois have been asked to reply within 10 days to exercise their right to appeal against sharing of information as per the Swiss laws, according to two notices published in Switzerland’s latest federal gazette, dated July 7, in Berne.Similar notices have also been issued for Grande Maison Ltd and Hollyport Ltd -- two British Virgin Islands-based companies suspected to have links with the Bishnoi family.Both the companies were incorporated on the same day on July 19, 1996, and also figured in the Panama Papers, a leaked list of entities based in tax havens. According to official records, both the companies were struck off from the registry of companies in April 2016 after remaining inactive since August 2014.Repeated queries sent by PTI to Bishnoi, a sitting MLA in the Haryana assembly, and his office remained unanswered.In the notices, Bishnoi, his wife and the two firms were asked to appoint a representative within 10 days to assert their right to be heard against the “administrative assistance” proposed by Switzerland’s Federal Tax Administration.Such assistance includes sharing of banking and other details of the individual or the company having accounts with banks or other financial institutions in Switzerland.While the notices did not disclose any details about the probe, such notices are typically issued by the Swiss Federal Tax Administration after receipt of a request by a foreign jurisdiction along with prima facie evidence of suspected tax evasion or other financial wrongdoings.If the person or company fails to provide a valid reason against the administrative assistance, the details are subsequently shared by the tax department with the requesting authority.While an automatic exchange of information framework is in place between India and Switzerland since last year, sharing of details for older cases also takes place under the mutual “administrative assistance” pact between the two countries on submission of a request along with satisfactory prima-facie evidence of financial wrongdoings.FACING PROBE BY IT DEPARTMENTBishnoi has been facing probe by multiple agencies including the income tax department, which had conducted raids at various places linked to him in July last year.The tax department had also attached a five-star hotel in a prime business area of Gurugram, while designating that as a ‘benami’ or unaccounted property of the Bishnoi family. It was alleged at that time that the shareholding in the hotel was routed through a front entity registered in British Virgin Islands.The tax department had also said in August 2019 that foreign assets worth over Rs 200 crore allegedly linked to Bishnoi and his family were detected and being probed.At that time, the Congress had alleged that the tax department’s move was politically motivated ahead of assembly elections in the state.Bishnoi, the son of former Haryana chief minister Bhajan Lal, eventually won the election from the state’s Adampur assembly seat in October 2019.The tax department had also said that foreign holdings of Bishnoi and his family had “remained hidden for decades” under complex multi-layered structures through companies located in countries such as the British Virgin Islands, Panama, the UK and the UAE.“These structures have involved various front men and corporations across continents,” it had said, while alleging that the black money generated in India was stashed abroad in the form of lavish properties in the names of foreign trusts and companies located in tax havens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/swiss-govt-issues-notices-for-sharing-of-bank-details-of-haryana-congress-leader-kuldeep-bishnoi-wife/story-Ez7UDQ4n2NHzEn0cXEtmBN.html
10-07-2020||Jaipur||Light to moderate rainfall recorded in many areas of eastern Rajasthan||Light to moderate rainfall was recorded in many areas in eastern Rajasthan in the last 24 hours, whereas places in west Rajasthan remained dry, a MeT Department official said.  According to the Meteorological Department, the maximum rainfall till Friday morning was recorded in Shahpura of Bhilwara at 55 mm. In Dausa, 40 mm rain was recorded, 39 mm in Hindaun in Karauli each and 25 mm in Sikrai in Dausa. Light to moderate rainfall was also recorded in many other places in Alwar, Kota, Bharatpur, Baran and Tonk districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/light-to-moderate-rainfall-recorded-in-many-areas-of-eastern-rajasthan/story-99pTr2UyIce2GHpG4NFjaI.html
10-07-2020||Jaipur||115 fresh cases take Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally to 22,678; death toll at 495||Four more deaths due to coronavirus infection were recorded in Rajasthan on Friday, taking the total number of fatalities in the state to 495, an official said.With 115 new cases have been reported, the total number of people infected with this deadly virus in the state has increased to 22,678.One death each was reported from Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner and Sawai Madhopur, the official said. In Jaipur alone, the death toll from coronavirus infection has increased to 170, while 65 people died in Jodhpur, 41 in Bharatpur, 26 in Kota, 23 in Ajmer, 19 in Bikaner, 15 each in Pali and Nagaur, and 11 in Dholpur. A total of 115 new cases were reported in the state till 10:30 am on Friday, including 35 in Pali, 22 in Jaipur, 10 in Ajmer, nine in Alwar, seven in Nagaur and six in Kota.A total of 16,782 patients have been discharged after treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/115-fresh-cases-take-rajasthan-s-covid-19-tally-to-22-678/story-XoEn0v2XABrATXypAi5pXN.html
10-07-2020||Business||Flipkart signs MoU with Karnataka govt to promote local art, craft and handlooms||Homegrown e-commerce marketplace Flipkart on Friday said it has signed an MoU with Karnataka MSME and Mines department to promote the states arts, crafts and handloom sectors by bringing them on to e-commerce and providing market access.The partnership under the Flipkart Samarth programme will enable local artisans, weavers and craftsmen of Karnataka to showcase their hallmark products to a pan-India customer base, the company said in a release.Both the Government of Karnataka and the Flipkart Group will focus on creating avenues to increase business and trade inclusion opportunities for these underserved segments of the society, thereby adding further thrust to Made in India efforts, it said.The partnership will see renowned Karnataka based brands- Cauvery - Karnataka Handicrafts Development Corporation and Priyadarshini Handlooms, part of Karnataka Handlooms Development Corporation joining the Flipkart Samarth programme.“The collaboration with Flipkart will be instrumental in driving commercial and social development in the state.This partnership will help in taking the local handicrafts and handlooms businesses of Karnataka to a national consumer base,” Principal Secretary, Department of MSME and Mines, Maheshwar Rao said.He said MSMEs in the state will also benefit from skills of branding, digital marketing and financial management while showcasing the locally made high-quality products.Flipkart said its Samarth programme seeks to break entry barriers for artisans by extending time-bound incubation support, which includes benefits in the form of onboarding, free cataloguing, marketing, account management, business insights and warehousing support.“These are challenging times, and as a homegrown platform, we believe it is our responsibility to boost local businesses and catalyse ecosystem partnerships to help transform them,” Flipkart Group Chief Corporate Affairs Officer Rajneesh Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/flipkart-signs-mou-with-karnataka-govt-to-promote-local-art-craft-and-handlooms/story-2WG3VvS7BmaZgBlFgmPUAJ.html
10-07-2020||Lucknow||Mayawati demands SC-monitored probe into Vikas Dubey’s encounter||BSP chief Mayawati has sought a Supreme Court-monitored, independent investigation into the death of gangster Vikas Dubey who was killed in an encounter by the Uttar Pradesh Police on Friday.Taking to Twitter, Mayawati said that an investigation should be done in the matter, including the encounter in Kanpur and later killing of Vikas Dubey.The former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister further stated that a high-level investigation is necessary in the matter so that the family of eight policemen, who were killed in Kanpur encounter, can get justice. She added that it is necessary that nexus between the police and criminal political elements can be identified and they face the law.“Only with such steps, Uttar Pradesh can be made crime-free,” Mayawati said.Kanpur encounter main accused Vikas Dubey was killed in an encounter with the police on Friday.Dubey was arrested by the police in Ujjain on Thursday morning. He was on the run for the last several days and had come to Ujjain to offer prayers at Temple, where he was identified by a security guard at the shrine.The gangster is the main accused in the encounter that took place in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur last week, in which a group of assailants allegedly opened fire on a police team, which had gone to arrest Dubey. Eight police personnel were killed in the encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mayawati-demands-sc-monitored-probe-into-vikas-dubey-s-encounter/story-1VRwZvTliMqHpCOlJOX6oL.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Textile unit management in Himachal Pradesh’s Nalagarh industrial town booked after 29 workers test positive for Covid-19||Shimla: The management of a Nalagarh-based textile mill was booked after 29 workers tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.Baddi superintendent of police Rohit Malpani said on Friday that a case has been registered under Sections 34 (common intention), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of Disaster Management of Act against the management of Sara Textiles Ltd.Malpani said that the company’s manager, Ganesh Shankar Tripathi, was found Covid-19 positive on July 8.Police found that he travelled from Bihar by train on June 27 and reached Ludhiana the next day. From there, he took a taxi to Dabhota village in Nalagarh in Solan district of Himachal Pradesh but was denied entry as he did not have a pass.He, however, gained unauthorised entry using an alternative route at night.He was staying in the company’s residential complex.The police said he joined duty on July 1. His swab sample was sent for testing on July 6 and turned out positive on July 8 after which samples of his primary contacts were collected.Malpani said that the company defied government guidelines for inter-state movement of employees and workers, too.According to the guidelines issued on July 2, the Himachal Pradesh government has directed the registration of all employees/workers coming from other states for the purpose of monitoring and contact tracing. Daily or weekend commuters such as industrialists, traders, suppliers, factory workers may enter and exit by providing details with the district authorities, the guidelines say.Meanwhile, the Sara Textile Ltd premises and nearby units have been sealed.The number of infected workers at the textile unit is expected to rise as many samples are yet to be sent for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/textile-unit-management-in-himachal-pradesh-s-nalagarh-industrial-town-booked-after-29-workers-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-kLLwyUX7JNUMpZWQAg5AiN.html
10-07-2020||Patna||4 Maoists killed in encounter with security forces in Bihar’s West Champaran||Four Maoists have been killed in an encounter with the security forces in Bagaha area of Bihar’s West Champaran district, the police said.The operation was conducted by a joint team of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and Special Task Force (STF).“Four Maoists have been killed in an encounter with a joint team of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and Special Task Force (STF) in the Bagaha area of Pashchim (West) Champaran district, Bihar,” Lokaria Police (Bagaha) said on Friday. Arms and ammunition have been recovered from the spot, which includes 3 Self-Loading Rifles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/4-maoists-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-bihar-s-west-champaran/story-HUSd6J96xG2m7YqPflDZ1I.html
10-07-2020||Bangalore||Air pollution increases risk of Covid-19, deaths: Study||Air pollution in Bengaluru is linked to the loss of an estimated 6,300 lives in the first half of 2020 and 3.7 per cent decline in the city’s annual GDP despite strictly enforcing COVID-19 related lockdown, a study has revealed.According to a new online tool by IQAir AirVisual and Greenpeace-Southeast Asia, research shows that long-term air pollution exposure increases the risk of severe COVID-19 infections and death. “Air pollution in Bengaluru is linked to the loss of an estimated 6,300 lives in the first half of 2020 despite a strict COVID-related lockdown,” the two organisations claimed in a statement. It is also revealed that air pollution took a major toll on the citys economy at a cost of approximately Rs 6,973 crore over the last six months, an equivalent of 3.7% of Bengalurus total annual GDP, the statement said. The study claimed that the health damage from air pollution is expected to cost 1-5.8% of cities GDP in the major metropolitan cities of the world in the first half of this year. Of all the 28 cities studied, Delhi bears the highest economic cost of air pollution as a percentage of GDP due to the impacts of PM2.5 and NO2 pollution. While some cities have seen a temporary return of blue skies as a result of COVID-19 related restrictions, these gains were reversed as soon as lockdowns ended, the organisations observed. “... Chronic air pollution exposure is associated with diseases such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and chronic lung disease. Patients with these conditions are at a greater risk of hospitalisation with COVID-19,” they claimed. The study observed that it is more important than ever that investments are directed towards green, just and sustainable sectors of society. “Now is the time for a rapid shift away from polluting fossil fuels for our health, community, and for our economies, Greenpeace India’s Avinash Chanchal was quoted as saying. PTI GMS NVG NVG||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/air-pollution-increases-risk-of-covid-19-deaths-study/story-HgSeuAeT70bgEBaKTdbQKN.html
10-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka CM inspects facilities at Covid-19 care centre in Bengaluru||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday visited the Covid Care Centre established in Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) and inspected the facilities there.“The State Government is making all efforts to contain the rapid surge of cases of Covid-19 in Bengaluru. I have visited the Covid Care Centre established at the Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre and inspected the facilities. The Covid Care Centre will have a capacity of 10,100 beds and has all necessary facilities,” he said while interacting with media persons.“For every 100 patients, one doctor, two nurses, one support staff, one housekeeping staff and two BBMP Marshals will be deployed. 2,200 staff including doctors, nurses, support staff, housekeeping staff, BBMP marshals and police will be deputed. The patients will be provided with good quality food. Recreation facilities such as TV, Carrom Boards, chess boards etc are also being provided,” he added.The Chief Minister said that safety kits for the staff who are involved in patients’ care and monitoring, emergency treatment facilities, ICU, ECG, oxygen support, first aid and pharmacy facilities will be provided. “In addition, a control room will be established to monitor them 24 hours and this Centre will have tie up with nearby hospitals. Laundry facility will be provided to wash the blankets and bedsheets of the patients. Segregation and disposal of waste will be done systematically. The centre will take care of people who are asymptomatic and persons who are mildly infected. This system is established to enhance the availability of beds and treatment in hospitals for those who are in critical condition,” he said.Yediyurappa said that number of coronavirus cases in the state increased since the beginning of the unlock process and underlined that the State Government is taking all measures to combat the disease.“We have rectified all the loopholes immediately, as and when they are brought to our notice. The centralized bed allocation system is already in place and helpline is also established. People must not lose hope and I appeal to the citizens to co-operate with us. If there is a delay in the arrival of the ambulance as soon as the reports confirm the disease or if there is denial to admit the patients to the hospitals, please bring it to our notice and action will be taken,” he said. The Chief Minister appealed to all legislators to give priority to control the disease in their constituencies.“Please visit taluk hospitals and Covid hospitals and inspect if all required facilities are in place. If there is any lacunae bring it to my notice, it will be rectified,” he said. He also requested people from Bangalore not to travel to their villages unnecessarily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-inspects-facilities-at-covid-19-care-centre-in-bengaluru/story-fMGgY5AtRz4Sx6Hegv94jI.html
10-07-2020||Ranchi||Ranchi rail division aims at revenue boost after losses||The Ranchi railway division has initiated talks with business units by forming a multidisciplinary business development unit (BDU) to explore possibilities of business promotion, aimed at boosting up revenue amid the pandemic, officials said on Thursday.The BDU, led by senior divisional operating manager (DOM) Niraj Kumar, on Wednesday met with Federation of Jharkhand Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) representatives in this regard.Both the sides discussed the possibilities, vis a vis joining hands to increase loading and dispatch of goods and items using railway rakes and wagons.Sharing the information, Kumar on Thursday said the BDUs have been told to start loading miscellaneous non-bulk goods that are generally transported by roads. It has also been mandated to coordinate with traditional freight traffic customers to attract more freight traffic.The railways generally dispatch bulk goods, mostly minerals, foodgrains, chemicals, heavy machinery and other large consignments. However, the Covid-19-triggered lockdown dented the business of the Railways, causing decline in revenue. To mop up the losses, the Railways is exploring new initiatives by forming BDUs at the divisional level.The BDUs have been asked to improve loading and unloading environment as well to map invisible cargoes like vegetables, foodgrains, fertilizers, building materials, and automobiles, Kumar said.To expand its scope, the divisions have also been asked to make use of local media as well.The DOM said the BDUs would soon meet traders and business organisations too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/ranchi-rail-division-forms-business-development-units-initiates-talks-for-revival/story-GcDAeRDEu5JX8Ws71IJHyK.html
10-07-2020||Patna||Covid-19 victims’ bodies lie unattended at Patna hospital, removed after viral video||The bodies of two Covid-19 patients were removed from the ward at Patna’s NMCH, a Covid hospital, after a video of the incident went viral. “The dead bodies were not being removed. I waited but when it started smelling, I thought it was dangerous. I got no response and so I was forced to make the video,” said Mani Kumar, who made the viral video at NMCH hospital.“After the video, there has been activity and they have come to check everything, Kumar said.He said a body was removed yesterday evening. NMCH Nodal Corona Officer Ajay Kumar Sinha said they could not contact the family immediately. “We usually call the family and take their permission before disposal of a dead body. Since the family had left when he died, and we could not contact them, the body was not removed.”“It wasn’t two days. The death took place day before yesterday and the body was removed yesterday. There is no lack in the quality of treatment,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-victims-bodies-lie-unattended-at-patna-hospital-removed-after-viral-video/story-ma6M0p7NF716R6xk7dc2DO.html
10-07-2020||Bhopal||Oppn parties say Dubey’s arrest suspicious, seek CBI probe in case||Alleging that gangster Vikas Dubey’s “safe exit” from Kanpur and the sequence of events leading to his arrest in Ujjain was suspicious, senior leaders from Opposition parties on Thursday demanded a high-level probe into the incident.Dubey was arrested outside the Mahakal temple at Ujjan on Thursday, ending a six-day manhunt for the gangster accused of masterminding a deadly ambush on a police party outside his home in Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh.Taking to Twitter, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath said, “Such a big criminal whom the police are searching for day and night, his safe exit from Kanpur and arrival in Ujjain and later entry into the temple and the way he shouted to get himself arrested gives birth to a lot of suspicion. It hints at some protection and it should be probed.”Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh demanded that chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan order a judicial probe into Dubey’s arrest.Senior Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded a CBI probe to ascertain the facts about the “grant of protection” to Dubey. She also accused the BJP government in UP of “complete failure” in handling the case. “The UP government should conduct a CBI probe to ascertain all facts and bring out the links of protection to him,” she said.Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati alleged that Dubey’s patrons were present in the Uttar Pradesh government and asked the state government to take strict action against them.“The public is also waiting for the Uttar Pradesh government to ensure strict punishment at the earliest to all the government and political patrons and conspirators connected with Vikas Dubey in his heinous crimes,” she said in another tweet.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav also raised questions regarding the arrest. “We hear that the main accused of the Kanpur case is now in police custody. If true, then the government should clarify whether this was surrender or arrest,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/oppn-parties-say-dubey-s-arrest-suspicious-seek-cbi-probe-in-case/story-sEJIiuWeUWrHYFkKKimXSO.html
10-07-2020||Delhi||Unlock education: College students turn teachers for underprivileged kids||Absence of physical classes, delayed examination, and the perpetual anxiety of future is making many youngsters worried. But some youngsters, when made to stay indoors during the lockdown, chose to channelise their energies via internet and educate the underprivileged kids. Involved in social welfare, these youngsters are from Delhi University and other varsities, across India. These college students are volunteers of a project, Teach From Home, which is an initiative of the not-for-profit organisation, World Youth Council (WYC), and aims to provide quality education to slum kids. Urvashi Goyal, founder of WYC, says, “Each volunteer dedicatedly teaches one to four children at a time, giving them the much needed individual support and guidance, for at least three days in a week. We have around 3,000 volunteers with us pan India.” Mehak Garg, a student of Lady Shri Ram College, DU, says, “When the lockdown started, the situation was obviously bleak, and as a college student I was stressed about my future and further studies. Then I came across this project and soon it turned into a ray of hope for me. It helped me realise that even in this situation I can help people in my own way. I started as a volunteer, and now I’m managing a whole project. The programme has helped me realise how technology can be used to help the underprivileged students get access to quality, continued education, even in these trying times. It feels so good!” Most college students associated with this initiative say that they took up the volunteering work since they want to give back to the society. And in the process, everyone has gained a unique experience. “Being involved in this project increased my productivity during lockdown,” says Diya Padhi, a student of Dyal Singh College, DU, adding, “Never thought that teaching underprivileged children would be so much fun! They are extremely talented, and never made me feel that I was miles away from them. I could feel the warmth and respect from their side whenever I taught the class. And being part of this initiative also improved my communication skills, and made me realise that it’s our responsibility to work for the betterment of the society.”“Being part of this initiative has also improved my communication skills, and made me realise that it’s our responsibility to work for the betterment of the society.”  – Diya Padhi, student, Dyal Singh College The project that started this April has now 2,000 volunteers imparting education to 2,500 children through online mediums such as Google Meet, WhatsApp and YouTube. Manika Katyal, another student of Lady Shri Ram College, says, “My experience has so far been really amazing. I’ve always been passionate about teaching. Interacting with students is therapeutic for me and adds bliss to my day, and these classes have given me so much experience as well.”The school students who are able to learn due to this project are elated to meet their young educators through internet. Ritika, a 16-year-old Delhiite who studies in class XII, says, “I was not able to attend school during the lockdown, but now I get to learn a lot in these classes. Online classes have benefited me a lot. I like my online teachers because they are very cool, may be because they are in college.”Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unlock-education-college-students-turn-teachers-for-underprivileged-kids/story-ZfrFzDHhVSOi1BlV1T3PgN.html
10-07-2020||City||PSI succumbs to Covid-19 in Mumbai, 54-year-old constable dies in Thane||A 41-year-old police sub-inspector (PSI) posted at Vikroli police station died of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the death toll in Mumbai Police to 45. The PSI developed symptoms of Covid-19 around 10 days ago and was undergoing treatment in SevenHills Hospital at Marol. His condition deteriorated four days ago, following which he was kept on ventilator, said Kailash Ahwad from Vikroli police station.The personnel did not have comorbidities and was healthy. “He went to the hospital after he developed difficulties in breathing,” said an officer from Vikroli police station. The personnel, who stayed at Thane, is survived by his wife, son and parents.Meanwhile, a 54-year-old constable became the fifth personnel in Thane Police to succumb to Covid-19. The constable who died on Thursday, was posted at Kasarwadavli police station. “He developed symptoms on July 1 and was admitted to a private hospital. On Wednesday, his condition deteriorated,” said an officer.More than 400 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 from Thane. Balasaheb Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Thane, said, “Various health camps are conducted regularly for police personnel. We are also asking our force to take basic precautions, but as we are exposed to many people throughout the day, several of our personnel end up getting infected.”Meanwhile on Thursday, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) recorded 348 Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths. The total cases stand at 11,656, including 446 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/psi-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-mumbai-54-year-old-constable-dies-in-thane/story-k2YcBtDgjA1M2MldS9hO8J.html
10-07-2020||City||₹1.33-L fines collected since July 4 in Panvel for flouting lockdown norms||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) collected fines worth ₹1.33 lakh since July 4, after it went under a complete lockdown for 10 days. “We are conducting drives in all four wards and collected ₹1.33 lakh fines from violators. Residents have been fined for not wearing masks or maintaining social distance and travelling in vehicles without emergencies,” PCMC commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh said. Meanwhile on Thursday, 165 Covid-19 cases were reported in Panvel, following which the total case count reached to 3,330. The two deaths reported in Panvel on Thursday took the toll to 90.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation reported 239 cases on Thursday, after which its total positive cases went up to 8,518. The death toll surged to 278 after nine deaths were reported on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-33-l-fines-collected-since-july-4-in-panvel-for-flouting-lockdown-norms/story-SRSm6Wxf450tmwq4EmoAkJ.html
10-07-2020||City||Hawkers dump vegetables on road near Mumbai after civic officials shut market for flouting social distancing norms||Hawkers at the market in Deendayal Nagar, Vasai (West), dumped vegetables on the road on Thursday morning to protest against the civic officials who asked them to close the stalls after social distancing norms were flouted.“The hawkers were illegally selling the vegetables without wearing masks and flouting social distancing norms. We have submitted details of the incident to Vasai police and they will register a case soon,” said a civic official. On 29 March, a similar incident took place at the Ambadi market after the lockdown was imposed. The administration had already shut the Ambadi Road after hawkers flouted norms. As a mark of protest, hawkers dumped vegetables and prevented civic officials from taking any action.Meanwhile, as on Wednesday, 6,599 cases, including 130 deaths, were reported from the Vasai-Virar region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hawkers-dump-vegetables-on-road-near-mumbai-after-civic-officials-shut-market-for-flouting-social-distancing-norms/story-Ktw7Xh7G91v3sR1fMauSuO.html
10-07-2020||City||Dialysis patients oppose move to turn Kalyan hospital into Covid-19 facility||More than 200 dialysis patients of Dr CB Vaidya Memorial Hospital in Kalyan (West) have opposed Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation’s (KDMC’s) decision to use the hospital as a Covid-19 facility from Thursday. KDMC additional commissioner Sunil Pawar said, ”We directed our patients to other hospitals, but they complained of lack of proper treatment. We will inquire into it and take the necessary steps if required.” Several dialysis patients as well as residents living nearby, gathered outside the private hospital on Thursday and questioned how non-Covid patients, especially those undergoing dialysis, will seek treatment now, while the residents were worried to have a Covid-19 hospital in their area.“The decision to take over the hospital for the treatment of Covid-19 patients left us completely clueless about our treatments. One patient was discharged a few days back and asked to undergo treatment at another hospital in Dombivli but died owing to lack of proper treatment. There are more than 200 dialysis and chemotherapy patients in the hospital. Now they all have to seek treatment elsewhere,” said Vidya Fadtale, 47, a dialysis patient, who was undergoing treatment at the hospital from the past three years.Locals also met KDMC officials as well as Thane collector, Kalyan parliamentarian Shrikant Shinde and other local politicians over the issue. Around 16 societies from the area sent a letter to civic body chief Vijay Suryavanshi with their signatures explaining their fears over turning the hospital into a Covid-19 facility. In a letter written to the civic body chief, residents said Tilak chowk houses around 20,000 people and the roads in the area are very narrow.“If ambulances keep visiting the area, it will be very difficult for residents to step out. We all are in a state of panic as the hospital has been taken over for Covid-19 patients. There are several hospitals in the city which are not located in residential areas and have better facilities. The civic body should choose such hospitals for Covid care, “said Nitin Paudwal, 51, a resident of Shrikant building in Tilak Chowk.Kalyan doctors’ army spokesperson Prashant Patil said, “KDMC health department officials along with a microbiologist conduct a thorough survey before a hospital is finalised to be used as a Covid-19 facility. They check if the hospital has the facility and the necessary manpower and then give a nod.”KDMC recorded 580 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 10,931. The six deaths reported on Thursday took the fatalities to 164.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dialysis-patients-oppose-move-to-turn-kalyan-hospital-into-covid-19-facility/story-6TfZAxchS8shgLPXoYSguM.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||40-year-old arrested for sexually assaulting minor daughter||A 40-year-old man was arrested by Shivaji Nagar police on Thursday for sexually assaulting his 11-year-old daughter for over a month. The incident came to light after the minor narrated the ordeal to one of her neighbours, who then informed the minor’s mother.“The mother then asked her daughter and learnt that she was going through this for over a month,” said a police officer.The mother then approached the police and following which a first information report (FIR) was registered under sections 376 (rape), 376 (2)(N) (repeated rape on same woman), 376 (AB) (rape on woman under 12 years of age), 376 (C) (sexual intercourse by person in authority), 54 (commutation of sentence of death), 354 (A) (sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 4 (penetrative sexual assault), 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault), 8 (sexual assault), 10 (aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act,”Kishor Gaike, senior inspector from Shivaji Nagar police station, said, “We arrested the accused and produced him before the court. He has been remanded in police custody till July 13.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/40-year-old-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-daughter/story-w4So6GvLXmGI7onewszGNP.html
10-07-2020||City||Banker loses ₹64,900 to online fraud||A Taloja-based banker was cheated of ₹64,900 to an online fraudster who got access to her phone under the pretext of updating KYC details. Panvel police have registered a case of cheating on Tuesday.According to police, the complainant, Swecha Golecha, 30, on Monday received a message asking her to update her KYC details. Golecha then called the number provided in the message to inquire about the KYC update, said police.Golecha asked the person to update her new phone number with the account. The accused then asked her to transfer ₹10 to check if the number has been updated, but she was unable to do so, said police.“The accused then asked her to open a webpage which looked like the login page of the money transfer app. After she put in her details, the person convinced her to download ‘Teamviewer’ app to remotely control her phone to solve her issue. The accused then logged in and stole ₹64,900 from her account in seven transactions,” said an officer.The woman then lodged a complaint, following which a case was filed against an unknown person for cheating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/banker-loses-64-900-to-online-fraud/story-cUXxWGK8qoWRN8XnWwzXVK.html
10-07-2020||City||Decomposed body of woman found near Panvel lake||Panvel police recovered the decomposed body of an unidentified woman, said to be in her mid-thirties, near a lake close to the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) highway on Monday afternoon. The police said the woman was strangled to death with a rope. The incident came to light when a local took his cows to graze near the lake at Pargaon Dapoli village and saw the woman’s body, which was washed ashore. The man informed the sarpanch of the village about it, following which after the police was alerted.The police have registered a case of murder against an unknown person and started investigations.“Her face is badly decomposed and it is difficult to identify her. We are going through the recent complaints of missing persons in and around Raigad district to establish the woman’s identity and probing if the body was brought to the spot in a vehicle,” said an officer from Panvel police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/decomposed-body-of-woman-found-near-panvel-lake/story-wIY1ZAc3WcfqpnQpJTW9CN.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Biologists urge CBSE to reconsider deletion of chapters on evolution and ecology||Two days after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced its decision to reduce 30% of its curriculum due to disruption in academic activities owing to Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian Society of Evolutionary Biologists (ISEB) on Thursday released a statement expressing concern that chapters on evolution and ecology from biology curricula for Classes 10 to 12 was dropped for the academic year 2020-21.Members of ISEB, which is based out of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research-Mohali, said detailed knowledge in diverse areas of ecology and evolution — species interactions, population dynamics, transmission dynamics of pathogens — is required to understand every aspect of a zoonotic pandemic including the Covid-19 outbreak that the world is currently facing.“Public health in general leans very heavily on many aspects of evolution and ecology, including human ecology, in addition to classical medical science,” reads the statement by ISEB executive council.As part of the reduction, entire chapters on the living world (systematics), reproduction in organisms, evolution, ecosystem, and environmental issues from the biology syllabus will be removed.“This pandemic has tragically highlighted the consequences of our neglect of evolution and ecology in school and higher education in India…A direct consequence of our neglect of ecology and evolution is the relative paucity of epidemiologists in India. This renders the removal of most of evolution and ecology, including systematics and the diversity of life not only dangerously tragic, but ironic as well,” reads the statement.ISEB has appealed to the board to reconsider the deletion of entire chapters on ecology and evolution, and instead “trim advanced sub-topics from most chapters across the curriculum”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/biologists-urge-cbse-to-reconsider-deletion-of-chapters-on-evolution-and-ecology/story-cWOkemhMjTKdyPTgs3g3VN.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||State brings Maratha-linked bodies under deputy CM Pawar||After aggressive reactions and agitations from the Maratha community, the state government on Thursday brought two institutions related to their welfare under direct control of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and also released ₹7.95 crore towards pending fellowships of students from the community.The state also announced restoration of autonomy of Sarthi (Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research, Training and Human Development Institute), the institute established for educational, social and financial development of the community.Community members had held agitations across the state, demanding adequate financial assistance to Sarthi and restoration of its autonomy. They had also raised doubts whether the government was intending to shut the institute down. After their differences with Bahujan Kalyan minister Vijay Wadettiwar over releasing funds to Sarthi last week, Pawar convened a meeting with them at Mantralaya on Thursday. Besides Pawar and Wadettiwar, minority development minister Nawab Malik attended the meeting with community leader and BJP MP Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje, Rajendra Kondhare and Vinayak Mete, among others.Pawar, in a press conference after the meeting, announced the release of the dues of old funds meant for Sarthi with immediate effect. “Sarthi is governed by the Bahujan Kalyan department, while the Annasaheb Patil Financial Development Corporation is controlled by the skill development corporation. We have decided to bring both of them under the planning department for better management of funds. The autonomy of Sarthi will be restored soon as these decisions get the formal nod from the cabinet,” Pawar said. Kondhare said, “Students from the community appearing for UPSC, MPSC and banking exams are funded by Sarthi, besides the fellowship given to PhD and MPhil students. The funds meant for these expenditures were not released by the government, leading to hardship of students. There were a few misconceptions among Maratha leaders about the functioning of the government. We are happy that all our demands were admitted by the government.”A few community members resorted to sloganeering during the meeting as Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje, who is a direct descendant of Maratha king Chhatrapati Shivaji, was allegedly made to sit in the third row. An organisation representing the community also started an agitation in Aurangabad over the “humiliating treatment” meted out to their leader. The MP later clarified the agitation was out of misunderstanding and he was satisfied with government decisions.Box A day after five Shiv Sena corporators from Parner municipal council in Ahmednagar district returned to their party on Wednesday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said their induction in the NCP was done out of misunderstanding. “During my tour to Baramati, I was introduced to the corporators by our local MLA Nilesh Lanke, saying they were independent corporators and wanted to join our party. Believing the MLA, I formally welcomed them by making them wear scarves with the party symbol. When I learnt that they were elected representatives of the Sena, I realised my mistake and decided to send them back to their party,” he said on Thursday.Pawar said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray did not say anything to him and he shares cordial relations with his boss in the cabinet. Pawar said the corporators were planning to join the BJP. He also said that it has been decided not poach to workers from among the ruling parties.The defection had led to tension between the Sena and NCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-brings-maratha-linked-bodies-under-deputy-cm-pawar/story-kjnyL8Exq2UEN5YMnmAZjO.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Nirupam raises doubts over Uddhav land deal for new bungalow; Sena rubbishes it||Congress leader and former Mumbai Congress chief Sanjay Nirupam on Thursday sought an investigation into the deal for the plot for Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray’s new bungalow opposite Matoshree at Kala Nagar in Bandra. The Shiv Sena has rubbished the allegations.Nirupam alleged that Rajbhushan Dixit, who sold the plot for Matoshree, has been facing probes by the Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate in money laundering cases. “The plot opposite Matoshree and in the close vicinity of Bandra-Kurla Complex was bought just for ₹5.8 crore in 2016. There is possibility of a cash transaction besides the cheque payment of ₹5.8 crore. Such a prime plot could not be sold for such a low price. I am not saying there was anything wrong in the deal, but just drawing the attention of the central agencies to it,” he said.Dixit is one of the directors of Sterling Biotech, which has been accused of money laundering to the tune of ₹14,000 crore. Shiv Sena’s South Mumbai MP Arvind Sawant said: “Nirupam is not taken seriously even in his own party. Why should we pay heed to what he says? He is not toeing his own party line and the stand taken by party leader Rahul Gandhi. He should not forget that the Sena gave him his political break by making him an MP. Secondly, the land deals in Mumbai are linked to the existing ready reckoner rates. What is there to investigate?” Nirupam had opposed the Congress’s joining hands with the Sena in the state. After his removal as the Mumbai unit chief in March 2019, the leader has not been very active in the party’s affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nirupam-raises-doubts-over-uddhav-land-deal-for-new-bungalow-sena-rubbishes-it/story-Mt0vTRcUD8aQSVYGjgAtHM.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank scam: ED attaches ₹2,600-crore properties of DHFL and Rana Kapoor||Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials on Thursday attached properties worth ₹2,600 crore belonging to Rana Kapoor and Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited’s (DHFL) Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan in connection with the ₹3,642-crore Yes Bank money laundering case. Among these were apartments in Mumbai owned by Kapoor and two land parcels in Pune owned by the Wadhawans. Director of ED, SK Mishra has confirmed the development.Altogether, properties with a current market value of ₹1,200 crore, belonging to Kapoor; and properties worth approximately ₹1,400 crore belonging to DHFL, have been attached by ED so far. “The properties include 12 apartments and land parcels in New York, London, Australia, Mumbai, Delhi and Pune,” said an ED official on condition of anonymity. The attachment drive is likely to continue as more properties of the accused are under scanner, the ED official added. Kapoor is the co-founder and former managing director of Yes Bank. Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawans are promoters of DHFL.ED has attached 12 flats in Khar; one flat in New York; two flats in London; property in Australia, two land parcels in Pune and Mulshi; five luxury vehicles and 344 bank accounts belonging to the Wadhawans and others. The valuation of these assets is worth ₹1,411.9 crore. The agency has also attached a building at Cumballa Hill, three duplex apartments at Nepean Sea Road, a flat at Nariman Point, eight flats in Worli and a bungalow in New Delhi’s Amrita Shergill Marg, all of which are owned by Kapoor and others.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had registered a case on March 7, in connection with suspicious loans granted by Yes Bank and an alleged arrangement between Kapoor and Wadhwans. Kapoor is being probed for suspected money laundering using over 100 shell companies and for engendering massive non-performing assets (NPAs), which led to a moratorium on Yes Bank by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).Kapoor was arrested on March 8 after ED charged him with money laundering. Kapoor also allegedly bought debentures worth ₹3,700 crore of DHFL, which have not been redeemed till date and against which the Wadhawans allegedly paid a kickback of ₹600 crore to Kapoor, in the form of a loan to a company registered to Kapoor’s daughters. The loan was given against properties whose value was shown to be ₹750 crore even though their market value was ₹40 crore.ED has alleged that during his tenure, Kapoor sanctioned loans worth ₹30,000 crore out which accounts worth ₹20,000 crore have turned into NPAs. Kapoor also allegedly accepted illegal gratification while granting loans and money was diverted through these companies. In a charge sheet filed on May 6, ED said, “Kapoor, with an intent to create an elaborate ecosystem for diversion and laundering of funds, had created multiple entities in India and abroad. These companies were acting as a vehicle of money laundering and placement of funds, and the family members and close associates were put in as directors of these firms.”The charge sheet – filed against Kapoor, his wife Bindu, daughters Rakhee, Roshni and Radha along with entities allegedly associated – pegged the fraud at ₹5,050 crore. The agency had also provisionally attached 59 expensive paintings, including one by artist MF Husain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-scam-ed-attaches-2-600-crore-properties-of-dhfl-and-rana-kapoor/story-wKXSCPVK3CszfsxUHcHweO.html
10-07-2020||City||Now, masks, gloves available at railway stations of Ambala division||To make protective gear available to passengers at the stations of the Ambala Division, the officials have made masks, gloves, takeaway bed roll kits and sanitizers available at various multi-purpose stalls.These items are available at Ambala Cantonment, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, Saharanpur and Shimla railway stations that fall under the Ambala division.A letter on the matter was issued by senior divisional commercial manager (DCM) Hari Mohan to all contractors at the said stations to keep sufficient stock and sell these items of good quality, not exceeding the MRP.“Only 18 trains are operating these days, but if a passenger needs to replace a mask or a glove or needs to buy a new one, the division has made these items available at the station itself,” Mohan said.“The stalls have been keeping these items, but the sale is almost negligible as the passengers come to the station, get their thermal screening and board the train. Also, as prescribed, most of the passengers already carry these items with them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-masks-gloves-available-at-railway-stations-under-ambala-division/story-esFYadpQNM2wkQ1DldTk4O.html
10-07-2020||City||Mumbai’s BEST undertaking earns ₹89 lakh after 10.7 lakh commute on Wednesday||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) witnessed a ridership of 10.7 lakh passengers on Wednesday – the highest since the undertaking resumed operations in June for commuters.BEST operated 3,187 buses on Wednesday across 82 routes and earned a revenue of ₹89 lakh. Many are also operated on feeder routes.“Passengers travelling on BEST buses have increased steadily, since they first became operational after the lockdown was announced in March. With local trains not operating, BEST buses have become the primary mode of commute in the city. We are also operating feeder buses to facilitate travel for essential workers from railway stations,” said a senior official from BEST.After the state went into lockdown in March, dedicated buses ferried only those in essential services. However, later the state and railways permitted locals for essential workers. After the state announced Mission Begin Again in June, BEST introduced 2,132 buses in the city on June 8, following which more than 14 lakh passengers travelled on the buses in the first three days. Only 30 passengers are allowed on one bus, of which 25 can be seated. However, several social distancing norms were violated on several instances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-s-best-undertaking-earns-89-lakh-after-10-7-lakh-commute-on-wednesday/story-CxE1qOPkdNTFWREPC0QHuO.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Royal Bengal tiger dies at SGNP||Anand, a 10-year-old male captive Royal Bengal tiger, died at the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) on Thursday. The tiger, a star attraction of SGNP’s tiger safari, was diagnosed with a rare form of cancer in early July and was also suffering from a kidney ailment. SGNP is now home to five Royal Bengal tigers – four females and a male – one of whom is the 20-year-old Basanti who is Anand’s mother.Anand, born and bred in SGNP, died at 5am on Thursday morning. “The post mortem by a team of veterinarians revealed that he died due to cancer-related complications such as progressive cachexia [loss of body condition] and multi organ failure,” said Vijay Barabde, range forest officer and superintendent of the lion and tiger safari at SGNP. In July, Anand had been diagnosed with a rare form of malignant cancer and showed symptoms similar to those exhibited by his brother Yash, who died in May 2019 due to a soft tissue muscular tumour known as rhabdomyosarcoma. Barabde said Anand had stopped eating solid food 10 days ago. “He had become weak and his diet for the last 10 days was restricted to chicken soup. The kidney ailment had also worsened. The most recent blood test results showed that his serum creatinine count was 40, while 5-6 is considered normal for tigers. Anand’s death is a big loss,” said Barabde.SGNP’s senior veterinarian Dr. Shailesh Pethe said, “Anand had been diagnosed with an extremely rare form of malignant cancer. Prima facie it looks like rhabdomyosarcoma, but it is yet to be confirmed. Last year, we had observed similar legions for Yash. Anand’s samples were taken for histopathological examination. Preliminary assessment showed it was cancer, but since it is an extremely rare form, it will take some time to identify the exact subtype.” Mumbai Veterinary College (MVC) said owing to shortage of staff due to the outbreak of Covid-19, it would take at least four to five days for the results to come in.Meanwhile, the tiger’s remains were consigned to flames after the post mortem on Thursday.In June, veterinarians at SGNP had identified a lump in Anand’s jaw and an unusual growth on the left side of his lower lip. “Anand’s blood test had revealed he was suffering from a chronic renal disease while a malignant tumour was identified after a biopsy was conducted by MVC authorities,” said Dr. Pethe.The average lifespan of tigers in captivity is between 14 and 16 years, said Dr. Pethe. At present, SGNP is home to five Royal Bengal tigers, including four females and a male. Sultan, who is four-and-a-half-years-old and the lone male Royal Bengal tiger, was brought to SGNP from Gorewada rescue centre in Nagpur last December. In August 2019, twin Royal Bengal tigresses were brought to SGNP from Pench Tiger Reserve in Nagpur. Park officials christened them Bijlee and Mastani. The other female tigers are Laxmi (10) and Basanti (20), who has mothered four cubs (Yash, Anand, Laxmi and Puja). “Basanti has become old and infirm. She is suffering from chronic knee and leg pain, which has largely restricted her movement,” said Barabde. Following Anand’s death, Laxmi is the only one surviving of Basanti’s litter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/royal-bengal-tiger-dies-at-sgnp/story-Mkvtr3KbGmeYiCVA2kaNqO.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||PG medical, dental aspirants ask Maharashtra CET cell to accept fees online||After weeks of delay, the state common entrance test (CET) cell released the second seat allotment list for postgraduate medical and dental students late on Monday night. Many students, however, are facing admission-related challenges owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and are urging the state to permit them to complete the admission procedure, including payment of fee, online. The deadline for completing the admission confirmation process is July 14.State CET cell commissioner Sandeep Kadam did not answer HT’s calls or messages to clarify on the issue.While the admission rules state that students have to submit documents and their fees by physically being present at the allotted college in order to confirm their seat, in a circular released in the third week of April, the state CET cell requested the medical and dental institutes to share contact details of staffers handling admissions. It further requested colleges to make arrangements for a payment portal, so that students can pay the fees and confirm admissions once the seat allotment list is released. However, there’s been no update on the same as yet.Since Tuesday, a host of students approached the common entrance test (CET) cell, stating that they cannot report to their allotted colleges to confirm their admissions as many are either tested positive for Covid-19, or have a family member who is coronavirus-positive and is therefore under quarantine.“My father and I tested positive for Covid-19 in the last week of June and are currently at a quarantine facility. As per rules, aspirants need to visit the allotted college to submit all the required documents along with fees to confirm admissions. But we are helpless in the current situation,” said a student.He added that many aspirants, most of them being final-year MBBS students who have been working at civic hospitals across the state for the past three months and contracted the virus in the line of duty, requested the state CET cell to allow the completion of the process online instead of being physically present at colleges.Students who are allotted a seat in another city are more worried.“The day the list was released [Monday] I was feeling unwell. On Wednesday, my test result came positive for Covid-19. Now my parents’ test results are also positive, and all of us are home quarantined. None of us can go to the college to complete the admission process, and the CET cell should allow us to do so online,” said a student who is allotted a college in Pune.Students claim that they would have to spend huge amounts to complete the admission procedure by going to the college.“My allotted college is closer to Mumbai, and I reside in Jalna, where the authorities imposed a complete lockdown from June. To confirm my seat, I’ll have to hire a private vehicle and the entire journey will cost me at least ₹25,000-30,000. The CET cell needs to take all of these factors into consideration and allow the acceptance of fees online,” said another student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pg-medical-dental-aspirants-ask-maharashtra-cet-cell-to-accept-fees-online/story-Eg9cHphpfj5mRXdhNtzkOI.html
10-07-2020||City||Awaiting state policy to hold exams for PG medical students: Maharashtra University of Health Sciences||The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) informed the Bombay high court (HC) that it is awaiting the state government’s policy to conduct the final-year exams of postgraduate (PG) medical students, after one of the aspirants approached HC, seeking directions to the authorities to declare the exam dates and conduct the final-year exams of Doctorate of medicine (MD) and Master of Surgery (MS) courses. The state informed the court on Thursday that as the students and examiners were involved in Covid-19 duties, a policy was being framed to ensure that the future of the students did not suffer.A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice VG Bisht, while hearing a petition filed by Dr Nishant Gabbur through video conferencing, was informed by advocates Vishwanath Patil and Kewal Ahya that the MS (general surgery) aspirant from Akkalkot, Solapur, who is pursuing the course from Seth GS Medical College in Parel appeared for the entrance test held for DM/MCh (Doctorate of Medicine/Masters in Surgery) courses conducted by the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on June 21. Patil submitted that Gabbur secured the second place in the all-India ranking in general category for neurosurgery, and on June 30, was granted a provisional appointment/ admission letter by the Chadigarh-based institute. After Gabbur informed the institute that he was facing a difficulty in joining the course because the state was yet to conduct the final-year exams, it allowed him to join by July 6.Patil further submitted that Gabbur and another student, Ajinkya Rewatkar, who secured a seat in All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, for MCh Neurosurgery, wrote to the MUHS, seeking to secure their future, but as there was no response, Gabbur was left with no option but to approach HC.“The petitioner is caught in a dilemma and a situation which is beyond his control, as the MUHS decided to postpone the graduate and PG examinations that were to be held on June 18. MUHS has not resolved the situation, thereby hanging the career of the petitioner at jeopardy, with the risk of losing one entire year and the entire process of preparation and reappearing for entrance tests.”Patil submitted that like Gabbur, there were hundreds of postgraduate medical students, who were placed in a similar situation, and hence the court should issue directions to MUHS to ensure that the future of such students was secured.Assistant government pleader Jyoti Chavan submitted that as PG students were involved in Covid-19 duties, the government was holding meetings to frame a policy for conducting final-year exams for PG medical courses. Chavan then sought time on the grounds that the process involved preparation of schedule, to ensure that all safety norms were adhered to, and the state would inform the court about it in the next hearing.After hearing the submissions the court observed that all steps taken by MUHS and PGIMER would be bound by the decision of the court and posted the matter for hearing on July 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/awaiting-state-policy-to-hold-exams-for-pg-medical-students-maharashtra-university-of-health-sciences/story-W3kO81NGeoXHiKqwiA5smI.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to spend ₹326 crore more on Ambedkar memorial||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, which recently gave a nod to raise the height of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’s statue for the memorial at Indu Mills in Mumbai, also plans to spend ₹326 crore more on it. The total cost of the project, being implemented by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), now stands at ₹1,089.95 crore, a significant rise from its previous cost of ₹763.05 crore, approved in January 2018.In a meeting held earlier this week, MMRDA approved the revised cost. It also gave a post-facto approval for its ₹15,819-crore budget for 2020-21, officials confirmed.In January 2020, the Maharashtra cabinet gave its nod to raise the height of the statue to 350ft from 250ft, with a 100ft pedestal. The total height of the structure, to be made in bronze, will now be 450ft. The project cost has also escalated owing to delayed implementation and changes in plan. The estimated cost of the statue was earlier ₹152.38 crore, which has now increased to ₹409.80 crore. The cost of the pedestal has also increased to ₹236 crore from ₹222 crore. Another ₹300 crore is expected to be spent on other works, which include a library, a replica of the historic Chavdar pond in Raigad, numerous viewing points and a parking lot. A senior official from MMRDA said the cost can vary, after a detailed design is prepared. The authority is in the process of getting various permissions, including coastal regulatory zone, height clearance, fire brigade and environment approval for the project. The groundbreaking for the project was done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in October 2015, but five years later, the work is still to pick up pace. The project is now expected to be completed by April 2022.On Tuesday, the authority gave a post-facto approval to its 2020-21 budget of ₹15,819 crore, of which ₹14,741.50 crore is expected to be spent on major Metro projects in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The authority is implementing a master plan of 337-km of Metro network in MMR. Another ₹52.95 crore is expected to be spent on the Mumbai Urban Development Project (MUDP). It is also expected to spend around ₹54.70 crore on various studies and surveys.A senior MMRDA official said, “The budget is in effect from April 1 every year. This year, owing to the lockdown, the meeting was postponed. Hence, a post-facto nod was granted on Tuesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-spend-326-crore-more-on-ambedkar-memorial/story-6y7t6JcmYWGZXHEgPb8RvI.html
10-07-2020||City||Maharashtra can’t conduct final-year exams, but awaiting UGC’s response: Education minister||Days after the University Grants Commission (UGC) said that all universities across India will have to conduct the end-of-term exams for final-year students by September, the Maharashtra state education department on Thursday, reiterating its stand, said that examinations will be not held owing to the Covid-19 outbreak.However, the state will wait for some few days to hear from UGC over its decision before making it binding on universities across the state. “We have made our stand on conducting the exams very clear to the UGC as well as the Union HRD [human resource and development] ministry. But if they still insist on conducting the exams, we have requested UGC to clarify on the steps over holding exams in such a situation,” said state minister of higher and technical education Uday Samant.He added that the state, in a letter addressed to UGC, Samant asked if students, who currently reside in containment zones, will have to give exams, and if they do, will they have to remain in quarantine thereafter. The state also sought clarity on the paper-setting process, especially since the representative group for university teachers announced that by conducting exams, lives of students and teachers will be put in jeopardy.“Once the UGC responds, the state will announce its decision. We assure students that they will not have to wait till September to know the final outcome of the decision. We will end the confusion soon,” said Samant.In a virtual press conference, Samant said in a collective meeting on July 4, vice-chancellors (VCs) from all the 13 universities in the state reiterated that they are in no position to hold the final-year exams in online, offline or blended modes by September in accordance with the UGC decision. He added that the minutes of the meeting with the VCs were shared with the government on Thursday.The VCs instead recommended that all final-year students be promoted on the same formula applied for the promotion of students of other years. “The state has since April clarified that conducting exams for around 8 to 10 lakh students is impossible, especially since Maharashtra has and continues to be the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak. Our decision has been based on the recommendations made by the VCs of state universities, keeping in mind the health and safety of staff and students,” said Samant. The VCs also suggested that students with backlogs (ATKTs) should also be promoted based on their performance in the previous semesters.“The VCs also said that instead of asking students to give a written undertaking stating if they wish to appear for the exams later or altogether skip it, all the students should be given a chance to better their grades later this year, when it becomes possible to hold exams in a safe environment. For now, however, all the students should be promoted, the VCs recommended,” said Samant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-can-t-conduct-final-year-exams-but-awaiting-ugc-s-response-education-minister/story-EcZVKWmyAeOf6GC032zTEI.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Inflated bills: Adani offers 3 EMIs for power bill payment||Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) consumers can now pay their bills in three interest-free instalments, the company said in a press statement released on Thursday. The facility can be availed by consumers who pay their EMIs before due date, AEML said.As per directives issued by the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC), consumers who have received electricity bills more than double the average between March-May, have to be given the option of paying their bills in three EMIs.Kandarp Patel, managing director and chief executive officer of AEML, said, “To support our esteemed consumers in the current situation of pandemic, we are happy to announce three interest free instalments to all our consumers paying their bills within the due date.” In an earlier press interaction this week, Patel had said that around 6.7 lakh consumers are yet to pay their bills and the company has an overdue of ₹750 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/inflated-bills-adani-offers-3-emis-for-power-bill-payment/story-avFrHMH6RoNmLCNVI6uY3N.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||State set to give ₹1,000-crore boost to stuck SRA projects||The Maharashtra government is set to pump in around ₹700 crore-₹1,000 crore as ‘stress funds’ to revive slum projects which are stuck due to monetary issues. Around 370 projects have been put on hold as builders do not have money to complete the projects, leaving the slum-dwellers in a lurch.According to state housing minister Jitendra Awhad the step is being taken to boost the realty sector. “This stress fund will help to revive slum rehabilitation projects which are stuck, and give relief to both the slum-dwellers and builders,” said Awhad. He said the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) will tie up with the State Bank of India (SBI) in this venture. Currently, there are 3.5 lakh houses being constructed under SRA, of which majority of projects are in limbo. “The realty sector, especially the projects under SRA scheme, was facing monetary issues and Covid-19 has worsened the situation. This stress fund will provide some respite to the builders,” said Nayan Shah, president of Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry (CREDAI-MCHI). Real estate lawyer Vinod Sampat said, “Just pumping in funds will not serve any purpose as SRA scheme suffers from corruption and large scale manipulation. These need to be addressed.”With only 2.06 lakh families getting new apartments over 23 years, the SRA scheme to free Mumbai of slums seems to heading nowhere. SRA said there are 12.50 lakh slums with 62 lakh residents in the city. If the current speed is maintained wherein an average of 8,963 families get homes every year, it will take more than a century to rehabilitate all existing slum-dwellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-set-to-give-1-000-crore-boost-to-stuck-sra-projects/story-ga7SofKkqoCBfJTnh6m6KL.html
10-07-2020||City||Did not receive Covid-19 incentive in salary, say Mumbai’s resident doctors||Around 600 resident doctors of BYL Nair Hospital alleged on Thursday that they have not received the daily Covid-19 incentive as part of their June salaries. In April, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation had announced that as frontline workers battling Covid-19, doctors would be eligible for an incentive of Rs 300 per day. Those quarantined at Taj Mahal Palace hotel had received the incentive for the period when they were in quarantine.However, resident doctors at Nair Hospital, found the daily incentive missing when they received their salaries on Thursday. “We were told that those who were quarantined would not receive the incentive as they were not on duty. However, earlier, quarantine was considered as duty. This is very demoralising,” said a resident doctor from the hospital. Members of the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), have written to the Directorate of Medical Education and Research, demanding quarantine periods be considered as part of duty and the daily incentive be resumed. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the matter will be discussed with deans of hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/did-not-receive-covid-19-incentive-in-salary-said-mumbai-s-resident-doctors/story-0SeUu5nS4KW1pfdrPxDTIL.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||MUTP-3: State deal to give fillip to MMR’s rly connect||In a boost to suburban railway connectivity between the city and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) through a new suburban railway corridor, the Maharashtra government and Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC) on Thursday signed a financial agreement for projects under Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP) 3. The projects, for which the Subsidiary Finance Agreement (SFA) has been signed, include a new suburban railway corridor between Panvel and Karjat railway stations for an estimated cost of ₹2,783 crore, procurement of 47 air-conditioned (AC) local trains worth ₹3,491 crore; quadrupling of railway line between Virar and Dahanu railway station for ₹3,578 crore; elevated railway corridor between Airoli and Kalwa railway stations for ₹476 crore; control on midsection trespassing for ₹551 crore; and technical support for ₹69 crore. The overall cost of the project is ₹10,947 crore and will be funded on a 50:50 ratio between the state government and Indian Railways. MUTP-3 got nod from the Centre in 2016 and has a completion deadline of 2022. The state government had, in August 2019, termed the projects under MUTP-3 as essential to the state. “A financial agreement was signed with the state government. It includes projects of MUTP-3,” said RS Khurana, chairman and managing director of MRVC.The agreement will also involve funding from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco).The work on midsection trespass control on the railway lines has started and MRVC has started the process of tendering for other projects. Land acquisition for the projects started in 2019 while on-ground work is likely to start after monsoon this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mutp-3-state-deal-to-give-fillip-to-mmr-s-rly-connect/story-wIqICkTc8aFN7k2KUwYkaL.html
10-07-2020||City||Permit all pathologists, microbiologists to conduct rapid antigen tests, Maharashtra doctors’ body tells ICMR||The Maharashtra chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has appealed to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and state government to allow all qualified pathologists and microbiologists to conduct rapid antigen tests to help detect Covid-19 cases.On June 22, state health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas had allowed rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms, comorbidities and pregnant women. However, ICMR later restricted the tests to government hospitals and private laboratories that are accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). This restricted the availability of the test to metros and major cities in the state, according to the Maharashtra chapter of IMA. “A large number of private pathology laboratories from Maharashtra, run by duly qualified and medical council-registered pathologists applied for permission immediately. However, these laboratories were denied permission to conduct testing owing to the lack of NABL accreditation,” said Avinash Bhondwe, president of IMA’s state wing.IMA claims there are only 48 NABL-accredited laboratories and these are mainly in big cities as opposed to more than 5,000 laboratories run by qualified private pathologists and microbiologists. “They possess postgraduate qualifications in pathology/ microbiology and are registered under Maharashtra Medical Council. These laboratories are all over Maharashtra including in small towns as well as talukas,” said Bhondwe in a statement.Despite repeated attempts, Vyas was unavailable for a comment.Rapid antigen kits, also known as Standard Q Covid-19 Ag detection, provide results in only 30 minutes, which helps decide further course of treatment for serious patients at the earliest. Allowing private laboratories to do the test would widen the network of testing to include remote areas and at affordable costs, claimed IMA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/permit-all-pathologists-microbiologists-to-conduct-rapid-antigen-tests-maharashtra-doctors-body-tells-icmr/story-GB7bHtlDWuiWv6nxRpw9rJ.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Safety of wildlife can’t be ignored for road projects, NGT tells Centre||The Centre has been informed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that it cannot ignore or compromise the safety of wildlife while developing new road projects through tiger corridors in Maharashtra. The NGT principal bench headed by chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel on Tuesday said the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) cannot proceed with projects along tiger corridors in Maharashtra unless they comply with safety guidelines as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority’s (NTCA) action plan.“It is necessary to take precautions in view of the potential of affecting wildlife. If project proponents wish to proceed with a project, they cannot do so without taking safety precautions for protection of wildlife,” the bench said in its order published on Thursday and disposed the matter. NGT has been hearing the matter for the past two-and-a-half years after taking cognisance of a news report in 2018.Principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) Nitin Kakodkar explained that the matter involved nine existing road projects in Chandrapur around the buffer areas of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) where dispersal of tigers has been identified. These included five national highway (NH) projects and three state highway projects (principally declared as NH). “These are all existing roads that needed expansion. Mitigation measures were crucial and required in each case as identified by NTCA to maintain functional connectivity of tiger corridors,” he said.Chandrapur has the most dense tiger population with over 170 of the 312 tigers in Maharashtra. In February 2019, the tribunal had directed the Union environment ministry to prepare an action plan and oversee its execution. The plan was prepared by NTCA in August 2019 identifying mitigation measures to be implemented over a period of seven years across five phases (underpasses at several locations) along nine roads. Subsequently MoRTH accepted some measures, but later on October 17, 2019, they said they would not be able fund additional expenditure over ₹100.81 crore for proposed mitigation structures. In addition, MoRTH requested the Maharashtra government and forest department to fund remaining expenditure for two roads — Mul Chandarpur and Bamni-Navegaon (NH 930 & NH 353B). NGT, in its order in January this year, had not accepted MoRTH’s submissions highlighting that the mitigation measures were ‘binding’ on them and needed to be ‘duly adopted’. The bench also directed NTCA to submit a revised mitigation plan reducing implementation period to three years. The plan was submitted on April 15, 2020 stating that MoRTH had not accepted conditions for the two roads.“We note that MoRTH has stated that the ministry cannot fund any additional expenditure for the mitigation measures. We are unable to accept such a plea for the reasons already mentioned. Accordingly, the project proponent may proceed only subject to the action plan prepared by the NTCA,” the NGT order from Wednesday said.A Srivastava, chief engineer (Maharashtra regional office), MoRTH, said, “The cost of building underpasses along some of the other tiger corridors was coming to roughly ₹1,100 crore; and our work involved only basic expansion, not four-lane mega projects. None of our activities would disrupt wildlife, and the intention was to improve connectivity to Naxal-affected areas by improving the condition of the highways on the request of the state government.”For this very reason, the state government should also contribute, said Srivastava. “The response from Maharashtra is still awaited. We will be taking a call on what is to be done based on the latest order,” he said.Tiger density is maximum across corridors where these nine roads are located in Chandrapur. Human-tiger conflict had caused around 140 human deaths since 2007, said Kishor Rithe, member of the recently constituted State Board for Wildlife. “This was mainly due to landscape connectivity issues and habitat fragmentation. In such a situation, mitigation measures are essential with appropriate structures (overpasses and underpasses). The user agency must be open-minded towards wildlife conservation. Here they are more concerned about spending money, making it doubtful whether appropriate mitigation structures would actually ever be built.”WHAT’S HAPPENING NOW?HT reported on Wednesday that MoRTH had expressed its intention to make it easier for state bodies to garner faster forest clearances pertaining to national highway projects. On June 30, MoRTH issued a letter to all state governments informing them that state bodies like the public works department working on Central government projects such as national highway development be exempted from purchasing non-forest land in lieu of forest area being diverted. This is mandatory for state agencies as per the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. Instead, MoRTH said state agencies be allowed to carry out compensatory afforestation on degraded forest land, which is applicable to certain small projects. MoRTH said the decision was taken in consultation with the Union environment ministry. However, the latter is yet to respond to queries raised on this by the Maharashtra forest department on this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/safety-of-wildlife-can-t-be-ignored-for-road-projects-ngt-tells-centre/story-CRMFsu3o5itFxKzagjMC8M.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||3 minors among 4 nabbed for murder of 17-year-old at Dharavi||Dharavi police have apprehended four suspects, including three minors, on Thursday for the murder of a 17-year-old fruit vendor on Wednesday. Police said that the accused and victim were friends who got into an altercation after they filmed the victim wearing a sari and dancing.The victim Kaushik Sunil Narayan Kar had requested them to delete the video and said he would inform the police or his uncle who is attached to a political party. The victim and the accused live in the same neighbourhood of Subhash Nagar in Dharavi.Ramesh Nangare, senior inspector of Dharavi police station, said, “After inquiring with the suspects, we learnt that the accused did not delete the video. The victim then went to inform his uncle, who lives half a kilometre away, about the harassment by the accused.”However, Kar’s uncle has left for his hometown. While returning from his uncle’s residence on Wednesday around 1.30pm, the four accused accosted the victim.They argued, and one of them, who had carried a kitchen knife, stabbed Kar in the shoulder twice before the four fled the spot.The victim was rushed to Sion hospital, but he had lost a lot of blood and died during treatment, said Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police who is holding charge of zone 5.After recording the statement of eye-witnesses, police identified the accused and nabbed them. The three minors will be sent to Dongri remand home while the fourth accused was arrested and charged of murder under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), said Ashok.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-minors-among-4-nabbed-for-murder-of-17-year-old-at-dharavi/story-t1x1OoCdbqo47fZLx3owPN.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Rajgruh vandalism: 35-year-old arrested, main accused still on the run||Matunga police on Thursday evening arrested a man in connection with the vandalisation of Rajgruh, the house of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, located at the Hindu Colony, Dadar. However, the main accused is still at large. The arrested accused, Umesh Jadhav, a 35-year-old beggar, has been remanded in seven days police custody. “Jadhav’s image was captured on Tuesday evening when the incident took place. He was standing outside. The hunt for the main accused who had entered the premises and damaged pots is still on,” said Vinoy Kumar Choubey, additional director general (law and order), Mumbai Police. Jadhav, a pavement dweller from Parel TT area, has not yet revealed any clear reason as to why he helped his partner vandalise the heritage place. Police are interrogating him to know the whereabouts of the wanted accused. “The main accused’s image got captured in the CCTV installed at the house while he was damaging flower pots in the compound of the house,” said an officer.The police would add section 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in the case since Jadhav neither entered the premises nor did he damage the property, and was only present at the spot along with the main accused, said a police officer. Earlier, a case was registered under sections 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of ₹50 or more) and 447 (criminal trespass) of the IPC based on the complaint of one of the three grandsons of Dr Ambedkar who reside in the house.On Tuesday evening around 5.30pm, the accused first threw stones at glass window panels of Rajgruh and then entered through the gate. He was barefoot and damaged flower pots. CCTV cameras were not damaged, a senior police officer said.The guard at Rajgruh is said to be the witness in the case.The two-storeyed heritage house of Dr Ambedkar has a museum where his books are kept along with his portrait, ashes and vessels and other artefacts.Ambedkar’s daughter-in-law and three grandsons Prakash, Bhimrao and Anadrao live at the bungalow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rajgruh-vandalism-35-year-old-arrested-main-accused-still-on-the-run/story-gyvEd8xL6hRBgZlIjILzEP.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||170 schools in Gadchiroli, 20 in Chandrapur finally reopen for senior secondary students||More than three months after schools in the state closed due to the Covid-19 outbreak, they have slowly begun reopening from this week. From July 6, nearly 190 schools from Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts reopened physically.“Nearly 20 schools in Chandrapur and 170 in Gadchiroli have physically reopened. As per the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the state education department, schools can reopen in places where there is not a single case of Covid-19 for the last one month,” said an official from the education department. With most parts of the two districts having poor internet access and issues with connectivity, the reopening of schools means that students can finally learn after a long gap. Karamveer Vidyalaya in Warora taluka of Chandrapur, which reopened for Classes 9 and 10, the first day of school was marked with thermal screening of teachers and students and ensuring that children follow social distancing norms.“We first held a meeting of the school management committee and took all parents into confidence. After taking all the necessary precautions, we finally started classes for the higher standards as allowed by the SOPs,” said Balu Bhoyar, principal. The school has 54 students in Class 9 and 10. In several parts of Chandrapur, teachers have also started an initiative called Shikshan Aaplya Dari (Education at your doorstep) through which they travel to small villages and hamlets to teach students in the neighbourhood. “Many of our teachers are part of the initiative, and we are happy that students’ learning is not going to stop,” said Bhoyar. For schools in Gadchiroli, a phased reopening was planned, said Ashwini Sonavane, block education officer, Bhamragad, which is a remote taluka in the district, with a large tribal population.“For students here, no school for such a long time meant a threat of dropouts, and we did not wish to take that risk. Instead of waiting to reopen at once, we worked out a plan for phased reopening. At the moment, we have started small study groups with four students and a teacher, which can assemble in the village for two hours a day,” Sonavane added. With the state’s publishing bureau Balbharti ensuring that students received copies of their textbooks soon after the new academic year began on June 15, the teaching efforts of schools in remote areas could kick-off, she said. As per the SOPs, schools can first start Classes 9, 10, and 12 in July, followed by Classes 6 to 8 from August, and Classes 1-5 from September. The final decision of starting schools, even in such areas, would rest with the local administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/170-schools-in-gadchiroli-20-in-chandrapur-finally-reopen-for-senior-secondary-students/story-7MDWY0EJg333DNMLIoo9mM.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Name patients for others’ safety, PIL urges HC||A student of the Government Law College at Mumbai and a farmer from Solapur district have moved the Bombay high court (HC) seeking direction to the authorities to disclose identities of Covid-19 patients “so that others who have come in their contact can take appropriate precautionary steps to protect themselves from the deadly virus”.The PIL filed by law student Vaishnavi Gholave and agriculturist Mahesh Gadekar is likely to come up for hearing on Friday.In the PIL filed through advocate Vinod Sangvikar they have contended that many a times the people infected with Covid-19 are unable to recognise and give complete information of the people who had come into their contact, because of which not all suspects could be traced and treated in time.They have cited the example of a meat seller from Murali Peth in Solapur who tested positive and it was reported that around 1,000 people had come in contact with him. “But the meat seller did not know the names of all his customers. He did not know where they lived,” said the PIL. It said that since there are around 25 meat sellers in Murarji Peth and the name of the infected meat seller was not disclosed, people did not know whether they had been exposed to the virus, thus failing to take precautionary measures.The petitioners added that when there is such a serious risk to the community at large, it is necessary to disclose names of patients so that the people who came in contact with them are aware and can come forward to take appropriate precautions; first, by isolating themselves and thereby preventing further spread, and secondly, by immediately taking treatment.The PIL said that while the number of Covid-19 patients is increasing rapidly in Maharashtra, the government has maintained it has not so far reached the third stage of large-scale community spread where the source of the infection becomes untraceable and the spread becomes extremely contagious and difficult to control, and added that “if we continue to maintain secrecy about the identity of the patients we will soon reach that stage too”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/name-patients-for-others-safety-pil-urges-hc/story-gernBeJFYlVboZhQhMx3VI.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Cases of lockdown violations drop; Maharashtra Police claims citizens more cooperative||Four days after Maharashtra Police collected ₹53 lakh in a single day from those found violating lockdown regulations, both, the number of cases registered and fines collected, has come down drastically. Between July 8 and 9, police in the state registered only 315 cases as compared to an average of over 1,000 cases per day. From March 22, when the lockdown was imposed across the state, till July 8, Maharashtra Police collected a total of ₹11,54,63,987 in fines from lockdown violators. Between July 8 and 9, the amount collected rose to by just ₹18,300, according to data shared by Maharashtra Police.The data also shows that no arrests were made for lockdown regulations on July 9, while only three vehicles were impounded. Since the start of the lockdown till July 8, Maharashtra Police have arrested 29,793 violators and seized 88,783 vehicles in total.Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order), attributed the drastic decrease in cases and fines collected to citizens cooperating with lockdown regulations. “People have become more aware and are cooperating with us in Maharashtra,” said Deshmukh.Neither the Maharashtra director general of police nor the inspector general of police (law and order) responded to HT’s calls and messages. However, Thane police commissioner Vivek Phansalkar said, “We have continued to take strict action against people who are found unnecessarily loitering, and the cases have not gone down in Thane.”Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police, Pranaya Ashok said, “Initially, we had to be very strict on anyone found violating lockdown regulations. Nakabandhis and patrolling are still on, but people have become much more aware and are cooperating with us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cases-of-lockdown-violations-drop-maharashtra-police-claims-citizens-more-cooperative/story-ppg7CbIRzSZorcKx0ZO0xM.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Spread awareness about field hospitals: CM to BMC||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday expressed concern over people’s lack of confidence in the hospitals temporarily constructed in open fields in Mumbai. The state government has developed six field Covid-19 hospitals, but according to officials, citizens often refuse to get admitted there and instead demand beds in government-run or private hospitals. Thackeray directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to make efforts to inform people that these field hospitals are as good as any other government or private hospital in the city.Thackeray had called two meetings to take stock of the situation and review measures taken by the civic body to contain the spread of Covid-19 in Mumbai.“The CM gets calls from people that they want a bed in a regular hospital and not in the field hospitals. This is despite developing good-quality field hospitals. Thackeray instructed BMC to start taking efforts to build confidence among people so that they won’t hesitate to receive treatment at these hospitals, and the load on the regular government and private hospitals can be reduced,” said a senior official who attended the meeting.BMC commissioner IS Chahal said people’s reluctance is because they have never experienced treatment at such facilities. “We have outsourced expert doctors, intensivists, clinical staff, and others for these hospitals and are spending much on them. To deal with the issue, I have directed officials to occupy ICU beds in these hospitals first and let them experience the facilities developed there. This will help in clearing misconceptions, and awareness among people will increase,” said Chahal.In Mumbai, six field hospitals have been developed at Mahalaxmi Racecourse, NSCI-Worli, Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Mulund, NESCO-Goregoan, and Dahisar.The number of cases in Mumbai has reached 89,124 after 1,268 new cases were recorded on Thursday. The city’s death toll jumped to 5,132 after 68 deaths were reported the same day.The CM directed BMC to set up a mechanism for optimum use of ambulances provided by the state and private donors. “We must have a monitoring system for use of ambulances so that the people will be able to get the benefit of these facilities in time,” Thackeray said.He said that the healthcare facilities have been augmented, and now they need a proper plan for their systematic use. “For instance, we have taken 80% of beds at 35 private hospitals. Now all these hospitals should put up a notice board with daily occupancy so that all those in need can get a bed,” the CM said.In the second meeting, Thackeray sought help from NGOs to contain the Covid spread and reduce case mortality rate. He said that if NGOs can help in conducting surveys and send symptomatic patients to dedicated Covid centers, then treatment can be started in the golden hour and lives can be saved. He said that NGOs can also help in clearing misconceptions about keeping patients in isolation.Chahal said that previously, BMC used to give beds only to those patients who had Covid test reports, but now they have started giving beds even to those who have symptoms but no test report. “This is showing results as it helps to bring down Covid deaths in the city. By the end of this month, you will see a drastic change in the number of Covid-related deaths. Even today, we have 1,158 patients who were admitted without having a Covid test report,” the municipal commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/spread-awareness-about-field-hospitals-cm-to-bmc/story-tF5VKyAqY3Sl5B5nnPLo0M.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||One-third of Covid deaths a result of delay in admission or reporting: Maharashtra task force||As the city’s Covid toll crossed the 5,000-mark, members of the state task force said one-third of the deaths are due to late admission or late reporting of symptomatic cases, stressing the need to remove the social stigma attached to the virus for early detection.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said, “While one of the primary causes of Covid deaths is co-morbidities, probably one-third of the Covid deaths in the city are due to delayed diagnosis of symptomatic cases or late admission, which delays treatment and reduces the chances of survival.”“Covid is an unpredictable virus. Some of the most important symptoms we had seen were lack of smell and taste. Now, new symptoms such as backache, chills and severe pain in the calves have surfaced. An aggressive support system such as timely oxygen supply is very important. More effective medicines are available now. However, early detection and prompt treatment has a huge impact on the fatality rate.”The city’s fatality rate as of Wednesday was 5.7%. The rise in Covid deaths initially was also because of mismanagement and unavailability of beds. “All patients should be treated as suspected Covid cases. Every hospital should be prompt in treatment, right from the time the patient is in ambulance to the hospital bed. Once they are sorted as Covid positives, they can be transferred to dedicated Covid centres. The patient should not be made to run around for Covid or non-Covid complications. This has reduced to an extent with the surplus beds for Covid patients.”Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “In some cases, in which patients die within 24 hours of admission, they might have delayed seeking care due to fear of isolation or social stigma. It is utmost important to get care from the time the symptoms start to appear.”Senior civic officials said the first 24 hours are very crucial for a symptomatic patient. They also said that in multiple cases, patients have hidden symptoms for days. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said on Monday, “A major cause for concern among Covid-19 patients is the delay in reporting symptoms to the health centres. The first 24 hours since the start of symptoms are critical and immediate medical attention has helped. However, there are many cases where patients don’t tell their family members or seek medical treatment in time, which should not be the case.”Experts emphasise on social awareness among residents of housing societies and slum areas to support families of Covid patients. Joshi said, “Residents of housing areas should cooperate and treat Covid patients in their society well, mentally as well as physically.”Meanwhile, on Thursday, Mumbai reported 1,268 cases, taking the total to 89,124. The city saw 68 deaths, which took the toll to 5,132, according to the state health department data. A total of 957 patients recovered and were discharged on Thursday. A total of 60,195 patients have so far been treated and discharged. The city has 23,785 active cases.According to BMC’s data, of the 68 deaths, three were of patients below 43 years of age, 22 were of patients above 60 years, and 22 were aged 40 to 60. The recovery rate in Mumbai has now gone up to 67%. The city’s doubling rate is 47 days. The total number of Covid tests done till Wednesday is 3.74 lakh. Meanwhile, Dharavi reported nine new cases on Thursday. The number of total cases is 2,347, of which 1,815 patients have been discharged and 291 are active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/one-third-of-covid-deaths-a-result-of-delay-in-admission-or-reporting-maharashtra-task-force/story-YfsA3NDVIz93znvghUtkmN.html
10-07-2020||City||Thane Covid hospital mix-up case: 2 doctors transferred, 4 nurses terminated||Two doctors from the Covid hospital set up at Global Impact Hub in Kalwa were transferred while four nurses were terminated from service after a mix-up between two patients on Thursday. The action was taken after a report of the inquiry committee stated that while there were no lapses in the treatment of both patients, the entire mix-up was the result of mistakes in the documentation, said Dr Vipin Sharma, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) commissioner.The family of a patient from Kopri was given the body of a 72-year-old man on July 3, while their 67-year-old father was still alive. After performing the final rites for the man, on July 6 they were informed that he was still alive and in the ICU. He died on July 7.TMC had set up a three-member enquiry committee to investigate the cause of the mix-up.“As per the enquiry report, there was no negligence in the medical treatment given to the two patients. The mix-up was in the documentation process, for which we have taken proper action. Dr. Yogesh Sharma, the dean, and Dr Pramod Borgave, the doctor in charge of the ICU were transferred to their original posts at Chattrapati Shivaji Hospital, while the four nurses [involved in the case] were terminated from service,” said Sharma.Deputy municipal commissioner Vishwanath Kelkar has been given full-time charge of the hospital for better communication with patients, to avoid such confusion in the future.“The 67-year-old patient was already in the ICU, while the 72-year-old was shifted after his condition worsened. We regret the incident and would like to apologise to the families and ensure that such an incident is not repeated,” the TMC chief added.The family has claimed that the action is not enough. The son of the 72-year-old man who died, said, “We could not see our father, nor give him a proper funeral. We were not even aware of what was happening. Merely transferring the doctor is not enough. We demand substantial action so that no other family has to go through this again.”As per the report, when the 72-year-old patient was admitted on June 29, he was given an admit card with his name. Apart from the name on his admit card, all case papers in regards to his treatment are missing.The report states that the nurses who got the patient admitted in the ward, registered him under the name of the 67-year-old patient and therefore, his case history was entered under the name of the 67-year-old.However, there is no mention of the 72-year-old’s case history in the file of the other patient. The hospital has two case papers in the name of one patient.Sharma informed that he will personally ensure that proper death certificates are issued to both the families of the deceased.The issue was taken up by Niranjan Dawkhare, city president of BJP after the family of the 72-year-old patient claimed that he was untraceable early this week. Dawkhare and other BJP leaders had met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari who asked the chief minister for quick action in the case.3-way registration of patients to avoid confusionThe civic commissioner informed that to avoid any confusion in the future, patients will be registered in three ways. “The Aadhaar card and Pan card details of the patients will be noted. A photo of the patient will be taken and attached to his case file. In case of death, relatives will be asked to identify the victim. Each patient will also have a wrist tag,” Sharma said. (Inputs by Ankita Menon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-covid-hospital-mix-up-case-2-doctors-transferred-4-nurses-terminated/story-Zdsm2o4UatQsBRCx0mEPAK.html
10-07-2020||Delhi||SC pulls up Maharashtra government on migrant issue, asks for fresh affidavit||The government is duty-bound to find out problems faced by migrant workers and do the needful, the Supreme Court (SC) said on Thursday, taking exception to the stance of the Maharashtra government on the issue of migrant workers.A three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that the claims made by the state in its affidavit cannot be accepted at face value.The court referred to applications filed by two non-profit organisations, Sarva Hara Jan Andolan and Delhi Sharmik Sangathan, on July 7, which detailed the difficulties faced by migrant workers in Maharashtra. The applications gave information about people who were still attempting to return to their home states.“We do not appreciate the tenor and the claims made in the affidavit filed on behalf of the state of Maharashtra. The present is not an adversarial litigation and it is the duty of the state to find out shortcomings and lapses wherever and to do the needful,” the court said, adding that the state cannot claim it will take action only if provided with information regarding such lapses.The Maharashtra government had mentioned in its affidavit, that none of the migrant workers who are in the state are desirous of returning home since lockdown restrictions were lifted, and there are employment opportunities.“Ask Maharashtra to file a proper affidavit. Your [Maharashtra] affidavit is adversarial. This is not an adversarial case,” justice MR Shah told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who is representing the state.The next hearing has been scheduled for July 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sc-pulls-up-maharashtra-government-on-migrant-issue-asks-for-fresh-affidavit/story-7qO6dv9sLpRedHFOVBBWAI.html
10-07-2020||City||Family claims Kalyan hospital mixed up patient’s Covid test report||The family of a 35-year-old woman has alleged that a hospital in Kalyan has mixed up her Covid-19 test results with those of a 45-year-old infected patient, and sent her for Covid treatment to another hospital.The family realised there was a mix-up when the medical store where they went to buy some injections pointed out that the age of the patient mentioned on the test report does not match the age mentioned on the woman’s Aadhaar card. The woman’s brother has since filed a complaint with Mahatma Phule police station and the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation’s health department.“My sister was ill on July 3 and we took her to a private hospital in Kalyan. On July 4, the hospital asked her to get tested for Covid-19. On July 5, the hospital claimed her report to be positive and asked us to take her to another private hospital in Kalyan, saying her case was severe,” the woman’s brother mentioned in his complaint.“At the hospital, we were asked to buy an injection worth ₹45,000. I somehow managed to get it from Mumbai as it was not available in Kalyan. Later, they asked us to buy six injections worth ₹35,000,” he said.On Wednesday, the hospital asked the family to get another injection worth ₹45,000. This time, the medical store asked for the patient’s Covid test report and her Aadhaar card copy.“The hospital provided me with a copy of her test report. When we gave it to the medical store, they found the report to be false as it carried the age of the patient as 45 years while my sister’s age according to her Aadhaar card is 35. I realised that the report provided to us was of another patient who had a name similar to my sister’s,” said the brother.The family is now worried about the woman’s health as she was given injections for Covid infection, even though she is not infected.“We want the authorities to take action against the hospital for sending my sister for treatment without checking her reports. We have already paid around ₹1.5 lakh for treatment,” the brother said.After receiving the complaint, KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi said he would enquire into the matter. “We have received a complaint from the family and will set up an enquiry on the same. Required action will be taken, “said Suryavanshi.The private hospital administration did not respond to calls from HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/family-claims-kalyan-hospital-mixed-up-patient-s-covid-test-report/story-NhRM5U4Mbk2V9q4gRsS8tL.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||ICSE, ISC results to be out today||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) will declare the results of ICSE (Class 10) and Class ISC (Class 12) at 3pm today (July 10). Students can access their results on the council’s official websites — www.cisce.org and www.results.cisce.org. This year, the council had to cancel six papers of ICSE and eight papers of ISC, which were scheduled between March 19 and March 31, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak in the country. Nearly 23,000 students from the state registered for the ICSE and ISC exams this year. On July 3, the council released a marking scheme for the cancelled papers on its official website. For ICSE students, an average of a candidate’s three best papers along with the percentage of marks that the student has got in the internal assessment of the paper will be considered when computing the marks for the remaining papers. For ISC, average of best three marks along with the percentage of marks obtained by the candidate in the project and practical works of the subjects will be considered to score the remaining papers. The board stated that it had arrived at the marking formula with the help of reputed statisticians from premier institutes in the country. Students will be able to see their subject-wise marks after the results are released online. Schools can also download their overall results from the careers portal on the website. Those who wish to apply for revaluation of scores can do so on the website from July 10 to July 16. On June 3, the Maharashtra government had asked the CISCE to cancel the remaining ICSE and ISC papers or postpone them further. While the CISCE agreed to cancel the exams in the state following a petition filed by a city-based parent, the board agreed to extend the decision for the entire country, while responding to a petition in the Apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/icse-isc-results-to-be-out-today/story-DQVHCbxqR1Tj1EsxAiqKXL.html
10-07-2020||City||Court seeks police response on plea of Pinjra members||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Thursday sought the response of Delhi police on a plea by Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita -- members of Pinjra Tod who have been arrested for their alleged role in the north-east Delhi riots -- who moved an application seeking a court-monitored probe in the matter being investigated by the Special Cell.Additional Sessions Judge Dharmendra Rana granted time to the Investigating officer (IO) to file a reply to the plea moved by advocate Adit S Pujari and posted the matter for July 14.“List the application for the report of the IO and for consideration on July 14,” the judge said in his order.Narwal, lodged in Tihar jail along with another JNU student and member of the group, Devangana Kalitha, was arrested by Delhi Police on May 23 in connection with a protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in north-east Delhi’ s Jaffrabad area in February.Narwal and Devangana have been charged with the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) along with other sections of the Indian Penal Code such as criminal conspiracy and disturbing communal harmony.The Crime Branch of the Delhi police had earlier filed a case against Narwal and Kalita for “actively being involved in hatching the conspiracy to cause riots near Jaffarabad metro station on February 25”. The police said that they were also part of a larger conspiracy and were found to be connected to the “India against Hate” group and Umar Khalid. However, Khalid had denied all charges.The police has filed 750 FIRs in connection the riots that had broken out in northeast Delhi, claiming more than 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-seeks-police-response-on-plea-of-pinjra-members/story-iFKbiTcRBSu0CzLhdbQtxN.html
10-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid tally up to 230,599; MMR accounts for major share||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 6,875 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 230,599. The active cases in the state now stand at 93,652. The state also reported 219 new fatalities, pushing the toll up to 9,667. Mumbai recorded 1,268 new cases and 68 fatalities, which took its tally to 89,124 and toll to 5,132. The active cases in Mumbai stand at 23,785.Pune, meanwhile, continued to record more than 1,000 new cases daily, with 1,130 fresh cases taking the city’s tally to 25,758. It also recorded 18 fatalities on Thursday as its toll rose to 814. Pune’s adjoining Pimpri-Chinchwad recorded 413 new cases. Nashik city recorded 173 cases, while Jalgaon district recorded 110 new infections, 147 cases were reported from Pune district and 122 from Aurangabad city.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), excluding Mumbai, continued to contribute a chunk of the daily cases, with 40.96% of the total cases recorded in the state. Kalyan-Dombivli recorded 743 fresh infections on Thursday, Thane city 369, Navi Mumbai 251, Thane district 285, Ulhasnagar 171, Mira-Bhayander, Vasai-Virar 222, Raigad 274, Panvel 193. Bhiwandi-Nizampur and Palghar recorded 50 and 49 new cases respectively.The region has seen a surge in cases and has nearly doubled its tally in the past 15 days. Of the 70,538 total cases in MMR (excluding Mumbai) till July 9, 34,386 cases have come in the past 15 days alone. The number of cases that increased in the past fortnight account for 48.74% of the total cases recorded. The region has so far recorded 1,786 fatalities.The MMR includes Thane district, Thane city, Kalyan-Dombivli, Navi Mumbai, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Mira-Bhayander, Palghar and Vasai-Virar.According to the state health department’s daily bulletin, till June 1, cases in MMR were 12,160. The cases shot up over four times in one month to 49,943 on July 1. During this period, the state government had started its ‘Mission Begin Again’ and provided several relaxations, including freeing up movement of people, the opening of businesses, industries, shops, etc.Amid the rise in the number of cases in MMR, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with commissioners of civic bodies in the region and termed the situation a “concern”. This was Thackeray’s second interaction with the civic chiefs in under two weeks.Expressing dissatisfaction over the health infrastructure in many cities in MMR, Thackeray has directed their civic chiefs to follow the example of Mumbai and ramp up health facilities for Covid-19 cases. The CM, during a video conference with civic chiefs of eight municipal corporations in MMR on Thursday, has asked to set up field hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients and suspected contacts on an urgent basis.While the number of patients in Mumbai is steady for the last few weeks, it’s on the rise in other eight municipal corporations in the MMR. In some of the corporation areas, the case fatality rate (CFR) too is high. As of July 6, Thane cases rose to 9,300 and reported 243 deaths with the rise of percentage in state tally of cases to 5.67%, from 5.35% on June 8. During the same period, Kalyan Dombivli’s share rose to 5.12% from 2.13%, while Mira-Bhayandar rose to 2.3% from 1.07% in terms of positive cases. The CFR in Bhiwandi on July 6 was as high as 5.23%, though other corporations in the area could bring it down to register below the state average.Among all municipal corporations in MMR, KDMC is second highest in daily cases after Mumbai and has reported more than 600 cases a day over the past few weeks. The corporation has not been able to augment its health infrastructure to take up the additional projected load of cases during monsoon.While addressing the commissioners, Thackeray said that some civic bodies in the MMR could not set up jumbo facilities like those established in Mumbai. “We have been pressing for jumbo facilities to tackle the projected rise in cases over the last four months. The number of cases is expected to rise during monsoon, but the civic bodies in the rest of Mumbai have been lagging behind. They should start setting up field hospitals on a war footing with the help of industries, companies, and institutions if needed,” he said.CM’s principal advisor Ajoy Mehta said that the spike in the cases in rest of the MMR is a matter of concern for not only the state, but also for the country. He asked civic chiefs for aggressive tracing, institutional isolation and ramping up facilities for Covid and non-Covid patients. He too asked civic bodies to seek help from the companies and industries in augmentation of the medical facilities.Thackeray has also directed them to ensure that facilities are well-equipped with a drainage system, toilets, drinking water besides the facilities of ICU and dialysis. The CM also asked them to ensure to stock adequate medicines to cope with the potential surge in cases during monsoon. He has also directed corporations for the community participation in their fight against the pandemic. The corporations have also been asked to constitute surveillance committees, involving NGOs and local youths, who can help them in surveillance and treatment.Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “We already have ramped up our infrastructure and have set up a 1,200-bed facility at the exhibition centre. Our testing rate is 16,608 per million, much above the Central government’s parameters. This has helped us in improving the doubling rate to 33 days from 6 days a few weeks ago.” Meanwhile, the state also recorded 4,067 patients discharged, taking the total number of patients who have recovered to 1,27,259. The recovery rate in the state stands at 55.19%. The state has so far tested 12,22,487 samples and has a positivity rate of 18.86%, the state health department data said. Currently, 6,49,263 people are in home quarantine and 48,191 people are in institutional quarantine, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-tally-up-to-230-599-mmr-accounts-for-major-share/story-faHF8PXELmAIRv9JIR9UHI.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to remodel 8 tanks at Sec-39 waterworks to double storage||For doubling the water storage capacity at the Sector 39 waterworks, the municipal corporation (MC) will be remodelling and restructuring the existing eight water tanks instead of their initial plan of constructing an additional one.The augmentation of the water storage capacity will minimise the shortage of water in the city during summer and minimise supply disruption from Kajauli waterworks.As per the new plan, for the implementation of which a work tender was floated on Thursday, construction of a new raw water tank had been dropped. The project will cost ₹38 crore and will be completed within 24 months from the allotment of the work.In the initial plan, which was approved by the MC General House, it was planned that the storage capacity will be enhanced from 48 million gallons to 92 million gallons (MG) by remodelling tank number 1 to 5, and constructing one new raw water tank of capacity of 5.07MG.However, after a detailed survey it was decided that remodelling of existing tanks 1 to 8 would be sufficient to increase the required capacity to 92MG, and the construction of a new tank was not required.DEAD STORAGE TO BE UTILIZED“The changed plan will save land. After remodelling existing tanks, approximately 9MG unutilized dead storage of existing tanks will be utilised,” said an MC official.MC had earlier approved the ₹38-crore for the water storage project, but with only ₹27 crore available for the capital head, the project couldn’t be started. The UT administration was also approached to fill in the ₹11-crore gap, which was not approved. Then the MC approached the Chandigarh Smart City Limited for filling in the fund gap. On June 10, CSCL approved ₹11 crore for the augmentation of water storage.The Sector 39 waterworks reservoir receives supply from the Kajauli waterworks. Its capacity is inadequate and the water stored in the morning is supplied in the evening, while the evening storage is supplied in the morning. With the peak water demand in summers touching 120-125 MG daily, the current availability of 90-95 MGD was found inadequate and increased storage capacity was required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-remodel-8-tanks-at-sec-39-waterworks-to-double-storage/story-kxkFttjoNqMiKdmyHqQhhO.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||No band, baaja with baraat: When life strikes a discordant note||PanchkulaWeddings are now simple affairs due to the Covid-19 outbreaks, without band-baja and limited baraat, leaving musical band owners in the tricity virtually penniless, with some of them taking to selling vegetables from their workspace to tide over the crisis. “Initially I waited for things to improve, but when we were on the verge of a breakdown and had nothing to eat, I decided to sell vegetables,” says Surjit Singh, owner of Hira Band in Manimajra. Outside what used to be his workspace, where he would book clients for weddings and his team members would gather to practise musical numbers, Surjit Singh now keeps containers full of bottle gourd, tomatoes and potatoes.He has to now get up as early as 4 am to go to the mandi and buy vegetables. The family is surviving on whatever little he manages to earn, which he says is “enough for our meals.”DEFAULTING ON RENTThe losses have been enormous. “We had received bookings worth Rs 4 lakh to Rs 5 lakh for March, April and May. But because of the Covid-19 outbreak, all events were cancelled and I have been left bankrupt. I have not paid rent of around Rs 30,000 for stores where the band’s musical instruments are kept,” he adds.Walk into one of the rooms and you see scarlet uniforms of the band members piled up in one corner next to trumpets and drums, all gathering dust in a room that is under lock and key since March 22, the day lockdown begin in Chandigarh.Dharamvir Chihan, 47, owner of Durga Band, too, has had his finances drained because of a year’s advance payment of Rs 16 lakh to 20 men working for him. All of them have left for their homes.“In this business, agreements are signed in advance and a huge percentage of payments are made at the beginning of the financial year. I had just paid my workers in advance when the lockdown was announced, because of which bookings of Rs 6 lakh to Rs 7 lakh were cancelled,” he says.Every year Chihan’s band signs contracts to perform at about a 100 weddings, with business peaking from October to February and then from March to May.Chihan has also defaulted on his monthly rent of Rs 20,000 for storage space for musical equipment other items belonging to the band. “What is bothering me is the uncertainty. No one knows when things will normalise. I have a brother and only know how to work in a band. Where will we get the money to start another business?”Sustained by hopeAmit Kapoor, owner of Mohali Based Harish band has also started selling vegetables. About 25 of his bookings were cancelled due to the lockdown. His band members and other workers, too, have left for their hometowns and villages.“We are hoping that work will restart from Janamashtami in August. Or else, we will have to change what we do. As of now I will continue to sell vegetables. I have to feed my children.”His only concern is that if the pandemic continues he will not have any money left to care for his family and six horses they own and hire out for wedding processions.There is no hope in Sanjay Sihaan’s voice when the owner of Krishna Band of Chandigarh says, “there is no business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/weddings-to-vegetables-life-strikes-a-discordant-note-for-band-owners-in-panchkula/story-hyw2DT5Rt2g8pv3xIeOEUI.html
10-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram gathers details on Covid-19 medicines to prevent black-marketing||In order to ensure sufficient stock and prevent black marketing, the district drug control department is seeking details from private hospitals in the city regarding the availability of approved Covid-19 medicines and injectables in their pharmacies. With major private hospitals fast running out of the injectable generic antiviral drug remdesivir, being administered on moderately ill patients, the department is now seeking details of the other two drugs — favipiravir and tocilizumab — used for treating the patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus. While favipiravir is a pill-based drug, tocilizumab, on the other hand, is an injectable like remdesivir. Amandeep Chauhan, district drug control officer said, “Hospitals have been directed to share the details of the Covid-19 drugs stock available in their pharmacies. Since tocilizumab is an expensive drug, with one vial of 400mg costing Rs 40,000, only selected big hospitals stock it. As per the data shared by the hospitals so far, there are currently only 10-12 vials in the city.” Chauhan added, favipiravir is an oral drug which is the most widely used antiviral medicine for Covid-19 patients. “It is a 200mg tablet used to treat mild to moderate cases. Like in cases of remdesivir and tocilizumab, a written consent from the patient or his family member is taken before it is prescribed. Each strip has 35 tablets, which costs around Rs 3,500,” said Chauhan, mentioning that there are 400 strips currently available with three to four big private hospitals, where maximum Covid-19 patients are being treated.According to him, the department is taking the details regarding the medicines to prevent its black-marketing. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (enforcement division) has already directed all state drug controllers to ensure remdesivir and other drugs are not sold in the black market. As reported by HT, city hospitals do not have enough stock of remdesivir. Hospitals are directly availing the drug from manufacturers. Currently, there are 25 vials of remdesivir available in the city with each vial costing about Rs 5,400. “The data collected from Gurugram is being directly sent to the Haryana Drug Control office. If there is unavailability of stock or insufficient stock, our team is trying to arrange it,” said Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/drug-control-department-gathers-details-on-covid-19-medicines-to-prevent-black-marketing/story-AC5BF0ziOIYuWlUlw1DihM.html
10-07-2020||Delhi||Govt set to hire 151 more ambulances, give monetary incentives to drivers & paramedics||The Delhi government is all set to hire 151 ambulances by next week, thereby scaling up the size of the city’s public ambulance fleet on dedicated Covid-19 service to around 750, a senior government official said on Thursday.The official further said that the government also has plans to rope in a private enterprise to get another 400 vehicles to start an app-based taxi ambulances scheme and implement a scheme to provide incentives to ambulance staff. These initiatives are part of the agenda for the next cabinet meeting.Government records showed that on March 31, there were 134 ambulances in the city government’s fleet which were pressed into dedicated Covid-19 duty. The number rose to 163 by April 30; to 357 on May 30 and it jumped to 602 as on June 30.Other than the government ones, private hospitals and enterprises in the city operate around 600 more ambulances, which can be availed by patients on a chargeable basis. The government ambulance service is free of cost.“Since the beginning of the lockdown, the government has focused its energies on augmenting the fleet size of ambulances pressed into Covid-19 management. In three months, we have succeeded in reducing the response time per call significantly. Also, we have been able to ensure that people can depend on the government ambulance system without any stress,” said Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson of the Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi, an advisory body to the Delhi government.Government records accessed by HT showed that the response time for ambulances has reduced from 55 minutes per call on May 31 to less than 30 minutes per call on July 7.Between July 1 and July 7, the city government’s helplines received 972 calls per day, which had to be transferred to the department managing ambulances, records showed. These are calls that largely pertain to movement of patients between hospitals; from hospitals to hotels engaged in covid service;from covid health centres to hospitals and from residence of patients to hospitals, health centres and test centres.A senior government official said: “The decisions to hire 151 ambulances, press into service taxi ambulances and notification of the incentive scheme is in the pipeline and will be taken up during the next meeting of the Delhi cabinet that is likely to happen in the next three days. Once approved, the new decisions are likely to be implemented by next week,” said the senior government official.Under the incentive scheme, which is in the pipeline, ambulance and paramedics officials will be rewarded Rs 100 extra from every third call onwards that they attend in their 12-hours shift. “This initiative was drafted by the government to acknowledge the high-risk nature of the service provided by the ambulance drivers and paramedics,” said Shah.After attending a call, every ambulance has to undergo a sanitisation process which alone takes around two hours, said an official in the health department, adding that in a 12-hour shift one ambulance usually able to cater to a maximum of four calls.Till June 30, the government also had an arrangement with a popular cab aggregator service for providing taxi ambulances through their mobile application. Now, the government has planned to rope in a separate company that shall provide 400 vehicles to be used as taxi ambulances, a service which can be accessed through a mobile application, said another government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-set-to-hire-151-more-ambulances-give-monetary-incentives-to-drivers-paramedics/story-en8fywJuE2LMk33cPyTDgI.html
10-07-2020||Delhi||200 beds in Ambedkar Nagar hospital to open by month-end; 450 beds in Burari likely to start from next week||To ramp up the city’s hospital bed infrastructure amid a rise in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government will next week open a newly constructed hospital in Burari and partially start another one in South Delhi’s Ambedkar Nagar by the end of this month for coronavirus patients, senior government officials said on Thursday.The health department has prepared a proposal to first start 200 beds in the 600-bedded facility Ambedkar Nagar -- seven years after it was first approved -- all of which will be dedicated to Covid-19 patients. The proposal is likely to be tabled in the next cabinet meeting, the date for which is yet to be finalised.But before this hospital is opened, the government will start another of its new hospital in Burari for Covid-19 patients. The facility, which has a capacity of 700 beds, will start with 450 beds from next week.“In the case of Burari hospital, only the fire safety clearance is awaited. We are expecting to start 450 beds for Covid-19 patients there from around next week. In Ambedkar Nagar, fire safety clearance will take a few more days, so we are expecting to start 200 beds in that facility by the end of this month,” said an official from deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s office. Sisodia is also presently Delhi’s health minister.Government officials, however, clarified that neither the Burari nor the Ambedkar Nagar facilities will have ICU beds. In both hospitals, arrangements have been made for medical and supporting staff, officials said.“Some of these beds will have oxygen supply and oxygen cylinders, but no ICU bed is being readied in these two facilities yet,” a government official said.In Burari, 250 beds will have oxygen support. “Every third bed here will have an oxygen supply attached to it. Around 125 beds have oxygen supply, and 125 will be provided through oxygen cylinders,” the official said.The hospital in Ambedkar Nagar was approved in 2013 at a cost of Rs 125.9 crore by the Congress government. While initially it planned to house 200 beds, the Aam Aadmi Party government increased the capacity to 600.Residents of Ambedkar Nagar said the hospital would benefit not just them but also those in nearby areas such as Sangam Vihar, Deoli, Khanpur, Madangir and Dakshinpuri.“Right now, we just have Batra hospital, which is a private facility. For Covid-19 treatment, there was no government facility in the area. This would help many get free treatment if it is opened,” said Satish, who goes by his first name and is a resident of E-Block.Lalit Kant, a scientist and former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR, said the government must focus on increasing ICU beds and ventilator beds. “On Thursday, there were more than 10,300 beds vacant in various hospitals in Delhi. But almost 66% ICU beds in private hospitals and 40% in government hospitals are already occupied. So, the authorities should scale up ICU beds and ventilator beds,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/200-beds-in-ambedkar-nagar-hospital-to-open-by-month-end-450-beds-in-burari-likely-to-start-from-next-week/story-IUYf6SDNQJtrEjeKY5hdiI.html
10-07-2020||Delhi||RWAs, market associations, taxi and auto unions to help implement revised Covid management plan||To implement the Delhi government’s revised Covid-19 response plan, which was notified on July 8, the district administrations are planning to rope in residents’ welfare associations, market associations and auto and taxi unions in the Capital.As per the revised plan, Special Surveillance Groups (SSGs) comprising domestic help, drivers of autorickshaws, taxis and good carriers, daily wagers such as plumbers, electricians, carpenters and mechanics, and those working at stores selling essential supplies have to be screened for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Some district magistrates HT spoke to said that they have already been screening some categories of SSGs such as those working as help in markets and homes. During the door-to-door survey undertaken by the district administrations, a senior official said, a sizeable population, especially those living in the lower-income group neighbourhoods or clusters, was screened.“But now, we will scale it up and rope in RWAs, market associations and transport unions to cover a large number of people and also create awareness about Covid-19. We have mobile testing vans, which we will deploy for testing,” a district magistrate said, requesting anonymity.The revised order, issued by the government’s Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), directs the district administration to enlist all SSGs with the help of RWAs, municipal corporations, the police, etc.While RWAs in the city have welcomed the move, they asserted that they had been asking the government to screen people involved in the informal sector since May, when it allowed electricians, plumbers, domestic help to resume work. Atul Goyal, the president of United Residents Joint Action (URJA) said, “We were criticised when we asked for something similar two months ago, though some RWAs did take excessive measures. If the government had undertaken this measure earlier, it would have helped contain the spread of the disease. RWAs played a crucial role in effective enforcement of the lockdown. The government should have taken RWAs in confidence regarding its Covid-19 management plan. But better late than never.”According to some RWAs, this step will be of little use now as the infection is widespread and cases, including isolated cases, are being reported now. “Covid-19 cases are being reported from every colony. It is very late now. But whatever help is required, we will provide it to the government,” BS Vohra, the president of East Delhi RWA front, said.As for the screening of SSGs, another district magistrate who requested anonymity said that those involved in surveillance work such as Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwives) are aware of localities where a large population of autorickshaw or e-rickshaw drivers and domestic help lives. As per the revised Covid-19 response plan, major groups of SSGs in the districts have to be “compulsorily covered”.“We have been doing door-to-door screening and our special focus has been low-income group areas or clusters. We know the areas where a large number of these people live. Now we will do more focused screening and testing. We will make a list of people working in residential colonies with the help of RWAs and ask them to encourage people to get themselves screened and tested if they have any symptoms,” the district magistrate said.All individuals belonging to the special surveillance groups also have to be screened and their health records fed into a separate database.If any individual from a special surveillance group is found positive for Covid-19, a system has to be set up to enable tracing all people in the locality who have come in contact with the patient and assign them 15 days’ home isolation.With a majority of activities allowed in Unlock 2.0, the demand for autorickshaws, e-rickshaws and goods carriers has gone up. With Metro service yet to restart and buses not allowed to ferry more than 20 passengers at a time, a sizeable population is dependent on auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws for their daily commute.“Auto or e-rickshaw drivers are part of a high-risk group as they ferry a lot of passengers daily. While we have been screening a majority of other SSGs, we have not covered this segment. We are preparing a plan under which our teams will visit the taxi and auto stands and screen these people. We will take help from the auto and taxi unions to ensure a large percentage of them get screened and, if required, tested,” a district surveillance officer said on condition of anonymity.Welcoming the government’s decision, auto and taxi unions in the city said that special camps should be held for testing at railway stations and the airport. Rajender Soni, the general secretary of Delhi Auto-rickshaw Sangh and Delhi Pradesh Taxi Union, said, “Our people are vulnerable as we come in contact with a lot of people daily. We have been demanding special screening of auto and taxi drives so that those testing positive for Covid-19 can get timely treatment. We welcome the government’s decision.”The Delhi government spokesperson did not respond for comment despite repeated calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rwas-market-associations-taxi-and-auto-unions-to-help-implement-revised-covid-management-plan/story-SHL9OUGGiy8wjhSlHJV8PP.html
10-07-2020||Delhi||60 Malaysians who attended Tablighi Jamaat meet freed; 76 others get bail||A Delhi court on Thursday freed 60 Malaysians and another court allowed bail to 76 other foreigners who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizammudin in violation of the lockdown and other government orders that banned religious congregations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.In the court of metropolitan magistrate Siddharth Malik, the 60 Malaysians agreed to a plea bargain where they accepted the mild charges against them, in return for their freedom on a payment of a ₹7,000 fine against each of them, said their lawyer S Hari Haran. A plea bargain is an arrangement between the prosecutor and accused whereby the latter pleads guilty to a lesser charge in exchange for a more lenient sentence, or an agreement to drop other charges.During the cognisance of the charge sheets on July 6, the court was informed by the Investigating Officer (IO) that initially the accused were also investigated for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and criminal conspiracy to endanger life or personal safety of others. “However, till date during investigation no evidence has come against the foreigners for these,” the court noted in its July 6 order.Instead, they have plead guilty to the violations of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act, prohibitory orders, disobeying orders from a public servant and other sections of the Indian Penal Code, all of which attracts a maximum of six months in prison. The Centre had already cancelled their visa and blacklisted them.According to Hari Haran, the complainants in the case--Sub-Divisional Magistrate of Lajpat Nagar, Additional Commissioner of Police at Lajpat Nagar and Inspector at Nizamuddin—did not object to their plea bargain applications.During the hearing, the foreigners were produced before the court and the concerned officials of their embassy were also present, said the counsel. Hari Haran told the court that the alleged offences were committed inadvertently and not without any mal intention and would not be repeated.The judge initially proposed a fine Rs 15,000 on each, which was brought down to Rs 7,000 after the lawyer pointed out that some of them were students and retired persons and won’t be able to afford it. Earlier, they were granted bail on July 7 on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 10,000 each.Meanwhile, Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur also granted bail to 76 other foreigners from eight countries on a personal bond of ₹10,000 each. Their advocates, Ashima Mandala and Mandakini Singh, said the accused have also moved for a plea bargain. The police had filed charge sheets against 956 foreigners from 36 countries. They were also accused for offences under IPC sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule).On Wednesday, the court had granted bail to 91 foreigners from 21 countries, who were charge sheeted for attending congregation.With Thursday’s order, 167 foreign nationals have been granted bail in the last two days.In another case, a sessions court in Mewat has upheld a trial court order striking down IPC sections 269 and 270 and specific sections of the Foreigners Act on 57 foreigners who had also attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation.The court of additional sessions judge (ASJ), Mewat, Prashant Rana in its July 6 order said that none of the accused knew that they had coronavirus infection. “Their testing was conducted after the registration of first information report. Even the investigating officer came to know about the infection of nine accused two days after the registration of FIR. Offences under sections 269 and 270 IPC were added merely on the basis of apprehensions and imaginations of the investigating officer,’’ the court said.The ASJ held that all the foreigners had valid passport and tourist visas.The court also asked the authorities to ensure safe return of the foreigners to their countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/60-malaysians-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-meet-freed-76-others-get-bail/story-C3J4ZbYca6vqwadbjKcdfJ.html
10-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi dispensaries, polyclinics to start rapid antigen tests||The Delhi government on Thursday directed its dispensaries and polyclinics to begin testing for Covid-19 using the antigen-based method. The test will be available at the centres between 9am and 12 noon on working days, according to the order issued by Delhi’s director general of health services Dr Nutan Mundeja.An antigen is a foreign molecule that induces an immune response in the body, especially the production of antibodies, and detecting its presence determines a present infection.“With nearly 2,500 cases being reported each day, there are expected to be at least seven to eight direct and high-risk contacts (at home and workplace). Aggressive contact tracing and testing holds the key to ensure that the infection in controlled in its tracks effectively. This means we consistently need to test at least 20,000 people each day. Since the contacts can be in any part of the city depending on the movement of the patient, the testing facility will be made available at all identified dispensaries and polyclinics between 9am and 12 noon on all working days,” the order reads.The Delhi government runs over 250 dispensaries and 25 polyclinics.The focus will be on high-risk groups, such as those above the age of 65, patients undergoing chemotherapy, and those who are immunocompromised (such as HIV patients).Those with symptoms who test negative have to get an RT-PCR test done to rule out false negatives.The central district will also run a campaign to test rickshaw, auto, taxi and goods carrying truck drivers. Southeast district will set up a camp near Kotla Mubarakpur to ensure labourers and masons get tested. The North and East districts have to set up testing centres in Azadpur and Ghazipur mandi to test vendors and labour workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-dispensaries-polyclinics-to-start-rapid-antigen-tests/story-MqeLduYnF9gQjjnQb6KcpJ.html
10-07-2020||Delhi||BJP asks AAP to provide relief to traders on electricity charges||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Delhi unit on Thursday reiterated its demand that the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government provide relief to traders in the city by waiving off fixed charges on electricity.In a video-conference held with traders’ associations in the Capital, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta discussed the issues faced by the trading community due to the lockdown.Gupta said all the commercial establishments were closed during the lockdown, but still the discoms had sent provisional bills to traders and also charged fixed charges.Shri Adesh Gupta said the behaviour of the Delhi Government towards the interests of the people of Delhi had been very irresponsible even in times of crisis. The Delhi government did not take any action even on the problem of huge electricity bills given by discoms, he said.Gupta said, “Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal shouldn’t have imposed a financial burden on the people of Delhi. He should have provided maximum relief in the hour of this crisis. We demand that the government should direct discoms to remove fixed charges.”Training his guns at the Delhi CM, Gupta said, “Before becoming Delhi CM, Kejriwal used to protest against the previous government for increased electricity bills. Today, when people need relief in electricity bills, he should do something…We demand that subsidies should be restored, fixed charges should be withdrawn and actual bills should be sent after taking meter reading and withdrawal of electricity disconnection notices.”The AAP government did not respond to requests for a comment on the BJP’s charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-asks-aap-to-provide-relief-to-traders-on-electricity-charges/story-c0heeCgiPRj3j880vzFPUM.html
10-07-2020||Noida||Police roped in for contact tracing of Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad||Nearly four months after the first coronavirus (Covid-19) disease case emerged in the district, officials have decided to adopt a robust system of contact tracing of patients. Based on suggestions by the Uttar Pradesh government-appointed nodal officers, a three-member team has been formed under every police station area for effective contact tracing.Under the new system, three-member teams, comprising an official each from the health department, the administration and the police, have been formed, which will be notified if there is any positive case under the jurisdiction of the 18 police stations across the district.“Under the new system, the concerned officials will be connected to a social media group. Once we find a positive patient, we will immediately flash the information to the concerned social media group of the concerned police station area. From there, teams will contact the patient and ensure they are taken to the appropriate Covid hospital, and will also trace their contacts. This system will be more effective with the help of police presence,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.At present, a team of five-six doctors were stationed at the IDSP lab at the MMG Hospital, who contact positive patients and scrutinize their contact history.“In the earlier system, there was no physical contact with the positive patient and we had to rely on information supplied by him/her. Now, the teams will not only contact the patient but can physically go to meet the patient and take up their contact history in detail. Police presence will ensure that help of electronic surveillance is also taken up for contact tracing. Earlier, we took the police’s help in selected instances and only our team of doctors was in touch with the patient over the phone,” Dr Gupta added.The contact tracing is an important tool in checking the spread of the coronavirus disease, as it helps find out people who came in contact with the positive patient. It becomes vital as all the contacts need to be ascertained, verified and also tested, in case they contracted the virus from the positive patient.According to officials, the Ghaziabad district has an average of four-five contacts per positive patient. Sources in the health department said they have a list of about 81 patients who were tested positive but either provided wrong addresses or wrong contact numbers.“There are about 81 entries of such patients over the state portal. We are trying to trace them and will also take the police’s help in finding them. It could also be possible that they were residents of places outside the district and got themselves tested here,” the source said.Following the new contact tracing arrangement, the Ghaziabad police Thursday evening appointed 18 police officers as nodal officers who will be coordinating with the newly-formed teams. “The three-member team will also have one of our police officers, who have been designated as nodal officers, one each, for all 18 police station areas in the district. The task of the team will be to get in touch with patients and take up their contact history, besides getting them admitted to Covid hospitals and ensuring that sampling of the contacts is initiated at the earliest,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (crime).“At present, we have a list of about 100 patients who need to be searched and could not be located as they provided wrong addresses or incorrect mobile numbers. We will also take the help of electronic surveillance to trace them and legal action will also be initiated against them for hiding their health status,” he added.Earlier in April, the Ghaziabad health department took the help of the police’s electronic surveillance methods for contact tracing after several employees of a Noida-based company – Ceasefire – came out positive and about 17 of them were listed as residents of Ghaziabad.The other major use of the police and electronic surveillance methods came into picture when the health department sought the help of tracing those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation in Delhi in March and had their addresses listed in Ghaziabad district. The event had turned out to become a super-spreader for Covid-19 across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-police-roped-in-for-contact-tracing-of-covid-19-cases/story-4w0gIQ3ERG4UGchwkoCKvN.html
10-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Reflected aesthetics||Some places evoke ethereal poems that have never been written, but which you’ve always been looking for in poetry anthologies.One of them is just here, in your own city, an auto ride away from home. Walking around this unnamed lake in central Delhi’s Sunder Nursery is like stepping into a nazm or a ghazal, the kind that could have been composed by a Ghalib of Delhi or a Hafez of Shiraz.This morning, the Nursery’s sprawling gardens are empty but for a few morning walkers from nearby Nizamuddin East, and a handful of gardeners. The place is looking like a Hindi movie set, in which you feel like singing and dancing with your lover. The hedges are crammed with dazzlingly colored flowers. Peacocks are brazenly flitting past pathways, like highway trucks. Birds are perched on the higher branches of a leafless tree.Yes, all of this is very beautiful — but it pales against the haunting beauty of the lake. Something seems to pierce through the surface —recalling the fate of the great Titanic. On approaching, one realizes that it is the reflection of the Lakkarwala Burj, the old monument that stands beside it.There are a few experiences in Delhi that you have to be part of at least once. A stroll about this lake is one of them. The adjacent Burj, and its reflection flickering in the water, appears to be a relationship that has been going on for hundreds of years. Which is an illusion. The early Mughal-era monument has been here since 16th century but the lake is new—it came into the world some years ago, as part of the Nursery’s ambitious renovation by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture.With grebes and spot billed ducks nesting by its edges, the lake was created around the lowest point in the Nursery to enable its utilitarian use as an rain water harvesting facility. Indeed, Sunder Nursery is like a panoramic painting in which a landscape of flowers, trees and monuments are crisscrossed with streams and channels.“We have a series of water bodies here,” confirms Ratish Nanda, CEO, Aga Khan Trust for Culture, India, explaining that the aquatic network starts with small channels in the eastern part of the complex, mimicking the river landscape and vegetation, and expands into a central lake, having lots of fish now, and finally drains into the large lake at the end of the central vista—which is the object of our affection.Water was an essential part of the Mughal landscape, Mr Nanda reminds. Of course, most of the 20 monuments in the Nursery date from the Mughal times. And Humayun’s Tomb, the first truly grand Mughal mausoleum in India, is just across the lane.Now, suddenly, a splashing sound. The image of the stone edifice that was so gloriously shimmering on the lake’s surface instantly disappears, as if somebody had spilled water color on a painting. A young gardener is wading towards the fountain installed in the center of the lake—to clean it of the floating algae and leaves.The monument soon returns to claim its place in the water.The Lakkarwala Burj’s imagery on the lake is not an accidental beauty. “It’s the doing of Shaheer Sir,” Mr Nanda says, referring to Muhammed Shaheer, the architect who designed the new Sunder Nursery. He died in 2015, three years before the parks were thrown open to the public. “He was an incredible landscape architect, who always wanted everything perfect,” says Mr Nanda. “He spent many days examining the vantage points to figure out how the reflections (of the monument as well as of the surrounding trees) would fall on the new lake.”There are steps leading into the water, and apparently are popular as a seating space among the visitors. But a true delight is availed only by walking around the lake. Like a parikrama that devotees perform by circling around Hindu temples, this circumambulation is an apt homage to a late architect’s passion for beauty and history. As well as a salutation to aesthetics that is as fragile as it is lasting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/reflected-aesthetics/story-zuy29uoJ9ktnMVpPs41jBK.html
10-07-2020||City||Two senior citizens among nine Covid-19 cases in Mohali||Two senior citizens were among nine fresh Covid-19 cases confirmed in Mohali, where the total confirmed cases are now 340.The senior citizens are two men, aged 62 and 68, from Sector 127 and Sector 97, respectively.Two cases were confirmed in Phase 9, including a 32-year-old man and a 52-year-old woman. Phase 10 also reported a case of a 48-year-old woman. All three are contacts of positive patients.A 42-year-old man was found positive in Sector 78 and a 30-year-old man in Sector 80. In the city’s periphery, a 32-year-old man from Zirakpur and a 19-year-old man from Dappar, Dera Bassi, were also confirmed infected.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all patients had been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. “We will be tracing their contacts and samples of their family members will be taken on Friday,” he said.Meanwhile, five patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital, bringing down the active cases to 81.As many as 253 patients have recovered, while six have died due to the virus in the past four months.Mohali CJM home quarantinedThe chief judicial magistrate of Mohali, Deepika Singh, was home quarantined on Thursday after one of her close contacts tested positive.Dr Singh said she will remain in quarantine at her Chandigarh residence till July 21. In her absence, her court duties will be discharged by Ruchi Swapan Sharma, judicial magistrate first class, Mohali.10 staffers of SDM office quarantinedA day after sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Sehgal was found Covid-19 positive, the health department has home quarantined 10 officials of the SDM office located at the District Administrative Complex in Sector 76.“Though we have not sealed the office, we have quarantined 10 officials. Their samples have been collected and reports are awaited,” the civil surgeon said.Two new cases in Panchkula, tally now 133Panchkula confirmed two fresh Covid-19 patients on Thursday, and now has a total of 133 cases.The patients are a 26-year-old man from Sector 7, and a 77-year-old man from Sector 7. The latter’s four family members were recently tested positive.Of the 133 confirmed cases, 108 have recovered from the infection and discharged, while one person has died. There are now 24 active cases.Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said 880 persons were under home quarantine, and foreign returnees were also quarantined at local hotels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-senior-citizens-among-nine-covid-19-cases-in-mohali/story-SMc87RrjWQsZedeun0R2LN.html
10-07-2020||City||22.4mm rain leaves Ludhiana roads waterlogged, commuters face tough time||Rainfall on the second consecutive day on Thursday resulted in waterlogging in many areas, giving a harrowing time to commuters across the city.The city received 22.4mm rainfall on Thursday. The residents in the areas claimed that despite years of complaining, the civic body authorities have failed to find a solution and they are forced to face waterlogging troubles in just a few hours of rain.Waterlogging was witnessed at different points of the city including civil lines, Model town extension, Rishi Nagar, Chandigarh Road, Ferozepur Road, area near the clock tower, Janakpuri among other areas. The waterlogged roads also resulted in traffic jams at Ferozepur road, railway station road, SalemTabri among other areas.One of the residents of the Chhawani Mohalla area, Maninder Singh said, “The Domoria bridge area gets waterlogged every time, the city witnesses rainfall. It becomes difficult to cross the road, but the authorities are paying no heed to the problem. The councillor and MC officials are aware of the issue, but nothing has been done so far.”Potholed roads and traffic jams added to the woes of the residents, who have been demanding respite for a long time.“Deep potholes can be witnessed at Model Town Jawaddi road and Dugri road and it becomes even difficult to spot those after the roads get waterlogged,” said Dilpreet Singh, a resident of Dugri area.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “The chronic areas have been identified in the city and a team has also been deputed at those spots to drain out the accumulated rainwater. The water accumulates in low lying areas, but the situation has improved from the past years.”Resident files complaint with CM officeIrked over rainwater accumulation at Chandigarh road, a resident of the Urban Estate Premjit Singh has given a complaint at the chief minister’s office.In the complaint, Singh stated, “We had purchased a house in one of the posh areas of the city, but waterlogging at Chandigarh road is taking a toll on the residents. Sewer water enters the houses and even the parks in the area are inundated after a brief spell of rain. Despite complaints submitted with the MC, no action has been taken in this regard till now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rainfall-leaves-ludhiana-roads-waterlogged-commuters-face-tough-time/story-EhG0AZw4fLQl7kpZlEnRoK.html
10-07-2020||Pune||Pune RTO fixes fare charges, initiates action against ‘fake ambulances’||After the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) lodged an FIR against an ambulance service operator for overcharging a Covid positive patient, the RTO has revised fare charges for service providers in order to prevent patients from being fleeced. The transport office has also initiated a special drive on ‘fake ambulances’ running on the city roads.The revised fare rates decided by the RTO are applicable across the Pune district and it is mandatory for the service provider to display the rate card inside the vehicle. Rates are applicable from the boarding of the patient in the ambulance to the return journey of the driver. It is mandatory to have a GPS system in the ambulance. In addition, after every ride, the ambulance service provider must sanitise the vehicle from inside and out.The vehicle which was used in this case for transportation of the patient was actually a mobile van clinic turned into an ambulance without legal registration at Pune RTO. The ambulance driver charged Rs 8,000 for a 7 km journey from Bibwewadi to Karvenagar area.“When we got to know about the incident and got instructions from the Pune district collector to enquire about the issue, immediately a team of RTO inspectors was deployed to investigate. To our notice, it came that the vehicle which was used for transportation is not actually an ambulance but registered as a mobile clinic with the Pune RTO. The major difference in both the vehicles is that, for an ambulance, RTO tax needs to be paid every year and for this mobile clinic one-time tax is paid which is beneficiary for the owner. So we have seized the vehicle and lodged an FIR against the owner,” said Pune regional transport officer Ajit Shinde.The FIR has been lodged at the Bibwewadi police station against ‘Sanjivani ambulance services’ booked under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act and the Motor Vehicle Act.“Currently there are only 21 registered mobile clinics vans under the Pune RTO and through this case, it has come to light some private players are using mobile clinic vans as an ambulance. So we are now going to deploy a special squad for checking of mobile clinics and other suspected ambulances across the city. And if anyone is committing such an offence then they will face the action. Also, Pune RTO has fixed the rates of the ambulance services in the city and if any ambulance service provider is overcharging from public then police complaint will be lodged against them,” added Shinde.BOXThe standard rates for Ambulance services set by the RTOType of ambulance Vehicle Maruti Van ambulance vehicleRate for first 2 hours or 25 kms Rs 500Rate per km (after 2 hours) Rs 11Rate per hour for waiting Rs 100Type of ambulance Vehicle Tata Sumo / Matador Van or similar type of ambulance vehicle build over the chassisRate for first 2 hours or 25 kms Rs 600Rate per km (after 2 hours) Rs 12Rate per hour for waiting Rs 125Type of ambulance Vehicle Tata 407 / Swaraj Mazada or similar type of ambulance vehicle build over the chassisRate for first 2 hours or 25 kms Rs 900Rate per km (after 2 hours) Rs 13Rate per hour for waiting Rs 150Helpline number on which patients can contact if ambulance service providers overcharge: 020-26058080 / 26058090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-rto-fixes-fare-charges-initiates-action-against-fake-ambulances/story-ozKG43DPMsVy82TZV6YsBJ.html
10-07-2020||Pune||11 of 15 PMC ward offices report 1,000+ coronavirus cases||The Sars-COV2 virus that spreads Covid-19 is taking the entire city quickly into its grip with 11 of 15 wards registering over 1,000 positive cases. According to epidemiologists, this is an indication that the virus is spreading in most areas of the city as against only select areas that were hotspots earlier.During the lockdown after the city reported its first case on March 9, the positive cases were mainly concentrated in five regional ward offices including Bhavani peth, Kasaba Vishrambaug, Dhole Patil road, Ghole road and Yerwada-Kalas. Within these wards, only slums were the main hotspots throwing Covid cases.Interestingly, the wards which were earlier on top with maximum cases have come down with fewer per cent of cases being reported now. On the other hand, wards such as Kothrud, Aundh-Baner, which were in the green zone, have a higher rate of positive cases now.Despite the city already touching 24,168 cases till Wednesday, the administration and the health department has refused to acknowledge the community spread of virus.Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “The cases are now coming from all over the city. We do not go into technical things like whether it is community spread or not but it is true that large number of persons are becoming positive despite them not having contact with positive patients.”As per data shared by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), among the 10 ward offices to have crossed 2000-mark are Dhole Patil road and Kasaba Vishrambaug while regional ward offices which crossed the thousand figures are Yerawada, Hadapsar-Mundhwa, Bhavani peth, Ghole road, Sinhagad road, Wanowrie, Bibwewadi and Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar. Another regional ward office, Warje-Karvenagar was at 997 cases and has crossed the 1000-mark by Thursday.Pune civic chief Shekhar Gaikwad said, “As unlock started and citizens movement increased, it was expected that the positive cases number would increase. Even it is true that cases are emerging in non-containment zones. The PMC is revisiting containment zones repeatedly and have given instructions to the regional ward offices to take calls at the local level and seal the buildings and lanes which are getting the maximum positive cases.”With the rising number of cases, there’s a growing demand for beds in hospitals amid complaints of unavailability.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sandeep Khardekar said, “We are demanding the PMC to introduce lock down again as the Covid-19 positive cases have emerged speedily in the past few days. I firmly believe that lockdown should be lifted slowly. Earlier, Kothrud and Aundh areas were in green zones but now they are becoming hotspots as citizens are not following rules and roaming without masks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/11-of-15-pmc-ward-offices-report-1-000-cases/story-cPZRSVJAogbvqcwWncpmdM.html
10-07-2020||Pune||Banned in Haveli: Dist admn to share pvt lab’s reports with ICMR, NIV||Pune District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Thursday said that results of Thyrocare diagnostic lab will be shared with Indian Council Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV) for further investigation.Ram on Wednesday had issued an order banning the lab from conducting C0vid-19 diagnostic tests in Haveli taluka for discrepancies and delay in report.Ram said, “We will share the results with ICMR and NIV and our future action will be based on their inputs.”Chandrashekhar Mani, vice-president (operations), Thyrocare could not be reached for comments on Thursday. Phone calls and text messages also remained unanswered.“We have not received any notice or intimation. We need to first understand what is the issue before we make a comment,” Mani had stated in his earlier response.According to Ram, a family from Khanapur village on the outskirts of Pune city in Haveli tehsil underwent Covid-19 tests at a Thyrocare lab. “While reports of two family members were negative, the results of a child came out positive for the infection,” said Ram.The collector has taken action against the lab under relevant sections of Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act and warned that any violation of the act will be dealt with under the relevant sections of the Epidemic Act, Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and Disinterment Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-dist-admn-to-share-private-lab-s-reports-with-icmr-niv/story-GdlBTHajK31b3Vc0sBYa1O.html
10-07-2020||Pune||Pune police on lookout for RTI activist booked for Rs 2 crore extortion||Ravindra Barhate, a right to information (RTI) activist, once known for going after land-related deals through RTI, is now himself in trouble after the police have filed a first information report (FIR) against him.The city police are currently searching for Barhate after his name was listed in the five people accused of extortion worth Rs 2 crore of a builder named Sudhir Karnataki.Barhate was booked along with a journalist, a suspended constable, a woman who alleged sexual assault by Karnataki, a local goon in a case registered at Kothrud police station.“He has filed for anticipatory bail. The court decision will be issued tomorrow (Friday) in the matter. He is currently eluding arrest. If the anticipatory bail is rejected and once we track him, we will be able to arrest him,” said Pornima Gaikwad, deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Pune.According to the complainant, Barhate was among the five people who approached him and demanded Rs 2 crore extortion money along with a piece of land in Bhawani peth. The complainant has submitted that an allegedly false case of sexual assault was registered against, him by the woman among the group of five, as he failed to pay the money.However, this is not the first case against Barhate who also has a real estate business in the city.In 2016, a case of extortion was filed against Barhate at Bund Garden police station for alleged extortion worth Rs 5 crore. The complaint in the matter was lodged by city-based realtor Hemant Gavande, who happened to be whistleblower in Eknath Khade’s MIDC land case which forced the BJP leader to give up his ministership during 2016.Barhate had allegedly acquired information about Gavande’s projects through RTI and claimed that the land Gavande had developed belonged to the Agriculture College, Pune. The builder had alleged that Barhate had demanded Rs 5 crore in exchange for the withdrawal of the complaint.Barhate was often seen with Khadse when the latter was opposition leader in Maharashtra and alleged of 116 land scams collectively worth Rs 80,000 in the national media in 2014.In 2016, Barhate had raised government land grabbing allegation against the Panchshil Tech Park in which NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s daughter Supriya Sule was minority stakeholder. The police later filed a complaint against the realtorThe Panchshil realty group is owned by Atul and Sagar Chordia brothers who are also known for their partnership with US President Donald Trump’s realty project - Trump Towers - in Pune.In October 2018, BJP MLA Yogesh Tilekar was booked in a case of extortion of Rs 50 lakh registered at Kondhwa police station. The complaint was lodged by Barhate in the capacity of a manager at a local fibre optics company called Evision Teleinfra Private Limited.After the case, Senior police inspector Milind Gaikwad of Kondhwa police station was transferred from his position, leading to a protest outside the police station.Incidentally, the case was registered around two months after the owner of Evision Teleinfra Private Limited, Rahul Bhaskar Gangote, had approached the police with a similar extortion complaint against MLA and Shiv Sena leader Vinayak Nimhan.Members or supporters of a political party masquerading as RTI activists is not unheard of. However, some were pioneers of the act while the others are now following.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rti-activist-booked-for-rs-2-crore-extortion-has-multiple-cases-against-him/story-YbsDA76K8Ojkwe70VuXEJP.html
10-07-2020||Pune||PMC claims ‘no’ dengue cases reported in last four months; activists say due to Covid-19 infection fear people are not reporting symptoms||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) health department claims that it has not recorded even a single dengue case since March till June this year.In the same period in 2019, these four months saw 57 confirmed positives and 32 confirmed cases were reported in 2018.As per the PMC data which is updated till May 23, in January this year, 98 suspected dengue cases were recorded and three were confirmed positive, while in February 25 suspected cases and four confirmed positive. However, from March till May 23, ‘ zero’ cases were reported.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, chief, insecticide department, said, “We have not reported any dengue cases since the onset of the pandemic that is since March. Even in June when the cases usually start coming up we have not reported any cases.”“There are no cases reported even in the private hospitals,” he said.The report also states that 255 notices have been issued in January, 101 in February, 38 in March and 54 in April and 42 in May.The data further states that there were no suspected cases recorded from March till May 23.Activists say due to fear amid the Covid-19 pandemic people fear to report any other ailments voluntarily and so the record shows ‘zero’ dengue cases.Dr Abhijit More, a member of Jan Arogya Manch, said, “The medical staff of civic and private hospitals have diverted their attention to treating Covid-19 patients. The PMC has not undertaken even a single drive on mosquito-related diseases and half of the civic body’s fever clinics are unmanned.”“ Also, it could be because people are too scared to report any symptoms of dengue and go to any PMC clinic or even private clinic fearing Covid-19 infection,” said Dr More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-claims-no-dengue-cases-reported-in-last-four-months-activists-say-due-to-covid-19-infection-fear-people-are-not-reporting-symptoms/story-g116qCinGUF9xOH66qBagJ.html
10-07-2020||Pune||Water storage in four Pune dams is 26.29%; Kharif sowing almost complete||The water level in the four dams in the city has improved to 26.29 per cent till July 9, as monsoon continues to spread in the state, said officials of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) water department.The four dams include Khadakwasla, Panshet, Warasgaon and Temghar.As per the statistics department data the districts in western Maharashtra mainly Pune, Solapur and Satara have received 100 per cent of June’s average rainfall. While Kolhapur and Satara districts have received 75 per cent to 100 per cent of average rainfall in June.The total water in four dams as of July 9 is 7.66 thousand million cubic (TMC) feet or 26.29% of the total storage capacity, while during the same period last year it was 9.21 TMC or 31.59 % of the total capacity.VP Patil, executive engineer, Khadakwasla reservoir, said, “As it is raining in catchment areas, the water level in Khadakwasla reservoir is improving. Also, almost all the city dams have more water than the previous year.”According to officials of the statistics department of agriculture sowing of Kharif crops is also almost complete.The Kharif crops in western Maharashtra include sugarcane, rice, pearl millet or bajra, maize, moong, groundnut, soya bean, sunflower and finger millet.Maharashtra has a total 141.99 lakh hectors area under Kharif crops other than sugarcane. The sugarcane crop area is 151.34 hectors.Till June end the sowing was completed on 89.51 per cent area which is 63.04 per cent of the total area.According to officials as rains continue, the rest of the sowing was completed in the first week of July, but the figures are not updated yet.During last year many parts of Maharashtra faced a flood-like situation so the officials of the irrigation department are taking enough care for dam storage management to avoid a similar situation this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/water-storage-in-four-dams-is-26-29-kharif-sowing-almost-complete/story-IbYPGQi6tWMdh3rMIVObOJ.html
10-07-2020||Pune||Pvt hospitals to provide 950 beds after Pune civic chief’s appeal||Following the warning from municipal commissioner to acquire private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment, 45 hospitals in the city made available additional 950 beds for virus treatment.Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “We held a meeting with private hospitals on Thursday after receiving complaints of non-availability of beds. Each case was taken up and hospitals were asked to state the number of beds that can be released for Covid-19 patients. The hospitals were told of takeover by the administration if beds are not made available.”The civic chief said that hospitals promised 800 beds with oxygen facility and 150 ICU beds.Gaikwad said, “I have instructed hospitals that though there is a norm to not discharge Covid-19 positive patients till 10 days, PMC has suggested home isolation after 3-4 four days if patients are non symptomatic and doctors are confident about their health. Hence, beds would be made available for critical patients. We have requested doctors to promote home isolation for non symptomatic patients having adequate facilities at home.”Hospital-wise bed availability dashboardThe Pune divisional commissioner office launched the dashboard website on bed availability https:// www.divcommpunecovid.com/ccsbeddashboard/hsr for Pune city and region. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad has appealed to residents to make use of the online facility. He said the details of 950 beds made available by private hospitals will be updated by Saturday.Live dashboard on bed availabilityOpposition party leaders in Pune Municipal Corporation has written to the municipal commissioner to put in place live dashboard on availability of beds. PMC opposition leader Deepali Dhumal, Congress leader Aba Bagul, Shiv Sena leader Prithviraj Sutar and MNS leader Vasant More made the appeal.Bed availability as on July 9Total Allocated beds for Covid - 9,360Total vacant beds-2,499Allocated beds for isolation without oxygen- 7,087Vacant beds for isolation without oxygen-1,855Allocated beds with oxygen- 1,723Vacant isolation beds with oxygen-469Allocated beds for ICU without ventilator -256Vacant beds for ICU without ventilator- 72Allocated ICU beds with ventilator -294Vacant ICU beds with ventilator-103||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pvt-hospitals-to-provide-950-beds-after-pune-civic-chief-s-appeal/story-WVJTbEYMrPvK0GZd2jiLpN.html
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Heavy rain likely in Chandigarh till July 12||Monsoon activity is expected to intensify further in the city from Friday, with chances of heavy rain (over 70mm) till Sunday.“The western end of the monsoon trough lies north of its normal position and its eastern end is running close to foothills of Himalayas. Due to this, rain activity will remain on the higher side till Sunday after which chances of light rain (up to 20mm) will continue in the city,” an official at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature went up again, from 30.4°C on Wednesday to 35.2°C on Thursday. The minimum temperature also rose from 24.8°C on Wednesday to 26.8°C on Thursday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 33°C and 35°C, while the minimum temperature will remain between 26°C and 27°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/heavy-rain-likely-in-chandigarh-till-july-12/story-2ojpJV9GtNvjny9Cat7qzJ.html
10-07-2020||World||Kim Jong Un-Trump summit unlikely, says North Korean leader’s sister||The powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said Friday she doesn’t expect her brother to meet President Donald Trump this year, saying there’s no reason for the North to gift Trump high-profile meetings when it’s not being substantially rewarded in return.“But also, you never know,” Kim Yo Jong said in a statement released through Pyongyang’s official Korean Central News Agency, where she called for major concessions from Washington to keep alive the nuclear diplomacy.“That’s because a surprise thing may still happen, depending upon the judgement and decision between the two top leaders,” Kim Yo Jong said. She added that if there is a need for summit talks, it is a U.S. need, while for North Korea, it is “unpractical and does not serve us at all.”Kim Yo Jong is seen as her brother’s closest confidant and has been recently confirmed as his top official for inter-Korean affairs. She is also the first vice department director of the ruling Workers’ Party’s Central Committee.She spoke as the U.S.’s top official on the Koreas is in Asia. Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun is in Japan after meeting South Korean officials in Seoul, where he accused a senior North Korean nuclear negotiator of being “locked in an old way of thinking.” His remarks indicated Washington won’t likely make concessions to resume the talks despite the North’s pressure.Trump and Kim Jong Un have met three times since embarking on high-stakes nuclear diplomacy in 2018. But negotiations have faltered since their second summit in February 2019, when the Americans rejected North Korean demands for major sanctions relief in exchange for a partial surrender of its nuclear capability.Some analysts believe North Korea, which is sensitive about potential changes in U.S. leadership, will avoid serious talks with the Americans for now before an eventual return to negotiations after the U.S. presidential election in November.Kim Yo Jong said that the diplomacy could be salvaged only by a reciprocal exchange of “irreversible simultaneous major steps.”“We would like to make it clear that it does not necessarily mean the denuclearization is not possible. But what we mean is that it is not possible at this point of time,” she said.North Korea for decades has been pushing a concept of denuclearization that bears no resemblance to the American definition, with Pyongyang vowing to pursue nuclear development until the United States removes its troops and the nuclear umbrella defending South Korea and Japan. Experts say Kim Jong Un sees the diplomacy as an arms reduction negotiation between nuclear states rather than talks that would culminate in a full surrender of the weapons he sees as his strongest guarantee of survival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-trump-summit-unlikely-says-north-korean-leader-s-sister/story-CXZoPYb9xUnyk7UXfz9OnJ.html
10-07-2020||World||‘Commit myself to protect territorial integrity’: Nepal PM Oli||Embattled Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli on Friday said he will make “every effort” to consolidate national unity and protect the territorial integrity of Nepal and asserted that it is the duty of the ruling Communist Party and its leaders to resolve the internal matters and disputes. A crucial meeting of the ruling Communist Party to decide the political future of Oli was postponed for the fourth time on Friday, citing floods in the country, amidst calls for his resignation over his style of functioning and anti-India statements. The meeting of the Nepal Communist Party’s 45-member powerful Standing Committee was scheduled to be held on Friday. But it was postponed for a week at the last moment. In his address to the nation, Oli said “such debates, discussions and differences are normal within a political party”. “I will assure all that I will make every effort to consolidate national unity, protect democratic republic and uplift national pride,” he said. “I will also commit myself to protect national sovereignty and territorial integrity. My all efforts are directed towards saving the lives of the people and their property during the time of disaster,” he said. “The government under my leadership will not deviate from its duty to protect the people from disaster and hunger,” he said. At least 22 people have been killed in multiple landslides in Kaski, Lamjung and Rukum districts in the country’s western region. It is the fourth time that the crucial NCP meeting has been postponed. On Wednesday the meeting was postponed to Friday. Top NCP leaders, including former prime minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’, have demanded Prime Minister Oli’s resignation, saying his recent anti-India remarks were “neither politically correct nor diplomatically appropriate.” The differences between the two factions of the NCP, one led by Oli and the other led by party’s executive chairman ‘Prachanda’ on the issue of power-sharing, have recently intensified after the prime minister unilaterally decided to prorogue the budget session of Parliament. The political future of 68-year-old Oli is now expected to be decided on July 17 during the Standing Committee meeting, amidst the growing involvement of Hou Yanqui, the Chinese ambassador to Nepal, to save his chair. The Prachanda faction has the backing of senior leaders and former prime ministers Madhav Kumar Nepal and Jhalanath Khanal. The India-Nepal bilateral ties came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory. Later, Nepal updated the country’s political map through a Constitutional amendment, incorporating three strategically important Indian areas -- Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura. India termed as “untenable” the “artificial enlargement” of the territorial claims by Nepal. India has handed over a diplomatic note to Nepal over the map issue, Nepalese media reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-make-every-effort-to-consolidate-national-unity-nepalese-pm-oli/story-eXwdYPlhSQNON3EcPjR47O.html
10-07-2020||World||Intense outbreaks of new coronavirus can still be brought under control: WHO chief||Intense outbreaks of the new coronavirus can still be brought under control, World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said Friday, lamenting that global case numbers had more than doubled in the past six weeks.“There are many, many examples from around the world,” said Tedros, that even if the Covid-19 outbreak is “very intense, it can still be brought back under control”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/intense-outbreaks-of-new-coronavirus-can-still-be-brought-under-control-who-chief/story-cPfQwVjfaxRK60oV5cztZJ.html
10-07-2020||World||California to challenge Trump administration order on foreign students||The state of California, which is home to Stanford University, UCLA and the University of California, on Thursday announced plans to sue the Trump administration over its proposed order to deport foreign students enrolled in colleges and universities that offered only online classes for their fall semester.The University of California, a sprawling public university, has also announced plans to challenge the order, joining Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.“Shame on the Trump administration for risking not only the education opportunities for students who earned the chance to go to college but now their health and well-being as well,” California attorney general Xavier Becerra said Thursday.The proposed order “could put everybody at risk of getting the coronavirus or being subject to deportation”.“Not on our watch,” he added.California will become the first state to challenge the order which sought to prevent new foreign students from entering the US if their coursework will be completely online for the fall semesters and threatened to deport those already here, unless they shifted to a different university.At universities with a hybrid model of online and in-person classes, foreign students could opt to increase their online course-loads.The order issued Monday by the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency (ICE) was a part o the Trump administration’s ongoing efforts to push the country to reopen from the Covid-19 lockdowns and move past it.But it was slammed as “cruel” and “mean-spirited” by universities and students. Harvard, for instance, is offering only online classes in fall and the order impacts its foreign students directly. It sued the ICE and its supervisory agency, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), on Wednesday, along with MIT.The University of California announced its plans to sue the administration on Thursday. It will seek a “temporary restraining order and preliminary and permanent injunctive relief” to bar the administration from enforcing an order the US president, Janet Napolitano, called “mean-spirited, arbitrary and damaging to America”. She is a former DHS secretary.There are an estimated 200,000 Indians enrolled in US universities and some of them will be impacted by the controversial directive. Indian government has already raised the issue with the US at a very high level.India is the second largest source of international students in the United States, after China and before South Korea, Saudi Arabia and Canada. The US takes in around 1 million foreign students every year who are estimated to generate $41 billion worth of economic activity and supported 450,000 jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-to-challenge-trump-administration-order-on-foreign-students/story-55MnCxcwowh8cdXYoMjBbO.html
10-07-2020||World||Turkey’s Prez Erdogan says Hagia Sophia becomes mosque after court ruling||President Tayyip Erdogan declared Istanbul’s Hagia Sophia open to Muslim worship on Friday after a top court ruled that the building’s conversion to a museum by modern Turkey’s founding statesman was illegal.Erdogan made his announcement, just an hour after the court ruling was revealed, despite international warnings not to change the status of the nearly 1,500-year-old monument, revered by Christians and Muslims alike.“The decision was taken to hand over the management of the Ayasofya Mosque...to the Religious Affairs Directorate and open it for worship,” the decision signed by Erdogan said.Erdogan had earlier proposed restoring the mosque status of the UNESCO World Heritage Site, a focal point of both the Christian Byzantine and Muslim Ottoman empires and now one of the most visited monuments in Turkey.The United States, Greece and church leaders were among those to express concern about changing the status of the huge 6th Century building, converted into a museum in the early days of the modern secular Turkish state under Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.“It was concluded that the settlement deed allocated it as a mosque and its use outside this character is not possible legally,” the Council of State, Turkey’s top administrative court in Ankara, said in its ruling.“The cabinet decision in 1934 that ended its use as a mosque and defined it as a museum did not comply with laws,” it said, referring to an edict signed by Ataturk.RUSSIAN ORTHODOX CHURCH EXPRESSES REGRETThe association which brought the court case, the latest in a 16-year legal battle, said Hagia Sophia was the property of the Ottoman leader who captured the city in 1453 and turned the already 900-year-old Byzantine church into a mosque.Erdogan, a pious Muslim, threw his weight behind the campaign to convert the building before local elections last year. He is due to speak shortly before 9 p.m. (1800 GMT), his head of communications said.The Ottomans built minarets alongside the vast domed structure, while inside they added huge calligraphic panels bearing the Arabic names of the early Muslim caliphs alongside the monument’s ancient Christian iconography.The Russian Orthodox Church said it regretted that the court did not take its concerns into account when making its ruling and said the decision could lead to even greater divisions, the TASS news agency reported.Previously, Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, the spiritual head of some 300 million Orthodox Christians worldwide and based in Istanbul, said converting it into a mosque would disappoint Christians and would “fracture” East and West.U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Greece had also urged Turkey to maintain the building as a museum.But Turkish groups have long campaigned for Hagia Sophia’s conversion into a mosque, saying this would better reflect Turkey’s status as an overwhelmingly Muslim country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-s-prez-erdogan-says-hagia-sophia-becomes-mosque-after-court-ruling/story-vWhDBYy3HC6OOtXpwAifjP.html
10-07-2020||World||Who’s WHO? The World Health Organization under scrutiny||The World Health Organization (WHO) is back in the spotlight over its performance in the global fight against the new coronavirus after U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration gave notice it would quit the body in a year’s time.Trump has accused the WHO of becoming a puppet for China during the coronavirus pandemic. The WHO said on Thursday it would set up an independent panel to review its handling of the pandemic and the response by governments.Here are main features of the WHO and its work:* What is it?The WHO is an agency of the United Nations set up in 1948 to improve health globally. It has more than 7,000 people working in 150 country offices, six regional offices and its Geneva headquarters. Its director general - currently the Ethiopian Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus - is elected for a five-year term. Tedros’ five-year term began on July 1, 2017.* What does it do?The WHO’s stated aim is “to promote health, keep the world safe and serve the vulnerable”. It has no power to impose health policies on national governments, but acts as an adviser and offers guidance on best practice in disease prevention and health improvement.It has three main strands of work:- aiming for universal health coverage in every country- preventing and responding to acute emergencies- promoting health and wellbeing for all* What doesn’t it do?Like a lot of international institutions, the WHO suffers from false perceptions about its scope and resources.The WHO is not “the world’s doctor”: it does not provide treatment or conduct disease surveillance - although it does advise national and international authorities on those matters.It has no powers of sanction, and the information it collates and publishes is only as good as the data and expertise it gets from member states and its technical specialists.* Is every country part of it?The WHO has 194 member states: every country except Liechtenstein which is a member of the United Nations but not of its global health agency. They appoint representatives to The World Health Assembly, which convenes annually and sets WHO policies. These policies are implemented by the WHO’s Executive Board, composed of members technically qualified in health. * Who pays for it?The WHO’s member states provide funding via two routes: assessed contributions and voluntary contributions. The WHO’s budgets are biennial, spanning two years. Its 2020-2021 budget is almost $4.85 billion, up 9% from the previous two-year period.Assessed contributions are calculated on the basis of a country’s wealth and population, while voluntary contributions are often targeted by the donor at specific regions or diseases - such as polio, malaria, or infant mortality in poor areas.Philanthropic foundations and multinational groups such as the European Commission are also major donors to the WHO.The United States is the biggest overall donor and had contributed more than $800 million by the end of 2019 for the 2018-2019 biennial funding period. The Gates Foundation is the second largest donor, followed by Britain.* What are seen as its major successes and failures?The WHO is widely credited with leading a 10-year campaign to eradicate smallpox in the 1970s and has also led global efforts to end polio, a battle that is in its final stages.In the past few years, the WHO has also coordinated battles against viral epidemics of Ebola in Congo and Zika in Brazil.In the current COVID-19 disease outbreak, while many have praised the WHO’s leadership, Trump has accused it of being China-centric and giving bad advice about the emerging pandemic.Trump announced a temporary halt to U.S. funding in April, prompting condemnation from many world leaders. The United Nations said this week it had received formal notification of the U.S. decision to leave the body next year.In the past, the WHO was accused of overreacting to the 2009-10 H1N1 flu pandemic and also faced widespread criticism for not reacting quickly enough to the vast Ebola outbreak in West Africa in 2014 that killed more than 11,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-s-who-the-world-health-organization-under-scrutiny/story-IlzwPFJbyvbrpPpE8MVFfN.html
10-07-2020||World||Shortage of green cards is latest US immigrant barrier||Indians holding or applying for green cards face a new anti-immigrant obstacle from the United States government. The US Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS) has scaled back the printing of the physical green cards which identify the holder as a legal permanent US resident.By law, US permanent residents are legally required to carry the credit card-sized identity cards “at all times” and must show them when applying for jobs and when travelling. Indians received 10% of all green cards issued in 2019 and are the second-largest group of existing green-card holders. But 53% of all green card applicants are from India, a figure that has kept rising each year. The USCIS contract with the private printing firm that produces green cards expired in mid-June, reported the Washington Post. The USCIS was supposed to take over the printing itself but the agency’s financial difficulties forced it to reduce its output. There are two printing facilities for green cards. One in Kentucky has shut down. The other one, in Missouri, is operating at reduced capacity. There is a 50,000 shortfall in green cards, the USCIS said in a statement. The agency has asked the US Congress for an emergency $1.2 billion loan or else “all agency operations will be affected.”Even existing green card holders must get new identity cards every 10 years or if the card has been damaged or lost. Normally, green cards are printed within 48 hours of an applicant’s residency being approved. While the Trump administration has taken a number of anti-immigrant steps recently, including suspending new H and L visas and requiring students who are taking only online courses leave the country, it is not clear the printing problem is deliberate. However, the USCIS’s financial difficulties are a direct result of Trump’s anti-immigrant policies. The agency is funded solely from the fees it earns from the services it provides. Thanks to President Donald Trump’s obsession with supposed immigrant fraud, much of the USCIS’s resources have been channelled towards trying to find such cases. This has led to the present financial crisis. The agency has reportedly warned that without the emergency funding it will have to reduce its workforce by three-quarters. The administration, says the Washington Post, has put up other bureaucratic hurdles to make life more difficult for immigrants including shutting down biometric data collection points and making intra-agency documents movement more difficult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shortage-of-green-cards-is-latest-us-immigrant-barrier/story-YhdOIkvDJ78c9ekzWm23ZL.html
10-07-2020||World||In a first, Donald Trump likely to wear a mask; US Covid-19 tally soars past 3.1 million mark||President Donald Trump is going to wear a mask, which has been declared the most effective tool in the battle against Covid-19 by experts around the world, when he visits a military hospital on Saturday. He has been pointedly averse to it for himself while allowing experts the last word for others.Trump reportedly dropped his resistance to a mask or any face-covering at the “pleading” of aides, as the United States has continued to witness a surge in new infections, which went up by 63,247 over the past 24 hours to a cumulative 3.11 million, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker. Deaths climbed by 990 over the same time-span to 133,291.Also read: US will respond if Russia bounty reports are true, says PentagonPresident Trump, who is pushing the country to get past the epidemic, had attributed the spike to increased testing, contrary to the reason stated by health experts and scientists. Trump has also focused on declining mortality rates to make his case. Statistically, the percentage of people testing positive has been on a rise, along with soaring number of people getting hospitalised, especially in the southern and western states hit the hardest such as Texas, Florida, and California.For the first time, Trump will wear a mask during his Saturday visit to the Walter Reed military hospital in Bethesda, in the adjoining state of Maryland.“I’m going to Walter Reed to see some of our great soldiers who have been injured. Badly injured. And also see some of our Covid workers, people who have such a great job,” Trump said in an interview to Fox News Thursday. “And I expect to be wearing a mask when I go into Walter Reed. You’re in a hospital so I think it’s a very appropriate thing.”The American president declared his refusal to use a facial covering early in March, when his public health officials first recommended them as part of their plan to slow the spread of the virus. “I don’t see it for myself,” he had said then and has stood by it since, fanning a culture war around it.Also read: Why Americans are having an emotional reaction to masksSome conservative Americans have refused to wear a mask to register their independence from the state. One Republican member of the House of Representatives Matt Gaetz, who is from Florida and is a staunch ally of the president, famously wore a gas mask to the chamber to make his point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-a-first-donald-trump-says-he-will-wear-a-mask-as-us-covid-19-tally-soars-past-3-1-million-mark/story-YBTfT8WZyqbgBtvDpkTzKK.html
10-07-2020||World||Gilead says additional data on remdesivir shows improved clinical recovery||Gilead Sciences Inc said on Friday additional data from a late-stage study showed its antiviral remdesivir significantly improved clinical recovery and reduced the risk of death in Covid-19 patients. The company said the finding requires confirmation in prospective clinical trials.Gilead said it analyzed data from 312 patients treated in a late-stage study and a separate real-world retrospective cohort of 818 patients with similar characteristics and disease severity as in the study. Findings from the analysis of its late-stage study showed that 74.4% of remdesivir-treated patients recovered by Day 14 versus 59.0% of patients receiving standard of care, the company said. The mortality rate for patients treated with remdesivir in the analysis was 7.6% at Day 14, compared with 12.5% among patients not on remdesivir.Gilead shares were up nearly 2% at $76.14 in trading before the bell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gilead-says-additional-data-on-remdesivir-shows-improved-clinical-recovery/story-kSeoDIso3OKZGOlVLQ63lM.html
10-07-2020||World||UK hails Indian doctors, nurses in NHS on the frontline of Covid-19 treatment||The Boris Johnson government on Friday said it has been a ‘privilege’ to have nearly 25,000 Indian medical professionals in the National Health Service dealing with thousands of coronavirus patients on the frontline of treatment.Several doctors, nurses and pharmacists of Indian heritage have died in recent months, as many retired professionals responded to the call of British authorities to re-join in the response to the pandemic. India-trained medical professionals have long been part of the NHS.Foreign secretary Dominic Raab said in a virtual address to the India Global week 2020: “Covid-19 is a global challenge. And the UK has been proud to stand alongside India in its international response”.“As we have responded to this crisis, we have been privileged to have 25,000 Indian professionals working in our brilliant National Health Service here at home. We hugely value their contribution”.Speaking as part of the event that included ministers Matt Hancock, Tariq Ahmad and Lynn Truss, Raab thanked the Indian government for the UK being able to obtain vital supplies of paracetamol at the height of the crisis.It would be an “extraordinary achievement”, Raab said, if the human trial for a vaccine at the University of Oxford were to succeed and is produced on a mass scale at the Serum Institute of India. It would benefit not only the British and Indian people, but also make it accessible for the most vulnerable people across the world, he said.“As leaders in the international response, the UK and India have also co-authored the G20 Action Plan, providing an immediate package of $200 billion of global support to the most vulnerable countries around the world”.“Even before Covid, UK was India’s second biggest research partner. With our joint research estimated to be worth £400 million by 2021. And with India’s contribution to the recent GAVI vaccine summit, together we smashed the target for vaccine funding, with $8.8 billion raised”, Raab said.Foreign Office minister for South Asia Tariq Ahmad said: “There are few countries that share the people-to-people connections as the UK and India. This was demonstrated earlier this year when we repatriated more than 15,000 British people from India – the largest repatriation operation from a single country since the Second World War”.“As we adjust to the new post-Covid world in the coming months, I know that these people-to -people links will help future generations to build back better. The Living Bridge between our countries – on show at India Global Week – will grow back stronger,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-hails-indian-doctors-nurses-in-nhs-on-the-frontline-of-covid-19-treatment/story-pJI13G476txQnwziT9yuwM.html
10-07-2020||World||Kazakhstan denies China’s advisory of pneumonia deadlier than coronavirus||Kazakhstan on Friday dismissed a warning issued by the Chinese embassy for its citizens to guard against an outbreak of an “unknown pneumonia” in the central Asian nation, describing it as being more lethal than the coronavirus as incorrect.The Chinese embassy in Kazakhstan, located in the city of Nur Sultan, issued a late statement on Thursday on its official account on the popular app, WeChat, flagging a “significant increase” in cases in the Kazakh cities of Atyrau, Aktobe and Shymkent since mid-June.On Friday, however, Kazakhstan’s healthcare ministry said the news was incorrect.According to agency reports, the ministry said its tallies of bacterial, fungal and viral pneumonia infections, which also included cases of unclear causes, are in line with World Health Organisation guidelines.“The information published by some Chinese media regarding a new kind of pneumonia in Kazakhstan is incorrect,” the ministry said.The Kazakhstan health ministry acknowledged the presence of “viral pneumonias of unspecified etiology,” but denied that the outbreak was new or unknown.“In response to these reports, the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan officially declares that this information does not correspond to reality,” the statement read.The Chinese embassy statement had said pneumonia in Kazakhstan killed 1,772 people in the year’s first half, with 628 deaths in June, including Chinese citizens.“The mortality rate of the disease is much higher than that of pneumonia caused by the novel coronavirus,” it said.The country implemented a lockdown on March 16 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic; restrictions were lifted in May but reimposed following an increase in cases.President Kassim-Jomart Tokayev has said the country could be facing a second wave of infections.Kazakhstan, which imposed a second lockdown this week to rein in the pandemic, has a tally of almost 55,000 Covid-19 infections, including 264 deaths. The number of new cases rose on Thursday to a daily record of 1,962.According to a Tuesday report by Kazinform, the state news agency of Kazakhstan, the number of pneumonia cases “increased 2.2 times in June as compared to the same period of 2019”.The country implemented a lockdown on March 16 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic; restrictions were lifted in May but reimposed following an increase in cases.China, according to a Reuters report, is a major investor in oil- and metals-rich Kazakhstan and is one of the main markets for its exports, dominated by commodities. Kazakhstan also makes money from Chinese goods carried across its territory to Europe.The Kazakhstan’s foreign ministry had summoned the Chinese ambassador in April to protest over an article on a Chinese website saying the country was keen to become part of China, the ministry said.It was a rare move as the two countries avoid criticising each other.It was during a lecture at a university in Kazakhstan that President Xi Jinping had first talked about the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), his ambitious inter-continental connectivity project, in 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kazakhstan-denies-china-s-advisory-of-pneumonia-deadlier-than-coronavirus/story-QFdydbXmyt8XElpIng8MMO.html
10-07-2020||World||Homeland Security gets new role under Prez Trump’s monument order||Protesters who have clashed with authorities in the Pacific Northwest are not just confronting local police. Some are also facing off against federal officers whose presence reflects President Donald Trump’s decision to make cracking down on “violent mayhem” a federal priority.The Department of Homeland Security has deployed officers in tactical gear from around the country, and from more than a half-dozen federal law enforcement agencies and departments, to Portland, Oregon, as part of a surge aimed at what a senior official said were people taking advantage of demonstrations over the police killing of George Floyd to commit violence and vandalism.“Once we surged federal law enforcement officers to Portland, the agitators quickly got the message,” said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss an ongoing operation.The deployment represents somewhat of a departure for DHS, which was created after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and is primarily focused on threats from abroad and border security. During the Trump presidency, its focus has been largely on carrying out the president’s tough immigration agenda. Now it is in the role of supporting Trump’s law-and-order campaign, raising questions about overstepping the duties of local law enforcement.Portland Deputy Police Chief Chris Davis said his department did not request the assistance and did not coordinate efforts with the federal government amid often chaotic clashes that have ranged across several downtown blocks after midnight for weeks.“I don’t have authority to order federal officers to do things,” Davis said. “It does complicate things for us.”The DHS officers’ presence comes at an incredibly tense moment for Portland. After Floyd’s death, the city for days saw marches and rallies that attracted more than 10,000 generally peaceful Black Lives Matter protesters to the downtown area. The police took a “mostly hands-off approach” to those events because they were orderly, Davis said.Civil liberties advocates and activists have accused federal authorities of overstepping their jurisdiction and excessive use of crowd-control measures, including using tear gas and patrolling beyond the boundaries of federal property. Portland police are prohibited from using tear gas under a recent temporary court order unless they declare a riot.“DHS should go back to investigating the rise of white supremacist activity and actors who are seeking to cause violence against these peaceful protests, that is under the purview of the agency’s mission,” said Andrea Flores, the deputy director of immigration policy at the American Civil Liberties Union who was a DHS official during the Obama administration.Trump issued an executive order on June 26 to protect monuments after protesters tried to remove or destroy statues of people considered racist, including a failed attempt to pull down one of Andrew Jackson near the White House.The president has denounced the Black Lives Matter movement and protests calling for the removal of statues honoring racist figures, associating peaceful protests with the sporadic outbursts of vandalism and looting at some demonstrations. He referred to “the violent mayhem we have seen in the streets of cities that are run by liberal Democrats,” as well as the “merciless campaign to wipe out our history,” in his July 3 Mount Rushmore speech.Following the executive order, DHS created the Protecting American Communities Task Force and sent officers from Customs and Border Protection and other agencies to Washington, D.C., Seattle and Portland. Others were ready to deploy elsewhere if needed.Improving coordination among law enforcement agencies is part of DHS’s mission. It also oversees the Federal Protective Service, which guards federal government buildings around the nation.But the FPS doesn’t have the resources to respond to the kind of sustained attacks that have taken place in Portland and elsewhere on the margins of protests over the May 25 killing of Floyd in Minneapolis.Federal Protective Service Officer David Underwood was shot and killed outside a federal building in Oakland during a protest in May. Authorities charged an Air Force staff sergeant affiliated with the far-right, anti-government “boogaloo” movement with his murder.As local governments in Washington, D.C., and Portland have stepped back to allow space for peaceful demonstrations, the Trump administration has stepped up its effort against what the senior official called “opportunistic criminals.”Attorney General William Barr says there have been more than 150 arrests on federal charges around the country, with about 500 investigations pending related to recent protests. There were at least seven in Portland in recent days.Portland police officials say the cycle of nightly attacks, which have shut down much of the downtown, has been unprecedented. Early Thursday, a man in a SUV fired several times into the air as he drove away from protesters who had surrounded his car. “We’ve never seen this intensity of violence and focused criminal activity over this long period of time,” Davis said.Among the federal forces deployed in Portland are members of an elite Border Patrol tactical team, a special operations unit that is based on the U.S.-Mexico border and has been deployed overseas, including to Iraq and Afghanistan.BORTAC members, identifiable by patches on their camouflage sleeves, are mixed in with Federal Protective Service outside the courthouse. Others in the unit, which includes snipers, have been stationed in “overlook” positions on the courthouse’s ninth floor, where a protester in a black hoodie shined a green laser into the eyes of one of the officers on Monday, according to court documents.The night before, a BORTAC agent tackled and arrested a demonstrator suspected of pointing a laser at him and others from a park across the street from the courthouse.A former DHS official said BORTAC agents were viewed as “highly trained, valuable, scarce resources” and would typically be used for domestic law enforcement in extraordinary circumstances. “These units don’t normally sit around idle,” said the official, who spoke on condition anonymity because he no longer works at the agency, after serving under Trump and President Barack Obama, and is not authorized to discuss operations.“What did they get pulled off of in order to watch over statues?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/homeland-security-gets-new-role-under-prez-trump-s-monument-order/story-tHgY2W51FOaRUHgq1OPsSN.html
10-07-2020||World||WHO advance team on way to China to set up probe into coronavirus origin||An advance team from the World Health Organization (WHO) has left for China to organise an investigation into the origins of the novel coronavirus which sparked the pandemic, a spokeswoman said on Friday.The two WHO experts, specialists in animal science and epidemiology, will work with Chinese scientists to determine the scope and itinerary of the investigation, WHO spokeswoman Margaret Harris told a U.N. briefing. “They are gone, they are in the air now, they are the advance party to work out the scope,” she said.The WHO will have no role in an independent panel, announced on Thursday, to review the global handling of pandemic, Harris said, adding: “From now on it is completely hands off”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-advance-team-on-way-to-china-to-set-up-probe-into-coronavirus-origin/story-sNoT8SgZj76U3D0mpaDDiO.html
10-07-2020||World||France’s Notre Dame Cathedral to be rebuilt the same as before||Notre Dame Cathedral will be rebuilt just the way it stood before last year’s devastating fire.No swimming pool or organic garden on the roof of the medieval Paris monument, or contemporary glass spire, or other modern twists. And to stay historically accurate, it will again be built with potentially toxic lead.That’s the verdict reached by French President Emmanuel Macron, the cathedral’s present-day architects and the general in charge of the colossal reconstruction project for one of the world’s most treasured landmarks.Macron, who wants Notre Dame reopened in time for the 2024 Olympics, had initially pushed for a contemporary touch atop the cathedral, prompting eye-catching proposals from architects around the world.But Macron came around to the traditionalists’ argument, and approved reconstruction plans for the 12th century monument that were presented Thursday, according to a statement from state agency overseeing the project.The plan includes recreating the 19th-century spire by Viollet Le Duc that collapsed in the fire, and “favors fidelity to the monument’s form and a restoration of the cathedral in its latest state,” the statement said.That means the state Notre Dame was in the afternoon of April 15, 2019, before fire broke out beneath its roof, toppling its spire, consuming the roof and threatening the rose-windowed twin towers that keep the cathedral upright.More than a year later, the structure remains unstable. It took nearly a year to clear out dangerous lead residue released in the fire and to get to the point where workers could start removing scaffolding that had been in place before the fire for a previous renovation effort. Actual reconstruction won’t start until next year.The reconstruction plan presented Thursday says it will replicate original materials “to guarantee the authenticity, harmony and coherence of this masterpiece of Gothic art.”Those materials originally include tons of lead, which is raising concerns among health and environmental groups. Toxic lead spewed by the fire forced schools in the area to close and prompted a lengthy, painstaking cleanup effort of the historic neighbourhood on an island in the centre of Paris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-s-notre-dame-cathedral-to-be-rebuilt-the-same-as-before/story-Eof3d9Z0k7aobnzV5Y1TYO.html
10-07-2020||World||Canadian charity says it paid PM Trudeau’s mother, brother; probe on||The controversy enveloping Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau over a contract worth millions to a charity with links to his family has deepened with revelations about his mother and brother being paid by the organisation, local media reported on Thursday. Canada’s Conflict of Interest and Ethics Commissioner Mario Dion has already said he would probe the contract. The investigation, however, was later dropped by the government following uproar over Trudeau and his wife Sophie Gregoire’s ties with the organisation WE Charity.According to a report from the outlet Canadaland, confirmed by others including CBC News, the charity paid Trudeau’s mother Margaret speaking fees totalling CA $ 312,000 while his brother Alexandre netted CA $ 32,000. Also, in its earlier avatar as Free The Children, the organisation is reported to have paid the Prime Minister’s wife an honorarium of CA $ 1400 in 2012 for making an appearance at a youth event.Controversy over the matter erupted when the government announced that WE Charity would administer the CA $ 914 million Canada Student Service Grant, while being paid CA $ 19.5 million for the purpose. As Trudeau and his wife’s connection to the organisation were revealed, the resultant outcry led to it withdrawing from the project.Trudeau later admitted to chairing a Cabinet meeting where the proposal was passed.Canadaland uncovered invoices that showed payments made by the for-profit arm of the organization, ME to WE Social Enterprise. Confronted with the evidence, the WE Charity acknowledged it paid a total of CA $ 312,000 to Margaret Trudeau via the Speakers’ Spotlight speaking bureau and she netted CA $ 250,000 for 28 events between 2016 and 2020.The House of Commons Finance Committee is also investigating the matter, after having passed two motions in this regard to extract information from the Prime Minister’s Office. The Operations and Estimates Committee has also announced a similar probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-charity-says-it-paid-pm-trudeau-s-mother-brother-probe-on/story-YtbMHLv9Gy45cMC7Enay5I.html
10-07-2020||World||First launch of China’s Kuaizhou-11 carrier rocket fails||China’s Kuaizhou-11 carrier rocket suffered a failure during its maiden flight on Friday. The rocket was launched from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center in northwest China at 12:17 p.m. (Beijing Time), but a malfunction occurred during the flight, according to Chinese news agency Xinhua.Kuaizhou, fast ship in Chinese, is a low-cost solid-fueled carrier rocket. The rocket was designed to launch low-Earth and Sun-synchronous orbit satellites.News channel CGTN said the rocket had a lift-off mass of 70.8 tonnes. The specific cause of the failure is under further analysis and investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-launch-of-china-s-kuaizhou-11-carrier-rocket-fails/story-CYkpAM17oqo65ONrkYydNL.html
10-07-2020||World||12 people killed, 19 missing in Nepal landslides||At least 12 people were killed and 19 others missing in multiple landslides caused due to incessant rains in western Nepal, police said on Friday.Seven people, including three children, lost their lives due to landslides in Sarangkot and Hemjan areas of Pokhara city in Kaski district.Five of them were killed after a landslide swept away a house in Sarangkot area in Pokhara in the wee hours of Friday, police said.Around 10 people were injured in the same incident and are undergoing treatment at different hospitals, they said.In two separate incidents of landslides on Thursday night, three members of a family were killed in Besishahar of Lamjung district and two others lost their lives in Aathbiskot area of Rukum district.Meanwhile, 12 people went missing after two houses were swept away by a landslide in Jajorkot district. Seven people were untraceable after their house was wiped out by a landslide in Myagdi district.Meanwhile, a landslide that occurred in Jogimara area has obstructed the Prithi Highway in western Nepal.Narayani and other major rivers in the country have swollen due to the continuous downpour for the last 48 hours.Meteorological Department has forecast that the monsoon rains will last for another three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/12-people-killed-19-missing-in-nepal-landslides/story-MPBtJ0IoMDuTcj4hegDpSL.html
10-07-2020||World||France asks Israel to drop West Bank annexation plans||Emmanuel Macron asked Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to refrain from annexing Palestinian territory in the West Bank and elsewhere during a telephone call between the two leaders, the French president’s office said on Friday.Macron “emphasised that such a move would contravene international law and jeopardise the possibility of a two-state solution as the basis of a fair and lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians”, his office said in a statement after the call on Thursday.It was the latest move by European leaders pressing Netanyahu to drop plans to annex Jewish settlements in the West Bank and the strategic Jordan Valley.The controversial move was endorsed in a Middle East plan unveiled by US President Donald Trump in January.Israel’s government had set July 1 as the date when it could begin taking over the Palestinian areas, where the population of Israeli settlers has grown since the 1967 Six-Day War.The foreign ministries of France and Germany, along with those of Egypt and Jordan -- the only Arab states to have peace deals with Israel -- warned this week that any annexation could have “consequences” for relations.But Macron told Netanyahu that France remained committed to Israel’s security and “expressed his attachment to the friendship and confidence that links France and Israel”, his office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-asks-israel-to-drop-west-bank-annexation-plans/story-Y0cn8QfTG2UzoXyte9DrxI.html
10-07-2020||World||Tropical storm warning issued for New York as Fay looms||Heavy downpours and thrashing wind are in store for the Northeast from Tropical Storm Fay, which spun up off the coast of North Carolina Thursday.Tropical storm warnings have been issued for the US coast from New Jersey to Rhode Island, including New York, as Fay heads north with winds of 45 miles (72 kilometers) per hour. They are the first such bulletins issued since Superstorm Sandy struck the New Jersey coast in 2012, said Jeff Masters, a meteorologist with Yale Climate Connections.The storm was about 105 miles south of Ocean City, Maryland, the National Hurricane Center said in an advisory at 2 am New York time Friday. It should clip New Jersey midday Friday before powering up the coast for New York and Long Island Saturday and weakening over Vermont.It will be the third storm to hit the US in 2020 and the record sixth system named so far this year.“Fay will bring a few areas of moderate flooding due to heavy rains, but the storm will likely not cause significant damage,” Masters said.From 3 to 5 inches of rain is expected across the Northeast, with some areas getting as much as 8 inches, the hurricane center said. Flash flood watches reach from Virginia to Massachusetts.While storms that hit in the Gulf of Mexico tend to crimp oil and natural gas supply, often sending prices higher, Fay will likely decrease demand due to power outages and slightly cooler conditions due to cloud cover, said Jim Rouiller, lead meteorologist at the Energy Weather Group LLC.Fay is moving over warm Gulf Stream waters and its top winds could reach 50 mph before it comes ashore. A storm becomes a hurricane when its winds reach 74 mph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tropical-storm-warning-issued-for-new-york-as-fay-looms/story-AmVOX3zj15DETA9Z3s4RgO.html
10-07-2020||World||US envoy, after Seoul visit, reassures Japan of alliance||A US envoy reassured top Japanese officials Friday of the importance of their alliance in dealing with regional security threats, just as the North Korean leader’s sister expressed low expectations of a summit between her brother and President Donald Trump this year.US Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun is in Tokyo after his visit to Seoul where he discussed nuclear diplomacy with North Korea, which has refused to resume talks due to what it calls hostile American policies.Biegun met with Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi and Defense Minister Taro Kono separately and reaffirmed the importance of their alliance in maintaining and strengthening “the free and open Indo-Pacific” and dealing with regional concerns including North Korea and China.Earlier Friday, Kim Yo Jong said her brother won’t be meeting Trump because there is no need for the North to gift Trump meetings when it’s not getting any reward in return. In her statement released through Pyongyang’s official Korean Central News Agency, she called for major concessions from washing ton to keep alive the nuclear diplomacy.Kim Yo Jong is seen as her brother’s closest confidant and was recently confirmed as his top official for inter-Korean affairs.South Korea on Thursday asked Biegun to try to revive the talks with the North. He stressed during his meetings in Seoul that resuming the diplomacy with the North was important. But he separately accused a senior North Korean nuclear negotiator who had blamed the deadlocked talks on American hostility of being “locked in an old way of thinking.” Those remarks indicated Washington won’t likely make concessions to resume the talks despite the North’s pressure.Kim Yo Jong said “a surprise thing may still happen, depending upon the judgement and decision between the two top leaders” but that the US needed summit talks while Pyongyang did not.North Korea has demanded that the US lift international sanctions and provide a security guarantee if it’s truly committed to talks about the status of its nuclear weapons program.Some analysts believe North Korea, which is sensitive about potential changes in US leadership, will avoid serious talks with the Americans for now before an eventual return to negotiations after the US presidential election in November.Kim Yo Jong said that the diplomacy could be salvaged only by a reciprocal exchange of “irreversible simultaneous major steps.”The nuclear diplomacy has stalled since a second summit between Kim and President Donald Trump in early 2019.___AP journalists Kim Tong-hyung in Seoul and Emily Wang in Tokyo contributed to this report.___Follow Mari Yamaguchi on Twitter at https://www.twitter.com/mariyamaguchi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-envoy-after-seoul-visit-reassures-japan-of-alliance/story-sUBUiJkzFbT38oqFUaGLoL.html
10-07-2020||World||Kazakhstan denies Chinese reports of pneumonia deadlier than coronavirus||Kazakhstan dismissed as incorrect on Friday a warning by China’s embassy for its citizens to guard against an outbreak of pneumonia in the central Asian nation that it described as being more lethal than the coronavirus. In a statement late on Thursday on its official WeChat account, the Chinese embassy flagged a “significant increase” in cases in the Kazakh cities of Atyrau, Aktobe and Shymkent since mid-June. On Friday, however, Kazakhstan’s healthcare ministry branded Chinese media reports based on the embassy statement as “fake news”.The ministry said its tallies of bacterial, fungal and viral pneumonia infections, which also included cases of unclear causes, were in line with World Health Organisation guidelines.“The information published by some Chinese media regarding a new kind of pneumonia in Kazakhstan is incorrect,” the ministry said.Kazakhstan, which imposed a second lockdown this week to rein in the pandemic, has a tally of almost 55,000 Covid-19 infections, including 264 deaths. The number of new cases rose on Thursday to a daily record of 1,962.On Tuesday, state news agency Kazinform said the number of pneumonia cases “increased 2.2 times in June as compared to the same period of 2019”.In its statement, the Chinese embassy had said pneumonia in Kazakhstan killed 1,772 people in the year’s first half, with 628 deaths in June, including Chinese citizens.“The mortality rate of the disease is much higher than that of pneumonia caused by the novel coronavirus,” it said. It is unclear whether the penumonia it referred to was caused by a virus related to coronavirus or a different strain.Kazakhstan’s health ministry and other health institutions were carrying out a “comparative study”, but no conclusions had yet been made, the embassy added.The Global Times tabloid run by China’s People’s Daily has said Kazakhstan’s foreign ministry “did not respond to questions about the Chinese embassy’s warning”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kazakhstan-denies-chinese-reports-of-pneumonia-deadlier-than-coronavirus/story-p1YwsJ8PEVBkaMsHp5WmmJ.html
10-07-2020||World||Did the world become more equal after the financial crisis?||The “elephant chart” has been the most influential graph of the past decade in economics.It showed that in the 20 years before the financial crisis, global income growth largely benefitted two groups of people: the middle classes of emerging markets, such as China, and the ultra-rich around the world. Meanwhile, the middle and lower classes of Western Europe and North America saw their incomes stagnate.This work — produced in 2013 by economists Christoph Lakner and Branko Milanovic using World Bank and other data — incensed the left around the world, sparking a debate over income inequality and the failures of capitalism and globalization. The dramatic rise in earnings of the top 1%, seen from 1988 to 2008, has since been blamed for the return of populism and protectionism and resulted in calls for radical policies such as sweeping wealth taxes.A new paper from one of the authors of what’s become known as the “elephant chart” suggests that things changed in the years immediately following the financial crisis. Milanovic, an economist at The Graduate Center at the City University of New York, has now looked at changes in income distribution from 2008 to 2013. His main finding is that global income inequality actually declined during this period.While the middle classes of the developing world continued to close the gap with the West, the ultra-rich across the globe saw a significant slowdown in income growth — particularly in the US and Germany. Contrary to hundreds of articles and books, the world became a more equal place in the aftermath of Great Recession.Milanovic has assembled a gargantuan dataset of household surveys, covering more than 130 countries in the world and around 95% of the world population. The breadth of the data helps explain why his work stops in 2013: Not all countries have statistical offices able to assemble more recent information on the incomes and consumption patterns of individual families.Analyzing changes in the income distribution, the author finds that global disparities plummeted after 2008. The world’s Gini coefficient, a measure of inequality, fell from 66.4 to 61.6 in just five years, when taking into account differences in purchasing power across countries — a significant drop.The main driver of this convergence was a steep fall in inequality between richer and poorer countries: In particular, Asia’s economies powered ahead as Europe and the US stagnated, narrowing the gap between the Asian and Western middle classes. The median income in Asia rose by 76% between 2008 and 2013. In Western Europe, North America and Oceania, there was a mere 6% gain. And these figures are taking into account the differing costs of living.This trend of declining global inequality was already visible in the pre-2008 world. Yet, rather than celebrating the improvements in the lives of millions of Asians, left-leaning politicians and academics in Europe and the US preferred to focus on the right-hand tail of the distribution — the “trunk” of the “elephant” — which showed that the very rich had done much better than the Western middle classes.According to Milanovic’s latest data, the trunk, and therefore the elephant, may be no more. Taking into account global purchasing power differences, the top 1% of earners saw the lowest increase in income per capita between 2008 and 2013: a mere 6%. Conversely, those around the top 90th percentile in terms of income — which includes much of the European and North American lower and middle classes — saw gains of about 15%. Those around the middle of the global distribution saw income gains of about 60% over the same period.When the author redrew his curves without adjusting for purchasing power, and correcting for how the rich may under-report their incomes, he saw a slightly higher growth rate of income of the top 1%, but it still remained relatively small. In all analyses, the proportion of global income going to the ultra-rich fell between 2008 and 2013.The other striking result relates to inequality within individual countries. In theory, it is possible that while global inequality fell, individual countries became more unequal. But this was not generally the case. Milanovic finds that the overall Gini coefficient remained broadly stable between 2008 and 2013 in around 60% of the countries in his sample, while the remaining 40% were split between those that saw a decrease in inequality and those that saw it rise.Maybe the top 1% in each country still did well compared with everyone else? The data here were mixed too. In India, the years after the Great Recession favored the super-rich, who saw the biggest gains in income. Conversely, in the US, they were the worst-off: While most of the population saw their incomes rise by 5% over this period, the top earners saw a reduction of about 5% — though obviously from a much higher base. Of course, we don’t have the data to know what has happened since 2013, and we probably won’t for some time. The original “elephant curve” has also been subject to methodological critiques — one being that its results were too dependent on the different rates of population growth around the world. The same problems could apply to Milanovic’s new study.The current paper also does not look at wealth inequality, which some consider a more important measure of economic disparities though it’s much harder to study. And one can still argue that although inequality overall has declined, it remains far too high and requires radical solutions.Yet, Milanovic’s new findings deserve the same kind of attention as his old ones. The narrative around the global financial crisis and the rise of the top 1% will require some rewriting.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.Ferdinando Giugliano writes columns and editorials on European economics for Bloomberg View. He is also an economics columnist for La Repubblica and was a member of the editorial board of the Financial Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/did-the-world-become-more-equal-after-the-financial-crisis/story-0iSoN59JpG1VxnvRKnfTjJ.html
10-07-2020||World||China cities declare flood ‘red alerts’ as extreme weather threats surge||Four cities along China’s Yangtze river have declared top-level flood warnings over the past two days after torrential rain triggered landslides and inundated roads and farmland, with parts of the river threatening to burst its banks.The “red alerts” in Xianning and Jingzhou in Hubei province and Nanchang and Shangrao in neighbouring Jiangxi highlight the country’s vulnerability to extreme weather from climate change and the risks of overdevelpment on flood plains, experts say.About 140 people are dead or missing from the storms, while China’s state broadcaster CCTV said on Friday that accumulated economic losses exceed 60 billion yuan ($8.6 billion).China has blamed unusual weather conditions, including humidity carried from the South China Sea and the Indian Ocean, as the immediate cause, but it has also said long-term changes in climate patterns have made it more vulnerable.In June, rainfall was 13.5% higher than the seasonal average, according to official data. The country has experienced a 20% increase in incidents of heavy rainfall since 1961, the China Meteorological Administration has said.“The floods in southern China are consistent with an increase in extreme weather due to climate change,” said Liu Junyan, campaigner with the environmental group Greenpeace. “In many parts of China, we have seen dramatic changes in precipitation in recent decades, and as a result, flooding.”Highlighting the risks to China’s economy from global warming, a new study by researchers in Nanjing said economic damage from floods rose to $25.3 billion a year over 2006-2018, up nearly a third from the 1984-2018 annual average. Each 0.5-degree temperature increase would lead to a $60 billion rise in annual flood losses, they estimated. Flood plain risksWhile climate is a major factor, this year’s floods also expose the growing risks from overdevelopment in flood plains, said Ma Jun, director of the independent Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE), which monitors China’s rivers.“The rainfall is high but it is not the highest,” he said. “The flooding is going to cause a lot more damage because of urbanisation and industrialisation, especially in low-lying places.”China has been vulnerable to floods throughout its history, with climate conditions made worse by human activities like deforestation, the reclamation of wetlands and the storage of water for power generation and irrigation.Beijing has in turn sought to engineer a solution to the problem, with giant dam projects partly designed to regulate water flows along the Yangtze, the longest river in Asia. The giant Three Gorges reservoir has been storing around 50,000 cubic metres per second of water this week, while discharging only 35,000 cubic metres per second in order to reduce the impact of floods downstream. It is now 3.5 metres higher than warning levels, according to the Ministry of Water Resources. Ma said China needs better urban planning - and increased efforts to build “sponge cities” capable of absorbing water - if it is to ease the rising long-term risks.“China has spent more resources building dams and reservoirs and flood controls, but they are not a panacea,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-cities-declare-flood-red-alerts-as-extreme-weather-threats-surge/story-AIWcOnAfzCYYhqi6gNX1TP.html
10-07-2020||World||China’s Zhifei starts Phase II trial of Covid-19 vaccine||A coronavirus vaccine candidate developed by a unit of China’s Chongqing Zhifei Biological Products has moved into Phase II human trials, the company said on Friday, less than three weeks after it launched clinical trials.The firm did not provide details of the trial design or results of the Phase I test of the experimental vaccine, being co-developed by Anhui Zhifei Longcom Biopharmaceutical and the Institute of Microbiology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.Earlier, the company had estimated Phase I trials would be completed on July 21, with the study results expected on Sept 20.Shares in Zhifei rose 3.5% on Friday in a flat market.The vaccine candidate is one of eight treatments Chinese researchers and companies are testing in humans. Nearly 20 vaccines are in different stages of clinical trials globally against the virus that has caused more than half a million deaths. However, none of them have yet passed large-scale, late-stage phase III clinical trials, a necessary hurdle for entry to the consumer market,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-zhifei-starts-phase-ii-trial-of-covid-19-vaccine/story-tVdvcc8rlTpgzMRnVAPrFK.html
10-07-2020||World||US sanctions top Chinese officials over Xinjiang abuses||The US sanctioned a top member of China’s ruling Communist Party and three other officials over human rights abuses in the western region of Xinjiang, a major escalation in the Trump administration’s increasingly tense rivalry with the country.The sanctioned individuals include Chen Quanguo, the Xinjiang party secretary who sits on the 25-member Politburo, as well as Zhu Hailun, party secretary of the Xinjiang Political and Legal Committee, and the current and former directors of the Xinjiang Public Security Bureau, the Treasury Department said Thursday.The US move is tied to the widespread detention of Muslim Uighurs in Xinjiang, a policy that has been sharply criticized by top American officials as well as human rights groups. It comes amid soaring tensions between Beijing and Washington over the origin of the coronavirus pandemic, China’s moves to quell dissent in Hong Kong and a debate over the use of Chinese technology by the US and allies.“The United States is committed to using the full breadth of its financial powers to hold human rights abusers accountable in Xinjiang and across the world,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in the statement.The decision also marks the first time the US has sanctioned a sitting Chinese official under the 2016 Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act, which gives the US broad authority to impose human-rights sanctions on foreign officials. Senior administration officials had been pushing for the sanctions for months but had been stymied by President Donald Trump, who fretted that they would complicate his US-China trade deal.Chen, seen as a rising star in the Communist Party, has become China’s point man for subduing ethnic unrest. During his earlier stint in Tibet, Buddhist temples were told to display Chinese flags and images of party leaders. His implementation of a vast police state in Xinjiang and demonstrations of loyalty to Xi won him a promotion in 2017 to the Politburo, and he may be considered for a spot on its supreme Standing Committee, which now has just seven members, in 2022.Given Chen’s rank in the party hierarchy, which is comparable to a member of the US cabinet, the move is also likely to infuriate President Xi Jinping’s government. Even though the sanctions were weeks in the making, the timing may be seen as deliberate because Treasury announced the move hours after Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi delivered a major speech that called for better ties.China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Friday morning.“We’re in uncharted territory right now,” said Daniel Russel, former assistant secretary of state for East Asia and the Pacific, who’s now vice president at the Asia Society Policy Institute. “There’s never been an administration that thought the pursuit of top-level party officials would end well for either side.”New PressuresThe US has ramped up pressure on China across many fronts in recent months, accusing it of covering up the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic and reneging on promises to guarantee political autonomy to the former British colony of Hong Kong. The election campaigns for Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden have sought to taint each other as weak in confronting Beijing’s leaders.This week Trump said the US was considering a ban of TikTok, the popular social media app owned by China’s ByteDance Inc. The US is seeking to limit US companies’ ability to do business with Chinese tech giant Huawei Technologies Co., while Secretary of State Michael Pompeo has pushed for US pension funds to cut ties with Chinese companies. Senior officials have even discussed ways to undermine the Hong Kong dollar’s peg to the US dollar, although that remains a remote possibility.“The Wang Yi speech is a game plan for restoring some stability in the relationship and it’s taken very seriously on the Chinese side,” said Susan Shirk, chair of the 21st Century China Center at the University of California, San Diego. “It would be nice if somebody could give some kind of response before we whacked them again.”Chen is the highest-ranking person to be hit with this kind of sanction in China, according to a senior administration official who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity. The latest sanctions shouldn’t be construed as last word, the official said, when asked if further measures are under consideration for the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, or XPCC.The US statement on Thursday cited the public security bureau’s use of “repressive tactics,” including “mass detentions and surveillance” against the region’s Uighur population.Trump aides weigh proposals to undermine Hong Kong’s dollar peg“The entity and officials are being designated for their connection to serious human rights abuse against ethnic minorities in Xinjiang, which reportedly include mass arbitrary detention and severe physical abuse, among other serious abuses targeting Uighurs, a Turkic Muslim population indigenous to Xinjiang, and other ethnic minorities in the region,” according to the statement.Although China is likely to object strongly to sanctions against a member of the Politburo, which oversees the running of the country, the sanctions likely won’t impact those targeted in any significant way. There’s little likelihood that the officials named have financial connections with the US The sanctions block access to accounts or businesses owned, directly or indirectly, by the people or the bureau. It also prohibits US persons from doing business with the sanctioned officials or entities.The move has “more symbolic significance than real impact,” said Zhou Qi, director of the Institute of American Studies at the state-run Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. “If some of them were planning to send their sons and daughters to study in the US, there will likely to be some impact on them individually. But in the view of the general public in China, the sanctions may not be a big deal for China as a country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-sanctions-top-chinese-officials-over-xinjiang-abuses/story-B7LV1duG3TQ3ge4bRR5McN.html
10-07-2020||World||Hong Kong to suspend all schools due to spike in Covid-19 cases: Report||Hong Kong is set to announce the suspension of all schools after a spike in locally transmitted coronavirus cases that has fuelled fears of a renewed community spread in the city, the South China Morning Post reported on Friday.The newspaper cited a medical source as saying that at least 30 more people had tested positive for the virus.The Asian financial hub reported 42 new cases on Thursday, of which 34 were locally transmitted, marking the second consecutive day of rising local infections.The total number of cases in the city since late January now stands at 1,366. Seven people have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-to-suspend-all-schools-due-to-spike-in-covid-19-cases-report/story-xjLFf1aP2XzRrFA23Ut7eN.html
10-07-2020||World||Donald Trump’s entry into African diplomacy stumbles over Nile dispute||Donald Trump’s biggest foray into African affairs has not turned out well.The US president’s bid to resolve a long-running dispute over a Nile dam has failed to make a breakthrough, joining his unsuccessful efforts in crises from North Korea to Kosovo.In the case of the Nile he’s largely fallen afoul of the same intractable regional politics that have bedeviled African leaders for years in their own fruitless attempts to end the disagreement. Even so, it risks adding to the perception the US is struggling to influence other countries. It follows Trump’s past denigration of African nations, while years of neglect of the continent by successive US administrations left the running to China.“Under Trump, the US has certainly lost its soft power in Africa,” said Mohamed Diatta, a researcher for the Pretoria-based Institute for Security Studies. “People on the continent don’t want to have anything to do with him.”Trump accepted Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah El-Sisi’s request in September to mediate the conflict with Ethiopia over a dam on the Nile, but his public praise for Sisi -- he once called him “my favorite dictator” -- signaled to African leaders that the US wasn’t going to be a honest broker. After it ended up with the United Nations Security Council, African nations are moving to wrestle back control of the process.The dispute is at a critical moment. Ethiopia has said it plans to start filling the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam, the site of Africa’s biggest hydropower plant, within weeks. Egypt says the dam will deprive its citizens of the water they need to farm and survive unless there’s a firm agreement on the pace of its filling.Read more: Tussle for Nile Control Escalates as Dam Talks FalterIn a letter to the Security Council on June 29, Egypt vowed to “uphold and protect the vital interests of its people.” “Survival is not a question of choice, but an imperative of nature,” it said.In a conversation with a small group of delegates at a conference last month, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa disparaged Trump’s involvement.Over refreshments, he said the US leader would need to visit Africa to sort things out in person but wouldn’t, because it is a “shithole” -- a reference to Trump’s 2018 comments about the continent. Ramaphosa also said that instead of allowing the African Union, which he currently chairs, to resolve the deadlock, Sisi “went running to his master,” a reference to America. Ramaphosa’s spokeswoman Khusela Diko said she had no knowledge of the conversation.Trump’s handing of the issue has raised eyebrows in the US itself. He bypassed the State Department and asked Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to spearhead the talks, simply because Mnuchin was at the meeting when Sisi made the request, people familiar with the situation said. Experts say the intervention has turned what was essentially a technical dispute into a national security issue for three nations that depend on the river -- Ethiopia, Sudan and Egypt.Colin Thomas-Jensen, a senior adviser with WestExec Advisors and former Africa policy adviser to one-time US Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power, said the US handling of the dispute had been “clumsy” but added it was unfair to blame the Trump administration for how bogged down the issue has become.“The crisis over the GERD has been building for nearly a decade, and yet there’s been negligible international effort to construct a mediation process with multilateral support from countries with leverage over the parties, including China and the Gulf states,” he said. “Instead, the Egyptians have been forum shopping with the United States and others while the Ethiopians have dragged their feet.”Two people familiar with the discussions, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the US thought it was making headway through early February, when a proposal appeared to have tentative support from all sides. But the people said Ethiopian officials reversed themselves and declined to attend Feb. 28 talks in Washington, bringing the process to a halt.The administration remains committed to helping reach a deal, the people said, rejecting claims the US has thrown its weight behind Egypt. Each of the parties has griped at various points about the situation, they said.Both the African Union and Ethiopia have stressed to the UN that the AU needs to take the lead in resolving the dispute, despite years of failing itself to make progress. In the words of Ethiopia, “the Nile and the GERD are African issues that must be given African solutions.”Ethiopia and Egypt are longtime rivals in a high-stakes battle for control over the Nile, Africa’s longest river. Ethiopia is seeking to break what it sees as centuries of domination by Cairo, codified in so-called colonial-era treaties of 1929 and 1959. As far back the 1970s, Egyptian President Anwar Sadat warned of war should the dam get built.Egypt fears the dam’s 74 billion cubic-meter reservoir and associated 6,000-megawatt power plant would give control over its water supply to a regional and upstream rival. Over the years it has argued the dam’s design was unsafe, would put the downstream flow of water at significant risk, and had a needlessly large dam and reservoir.“A threat of potentially existential proportions has emerged that could encroach on the single source of livelihood of over 100 million Egyptians,” Egypt said in its letter to the Security Council. Ethiopia rejects Egypt’s claims.Egypt’s foreign ministry didn’t respond to further requests for comment.‘Meaningful Concessions’“Egypt’s intention by taking the dispute to the UN Security Council is to lump international pressure onto Ethiopia and force it to make meaningful concessions,” said Anthony Skinner, director for Middle East and North Africa at UK-based risk consultancy Verisk Maplecroft.Egyptian diplomats say Ethiopia’s claims of US bias are disingenuous and seek to distract from its refusal to cooperate with other Nile nations. They point to strong US backing for the current, reformist government of Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, who won the Nobel Peace Prize last year for his efforts to end hostilities with neighboring Eritrea. Ethiopia received at least $881 million in financial assistance from the US in 2019, one of the highest levels worldwide.Still, a year and a half after the US got involved in the dispute, little has changed. It’s far cry from the pomp that greeted Trump’s involvement, with the World Bank joining the first US-mediated talks in early 2019.Another White House effort to wade into a thorny international dispute faced a setback last month. Kosovo’s leaders pulled out of US-brokered talks with Serbia scheduled for June 27 in Washington, after an international prosecutor in The Hague indicted President Hashim Thaci for war crimes in the former Serb province’s 1998-1999 war for independence.In the Nile dispute, on June 17 the White House put the onus on Ethiopia, urging the country to strike “a fair deal.”In response, Ethiopia took advantage of the fact that the AU chairmanship passed from Egypt to South Africa this year and asked Ramaphosa to get involved. The negotiations have now gone back to the AU, where several attempts years earlier to resolve the issue failed.“If the Security Council starts addressing developmental issues, outside of its mandate, it opens up a Pandora box and will be a stage for noise,” Ahmed told parliament on July 7.The latest moves have dimmed the chances of a US-brokered solution.“The US is no longer seen as an honest broker,” said Edward Hobey-Hamsher, a senior Africa analyst at Verisk Maplecroft. “Its role has come to an end.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-entry-into-african-diplomacy-stumbles-over-nile-dispute/story-HCdxjLBhLJ1R9PIpMlalBO.html
10-07-2020||World||NCP standing committee is postponed yet again, Chinese power play in Nepal||The much-awaited standing committee meeting of Nepalese Communist Party (NCP) was postponed yet again for one week even as pressure is mounting on Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli within the party to demit office.According to sources based in Kathmandu and New Delhi, the standing committee meeting was ostensibly postponed on grounds of heavy rains, landslides and floods in different parts of the Himalayan Republic. It is understood that NCP Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal aka Prachanda was against the postponing of the meeting till late last night but agreed in favour of postponement after he met top party leaders Madhav Nepal and Jhalanath Khanal.The postponement comes at a time when the Oli government has worked up the public sentiment yet again against India by citing a highly derogatory video by a private Indian news channel. While the cable TV operators pulled down some Indian TV channels in this response, the Oli government has virtually accused the Indian government for orchestrating the video clip and in turn rile up sentiments against New Delhi. “The safest bet for political survival in Nepal these days is to blame Indian government for all the wrongs. Everyone knows that Indian government does not exercise any influence over private media in India but this is a convenient political bullet to fire as it relieves pressure on PM Oli,” said a Nepal watcher.While Kathmandu is all up in arms against India, there is not even a word against Hou Yanqi, the Chinese ambassador to Nepal, who is feted by all political leaders across ideological spectrum in the Himalayan nation. Tasked by Beijing to keep the NCP united at all costs, Ambassador Hou Yanqi met NCP Chairman Dahal on Thursday morning in a bid to keep PM Oli in power and the party united. It is understood that Dahal met Hou after a number of requests and meeting rescheduling from the Chinese side. “Dahal was avoiding meeting Hou despite repeated requests from the latter as he wanted the Chinese ambassador to gauge the mood of other party leaders like Nepal and Khanal as well as know Beijing’s aims and objectives,” said a senior NCP leader from Nepal.It is learnt that Dahal told the Chinese diplomat that she should convince PM Oli to demit office so that the Communist regime can be sustained for times to come in Nepal. He apparently told her that stepping down of Oli was the best and the last option to bring stability in the party and ensure long term healthy relations with China. On her part, Hou emphasised that Beijing’s main aim was to ensure the party does not break and that no NCP leader should rush towards that direction.However, the politics in Kathmandu as of now is headed towards binary option with either PM Oli quitting the post of co-chairman or PM or the party splitting between Oli supporters and detractors. Even though the political situation remains fluid, the massive clout or interference of China in Nepal politics is quite evident as Beijing is playing the politicians both overtly and covertly. This is something that should raise a red flag in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ncp-standing-committee-is-postponed-yet-again-chinese-power-play-in-nepal/story-ewxXjxErpvixuapN9BwTaM.html
10-07-2020||World||Japan braces for more heavy rain as death toll due to floods reaches 66||Parts of Japan still searching for missing people and evacuating those stranded by deadly floods and mudslides were bracing for more pounding rains through the weekend.The death toll has risen to 66 as of Friday morning, with 16 others still missing, the Fire and Disaster Management Agency said. Most of them are in prefectures on Kyushu, Japan’s third-largest main island.The damage has spread beyond Kyushu into central Japan’s scenic mountain villages known for hot springs and hiking.Search and rescue work continued in Kuma village, where nine people are missing and the effort has been delayed by deep floodwater and the risk of more mudslides. People isolated by the flooding are still being airlifted to safety.In the famous hot springs town of Yufuin in Oita prefecture, an innkeeper was found dead, and rescuers were searching for three of her family members still missing.Nearly 2,000 people were still stranded in 70 places, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said. Rescue workers and the authorities have been in touch with most of those areas, though the extent of damage has not been fully known.The Meteorological Agency has issued evacuation advisories in Nagasaki and other areas on the Kyushu region due to continuing downpours. In all, more than 1.2 million people have been urged to evacuate, though it is not compulsory.The agency predicted up to 300 millimeters (11 inches) of rain on the southern island through Saturday.Suga urged residents in the affected regions to evacuate to designated facilities early and assured people that adequate virus safety measures are being used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-braces-for-more-heavy-rain-as-death-toll-due-to-floods-reaches-66/story-9HAGkuTKX6ZwNJA1dG1Q1J.html
10-07-2020||World||Seoul’s missing mayor park found dead after massive search||Seoul Mayor Park Won-soon, viewed as a potential candidate for the 2022 presidential election, was found dead hours after he was reported missing, police said, adding that he was the subject of an undisclosed investigation.Park’s daughter said he went missing on Thursday, telling the police his phone was shut off and that he made comments that sounded like a will before leaving his home, Yonhap News Agency reported. The prompted a seven-hour search for the mayor in wooded hills, deploying more than 500 officers and rescue personnel, drones and sniffer dogs.It is one of the highest profile political deaths in South Korea since former President Roh Moo-hyun committed suicide in 2009 as police were investigating him and his family for suspected graft.Park, 64, was seen near a park in Seoul by surveillance cameras at 10:53 a.m. and was reported missing at 5:17 p.m., authorities said.Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency official Choi Ik-soo said in an early morning briefing that Park was discovered just after midnight on Friday by a rescue dog near a trail along a fortress wall in a mountainous area overlooking Seoul. He was found with his bag and phone, Choi said. He declined to comment on the cause of death but said police don’t suspect foul play. No will was found at site of the body’s discovery.Choi also said the Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency had received a complaint on Wednesday about the mayor and that Park had been under investigation, without providing further details. National broadcasters SBS and KBS reported earlier that Park went missing after a staff member filed a sexual harassment claim against him this week.Seoul will install a memorial altar at its City Hall and Seo Jeong-hyup, a first vice mayor, is now its acting mayor. “I express my deep condolences to the citizens who may have fallen into sadness and confusion with sudden news,” Seo told a news briefing Friday.‘Unavoidable Situation’The mayor of Seoul -- a city of about 10 million people -- since 2011, Park was viewed as a contender to replace President Moon Jae-in when his single, five-year term ends. Both were members of the progressive Democratic Party, and the Seoul mayor is often considered the second-most powerful elected official in South Korea after the president.Park was re-elected to a four-year term as mayor in 2018 and had been a civil rights lawyer before entering politics, working on a landmark sexual harassment case and seeking justice for those who suffered under Japan’s 1910-1945 colonial rule over the Korean Peninsula.In recent months, Park was at the forefront of the country’s battle against the coronavirus.Seoul’s government had canceled his planned events for Thursday due to an “unavoidable situation” and that included a meeting that was to be held at 4 p.m., Yonhap and national broadcaster KBS reported.Born in 1956 and growing up in poverty, Park eventually became a student at prestigious Seoul National University. He took part in street protests against the authoritarian rule of former president Park Chung-hee, which led him to be arrested and expelled from one of South Korea’s top university in early 1970s.After finishing his studies at Dankook University, Park passed the national bar exam and eventually became a human rights lawyer.Park founded or oversaw several watchdog and philanthropic groups including People’s Solidarity for Participatory Democracy, one of the largest liberal organizations that has fought for labor rights and reform of the sprawling chaebol conglomerates.(Updates with comments from acting mayor.)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/seoul-s-missing-mayor-park-found-dead-after-massive-search/story-dT8diTkjSvkRAP3crBRTVP.html
10-07-2020||World||WHO promises ‘honest evaluation’ of how world handled Covid-19 pandemic||The World Health Organization (WHO) said on Thursday it was setting up an independent panel to review its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the response by governments.The announcement follows strong criticism by US President Donald Trump’s administration of the global agency’s role in the crisis - though the WHO said the review was not linked to the United States.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Former New Zealand prime minister Helen Clark and former Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf have agreed to head the panel, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said.“The magnitude of this pandemic, which has touched virtually everyone in the world, clearly deserves a commensurate evaluation, an honest evaluation,” Tedros told a virtual meeting with diplomats.The panel will provide an interim report to an annual meeting of health ministers in November and present a “substantive report” next May, he said.Trump has accused the WHO of being too close to China and not doing enough to question Beijing’s actions at the start of the crisis. Tedros has dismissed the suggestions and said his agency kept the world informed. Experts In May, Trump said the United States, the agency’s biggest donor, would pull out of the organisation unless there were real reforms, a threat he followed up on this week by giving a one-year notice of withdrawal.“The President has been clear that the WHO needs to get its act together. That starts with demonstrating significant progress and the ability to prevent, detect, and respond to infectious disease outbreaks with transparency and accountability,” a senior US official in Washington told Reuters on Thursday.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The WHO issued a statement saying the review was not linked to the United States and that its 194 member countries had asked in May for an evaluation of the global response. More than 12 million people are reported to have been infected by the novel coronavirus worldwide and 548,429​ have died since the virus emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan late last year, according to a Reuters tally.Lawrence Gostin, a professor at Georgetown Law in Washington, DC, said the panel should not be “an inside job” driven by states close to the WHO, nor should it pander to what he called “Trump’s conspiracy theories”. “What is really vital is we have truly independent experts from a variety of disciplines that will honestly and frankly review the situation with COVID,” Gostin told Reuters.“Are they going to review China’s action, are they going to review WHO’s initial response to China, look at things like ... WHO’s power to independently verify states’ reports?,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-promises-honest-evaluation-of-how-world-handled-covid-19-pandemic/story-CiNd5eW3fwbjb2S2zQgzEM.html
10-07-2020||World||China warns citizens of ‘unknown pneumonia’ with higher fatality than Covid-19||The Chinese embassy in Kazakhstan has issued a warning about an unknown pneumonia sweeping through the central Asian country after more than 600 people died of pneumonia in June.In an advisory issued for its citizens living in the former Soviet Bloc country, the Chinese embassy said the new disease has a fatality rate “much higher” than Covid-19.Kazakhstan borders northwest China’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.Also Watch | Covid death risk higher in elderly, men; Brazil press body sues BolsonaroThe “unknown pneumonia” in Kazakhstan caused 1,772 deaths in the first six months of the year, including 628 people in June alone, including Chinese citizens, the embassy said in a statement on its WeChat platform on Thursday.“The fatality rate of the disease is much higher than Covid-19,” read the embassy’s statement.It wasn’t immediately clear if Chinese officials had more information about the pneumonia or any specific reason to call it unknown: Kazakh media have only said it is pneumonia.Also Read: Kazakhstan denies Chinese reports of pneumonia deadlier than coronavirusIt was also not known if the WHO had been informed about the “unknown pneumonia”.“The Chinese embassy in Kazakhstan reminds Chinese nationals here to be aware of the situation and step up prevention to lower the infection risks,” the embassy statement said.According to Chinese state media, Kazakhstan’s healthcare minister said on Wednesday that the number of patients sickened by the pneumonia is two to three times more than those who have been infected with Covid-19.The country implemented a lockdown on March 16 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic; restrictions were lifted in May but reimposed following an increase in cases.President Kassim-Jomart Tokayev has said the country could be facing a second wave of infections.Kazakhstan’s President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, according to the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post, said in a televised address on Wednesday that the situation was still serious, and it was too early to relax restrictions.He added the country was “in fact facing the second coronavirus wave coupled with a huge uptick in pneumonia cases”.Saule Kisikova, the health care department chief in the capital Nur-Sultan, told the news agency Kazinform: “Some 300 people diagnosed with pneumonia are being hospitalised every day.”China, according to a Reuters report, is a major investor in oil- and metals-rich Kazakhstan and is one of the main markets for its exports, dominated by commodities. Kazakhstan also makes money from Chinese goods carried across its territory to Europe.The Kazakhstan’s foreign ministry had summoned the Chinese ambassador in April to protest over an article on a Chinese website saying the country was keen to become part of China, the ministry said.It was a rare move as the two countries avoid criticising each other.It was during a lecture at a university in Kazakhstan that President Xi Jinping had first talked about the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), his ambitious inter-continental connectivity project, in 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-warns-citizens-of-unknown-pneumonia-with-higher-fatality-than-covid-19/story-j85OaOyFBuKI90UXM7yeXM.html
10-07-2020||World||US posts new record Covid-19 caseload of more than 65,000: Johns Hopkins||The US on Thursday posted 65,551 new coronavirus cases, a record for a 24-hour period, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.The country, the hardest-hit in the world by the pandemic, has a total caseload of more than 3.1 million, with 133,195 deaths. The previous daily record was Tuesday, at more than 60,200 cases in one day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-posts-new-record-covid-19-caseload-of-more-than-65-000-johns-hopkins/story-NVLs7FqVh30wOruh39t5HJ.html
10-07-2020||World||Singaporeans begin voting with masks and gloves under Covid-19 cloud||Singaporeans wearing masks and gloves began casting their ballot on Friday under the cloud of the Covid-19 pandemic that is pushing the city-state’s economy towards its deepest recession and has made concerns over jobs the focus of the election.In power since independence in 1965, the ruling People’s Action Party (PAP) is expected to carry Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong to another comfortable, and probably final victory.The son of Lee Kuan Yew, Singapore’s founding leader, Lee has held the premiership since 2004, but aged 68 he has already flagged his intention to step aside in coming years.Seen as a measure of approval for both the government’s response to the coronavirus crisis and the next generation of leaders, the poll results will be closely watched as even small shifts in the PAP’s popularity can lead to major policy changes.At one polling centre in a school on Friday, about 30 elderly people queued up before voting started and election officials were seen directing the crowd to wear masks and face shields.When concerns around immigration and jobs flared in 2011, the PAP polled a record-low 60% of the vote and tightened international hiring rules to address voters’ sensitivities.As the Asian trade and finance hub emerges from lockdown to face its deepest recession, these concerns are once again to the fore.“I think it’s ok to vote during a pandemic because the conditions aren’t that severe at this point and all necessary precautions are being taken,” said Malini Nathan, 42, a communications executive.“Issues I am concerned about are healthcare, job security and retirement,” Nathan said.Sample counts are expected soon after the close of polls at 8 p.m. (1200 GMT) with final results due in the early hours of Saturday.Citizens have each been given a recommended voting window.SANITIZED There are just 2.65 million voters, and election organisers are counting on a fast, regimented and hygienic vote to minimise risks of coronavirus infections.Since easing a lockdown last month, the number of new daily cases crept back into double figures last week, excluding the migrant workers living in dormitories where infection rates have been far higher.Wearing masks is compulsory in public. And voters are expected to spend no more than five minutes in a polling station, where they will self-scan identity cards, sanitise their hands and pull on disposable gloves before receiving a ballot paper.Singapore is not the first country in Asia to hold elections during the pandemic - South Korea held parliamentary elections in April - but its mandatory ballot comes under strict conditions.Covid-19 patients and those under quarantine cannot vote, but a mobile polling team will bring the ballot box to the rooms of Singaporeans who have recently returned from overseas and are being isolated at hotels.The virus outbreak also constrained campaigning as candidates had to adhere to social distancing rules that limit groups to five, avoid shaking hands or fist bumping. Mass rallies - often attended by thousands - were banned. The city-state has one of the lowest Covid-19 fatality rates in the world, and initially earned widespread praise for its Covid-19 containment efforts.But subsequent mass outbreaks in cramped migrant worker dormitories stained that early success, and persuaded the government to keep schools and businesses closed for longer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singaporeans-begin-voting-with-masks-and-gloves-under-covid-19-cloud/story-pHlmKlVPxxd2RlC4VpboWL.html
10-07-2020||World||US bans Pakistan International Airlines flights over pilot concerns||The US Department of Transportation said it has revoked permission for Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) to conduct charter flights to the United States, citing Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) concerns over Pakistani pilot certifications.The information is contained in a revocation of special authorisation dated July 1 provided by the department to Reuters on Friday.Pakistan last month grounded almost a third of its pilots after discovering they may have falsified their qualifications.The European Union Aviation Safety Agency suspended PIA’s authorisation to fly to the bloc for six months in a blow to the carrier’s operations.PIA was not available immediately for comment outside normal business hours.Pakistan’s Geo News reported PIA had confirmed the US ban and said it would address the concerns through ongoing corrective measures within the airline.Pakistan’s grounding of pilots with dubious credentials followed the crash of a PIA jet in May that killed 97 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-bans-pakistan-international-airlines-flights-over-pilot-concerns/story-UztVikDvjbVd4hOCEmQGNL.html
10-07-2020||World||BlueLeaks: Germany seizes server hosting pilfered US police files||At the behest of the US government, German authorities have seized a computer server that hosted a huge cache of files from scores of US federal, state and local law enforcement agencies obtained in a Houston data breach last month. The server was being used by a WikiLeaks-like data transparency collective called Distributed Denial of Secrets to share documents — many tagged “For Official Use Only” — that shed light on US police practices. The data, dating back to 1996, include emails, audio and video files and police and FBI intelligence reports. DDoSecrets founder Emma Best said the data, dubbed “BlueLeaks,” comes from more than 200 agencies. It has been stripped of references to sexual assault cases and references to children, but names, phone numbers and emails of police officers were not redacted, said Best, who uses they/their pronouns. Best said that DDoSecrets obtained the data from an outside individual who sympathized with nationwide protests against police killings of unarmed Black people. Some of the files offer insights into the police response to those protests, they said. While hacking into computers and stealing data is a federal crime, US courts have consistently ruled that journalists may publish stolen documents as long as they are not involved in their theft. DDoSecrets says it is a journalistic organization that shares documents in the public interest. The documents came to light via a breach of Houston web-design company Netsential, which hosts portals for law enforcement agencies and “fusion centers,” state-run operations created after the 9/11 attacks to share threat intelligence with local and state police and private-sector partners. The prosecutor’s office in Zwickau, a German city near the Czech border, said in an emailed statement Wednesday that the server was confiscated July 3 in the town of Falkenstein following a request from US authorities. The FBI declined to comment. A US Embassy spokesperson in Berlin did not respond to phone calls and emails seeking comment. The Zwickau prosecutors’ statement said it would be up to German judicial authorities to decide whether to hand the server over to US authorities. It said it would not disclose the reason for the US request. Neither would a representative of Hetzner Online, the company that hosted the server. Best said they assume the seizure was related to the posting of the BlueLeaks documents. They said the files show “a lot of things that are entirely legal and normal and horrifying,” including police surveillance and police intelligence of dubious origin. Best said none were classified. The document dump helps expose “the United States’ overdeveloped police intelligence apparatus,” said Brendan McQuade, a criminology professor at the University of Southern Maine who has viewed the documents. The files do not include high-level intelligence but provide a window into the relationship between law enforcement at all levels, he said — one that he believes the FBI doesn’t want the public to see lest it ”add more fuel to the protests” against police brutality and racism in policing. Best said the files remain publicly accessible through more complicated means such as BitTorrent and the Tor network, both of which complicate censorship efforts. Best said the organization is now rebuilding its infrastructure for public access. “All they cost us is time,” they said. Shortly after DDoSecrets posted the data, Twitter permanently suspended the organization’s account for publishing links and images from the collection, citing a ban on the posting of hacked material. One US law enforcement agency affected by the breach is the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy. Its director, Judy Bradshaw, told The Associated Press the breach revealed names of students in academy courses and their drivers licenses, but no financial information. She said Netsential had scores of clients in law enforcement, where it was a strong niche provider. Netsential itself confirmed the breach in an undated statement on its bare-bones website and said it was assisting the investigation but would provide no further information “due to the sensitivity of client information.” Executives of the National Fusion Centers Association did not respond to emails and phone calls seeking comment on whether any sensitive investigations may have been compromised by the breach. But Maine State Police said in a statement on June 26 that the FBI was investigating and that affected bulletins may “contain identifying information, such as full name and date of birth of people under investigation by other law enforcement agencies.” It said they “may also involve individuals wanted for criminal activity.” DDoSecrets was created in late 2018 by Best, a journalist specializing in freedom-of-information petitions. It has worked on various investigations with established media organizations including the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel and the US news organization McClatchy. Previous DDoSecrets releases include data on offshore Bahamas accounts used as tax havens, files hacked from Chilean police and data from a British provider of offshore financial services that has drawn comparisons, on a smaller scale, to the 2016 Panama Papers leak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blueleaks-germany-seizes-server-hosting-pilfered-us-police-files/story-JVCbRPANHcqbZyvxTcKuyI.html
10-07-2020||World||US will respond if Russia bounty reports are true, says Pentagon||Top Pentagon leaders told Congress on Thursday that reports of Russia offering Taliban militants bounties for killing Americans were not corroborated by defense intelligence agencies, but said they are looking into it and the US will respond if necessary. Defense Secretary Mark Esper said his military commanders heard initial reports on the bounties in January and he first saw an intelligence paper about it in February. While the threats were taken seriously, he said they have not yet been found credible. Esper and Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, were testifying before the House Armed Services Committee on the role of the military during recent protests triggered by the killing of George Floyd. Several House members asked about the Russian bounty reports. Milley said Russia and other nations have long worked against the US in Afghanistan, but the specific notion of bounties has not been proven. “If in fact there’s bounties directed by the government of Russia or any of their institutions to kill American soldiers, that’s a big deal,” he said. “I and the secretary and many others are taking it seriously, we’re going to get to the bottom of it, we’re going to find out if, in fact, it’s true. And if it is true we will take action.” The bulk of the hearing focused on the role of the National Guard soldiers during the civil unrest in support of law enforcement agencies. Esper said using the Guard was a better alternative than using active-duty forces as President Donald Trump had threatened. His stance is at odds with Trump, who had spoken of invoking the Insurrection Act in order to use active-duty forces on the streets of the nation’s capital during protests in late May and early June that included limited acts of violence, such as setting a fire in St. John’s Episcopal Church near the White House. Several active-duty units were put on alert but ultimately were not deployed in Washington. “Using active-duty forces in a direct civilian law enforcement role should remain a last resort, and exercised only in the most urgent and dire of situations,” Esper said, stressing that no active-duty military units engaged protesters or took a direct part in law enforcement in the District of Columbia or other places in the country. Esper and Milley, however, acknowledged there was confusion in the streets and it was often difficult to tell the difference between the Guard troops and the many law enforcement agencies who also had personnel in Washington. “You want a clear visual distinction,” said Milley, between “that which is military and that which is police.” And Esper said one thing officials are discussing is that the Guard loaned shields to law enforcement officers during the unrest. In the future, he said, they might want to cover the military police designation on the shields when they are loaned out, to make it clearer they are not military. Thursday was the first time Esper and Milley have testified before Congress since March 4, when they appeared to discuss the administration’s defense policy proposal. A few of the panel members were in the room, but many participated remotely due to the coronavirus pandemic. Trump’s push for an aggressive response to the civil unrest led to an extraordinary clash with Esper and Milley, who on June 1 accompanied the president when he walked from the White House to St. John’s Church on Lafayette Square, where he held up a Bible for photographers. That day, a National Guard helicopter was flown at extremely low altitude to help disperse protesters from the capital’s streets, prompting a Pentagon investigation into whether that was a proper use of military resources. Esper told the committee the Army has completed the helicopter probe and the results are under review. Esper drew Trump’s ire for telling a Pentagon news conference on June 3 that he opposed invoking the Insurrection Act to permit the president to use the armed forces to put down domestic civil unrest. Esper said he saw no need for such an extreme measure, a clear counterpoint to Trump’s threat to use force. Esper also had previously made known his regret at having accompanied Trump to the presidential photo opportunity in front of St. John’s on the day of the Lafayette Square confrontations. In his testimony Thursday, Esper alluded to his worry that the photo op episode could be seen as undermining his apolitical role. “As one of the country’s most respected institutions, we work to maintain the trust of the American people through our time-honoured commitment to our mission and core values, while remaining neutral and non-partisan in all matters,” he said. Milley in June expressed public regret that he also had been part of the scene with Trump. He said he had been wrong to stride in uniform with Trump after protesters had been cleared from Lafayette Square. Milley said his presence “created a perception of the military involved in domestic politics.” “I should not have been there,” he told a National Defense University commencement ceremony. (AP) IND IND||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-will-respond-if-russia-bounty-reports-are-true-says-pentagon/story-T0dwyE7QLAbqgzGiJ5JKMN.html
10-07-2020||World||Global Covid-19 infections shoot past 12 million mark||More than 12 million coronavirus infections have now been recorded across the world, over half of it in the United States and Latin America, according to an AFP tally of official data on Thursday.At least 12,063,425 cases and 549,451 deaths have been recorded, with the number of infections doubling since May 31. About half of those who caught the virus have recovered.With at least 3,055,100 infections and over 132,300 deaths, the US continues to be the worst-affected country, with Brazil second having registered 1,713,160 cases and 67,964 deaths.In the US, health authorities from Oklahoma said President Donald Trump’s rally and other mass events in Tulsa last month “more than likely” contributed to a local surge in cases.Tulsa has seen record daily new Covid-19 cases this week, including 266 on Wednesday. Pressed on whether this explosion in new infections was due to Trump’s June 20 meeting, Tulsa health department director Bruce Dart said it was “more than likely” that “significant events in the past few weeks” contributed.Trump, meanwhile, threatened to hold back federal money if school districts don’t bring their students back in the fall. In Africa, the pandemic is reaching “full speed”, the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention chief said, after a South African official said a single province is preparing 1.5 million gravesites.Just a day after cases across Africa surpassed the half-million mark, the total was over 522,000, with more than 12,000 deaths. South Africa has the most confirmed cases with over 224,000.In Australia, Victoria state recorded 165 new cases in the past 24 hours, as an outbreak at a Melbourne high school became the state’s largest cluster.British pharmacy giant Boots and UK department store group John Lewis said on Thursday they would axe at least 5,300 jobs, despite government efforts to safeguard employment during the coronavirus pandemic.US-owned Boots said it would shed more than 4,000 roles after Britain’s lockdown slashed sales.John Lewis meanwhile said it did not plan to reopen eight stores forced to shut because of the lockdown, affecting 1,300 jobs.But striking a confident note, the government on Thursday allowed live music, art and theatre shows in the open, besides permitting gyms and pools to reopen, saying “huge progress” was made in tackling the coronavirus pandemic.As on Thursday, the UK had recorded 44.602 deaths and 287,004 positive cases, but daily and weekly rise in new infections and deaths have been dwindling, allowing for more economic sectors and areas of public life to reopen from later this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-covid-19-infections-shoot-past-12-million-mark/story-QWvx9c00H0pM2hGVykkXkI.html
10-07-2020||World||Brazil press body sues Jair Bolsonaro for removing mask at media interaction||The Brazilian Press Association on Thursday filed a criminal complaint to the Supreme Court against President Jair Bolsonaro, after he took off his mask in a televised interview in which he announced he had tested positive for Covid-19.Bolsonaro made his announcement on Tuesday. Broadcasters pulled journalists off the job after they were exposed to Bolsonaro in the interview, quarantining them until they test negative.In its complaint, the press association alleged that Bolsonaro had committed at least two crimes related to putting someone’s life or health at imminent risk and failing to prevent the spread of an infectious disease.The press body sought its complaint be sent to the attorney general’s office to decide on whether there were grounds to proceed with a criminal probe.Bolsonaro, 65, is in quarantine. The former army captain has a prickly relationship with journalists, often alleging unfair treatment and quick to label critical coverage as fake news.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-press-body-sues-jair-bolsonaro-for-removing-mask-at-media-interaction/story-oYckQVDb2rTmlnZRg8ZEpI.html
10-07-2020||World||George Floyd said ‘I can’t breathe’ 20 times||George Floyd said he couldn’t breathe more than 20 times, called out for his children and late mother and said officers would “kill” him before he died in police custody in Minneapolis, new evidence showed.Floyd, a Black man, died on May 25 when a white police officer knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes.Transcripts of the police officers’ body camera footage, filed Tuesday in Minnesota state court by Thomas Lane, one of the officers involved in Floyd’s death, has revealed new details about his final moments.When the officers first arrested him, Floyd begged them not to put him in the police car, telling them he was claustrophobic and in physical distress.As they tried to force him into the car, Floyd cried out that he couldn’t breathe and was “going to die in here.”Later, according to the transcript, he said, “Momma, I love you. Tell my kids I love them. I’m dead.” He called for his mother and children several more times.Throughout his arrest, Floyd said “I can’t breathe” more than 20 times. The officers can be heard telling him to “relax,” and that he was doing “fine” and “talking fine.”At one point, as Floyd insisted they were going to kill him, officer Derek Chauvin shouted, “Then stop talking, stop yelling, it takes a heck of a lot of oxygen to talk.”According to the transcript, Floyd’s last words were, “They’re going to kill me. They’re going to kill me. I can’t breathe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-floyd-said-i-can-t-breathe-20-times/story-yd0Y6IWXVXwlSXVkOwFG3J.html
10-07-2020||India||Earthmover dumps 3 bodies in Nellore, investigation on||The Nellore district administration on Friday ordered a probe into the incident of the local municipal staff allegedly carrying the bodies of three Covid-19 victims in an earth mover and then dumping them into a grave, at a spot adjacent to Penna river.A video, shot late in the evening by a person crossing the highway adjacent to the river, showed some people in personal protective equipment (PPE) taking out three bodies from an ambulance and dumping them in the earth mover.In another video, the earthmover could be seen carrying the bodies to a pit a few metres away and dumping all of them into it.As the videos went viral on social media and were played on local television channel, the chief minister’s office ordered the Nellore district administration to conduct an inquiry.“A detailed inquiry has been ordered into the burial of the dead bodies of Covid-19 patients in Penna river. Nellore revenue divisional officer Hussian Saheb has been appointed as special officer and will conduct the inquiry,” an official statement from the CMO said.Hussain Saheb, who is also a sub-divisional magistrate, said he would submit his inquiry report to the district collector.The opposition Telugu Desam Party reacted to the inhuman treatment of the bodies by municipal staff.“Pained to see bodies of #Covid_19 patients in Nellore being disrespectfully thrown into a single pit using an Earthmover. This is happening time & again. @ysjagan Govt must offer an apology to the grieving families who wished for a respectful departure for their loved ones,” TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu tweeted.This is the third such incident in Andhra Pradesh in the recent past. On July 6, municipal authorities in Tirupati had also used an earth mover to lift the body of a Covid-19 victim from the ambulance and then dumped it into a grave.On June 26, the municipal staff in Palasa town in Srikakulam district used an earth mover to carry the body of a Covid-19 victim from his house for last rites, after the victim’s relatives refused to perform the last rites. On chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy’s instructions, the district authorities suspended six municipal employees over the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthmover-dumps-3-bodies-in-nellore-investigation-on/story-Ui8NfV9dXcWMqFvWrAxLLO.html
10-07-2020||India||SC declines parents’ plea for moratorium on school fees||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to hear a petition by parents from eight states demanding a moratorium on payment of school fees till lifting of lockdown and lamented the fact that such matters have to reach court for redress without being addressed at the executive level.Asking the parents to approach their respective high courts, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said, “We find it very odd that we have to hear such matters. This must be tackled by the executive.”The bench rued that the courts were getting drawn into many things that rested within the executive domain. It cited the example of migrant workers, Covid testing fees and now, the issue of charging school fees. “At the moment we do not know what to do. In such matters, even though problems may vary from state to state, parties approach this court and get disappointed when we refuse to issue notice.”For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe petitioners, represented by advocate Mayank Kshirsagar, informed the court that at present there was no uniformity with regard to payment of fees with seven high courts of the country taking a different take on the matter.The bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and AS Bopanna said, “These are sad situations. We don’t want to reject your petition on merits but why don’t you approach your jurisdictional high courts. Situation can vary from state to state and even district to district.”The petition by a group of ten parents from Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Odisha, and Uttarakhand also demanded facilities to be provided for socially and economically backward students to cope up with the online classes till the lockdown was in force.Covid-19 lockdown won’t impact three-month cheque validity, rules Supreme CourtThey even sought a moratorium on payment of fees either from April to June or till such time the schools reopen. Most petitioners claimed that they faced tremendous financial and emotional hardships and will be forced to withdraw their children if forced to deposit fees.The parents further exposed the ineffectiveness of conducting online classes as most families do not have either computers or internet. It quoted the National Sample Survey (NSS) data of 2017-18, according to which, only 4.4 percent rural households and 23 percent urban households have access to computers. Interestingly, the internet penetration is restricted to 14.9 percent in the rural sector and 42 percent in the urban sector, the NSS data stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-declines-parents-plea-for-moratorium-on-school-fees/story-POhfEcNaFcWlRzAGH5NHlI.html
10-07-2020||India||Brazen disregard for safety norms marks the 1st day of lockdown in West Bengal||Rampant violation of social distancing norms was witnessed and wearing of masks almost took a back seat in large parts of Kolkata and its adjoining districts, even as the police tried to enforce restrictions in at least 25 containment zones on the first day of the week-long lockdown in West Bengal.Covid-19 cases in the state jumped by more than 12,000 in the last three weeks to reach 24,833 on July 9, forcing the Mamata Banerjee government to impose lockdown in more than 230 containment zones across the state. Kolkata has 25 such zones. The cases have climbed further to 27,109 as on Friday. On the first day of the lockdown, which started around 5 pm on Thursday, the city police put up barricades and guard rails to restrict the entry and exit of people in the containment zones. Policemen and volunteers were deployed to man the barricades. Shops were also closed while sanitization was being done simultaneously in the containment zones. “We have stopped quite a few people from going out and coming in through the barricades. In case someone needs anything they are being asked to contact the police helpline. Announcements were made on microphones requesting people to stay indoors. Those who came out without masks were sent back home,” said a senior police official.ASHA workers protest in Bengaluru over inadequate salary, lack of PPE kitsKolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma was also seen visiting some of the containment zones to take stock of the situation.“Such a lockdown is welcome as the disease is spreading. But the police and administration can’t do anything if the citizens do not follow the norms. They need to be more responsible,” said Kakoli Sen, a resident of Chakraberia Road in south Kolkata which has been declared a containment zone.The scenario was just the opposite outside the containment zones in the city and in large parts of the state on Friday. Many people hit the streets with face masks in their pockets or dangling near their neck. Markets were crowded with shops and shoppers hardly maintaining any social distancing norms. Political protests and rallies for various reasons were also organised without following any norms. Also Read: Vandalised statue of a tribal icon triggers BJP-TMC tug of war ahead of Bengal pollsAt Salkia in Howrah, it was business as usual in the local market. People could be seen violating social distancing norms and many were not wearing masks.“I went out to buy some chillies and coriander. It was not necessary though. I just wanted to go out,” said 54-year-old Shyamal Deb, a resident of Jeliapara Lane at Salkia in Howrah.A top official in the state government said the lockdown was enforced strictly in all containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brazen-disregard-for-safety-norms-marks-the-1st-day-of-lockdown-in-west-bengal/story-BlwNTY89AkeTziA5GOtaLM.html
10-07-2020||India||Record 755 new Covid-19 cases push Odisha’s tally near 12k, state to add 2,000 beds||Odisha recorded its highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases as 755 new cases were reported on Friday, taking the total infections to 11, 956 cases.The record surge pushed the daily growth rate to 6.74 percent and sample positivity rate to 11.69 per cent, both higher than national rate, straining the government’s available resources to fight the pandemic. Of the 755 cases, Ganjam district alone contributed 42 per cent of the total load.On the bright side, Friday also saw the biggest ever recoveries in a single day as 565 Covid patients were discharged from hospitals.Meanwhile, the Covid-19 death toll in Odisha rose to 56 after four more people succumbed to coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours. All four deaths were reported from Ganjam district. In addition, two more Covid patients died due to other health issues.With cases rising significantly, the state government has now decided to set up six more Covid Hospitals in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and add over 2,000 beds. The state has over 5,500 beds in Covid hospitals and another 21,000 beds at Covid care centres for patients with mild symptoms.The state will also ramp up rapid antigen tests to 2,000 tests per day in a fortnight. Director of Institute of Life Sciences Dr Ajay Parida said Odisha will conduct 6,000 RT-PCR tests a day to detect COVID. He said 30,000 antigen test kits have arrived in the state and orders for one lakh more kits will be placed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-755-new-covid-19-cases-push-odisha-s-tally-near-12k-state-to-add-2-000-beds/story-UI1wjHzB3XWNVEXyHgqvAM.html
10-07-2020||India||Another gold haul in Kerala, 3.50 kg seized from Kozhikkode airport||As the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took up the probe in Thiruvananthapuram airport gold smuggling case with the opposition stepping up its protests seeking chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s resignation, the customs intelligence on Friday made another major seizure of the precious metal.Customs said 3.50 kg of gold were seized from three passengers at Kozhikkode international airport, who had arrived in chartered flights from West Asian countries. The market value of the seized gold is more than Rs 1.60 crore, it said, adding this was the 14th major seizure made at Kozhikkode airport since January this year.National Investigation Agency files case against 4 in Kerala gold smuggling scandal“This shows the brazen act of the smuggling syndicates. They are threatening our system. In most cases they are using poor people who lost their jobs by promising them good returns. It is sad that some of these people are quite unaware of dangers attached to such acts,” said a senior officer who did not want to be identified.Last Sunday, the Customs had seized 30 kg of gold from an air cargo consignment from the United Arab Emirates to the country’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Swapna Suresh, who was working as the IT and space consultant with the state IT ministry, had gone underground after the seizure. Later, CM Pinarayi Vijayan had transferred his principal secretary M Sivasankar who was reportedly close to Suresh. The Union Government had later handed over the case to the NIA.Watch: Kerala gold smuggling case updates: NIA registers FIR; protests against VijayanAccording to the India Gold Council data, the country imported 831 tonne of gold in 2019, but customs officials and jewellers says that more than half of this quantity floods the market through illegal ways. At least 550 kg of gold was seized from the state last year. After gold prices skyrocketed, there is a big spike in smuggling also.Imported metal attracts 10 per cent import duty and 3 per cent GST. Jewellers say one kg of smuggled gold fetches a profit between Rs 8 and 10 lakh. Often smuggling syndicates think that frisking norms would be at a minimum during the covid days and tickets won’t be checked in case of chartered flights and therefore take poor returnees for a ride, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-gold-haul-in-kerala-3-50-kg-seized-from-kozhikkode-airport/story-l55XsH4AFotyHOkKlnYyEJ.html
10-07-2020||India||Record 7,862 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours take Maharashtra near 2.4 lakh mark||Maharashtra on Friday reported its highest single-day spike of 7,862 new cases taking the overall tally of Covid-19 patients in the state to 2,38,461, according to data released by the health department. The state also recorded 226 cases of deaths due to the deadly infection, taking the death toll in the state to 9,893, a touch shy of the 10,000 mark.5,366 patients were declared to have been recovered in the last 24 hours taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 1,32,625, leaving 95,943 active cases in the state at present.Mumbai recorded 1,337 new coronavirus cases taking the total past the 90,000 mark in the maximum city. At 90,461 cases, Mumbai has contributed the most number of infections to the state tally. India’s financial capital also recorded 73 new casualties in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths attributed to the disease to 5,205.The sharpest rise seen so far in daily cases recorded in Maharashtra came on a day the state government took some tough decisions including announcing a 10-day long lockdown in areas of Pune district beginning July 13 to stem the rise of infections.Pune lockdown in two phases, here are the five important things to knowIn a similar precautionary measure, the lockdown was extended in Thane district till July 19 from July 12, when the 10-day lockdown clamped on July 2 was supposed to end.The government also announced the decision to buy antiviral drugs Remdesivir and Tocilizumab in bulk to meet the shortfall.Minister Anil Deshmukh said the government will take strict action against black marketeers of the drugs used in treating coronavirus patients.Maharashtra’s prisons witness surge in Covid-19 casesIn another significant decision, the administration decided to impose curfew in Nanded district from next week to check the rise of infections. 34 persons tested positive for the virus on Friday morning in the district, taking the total number of cases in the jurisdiction to 558.The curfew will start on the midnight of July 12 and continue till the midnight of July 20, said an official release. Medical facilities and government offices will continue to operate normally during the curfew while essential services such as ration shops, vegetable vendors, milk shops and cooking gas vendors will be allowed to operate during prescribed hours, the official statement quoted by PTI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-7-862-covid-cases-in-24-hours-take-maharashtra-near-2-4-lakh-mark/story-U3x2AT5WI8tQzEag1CXxbL.html
10-07-2020||India||2 Odisha cancer care hospitals shut over Covid exposure, patients in limbo||The Covid pandemic has disrupted the spectrum of cancer care in Odisha as the out patient department of the state’s only government-owned cancer care hospital at Cuttack remains shut for over a week following detection of 100-odd Covid cases there over last week.Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre (AHRCC) at Cuttack is eastern India’s biggest cancer hospital where at least 300-350 cancer patients come for treatment, surgery and palliative care everyday. As the only tertiary cancer hospital of Odisha, it is the lifeline for patients who can’t travel to Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai or access the relatively expensive private hospitals in Bhubaneswar. Adding to the troubles, is the shutting down of OPD of AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, which is the second government health institution with an advanced cancer care facility in Odisha after AHRCC.But with more than 100 patients and staff of the regional cancer centre getting infected by coronavirus over the week after a Covid-19 patient’s admission to the hospital, the administration first sealed the emergency ward a week ago and finally stopped the OPD services leaving hundreds of cancer patients in the lurch. The AIIMS shut down its OPD from today after 96 patients, doctors and other paramedical staff were found Covid positive in less than a fortnight dealing a blow to thousands of cancer patients.“As it is they are in the biggest risk category due to low immunity. Now due to lockdown and shutdown of cancer hospitals they are forced to delay their treatment. They are caught between the devil and the deep sea. Everyone knows cancer treatment is highly expensive and slight delay in treatment can worsen things. Since the lockdown started, we have been getting frantic calls from family members of cancer patients across the state to help them financially as well as for treatment,” said Bhubaneswar-based cancer survivor Swagatika Acharya, who runs an NGO called AwAAKen for cancer patients in Odisha.While the pandemic and the subsequent shutdown of hospitals have been distressing for cancer patients all over the state, it has been more distressing for people of Bargarh district, considered as cancer capital of Odisha. Last month, Subash Chouhan, senior BJD leader from Bargarh, passed away in Bhubaneswar after battling with cancer.Basant Sahu, a 72-year-old mouth cancer patient of Bargarh district was planning to visit the cancer centre next week when he heard about the shutdown of the hospital. Sahu, who was earlier diagnosed with stomach cancer eight years ago, had just about managed to recover when the doctors at the cancer centre diagnosed him with mouth cancer. “For me travelling to Mumbai is out of question as I can’t afford the travel cost. I was planning to come to the cancer hospital at Cuttack when I heard about closure of its OPD service. This is a big setback for poor patients like me,” said Sahu.Like Sahu, Md Atik, a 46-year-old mouth cancer patient of Bargarh district, was diagnosed with cancer in his oral cavity in 2018. A BPL cardholder, Atik did not treat his cancer for almost one and half year till it worsened, impairing his speech. With help of friends like Aswini Darjee, Atik was planning to go for consultation early this week when the hospital was shut down. “It’s becoming painful for me. I thought I would somehow travel to Cuttack and consult the doctors at the cancer centre. I don’t know if I can bear the pain till the hospital opens,” said Atik.Like him, 44-year-old Puspanjali Behera was planning to visit AHRCC for consultation. It has been a case of double blow for Behera who lost her husband to blood cancer and then was diagnosed with breast cancer six years ago. “During lockdown, I was planning to go to Tata Memorial hospital at Mumbai when I was told that they are not allowing outside patients due to pandemic. My next option was AHRCC. But now that too is shut,” said Behera.There have been others like a 45-year-old oral cancer patient from Balasore district, who could not get palliative treatment at the cancer centre of Cuttack due to its closure. “The man is in 4th stage and his chances of survival are very grim. He can’t wait for the hospital to open. As the AHRCC was shut, we could somehow manage to get him consulted at the AIIMS Bhubaneswar after much persuasion. There are several patients who are on the verge of death due to shutting down of AHRCC,” said Acharya.Odisha on an average sees around 50,000 cases a year, a large portion of whom come to AHRCC and AIIMS Bhubaneswar. A few others get treated at private hospitals. “But treatment of cancer at private hospitals is costly. The importance of a government hospital is felt more at the time of pandemic,” said Aswini Kumar Darjee, who has started a group called Fighters Group of Cancer Survivors.Soumya Surath Panda, an oncologist working in a city hospital, said pandemic has made it difficult for doctors like him. “It has been an overwhelming situation. Despite the best precautions, doctors are at as much risk as the patients. Besides, we have to be doubly careful as all cancer patients have low immunity particularly those undergoing chemotherapy,” said Panda.Meanwhile, officials at the AHRCC said they are trying to sanitise the building before opening it for patients. “The old building had been cleaned and sanitized. We are fumigating the OT fumigation. We plan to start Radiotherapy from July 14,” said director of AHRCC, Lalatendu Sarangi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-odisha-cancer-hospitals-shut-over-covid-exposure-patients-feel-the-pinch/story-G5RUx5c3zCxRGdt4184TBM.html
10-07-2020||India||All inmates at Goa’s central jail to be tested for Covid-19 after jailor found positive||The Goa health authorities will test all inmates at the central jail in Colvale after a jailor was found Covid-19 positive, Health Secretary Nila Mohanan said. The screening will be held as a measure of precaution even as initial contacts of the jailor were found to be negative for the infection. “On the first day we received information that one of the jailors had tested positive, we took 42 samples of the jailors and other staff plus two or three inmates who were in contact with him. All of them returned negative,” Mohanan added. “Then we decided that every single inmate of Colvale jail will be checked and as a result of which we took 161 samples, all of them are also returned negative and today as we speak 221 samples have been collected and tomorrow and day after they are going to collect more samples. Each and every inmate of Colvale jail will be checked for Covid-19,” Mohanan added.A similar scene unfolded at the Head Office of the Goa Education Department, where a staff member tested Covid-19 positive forcing the office to shut down. “Our health team has gone there and taken samples from people who have been working in the same section as this person who was found positive. Those people working in the same section have all been told not to come back to office even on Monday. They have been asked to stay at home and quarantine,” Mohanan added. Goa recorded 100 cases on Friday making it the third day in a row when the state has recorded cases in three digits. The new cases have taken the number of active cases to 895 and total coronavirus cases to 2,251. No fresh deaths have been reported keeping Goa’s total deaths at nine. Of the nearly 900 active patients, 112 are symptomatic and have been admitted to the state’s dedicated Covid-19 hospital. Three people have also agreed to donate their plasma once the state’s system for plasma therapy is up and running, the health secretary said. Goa’s positivity rate which was once far below the national average is inching towards the national average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-inmates-at-goa-s-central-jail-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-after-jailor-found-positive/story-tpNghJbgzst8WAiTcE8vAI.html
10-07-2020||India||China-India joint venture only foreign bidder for Vande Bharat train sets||A Chinese company in a joint venture with an Indian firm is the only foreign bidder for the global tender floated for manufacturing 44 rakes (train sets) of Vande Bharat trains.China-based CRRC Yongji Electric Co. Ltd. and Gurugram-based Pioneer Fil-med Private Limited formed a joint venture in 2015. Their joint venture is called CRRC Pioneer Electric (India) Private Limited.The railways’ Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, had floated a tender for manufacturing 44 rakes of semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains on July 10.“We have got bids from six players for the train set tender,” Vinod Kumar Yadav, chairman, Railway Board, said on Friday.The other five bidders include: state-owned Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Bharat Industries, Sangrur, Electrowaves Electronics (P) Ltd, MEDHA Servo Drives Private Limited, Powernetics Equipment India Private Limited, according to the railway ministry.This comes at a time when India and China are carrying out disengagement of troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, where 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent face-off with the Chinese troops on June 15. Just recently, India also banned 59 China-linked apps, including the wildly popular TokTok.The railways has also scrapped a tender for thermal cameras meant for ‘Covid surveillance’ after Indian firms alleged that the tender specifications favoured a Chinese company, Hindustan Times reported on July 1. The government company has decided to issue a fresh tender after the controversy.The ambitious ‘Make in India’ project involves manufacturing of 44 train sets of 16 coaches each of Vande Bharat Trains.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had flagged off the maiden run of the Vande Bharat train on New Delhi-Varanasi route on February 15, 2019. The second such train set between New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishnodevi Katra was flagged off by home minister Amit Shah on October 3 last year.The Railway ministry last week also began the formal process to allow a private company to run trains on 109 routes -- a process that aims to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises that has in recent decades been outpaced by the demands of a rapidly growing economy.On whether Chinese firms will be allowed to bid for the private trains, Yadav had last week said, “As far as the question on Chinese companies arises, there are guidelines under the Make in India Policy by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) and we will follow them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-india-company-s-joint-venture-bid-for-making-vande-bharat-train-sets/story-Q6HA3CSUKW10YqtsjBe5rL.html
10-07-2020||India||UP records 1,347 new Covid cases before 55-hour long lockdown kicks in, GB Nagar records 87 fresh cases||Uttar Pradesh on Friday recorded 1,347 new Covid19 positive cases taking the total number of positive infections registered in the state since the outbreak to 21,787, including 660 persons who were declared to have recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours and 27 deaths, reported in the same period. The total number of active cases in the state stands at 11,024 and deaths at 889, according to a release by the state health department.Three of the four districts—Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Kanpur City and Meerut-- with the highest number of active cases in the state are in the national capital region (NCR).For Coronavirus Live UpdatesWhile Ghaziabad has 1,341 active cases currently, Gautam Budha Nagar has 1,008 and Meerut has 442 active Covid patients as on Friday, according to the data released by the state government. Kanpur city, with 497 active cases, is the only other prominent disease hotspot in the state.In view of the government’s decision to go for a short 55-hour long lockdown in the state beginning 10 pm on Friday night, security checks were intensified leading to arrest of six people and fines slapped on owners of 1,760 vehicles across Noida and Greater Noida on Friday. So far more than 8,300 people have been held in Gautam Buddh Nagar for allegedly defying the restrictions imposed due to Covid-19 between March 23, when the lockdown came in force in UP, and July 5, according to police data.The Noida-Delhi border continues to remain sealed for movement except for essential services and people having passes issued by the district administration, according to officials.Also Read: 55-hour Uttar Pradesh lockdown begins today: What remains open, what will closeGautam Buddh Nagar is Uttar Pradesh’s worst-affected district. It recorded 87 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking its infection tally to 3,260, according to the official data.In Mathura, all temples including Bhagwat Bhavan, based at Sri Krishna Janmasthan, will remain closed for devotees on Saturday and Sunday, officials said. The decision was taken in view of the 55-hour lockdown imposed by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-records-1-347-new-covid-cases-before-55-hour-long-lockdown-kicks-in-gb-nagar-records-87-fresh-cases/story-E3r5gfivbW8x1LA7EedklL.html
10-07-2020||India||In Goa, a battle to save sanctuaries and homes from railway, highway expansion||A train running past the gurgling Dudhsagar waterfall as it roars down from 320 metres of steep Western Ghats’ ridges is one of the most enchanting and breathtaking sites to behold in tourist-friendly coastal Goa.But, that iconic railway track is at the centre of a raging controversy and battlelines have been drawn between environmentalists, local villagers, and the South Western rail authorities over the latter’s bid to expand it into a double-track owing to saturated traffic movement. Earlier this week, hundreds of local residents braved a torrential downpour, accompanying inclement weather and the fear of contracting SARS-CoV-2, which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), to attend a public gathering at Cansaulim, a sleepy Goan hamlet.The locals gathered there because the South Western Railway authorities were scheduled to conduct an on-the-spot assessment survey, but retreated because of the vociferous public mood.“The track expansion plan will add to our daily woes manifold. Six coal-laden goods train pass every day and cover our houses with dust. Senior citizens shudder at the daily travails. God forbid, if the track expansion comes through, we’ll have hell to pay,” said Paccelli Pereira, who lives close to the railway tracks. “The track expansion project needs to be scrapped at the earliest. We won’t part with our land to a few industrialists, who want to trample us in a bid to accumulate more wealth for them,” he said.Pereira said old houses, churches, and chapels would have to be demolished for the proposed track expansion. Pereira lives along a stretch where South Western Railway and Konkan Railway tracks run parallel to each other. Now, there is fear that the expanded South Western Railway track would spell a death knell to Cansaulim and adjoining villages. In 2010, the Union Ministry of Railways had sanctioned the doubling of the existing Hospet-Tinaighat-Vasco railway line in neighbouring Karnataka and Goa.The first phase between Hospet and Tinaighat involved easier terrain atop the largely flat Deccan plateau and has already been completed. It’s the second phase between Tinaighat and Vasco da Gama that involves crossing the steep slopes, raging rivers and the dense forests of the Western Ghats and the thickly populated parts of coastal Goa, which is in the eye of an infrastructure development vs. environment protection storm.Commissioned in 1882 following the Anglo-Portuguese treaty in 1878, the 83-kilometre (km)-long railway line called the West of India Portuguese Guaranteed Railway was built by British engineers in 1888 to connect Goa’s Mormugao Port with the country’s hinterland in a bid to make the Arabian Sea port more profitable and, in turn, make Goa a trade hub.The railway project is one of three projects that will slice through the ecologically-fragile Dandeli-Anshi Tiger Reserve in Karnataka and the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary, Goa’s oldest protected area since 1967.Earlier, the project was approved during the 57th meeting of the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) under the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change (MoEFCC) on April 20.The meeting was held via video-conference amid the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.The railway line is the biggest of the three projects, which include the expansion of National Highway (NH) 4-A and new power transmission line, and is likely to lead to loss of an estimated 113.857 hectares (ha) of forest cover from the protected area in the sanctuary and felling of 18,451 trees. The second project -- the four-laning of the existing two-lane highway (NH-4A) -- that was constructed by the Portuguese colonial government between Panaji in Goa and Belgavi in Karnataka will cost another 31.015 ha of forest cover and the felling of 12,097 trees.A 400 kilo-volt (KV) power transmission line, whose 3.5 km will pass through the protected forest, is the third project that is likely to cause an adverse ecological impact in the region. It seeks to augment the power supply between Goa and Karnataka.These ministerial clearances have been challenged before the Central Empowered Committee (CEC) on grounds that the approval was given in haste and not enough thought was given to protect the region’s rich biodiversity.Though the railway authorities have submitted an undertaking and have made provisions for eight underpasses for the crossing of wild animals in consultation with the state forest department, these concessions have failed to impress the environmentalists. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who heads the Goa State Wildlife Board (SBWL) that recommended the projects last December, said they were “only granted a NOC (no objection certificate)” by the Board “looking at the development of the state”.“It is a project by the earlier government. All measures like underpasses (for wildlife), wherever required have been taken,” Sawant said.A clearance from the SBWL is one of the many permissions that a project within wildlife sanctuaries requires.The projects have been opposed by environmentalists and civil society groups, as the approvals are being seen to largely facilitate the transport of imported coal for steel plants in North Karnataka for which Goa is the closest port. Three separate representations have been sent to the Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Prakash Javadekar, urging him to reconsider the clearances because of the environmental concerns and also the move could damage Goa’s immense hinterland tourism potential. “At present, the steel plants in north Karnataka are handling 12 million tonnes per annum, but plans are afoot to ramp it up to 50 million tonnes. Imagine what will happen to Goa, if these steel plant owners are allowed to go ahead. But, we will oppose the move tooth and nail,” said Antonio D’Silva, a local protester. “They are using the lockdown to approve these projects that have no benefit for the public. Only big corporate entities stand to gain,” he added.Thousands of Goans would join the movement, if these projects are allowed to go ahead, the protesters warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-goa-a-battle-to-save-sanctuaries-and-homes-from-railway-highway-expansion/story-xjXliMYjekrPT6135eqOgN.html
10-07-2020||India||With 3,680 new Covid-19 patients, Tamil Nadu’s count soars to over 1.3 lakh||Tamil Nadu on Friday detected 3,680 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of coronavirus patients in the state to 1,30,261, health department data indicated.With 64 deaths, the death toll has climbed to 1,829 in the southern state, which is currently the second worst-hit state in the country after Maharashtra with a large number of coronavirus positive patients.The state also registered a significant jump in recoveries on Friday which crossed the number of those infected as 4,163 people were cured and discharged from various medical facilities. A total of 82,324 patients have recovered so far from the viral infection in Tamil Nadu.At present, there are 46,105 active coronavirus cases in the state, according to health department data.A total of 37,309 samples were tested on Friday at the 101 testing facilities now operating in the state, taking the total number of samples tested till date to 15,29,092. Chennai, despite being tagged a coronavirus hotspot, has started seeing a downward trend in the number of fresh cases with 1,205 new patients reported on Friday.Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday held a teleconference with Tamil Nadu health minister C Vijayabaskar over the Covid-19 situation in the state.“Had a detailed telecon with Tamil Nadu Health Minister Vijayabaskar on Covid-19 situation. Total positive cases stand around 1,26,581, including 46,655 active cases and 1,765 deaths. Chennai still a hotspot, although the situation has improved. Mortality rate low at 1.39 per cent,” Dr Harsh Vardhan tweeted soon after his conference call. With the highest single-day spike of 26,506 Covid-19 cases and 475 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the total number of Covid-19 cases in India has touched 7,93,802 on Friday, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Out of the total number of cases in the country, 2,76,682 are active, 4,95,516 have been cured and discharged and 21,604 have succumbed to the infection so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-3-680-new-covid-19-patients-tamil-nadu-s-count-soars-to-over-1-3-lakh/story-RxoGOGCcofF6DRRMhBp9GI.html
10-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: In a first, Trump to wear a mask; US Covid tally crosses 3.1 million mark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In a first, Trump to wear a mask; US Covid tally crosses 3.1 million markPresident Donald Trump is going to wear a mask, which has been declared the most effective tool in the battle against Covid-19 by experts around the world, when he visits a military hospital on Saturday. He has been pointedly averse to it for himself while allowing experts the last word for others.Read more. National Investigation Agency files case against 4 in Kerala gold smuggling scandalThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a First Information Report against four accused in the case of gold smuggling via diplomatic channels. The FIRs were filed under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).Read more. Kerala extends lockdown in Thiruvanthapuram by a week as community spread-threat loomsKerala has extended the lockdown in capital Thiruvananthapuram by a week on Friday, coinciding with a record increase of 416 new Covid 19 cases in the state, taking the tally to 6,950 cases including 3,099 active cases. The state’s previous high of single-day spike was recorded yesterday with 339 new Covid infections.Read more. Why Vikas Dubey killing marks a watershed in history of encountersMuch of the commentary surrounding the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey conflates two separate issues. The first is the whole business of encounters, in which policemen kill suspects in custody and then pretend that they were shot while being apprehended or while escaping.Read more. With a fortune of $68 bn, Mukesh Ambani now richer than Warren BuffetMukesh Ambani has had a rollercoaster 2020, cutting a string of deals for his digital business, undergoing wild swings in his wealth and having his brother’s finances laid bare for the world to see.Read more. Pune Police Commissioner tweets PSA on the importance of social distancing. WatchOver the past few months, you may have seen several PSAs on how to keep yourself safe during the ongoing pandemic. Here’s another one that’s been shared on the Twitter handle of Pune’s Commissioner of Police Dr Venkatesham. The clip, since being shared, has been receiving several reactions from tweeple who’re calling it a creative way to share a message.Read more. Spotify, Tinder and other iOS apps are crashing and Facebook might be responsibleAcross the world today, a number of popular apps including the likes of Spotify, Tinder, Pintrest, etc have been crashing on iOS through the day. Early reports suggest that this could be happening due to a Facebook bug.Read more. All Work and Play: Barbados to allow year-long stay for remote workers as travel resumesIf you had the opportunity to work overlooking some of the best tropical views in the world, would you turn it down or be packing your bags as you rush out the door? Fortunately, this is not a hypothetical question any longer. The Barbados Prime Minister Mia Mottley announced that her government is considering letting travellers stay and work on the Island of Barbados for an entire year as more and more travel restrictions are being removed.Read more. Pooja Bhatt hits back at Sona Mohapatra, says she produced first film at the age of 25 with her ‘own resources’Actor-filmmaker Pooja Bhatt responded to singer Sona Mohapatra’s claims of a ‘systemic problem’ in the film industry, in which musicians are exploited. Sona had called for artists to have a ‘stake in their music’s success’.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-in-a-first-trump-to-wear-a-mask-us-covid-tally-crosses-3-1-million-mark-and-all-the-latest-news/story-O2cVBT3EzZEyLE5I9uB0fK.html
10-07-2020||India||Sharp rise in Covid-19 deaths in Assam; 21 fatalities reported in last 4 days||Assam is witnessing a spike in the number of Covid-related deaths after reporting a sharp rise in the Covid-19 cases in the past fortnight.From the first death on April 10 till July 7, the state had recorded 14 Covid-related deaths. But in the past four days, 21 deaths have taken place, taking the total tally of fatalities to 35.On Friday itself, eight deaths were reported from Guwahati. Seven of the deaths took place at Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) while one person died at the Covid care centre opened at Indian Institute of Technology-Guwahati (IIT-G).Through a series of tweets, state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma informed that the 53-year-old patient who expired at IIT-G was asymptomatic and had no co-morbidities. Death was due to a sudden drop in oxygen level.“As of Thursday, 28 of the total 30 patients admitted in intensive care unit (ICU) beds at GMCH were in critical condition. We expect more such cases to arrive,” Sarma had told journalists on Thursday.A health official said on condition of anonymity that the rise in the number of deaths could be attributed to an increase in Covid-19 cases across the state and more specifically in Guwahati and rest of Kamrup Metro district.Till Friday afternoon, a total of 14,600 Covid-19 positive cases had been recorded in the state. Since June 24, Guwahati and rest of Kamrup Metro district alone have added 5,257 cases to that tally.The Kamrup Metro district has been under 14 day total lockdown since June 28 in an attempt to control the rapid rise in cases.Over a dozen districts have imposed restrictions on to and fro movement to Kamrup Metro to restrict community spread of the disease in their areas. Two other districts, Dima Hasao and Jorhat, have also imposed total lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharp-rise-in-covid-19-deaths-in-assam-18-fatalities-reported-in-last-4-days/story-xNmEF5y1G2JAACyB45xNQL.html
10-07-2020||India||Kerala extends lockdown in Thiruvanthapuram by a week as community spread-threat looms||Kerala has extended the lockdown in capital Thiruvananthapuram by a week on Friday, coinciding with a record increase of 416 new Covid 19 cases in the state, taking the tally to 6,950 cases including 3,099 active cases. The state’s previous high of single-day spike was recorded yesterday with 339 new Covid infections. The decision was announced by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who added that triple lockdown will be imposed in containment zones in the capital to cut down the risk of community spread of the disease, reported ANI.On Thursday, Vijayan had expressed fears that some areas in the state were on the verge of a community spread—considered a dangerous stage of rapid transmissions of the disease-- after a big surge in locally- transmitted cases were noticed.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHe had cited WHO parameters to claim that super spreading of the disease had occurred in some places in the state, including at a fishing hamlet of Poonthura on the outskirts of the state capital.He had cited the above example to state that the state couldn’t afford to lower guard as it would then result in community spread, which could possibly lead to an explosion in the number of positive cases.He also tried to justify the decision to enforce triple lockdown in the state capital due to the worsening situation. The triple lockdown was imposed in the state capital for a week beginning Monday following a spike in coronavirus disease cases in the district.Earlier, the state’s tourism minister had claimed that the capital was “sitting on an active volcano” while referring to the rising number of local transmissions that were hard to trace.Also Read: Kerala HC defers bail plea of gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh to TuesdayDuring the triple lockdown, only necessary services are allowed and public transportation has been discontinued to discourage mingling and mixing of population.Six new places were designated as hotspots on Thursday and two others were taken out of that categorization by the state government. There are presently 181 hotspots in Kerala.The state government has also decided to conduct more antigen tests in the district to check the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-extends-lockdown-in-thiruvanthapuram-by-a-week-as-community-spread-threat-looms/story-o9bg0OETQdZmKuSy1a2tBL.html
10-07-2020||India||National Investigation Agency files case against 4 in Kerala gold smuggling scandal||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a First Information Report against four accused in the case of gold smuggling via diplomatic channels. The FIRs were filed under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).It is the first time the premier agency, which handles national security, terror and security-based cases, is investigating a gold smuggling case. In the FIR, Sarith Kumar, who is in the custody of the customs, is first accused; Swapna Suresh is second; elusive UAE-based smuggling kingpin Fazil Pareed is third; and Suresh’s friend Sandeep Nair is the fourth accused. With NIA invoking the UAPA, Suresh and Sandeep are likely to surrender in a couple of days and the agency may start extradition proceedings to get Pareed.The NIA said the accused were part of a well-entrenched smuggling racket and the first accused and Suresh were actively involved in arranging the diplomatic papers for the delivery of the consignment.It also said a good portion of money generated through smuggling was used to fund some anti-national activities.The Ministry of External Affairs has also made a request to the UAE embassy in Delhi for a meeting with some employees at the consular office in Thiruvananthapuram to get more details.On Sunday, the Customs Department had seized 30 kg of gold from an air cargo consignment from the United Arab Emirates to the country’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.Suresh, who was working as the operational manager of the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited under the state IT Ministry, had gone underground after the seizure. Later, the CM had transferred his principal secretary M Sivasankar, who was reported to be close to Suresh.The Union Home Ministry had handed over the probe to the NIA on Thursday.The issue took on political colour after the Opposition Congress and BJP claimed that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan knew about his principal secretary Sivasankar’s alleged link with the second accused Suresh.The Maharashtra -based varsity, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University, from where Suresh reportedly obtained her BCom degree made it clear that the varsity did not have such a course. Later, the controller of the examination Dr Vivek S Sathe sent a mail to a news channel saying it was a fake certificate. She was given a job at Air India-SATS and the Kerala IT department based on this degree. Two days back, her estranged brother also claimed she did not even clear her class 10 examination.Meanwhile protests by opposition parties seeking the resignation of the chief minister Pinarayi turned violent at several places in the state.In Kozhikode, many people were injured after police resorted to baton charge on agitating Youth League workers. In Kochi too, Yuva Morcha protests turned violent. In Kannur, police lobbed teargas shells to control Youth Congress workers who held a rally outside Vijayan’s ancestral house.“It is a big racket. Reports have emerged that they smuggled many such consignments. The CM can’t keep silent saying he was not aware of the appointment of Swapna Suresh. He has to take moral responsibility and resign,” said state opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.State health minister KK Shaialaja said at several places protesters ignored social distancing and they were not wearing masks also.“We are in the midst of the worst pandemic. Hope protesters realise this,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-investigation-agency-files-case-against-4-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-scandal/story-oMqOIl9NTS7CWNMz0XqIFI.html
10-07-2020||India||Nellore municipal staff use earthmover for mass burial of Covid-19 victims, govt orders probe||The Nellore district administration on Friday ordered a probe into the incident of local municipal staff resorting to mass burial of three bodies of Covid-19 victims by carrying them in an earthmover and dumping them in a grave, at a place adjacent to Penna river.A video, apparently shot at night by a person passing by on the highway adjacent to the river, showing some people wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) taking out three bodies from an ambulance one after the other and dumping them in the front portion of the earthmover has gone viral.In another video, the earthmover was seen carrying the bodies to a grave a few metres away and dumping all of them into the pit which was already dug.As the videos went viral on social media and were played up on local television channels, the chief minister’s office ordered the Nellore district administration to conduct an inquiry.“A detailed probe has been ordered into the burial of the dead bodies of Covid-19 patients near Penna river. Nellore revenue divisional officer Hussian Saheb has been appointed as special officer and will conduct the enquiry,” an official statement from the CMO said.Hussain Saheb, who is also a sub-divisional magistrate, said he would submit a report to the district collector after conducting an inquiry into the incident.The opposition Telugu Desam Party found fault with the Nellore municipal authorities for their inhuman treatment of the bodies of Covid-19 patients. “Pained to see bodies of Covid-19 patients in Nellore being disrespectfully thrown into a single pit using an earthmover. This is happening time & again. @ysjagan Govt must offer an apology to the grieving families who wished for a respectful departure for their loved ones,” TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu tweeted.This is the third such incident in Andhra Pradesh in the recent past. On July 6, municipal authorities in Tirupati also used an earthmover to lift the body of a Covid-19 victim from an ambulance and dump it into a grave.Tirupati municipal commissioner P S Girisha admitted that the municipal staff should not have done that but said they had no option but to use the excavator to lift the body which was weighing about 175 kg only after taking the consent of the family members.On June 26, the municipal staff in Palasa town in Srikakulam district also used an earthmover to carry the body of a Covid-19 victim from his house to the graveyard for cremation, after the victim’s relatives refused to perform last rites. Following instructions from chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, the district authorities suspended six municipal employees for using an earthmover to carry the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nellore-municipal-staff-use-earthmover-for-mass-burial-of-covid-19-victims-govt-orders-probe/story-l1hKxIvwBjVToGz9et27hJ.html
10-07-2020||India||Mumbai Police blocked 1,816 objectionable content related to Covid-19 on social media: State to HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL), which had complained that Mumbai Police had violated the Constitutionally-guaranteed right to freedom of expression of the Mumbaikars by invoking Section 144 (unlawful assembly armed with a lethal weapon) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and prohibited the use of social media platforms to disseminate information during the lockdown restrictions, which were enforced since mid-March to contain the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the city.Maharashtra government submitted an affidavit and informed the HC that the prohibitory orders had ended on June 8 amid the easing of lockdown restrictions and its Mission Begin Again campaign to open up commercial activities in a bid to revive the economy that has been roiled by the pandemic.It also cited that 1,816 objectionable content was blocked between April 10 and June 8 to curb misinformation and swirling rumours pertaining to the spread of the viral outbreak in Mumbai.A two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices AA Sayed and NR Borkar, while hearing the PIL filed by four persons, including a journalist, musician, occupational therapist and information technology (IT) professional, through advocates Aditi Saxena and Afreen Khan, was informed that Mumbai Police had violated the rights of the citizens guaranteed under the Indian Constitution.In a bid to curb misinformation and swirling rumours pertaining to the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak in the city, Mumbai Police had invoked Section 144 of the IPC on April 10 and restricted dissemination of information through various messaging and social media platforms. Later, another order was issued on May 23 that extended the prohibition till June 8. On June 1, the petitioners moved HC and pleaded for setting aside the Mumbai Police’s order.On June 5, the court directed the state authorities to file an affidavit in response to the plea.On Friday, Maharashtra advocate-general (A-G) Ashutosh Kumbhakoni and government pleader Poornima Kantharia submitted the state government’s affidavit and said that the Mumbai Police had kept under surveillance various social media platforms April 10 to curb the spread of misinformation and swirling rumours pertaining to the Covid-19 pandemic.Kumbhakoni submitted that information spread through these platforms was creating apprehension and panic among the public and as a result, it was necessary to impose the prohibitory order during the lockdown restrictions.Kumbhakoni read out a select portion of the affidavit filed by Pranay Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (operations), which said, “It has been observed that there is widespread dissemination of fake news, incorrect information, misinformation and other such objectionable content in the form of messages, videos (both edited and self-created), images or memes (both edited and self-created), audio clips and other such forms of communication or internet messaging and various social media platforms.”“Such type of content was found to have caused panic, confusion among the general public, inciting mistrust towards government functionaries and their actions taken to control the Covid-19 pandemic and also to have created animosity towards various communities,” it added.Kumbhakoni prayed before the court that in light of the affidavit and the fact that prohibitory orders ended on 8, the plea is infructuous and should be dismissed.The court saw merit in the Maharashtra A-G’s argument and disposed of the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-blocked-1-816-objectionable-content-related-to-covid-19-on-social-media-state-to-hc/story-u60WIidNRe0TwN23kQLdbK.html
10-07-2020||India||Pune lockdown in two phases, here are the five important things to know||Maharashtra government has decided to clamp a 10-day-long lockdown in areas under Pune district beginning Monday, July 13, with a stated aim to stem the spread of rising Covid-19 infections in the city that has recorded a big surge in positive cases including the highest single day spike of over 1,800 cases, recorded on Thursday. The tally of coronavirus infections in the district is reported to have reached 34,399, while the death toll has risen to 978. The decision to enforce the lockdown was taken in a meeting chaired by deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar.Here are the five important things to know about the lockdown in Pune1. Lockdown is being imposed in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and some other rural areas of the district from July 13 to July 23 to force social distancing and prevent the spread of the infection. Ajit Pawar said that people should look at England’s example where lifting of restrictions had recently resulted in people’s assembly at public places with little respect for safety norms in place to prevent the spread of the virus.2. Complete lockdown will be observed in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and some parts of rural Pune from 13th July to 23rd July. 22 villages have been identified in rural parts of the Pune district for the implementation of lockdown rules. Containment zones will be added not only in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad area, but also in these villages that have been identified as Covid hotspots.Covid 19 latest: 10-day lockdown in Pune clamped on the back of highest single-day spike3. The lockdown will be implemented in two phases. In the first phase, from 13-18 July, only medical shops, dairies and hospitals will be allowed to remain open in the city. Newspapers will also be allowed to be delivered, said Shekhar Gaikwad, commissioner, Pune Municipal Commission. The first phase of lockdown will be stricter.4. Administration has advised people to purchase essentials within the next two days because only essential services will remain open after that. Emergency services have been excluded from the lockdown. Only shops related to essential services like dairy and medical stores and hospitals will remain open, said Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar.5. A detailed order about the lockdown will be issued soon by the district authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-lockdown-in-two-phases-here-are-the-five-important-things-to-know/story-45nTPVouPbyEm9u5vWqexO.html
10-07-2020||India||Why Vikas Dubey encounter is reminiscent of gunning down of accused in Hyderabad vet’s rape and murder case||The killing of gangster Vikas Dubey and some of his henchmen in a series of alleged encounters in Uttar Pradesh is reminiscent of a similar incident here in which four people, accused of rape and murder of a veterinary doctor, had met a similar fate in December 2019.In the Cyberabad incident, all the four accused were killed at one go in an exchange of fire.Police in both the cases claimed that the suspects “snatched” their weapons and opened fire at them forcing them to retaliatory action “in self-defence.” Dubey was shot dead Friday by police, who claim he was trying to flee after the car carrying him from Ujjain overturned on the outskirts of Kanpur.He was the sixth man to die in a police encounter after the ambush he allegedly masterminded in Kanpur’s Bikru village past midnight on July 2, killing eight policemen who had come to arrest him.Earlier, five members of Dubey gang were killed in separate encounters.Surprisingly in both the Kanpur and Cyberabad encounters, the accused were not handcuffed while they were being taken in vehicles before the alleged retaliatory firing took place resulting in their deaths.The snatched weapons were in “unlocked” position and the slain accused were not handcuffed when the firing took place, the Cyberabad Police Commissioner VC Sajjanar had earlier said when asked whether they were handcuffed. According to Cyberabad police on the night of November 27, 2019, the four accused kidnapped the woman veterinarian and killed her after sexually assaulting her, and then shifted the body in a lorry to Chattanpalli near here where it was burnt under a culvert. They were arrested on November 29.They were killed in police firing on December 6, 2019 at Chattanpalli when they were taken to the scene of crime near the culvert, under which the charred remains of the 25-year-old veterinarian were found on November 28, to recover her phone, wrist-watch and others pertaining to the case.The Cyberabad police had claimed that its personnel resorted to “retaliatory” firing after two of the accused opened fire after snatching their weapons besides attacking them with stones and sticks, resulting in injuries to two policemen.The Telangana government had set up a Special Investigation Team to probe the killings.In December last year, the Supreme Court appointed a three-member inquiry commission headed by former apex court judge V S Sirpurkar to probe the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-vikas-dubey-encounter-is-reminiscent-of-gunning-down-of-accused-in-hyderabad-vet-s-rape-and-murder-case/story-svZLKZhSm4tmsfdvHQzxVK.html
10-07-2020||India||With 120 projects, over 5k jobs, India now second biggest investor in UK||India has emerged as the second highest investor in the United Kingdom, with 120 new projects and creating 5,429 jobs in 2019-20, the Department for International Trade said on Friday, reflecting continuing confidence among Indian companies in a UK-base in the post-Brexit scenario.Official figures show the UK attracted 1,852 new inward investment projects in 2019-20, representing a 4% increase on the previous year. The United States continues to be the biggest source of foreign direct investment in the UK.India is now the UK’s second largest source of investment followed by Germany, France and China and Hong Kong, the department said. It is estimated that there are nearly 900 Indian companies operating from a base in the United Kingdom.India was at number 3 in the list of foreign investors 2018-19 with 106 new projects; Germany was number 2 with 109 new projects.International trade secretary Liz Truss said: “These figures further demonstrate the resilience of the UK economy and the work of the government to continue to build and attract inward investment into the UK”.India is one of the key markets the Boris Johnson government hopes to reach a free trade agreement after the current Brexit transition period ends on December 31. Talks on such a pact are expected to begin in early 2021.“Developing key sectors such as advanced manufacturing, life sciences and renewable energy will help us to rebound post-pandemic and build on our attractive business environment across the UK for investors around the globe”, Truss added.Prime Minister Johnson, who promised to deliver a “truly special UK-India relationship” during the December 2019 election, said: “When I was with Prime Minister Modi I stressed that the UK and India are two modern democracies who should work closely together to promote trade and prosperity, improve global security and tackle the challenges our countries face.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-120-projects-over-5k-jobs-india-now-second-biggest-investor-in-uk/story-Bh6ZMpbhkQdVCpilC79MmN.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Will ensure disengagement of troops at LAC’: India, China reiterate stand||India and China on Friday once again reiterated that they will work to ensure “complete disengagement of the troops” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh region, where 15 Indian soldiers were killed on June 15 in a violent face off with the Chinese army. The comments were made at the 16th meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation & Coordination (WMCC) on India-China Border Affairs.The two sides maintained that “peace and tranquillity in the border areas” was essential for overall development of the bilateral relations.On Tuesday, the Chinese foreign ministry had told HT that its troops had begun to disengage from the Galwan Valley, a day after New Delhi and Beijing simultaneously announced their decision to deescalate the two-month long tense situation in the area.In all, the two sides have had three meetings between military corps commanders on June 6, 22 and 30 and two meetings of the WMCC on June 5 and 24.At todays’ meeting, the Indian delegation was led by Joint Secretary (East Asia) from the Ministry of External Affairs, while the Director General of the Boundary & Oceanic Department of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs led the Chinese delegation.The two sides drew on the agreement reached between two foreign ministers on June 17 as well as the agreement arrived at between the two Special Representatives on July 5. The two countries reviewed the progress made in ongoing disengagement along the LAC in Ladakh and agreed that it was “necessary for both sides to sincerely implement the understandings” reached between them.It was decided to keep the communication lines at the diplomatic and military level open between the two sides. They also agreed to hold another meeting, but stopped short of giving a date and time. In another related development, Chinese envoy to India Sun Weidong underlined the need for India and China to be partners rather than rivals. He further emphasised that the two countries should pursue win-win cooperation instead of a zero-sum game. He called on the need to build trust rather than suspicion and made a push for bilateral ties to move forward rather than backward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-ensure-disengagement-of-troops-at-lac-india-china-reiterate-stand/story-omvw9m5gMIfzAMR8HjxVdP.html
10-07-2020||India||Vehicle carrying gangster Vikas Dubey overturned while saving herd of cattle, claims police as criticism mounts||The special task force of Uttar Pradesh Police has released a detailed account of the circumstances leading up to Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey’s encounter on Friday morning in response to allegations that it was staged to eliminate a criminal who could have possibly revealed uncomfortable details of an alleged police-criminal-politician nexus in the state.The press statement says that an attempt by the “tired” driver of the vehicle, carrying Dubey, to save a herd of cows and buffaloes that suddenly came running across, led to its overturning. The statement adds that several policemen sitting inside the vehicle were temporarily knocked unconscious due to the impact, giving Dubey the opportunity to snatch inspector Ramakant Pachauri’s service revolver and jump out of the vehicle before attempting to escape.“Accused Vikas Dubey was being brought back in a government vehicle by the Lucknow team of STF Uttar Pradesh, led by deputy police superintendent Shri Tej Bahadur Singh. During the journey, when the vehicle reached the national highway near Kanhaiya Lal Hospital in Kanpur district’s Sachendi police station limits, a herd of cows and buffaloes came running in front of the vehicle. The driver, who was tired due to the long journey (from Ujjain to Kanpur), steered the vehicle attempting to save the cattle, resulting in its overturning,” the statement in Hindi says.Kin of killed cops find solace in Vikas Dubey’s death while debate rages over gangster’s encounterThe statement is an attempt to address disbelief expressed by several politicians and experts over UP police’s account of events this morning that led to Dubey getting shot dead. Experts and politicians alleged it to be an act of cover up to protect the high and mighty who may have enjoyed links with the dreaded gangster with more than 60 criminal cases against his name.“It isn’t the car that had overturned; the government saved itself from overturning by preventing the secrets coming out,” said Akhilesh Yadav, the Samajwadi Party leader, who was one among the many voices questioning the authenticity of the police account.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had also suggested a cover up.“His silence is better than several answers as it keeps the honour of several questions,” Rahul Gandhi had said. Priyanka wanted to know if those who helped Dubey will even be exposed.The STF press note attempts to set the record straight by providing details of the incident. The note says the police officials tried to get close to a fleeing Dubey so that he could be nabbed alive, but since Dubey continued to fire at the police with an intention to kill, the cops were left with little option but to shoot him down.Videos tangle matters further in UP gangster Vikas Dubey’s encounter puzzle“Deputy superintendent of Police, STF, Tej Bahadur Singh instructed officers regarding treatment of policemen injured in the accident and then proceeded to chase Vikas Dubey, who started firing at the police party with the pistol he had snatched from the police inspector. He was firing at the police party with an intention to kill.It adds that “with the aim to grab the accused alive, the policemen including the deputy superintendent got very close to Vikas Yadav, who unleashed a barrage of fire on the cops at the last moment. Left with no other options, the police team had to open fire in self-defense and in pursuance of their duty. Accused Vikas Dubey fell down after receiving bullet injuries fired by cops in retaliation. He was immediately provided with first aid and taken to a government hospital where doctors declared him brought dead,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vehicle-carrying-gangster-vikas-dubey-overturned-while-saving-herd-of-cattle-claims-police-as-criticism-mounts/story-MHdDKn8V4qmpfMTXgyV4ZM.html
10-07-2020||India||Tireless awareness campaign and a film help contain Covid-19 in Darjeeling hills||Barely 30 km away from Siliguri, the biggest town in the planes of Darjeeling district where a spike in Covid-19 cases led to partial lockdown from Thursday, people at Tindharia, a cluster of hamlets in the hills, have set an example. A group of volunteers from the hamlets have succeeded in creating awareness against social stigma faced by patients and common misconceptions about coronavirus.While the number of Covid-19 cases in Darjeeling district stood at 736 till Thursday and the death toll reached 33 in Siliguri, only one case was reported at Tindharia.The door-to-door campaign started two months ago. The volunteers, who gathered under the banner, Surveillance Team Tindharia, created not only social awareness but also made a 40-minute film on the subject.Made in Nepali language, Aafnopan tells people that patients as well as members of their families need mental support and should take precautionary measures. Since the volunteers wrote the script, played their parts and even did the editing, the project had cost virtually nothing. Santosh Lama, one of the volunteers, said, “Initially it was difficult convincing villagers, many of whom are ignorant about the virus, that stigmatizing patients and their families is the wrong approach. They need love and care.”“After the Covid-19 pandemic started, many migrant workers who returned home were forced to stay in the forests. But those who are returning now stay in home quarantine,” said Benoy Chettri, another volunteer.“The campaign worked. The villagers started taking food to people living in quarantine. They also started participating in our street-corner meetings,” said Karma Moktan, coordinator of the team.This inspired the team to make Aafnopan. The project was completed in a week.“Aafnopan is a success story. It shows how social collaboration, discipline and awareness can fight ignorance and Covid-19,” said Animesh Bose, joint coordinator of the Siliguri Fight Corona Committee, a body formed by volunteers in Siliguri.In the hills, many surveillance committees have been working tirelessly to ensure that those coming from outside are put in mandatory quarantine but the picture has been quite different in Siliguri.“Eastern ABC Chamber of Commerce and Industries, an organisation of 19 big and small business organizations, has demanded a blanket lockdown in greater Siliguri, which includes the town and some parts of adjoining Jalpaiguri district. Nothing else can contain the pandemic, “said Surajit Paul, convenor of the chamber.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tireless-awareness-campaign-and-a-film-help-contain-covid-19-in-darjeeling-hills/story-NHQEiGr4VS4x2hkUWnvINN.html
10-07-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh’s highest single-day spike trend cotinues, tally rises to 33,700||The Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh rose to 33,700 on Friday with the highest single-day spike of 1,338 cases, while the death toll reached 889 after 27 patients succumbed to the disease, a senior official said. The previous highest single-day spike in fresh cases -- 1,332 -- was recorded on July 7. Additional Chief Secretary and Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said there are 11,024 active cases in the state, while 21,787 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection. As many as 38,006 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of samples tested in the state to 10.74 lakh, Prasad said. He said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will dedicate seven new labs of RT-PCR tests at a programme here on Saturday. These seven labs will be set up in Aligarh, Varanasi, Gonda, Moradabad, Bareilly, Mirzapur and Balrampur hospital in Lucknow, he said. Taking strict action against those who step out without face covers in public places, the Uttar Pradesh government has increased the penalty on violators from Rs 100 to Rs 500, Prasad said. He said 36,114 help desks in the state have so far identified 16,030 people with symptoms and their tests are being conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-s-highest-single-day-spike-trend-cotinues-tally-rises-to-33-700/story-u0rVzdKJ8ybKtMP6DUisbK.html
10-07-2020||India||Brahmaputra, northern tributaries of Ganga in severe flood situation due to continuous rains||The entire Brahmaputra and northern tributaries of the Ganges, including Ghagara and Barabanki, are in severe flood situation due to continuous rains, according to the Central Water Commission (CWC).The CWC in its Thursday flood situation report said floods in the north-east would aggravate in the coming days.The Brahmaputra is continuing to be in floods all through its reach from Upper Assam’s Dibrugarh district to lower Assam’s Dhubri district.Brahmaputra’s tributaries such as Jia Bharali, Dhanasiri, Desang, and Beki are also flowing in a severe flood situation.Severe flood is declared when the water level is touching or exceeding the danger level, but below the highest flood level (HFL).River levels in the region are likely to rise further rapidly because of a forecast for very heavy to extremely heavy rains in sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, and Sikkim from Friday to Sunday. Several landslides were reported from Arunachal Pradesh on Thursday and Friday, where at least eight people lost their lives.Some districts like East Siang in Arunachal Pradesh; East Khasi Hills in Meghalaya received more than 200 millimetres (mm) of rain on Thursday.East Siang received 296.6 mm rain against a normal of 39.9 mm, a 644% excess, and east Khasi hills received 340.3 mm against normal of 63.3 mm, a 438% excess.“There is a likelihood of flash floods in hilly regions of Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Sikkim. This combined with the existing riverine flood will further aggravate the flood situation. Since most of the catchments in north-east India, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, and Sikkim are already saturated there is a likelihood of continuation of floods in severe to extreme levels for the next three-four days. Maximum vigil has to be maintained along the banks of all rivers in these districts,” the CWC said in its report.Very heavy rains in Uttar Pradesh (UP), Uttarakhand, Bihar from Friday to Sunday is likely to trigger a severe flood situation in many places. Ghaghra in Ayodhya and Barabanki in UP is flowing in a severe flood category.India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its Friday bulletin said the monsoon trough is running close to the foothills of Himalayas. The combined effect of monsoon intensification in the hills and convergence of south westerly-southerly winds from the Bay of Bengal will continue over northeast & east India during the next three-four days. Under its influence, widespread and extremely heavy rain is likely over Bihar, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh on Friday and Saturday and over eastern UP on Saturday and Sunday.“Extremely heavy rains have started over the north-east and eastern India because of the shifting of the monsoon trough. Hilly areas of Uttarakhand will also receive extremely heavy rains because it is receiving moisture both from the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre (NWFC).“The normal position of the monsoon trough is between Ganganagar in Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal. But through the monsoon months the trough keeps shifting or oscillating,” she added.The distribution of monsoon rains from June 1 to July 10 has been skewed with a large part of the country including Bihar, UP, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Jammu & Kashmir, Sikkim and Meghalaya receiving excess rains. Delhi and Himachal Pradesh have remained largely dry, according to IMD.Earlier this week Okha in Gujarat made an all-time record with 480 mm of rain recorded on Tuesday.On July 5, Khambala, Kalyanpur, and Porbandar recorded 490 mm, 360 mm, and 290 mm, respectively, an all-time district average record in Dwarka. Thane and Mumbai also recorded extremely heavy rains on July 3 with 170 mm at Colaba in south Mumbai and 380 mm in Thane. “The west coast had received exceptional rains. This was mainly a result of a low-pressure area formation over Saurashtra and Kutch between July 5 and 8 and another low-pressure area over the northwest Bay of Bengal off Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal coasts in the middle of the week which moved inland subsequently maintaining its intensity for about 48t hours,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at NWFC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brahmaputra-northern-tributaries-of-ganga-in-severe-flood-situation-due-to-continuous-rains/story-EDHSPpnPLzuXtjKal2eEQJ.html
10-07-2020||India||‘I am sorry’: KCR on damage to mosque, temple during secretariat demolition||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday expressed regret over the damage caused to two mosques and a temple in the premises of Telangana secretariat which is being demolished to pave way for the construction of a new official complex.“I am sorry about the incident. This happened unexpectedly. It should not have happened. The government’s intention is to build a new secretariat complex by demolishing the old buildings without causing any damage to the temple or the mosques,” an official release from the chief minister’s office quoting KCR said.The demolition of two mosques - Masjid Dafaatir-e-Muatamadi and Masjid-e-Hashmi and Nalla Pochamma temple, a Hindu shrine, which had been part of the secretariat complex for decades - kicked up a controversy evoking protests from the religious groups.Muslim groups strongly protested the demolition of mosques without consulting the Islamic religious heads. “One cannot shift the mosque from its original place. Once a mosque, always a mosque,” Hamid Mohammad Khan, president of Jamaat-e-Islami, Telangana chapter, told Hindustan Times.Leaders of the United Muslim Forum led by Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, condemned the demolition of two mosques in the premises of the old secretariat in Hyderabad and demanded their immediate reconstruction.“The tragic and unconstitutional demolition of the two mosques caused pain and agony to the Muslims. If the government failed to take steps for reconstruction of the demolished mosques at the same place without any delay, Muslims would be forced to launch a strong protest,” a statement from the UMF said.Hyderabad-based political outfit Majlis-Bachao Tehreek (MBT) sought the intervention of the Central Wakf Board in the matter and urged it to take appropriate action. “We are also lodging a complaint with the police against the chief minister and the state government for demolishing the mosques thereby hurting the sentiments of Muslims,” said MBT spokesperson Amjadulla Khan.Bharatiya Janata Party state official spokesman K Krishna Sagar Rao warned KCR of serious consequences and backlash from Hindus across the state of Telangana for demolishing a Hindu Temple in the state secretariat complex.“Destroying a temple is a blasphemy. The KCR government has undertaken an insulting and insinuating act of demolishing Hindus’ place of worship unilaterally. He has considered neither the sanctity of the temple, emotions of those who pray there nor the sentiments of the Hindus in the state,” Rao said.The chief minister, according to the official statement, said the temple and the mosques were damaged after debris fell on them while demolishing the secretariat buildings adjacent to them.He declared that in the new Secretariat premises, a new temple and mosque would be constructed in a much bigger area. The CM added he would soon have a meeting with the temple and mosque authorities over the matter.Meanwhile, the state high court on Friday stayed the demolition of secretariat buildings till Monday and asked the government to submit the details of permissions obtained for demolition.A division bench of the state high court comprising chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijayasen Reddy granted the stay order after hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by Professor P L Vishweshwar Rao, Convenor Telangana Democratic Forum.The petitioner complained that the demolition was being carried out without following the due procedure of law and more specifically, the procedure laid down under the Demolition and Construction Rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-sorry-kcr-on-damage-to-mosque-temple-during-secretariat-demolition/story-mBrHvBbrKZtGBTNNetd80I.html
10-07-2020||India||UP records highest single-day spike of 1,338 Covid-19 cases, tally past 33,000||The Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh rose to 33,700 on Friday with the highest single-day spike of 1,338 cases, while the death toll reached 889 after 27 patients succumbed to the disease, a senior official said. The previous highest single-day spike in fresh cases -- 1,332 -- was recorded on July 7. Additional Chief Secretary and Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said there are 11,024 active cases in the state, while 21,787 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection. As many as 38,006 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of samples tested in the state to 10.74 lakh, Prasad said. He said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will dedicate seven new labs of RT-PCR tests at a programme here on Saturday. These seven labs will be set up in Aligarh, Varanasi, Gonda, Moradabad, Bareilly, Mirzapur and Balrampur hospital in Lucknow, he said. Taking strict action against those who step out without face covers in public places, the Uttar Pradesh government has increased the penalty on violators from Rs 100 to Rs 500, Prasad said. He said 36,114 help desks in the state have so far identified 16,030 people with symptoms and their tests are being conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-1-338-covid-19-cases-tally-past-33-700/story-HcA0fPnql6T73hyaUgexIN.html
10-07-2020||India||Raipur reports record single-day surge, 56 fresh Covid-19 positive cases||Chhattisgarh’s capital Raipur reported 56 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases on Thursday, a single-day record high among the 28 districts in the state over the past 15 days, officials said.State health department data showed that Raipur reported 15 Covid-19 positive cases between March 18 and April 30, but from June 1 to July 10 the figure climbed to 556, a record for any district in the state, amid growing concerns among officials how to contain the viral outbreak.On Thursday, three members of the family of the mayor of the Raipur Municipal Corporation (RMC), were among the 56 fresh Covid-19 positive cases reported in the city, including eight jawans of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), two government doctors and seven police personnel, officials said.“Raipur has 68 active containment zones, as the state capital is reporting around 13 Covid-19 positive cases daily. Raipur is the worst-affected place in Chhattisgarh, as far as the viral outbreak is concerned,” said a state health official.Niharika Barik Singh, health secretary, Chhattisgarh, put the reasons behind the spike in Covid-19 positive cases in Raipur in perspective.“Several international travellers are found to be infected with SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease. Moreover, many people from outside the state are coming to Raipur, a business hub, for trade amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions. Goods trucks are also coming to Raipur daily. No wonder, the city is the most susceptible to the viral outbreak,” Singh said.State officials also cited that aggressive daily testing has led to a spike in Covid-19 positive cases of late.“Raipur is testing up to 800 swab samples daily, which is exponentially higher than other districts in the state. All those, who have come in contact with a Covid-19 patient, are being mandatorily tested,” said Saurabh Kumar, commissioner, RMC.On Thursday, Chhattisgarh reported 146 Covid-19 positive cases, as the state’s tally stood at 3,679, and a death related to the viral outbreak at a hospital in Raipur.The state has recorded 761 active Covid-19 positive cases and 15 deaths to date, the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raipur-reports-record-single-day-surge-56-fresh-covid-19-positive-cases/story-Y7GGPxrXIV8EN3rgTQsjfI.html
10-07-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: 10-day lockdown in Pune, clamped on the back of highest single-day spike||Highest single day spike in Covid cases in Maharashtra’s second worst-affected district, registered on Thursday, has led to administration deciding to clamp a 10-day-long complete lockdown in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and some parts of Rural Pune from July 13 to July 23.1,803 new Covid-19 cases reported on Thursday pushed the district’s overall count to 34,399, PTI quoted a health official as saying on Friday.34 new casualties have taken the death toll in the district to 978.For Coronavirus Live Updates“Complete lockdown announced for Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and some parts of Rural Pune from 13th July to 23rd July. Only shops related to essential services like dairy and medical stores and hospitals will remain open,” Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Thursday, 1,032 cases out of 1,803 were reported from within the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) limits, where the number of positive patients has reached 24,977, the official quoted above added. 573 new cases were reported from the Pimpri Chinchwad region, taking the total count in the industrial township to 6,982.The rural parts of the district and the areas in the Pune cantonment board have risen to 3,138.The administration has identified 22 villages in the rural parts of Pune district where this lockdown will be implemented. The Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said that containment zones will be added to these villages apart from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas.Pune is not the only district in Maharashtra to go for increased restrictions as the state struggles to cope with the rising number of coronavirus cases. Aurangabad is also observing nine-day long Janta curfew aimed at disrupting the chain of transmissions. Maharashtra: Streets deserted in Aurangabad as city observes 9-day long Janta curfewThe decision to clamp a hard lockdown comes as the cases in Pune witness a rapid rise. On Wednesday, Pune city had reported 1,006 new coronavirus cases, which was a new record for most number of daily cases till it was overshadowed by nearly 2,000 cases on Thursday.ON Thursday, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally rose to 2,30,599 with the addition of 6,875 new cases. The state also reported 219 deaths, taking the toll to 9,667, the state health department had said.The statement said the case recovery rate in the state was 55.19per cent, while the fatality rate stood at 4.19 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-11-days-lockdown-in-pune-clamped-on-the-back-of-highest-single-day-spike/story-mE3ixnDtKWpUKaASgQ88JI.html
10-07-2020||India||US aerospace major Boeing completes delivery of 37 military helicopters to India||In the midst of India’s tense border standoff with China, US aerospace major Boeing delivered the final five of the 22 Apache attack helicopters to the Indian Air Force last month, and the fleet has now been part of the assets deployed in key air bases along the Line of Actual Control, officials said on Friday.Boeing said it completed delivery of all 22 Apache and 15 Chinook military helicopters to the IAF and is fully committed to meet their operational needs of the Indian armed forces.Read here: Back story of how India readied its fleet of Chinook, Apache attack choppersThe AH-64E Apache is one of the world’s most advanced multi-role combat helicopters, and is flown by the US Army. The Chinook is a multi-role, vertical-lift platform, primarily used for transporting troops, artillery, equipment and fuel.India finalised a multi-billion dollar contract with Boeing to procure 22 Apache helicopters and 15 Chinooks for the IAF in September 2015.Both the Apache and Chinook helicopters have been pressed into service as part of the IAF’s deployment along the LAC in view of the bitter standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, officials said.“With this delivery of military helicopters, we continue to nurture this partnership and are fully committed to working closely with India’s defence forces to deliver the right value and capabilities to meet their operational needs,” said Surendra Ahuja, Managing Director, Boeing Defence India. India is one of 17 nations to select the Apache and has the most advanced variant, the AH-64E Apache.Defence and security ties between India and the US have been on an upswing in the last six years. The bilateral defence trade touched USD 18 billion mark in 2019, reflecting growing defence cooperation between the two sides.Both sides have also been pushing for joint venture and collaboration between private sectors of the two countries in defence manufacturing.In June 2016, the US had designated India a “Major Defence Partner,” intending to elevate defence trade and technology sharing with New Delhi to a level commensurate with that of its closest allies and partners.In a statement, Boeing said the AH-64E Apache has an improved modernised target acquisition designation system that provides day and night target tracking system.“In addition to classifying air and ground targets, the fire control radar has been updated to operate in the maritime environment. It is uniquely suited to meet a commander’s needs, including reconnaissance, security, peacekeeping operations, and lethal attack, across myriad environments - without reconfiguration,” the Boeing said.It said 20 defence forces around the world either have Chinooks in service, or are on contract to receive them. “The iconic tandem-rotor helicopter has been the world’s most reliable and efficient heavy-lift helicopter for more than 50 years, allowing customers to operate in climatic (hot), altitude (high), and crosswind conditions,” the company said. It said the CH-47F(I) Chinook contains a modern machined airframe, a common avionics architecture system cockpit, and a digital automatic flight control system. “Those innovations and technologies will help the Indian Air Force meet evolving mission demands, maximize interoperability, and reduce life-cycle costs,” it said.Earlier this year, India and the US signed a contract for the acquisition of six Apaches for the Indian Army during President Donald Trump’s visit to Delhi. Boeing’s joint venture with Tata in Hyderabad has been producing aero-structures for the AH-64 Apache helicopter for both US Army and international customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-aerospace-major-boeing-completes-delivery-of-37-military-helicopters-to-india/story-Gw5SWY6Pu5h0XxL4BHzzgM.html
10-07-2020||India||How Delhi managed to curb its Covid-19 spike: All you need to know||Delhi’s Covid-19 count crossed the 1 lakh mark earlier this week with a continuing surge in new cases since the end of June. A ray of hope, however, shone through the health crisis in the capital as the recovery rate from the infection increased and nearly 80,000 patients recovered from the disease, according to Delhi government data. With the number of tests increasing, the death toll too has indicated a slight dip while the projections for July have not yet happened. These positive signs have raised hopes that the national capital may well be able to flatten the coronavirus curve if things go according to plan. Experts, have however, cautioned about the need to sustain the dip in cases. They have emphasised on the urgent need to continue with social distancing guidelines, mandatory wearing of masks, hand hygiene and other dos and don’ts to ward off the infection. Neglecting any of the health guidelines could once again lead to coronavirus cases soaring in the national capital, health experts have said.ALSO READ | India’s Covid-19 deaths per million among lowest globally: Health MinistryAlthough Covid-19 cases surged and crossed the one lakh mark on July 6, the active cases and positivity rate declined and the recovery rate increased in Delhi. On July 5, the recovery rate was 71.74 per cent, up from 63.32 per cent the week before . This was higher than the national recovery rate which at that time was 60.7 per cent.The Delhi government has adopted certain containment plans to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city. Here are some of the measures that have helped Delhi to fight the viral infection and bring about a dip in Covid-19 cases:1. Home Isolation and an awareness drive:The Delhi government has promoted the concept of home isolation of Covid-19 positive patients who were asymptomatic or even had mild symptoms. These patients made up almost 80% of all Covid-19 positive cases. Medical teams visited their homes explaining home isolation. Regular monitoring was done by these teams and guidance given via daily phone calls by healthcare workers. So patients had the option of recovering in the comfort of their homes. Their family members were also quarantined in the same house for 2 weeks and this ensured that they did not spread the disease. The accompanying awareness campaign also helped to reduce the stigma around being Covid-19-positive for most people. 2. Aggressive testing and Isolation of patients:The national capital had been following a strategy of high testing from the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic. Before the end of last month, the capital city was testing more than any other state in India at 10,500 tests per million on May 31. From the first week of June, a strategy of increased testing was adopted by the Delhi government with a focus on areas that were becoming coronavirus hotspots. In the first week of June, the Delhi government carried out 5,500 tests per day. With the help of antigen test kits, by mid-June, the government carried out 11,000 tests per day and by the first week of July almost 21,000 tests per day. Obviously increased testing hiked the number of cases so Covid-19 positive patients were traced and isolated to curb the spread. So the number of active coronavirus cases began to plateau despite high testing, from June 16 onwards and fresh cases began to sharply decline from June 23.ALSO READ | ICMR plans nationwide sero-survey to detect exposure of people to Covid-19 infection3. Increasing hospital beds in Delhi:Till early June, there were only 8 private hospitals that were treating Covid-19 patients and these had a total of 700 beds available. This was in addition to 2,500 beds in Delhi government hospitals. When the cases started rising in the first week of June, the 8 private hospitals filled their capacity and when patients reached some of these hospitals they found no beds available. The government started expanding bed capacity in private hospitals. According to a government order, all private hospitals with more than 50 beds had to reserve 40% of beds for treating Covid-19 patients. The number of Covid-19 beds in private hospitals increased from 700 to 5000, it also meant that Covid-19 facilities were now available in all parts of the city.4. Roping in large hotels and banquet halls:A few hotels were linked to private hospitals thereby increasing bed capacity of hospitals. With this hotel linkage, the number of beds in private hospitals went up from 5000 to 7000. Currently, there are over 15,000 Covid-19 beds in Delhi. While much of this increased capacity is still vacant - with only 38% of 15,000+ beds are occupied.5. Counselling of coronavirus patients by doctors:Many suspected patients rushed to hospitals, even though their symptoms were mild and they did not need hospitalization. In response to this, the Delhi government collaborated with a network of NGOs and doctor-volunteers who started real-time calling and counselling of Covid-19 positive patients, as soon as their lab reports got uploaded. A patient was able to get medical advice and counselling within hours of getting their lab reports. When doctors counselled them and explained how most coronavirus patients did not need hospitalization, patients were able to cope with the psychological and trauma of the disease.6. Plasma Therapy:Convalescent plasma showed encouraging results across countries in preventing mortality amongst critical patients, as it provides the patient with antibodies to fight the virus. Delhi was one of the first cities to start an experimental trial of plasma therapy in LNJP, the largest Delhi government Covid-19 facility. Trial results were encouraging. So Plasma Therapy could save some lives in Delhi. The government also set up a ‘Plasma Bank’ so that patients could easily access convalescent plasma. An aggressive awareness campaign for plasma donation has been led by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to encourage recovered patients to come forward and donate their plasma for treating others.7. Oximeters and Oxygen Concentrators: One of the causes of deaths due to coronavirus is reduction in oxygen levels in the blood, hypoxia. Unlike other ailments where this hypoxia is accompanied with breathlessness, in Covid-19 a phenomenon of ‘Happy Hypoxia’, wherein a patient may have dangerously low levels of oxygen but may not be aware about it is visible. Monitoring oxygen levels and having accessible supply of oxygen was crucial to prevent mortality of patients in Home Isolation. The Delhi Govt provided oximeters to all patients recovering in home isolation so they could monitor their oxygen levels to prevent any sudden dip. The government purchased 59,600 oximeters and 58,974 are in use by patients in home isolation. Oxygen Concentrators were provided to local dispensaries that could immediately take these to a patient’s home and provide oxygen support, if their oxygen levels began to dip. The Delhi government purchased 2,750 oxygen concentrators. Most beds in Delhi government hospitals have oxygen facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-delhi-managed-to-curb-its-covid-19-spike-all-you-need-to-know/story-lXoVp05qbr44OlFt4uvbOJ.html
10-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: China and India should be partners, not rivals, says Chinese ambassador and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China and India should be partners, not rivals: Chinese ambassador to IndiaNew Delhi: India and China need peace rather than confrontation and should work together to maintain peace and tranquillity along their disputed border until they find a “reasonable solution” to the complicated issue through negotiations, Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong said on Friday. Read moreVikas Dubey was hit on his chest, arm as he tried to escape from police: ReportVikas Dubey, the Uttar Pradesh gangster accused of killing eight policemen last week, was on Friday hit by four bullets in the retaliatory firing by members of the Special Task Force (STF) who tried stop him from escaping near Kanpur city, news agency ANI reported. Read moreVikas Dubey killed: Watch Priyanka Gandhi, Akhilesh Yadav & Mayawati’s responseGangster Vikas Dubey has been killed in an encounter by the UP police after he reportedly tried to flee following an accident. Politics has now escalated over the matter with the Congress, Samajwadi Party and the BSP questioning the Yogi government. Watch to know moreChief Minister Arvind Kejriwal praises ‘New Zealand origin Delhiite’ for donating plasma, tweets videoDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter to share a video of YouTuber Karl Rock. The chief minister praised Rock for donating plasma at Delhi government’s plasma bank at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) hospital located in Vasant Kunj. Read moreThe Old Guard movie review: Charlize Theron is back in beast mode in massively entertaining Netflix filmNetflix is no longer just in the original movie business, it’s in the franchise business. Not to be outdone by the other players in the market, which often fall back on legacy titles when the going gets tough, the streamer is well on its way to creating a legacy of its own. Read more‘One of the best exponents of reverse swing’: Sachin Tendulkar’s huge praise for veteran pacerFrom Imran Khan to Wasim Akram, and from Zaheer Khan to Waqar Younis, reverse swing is an art that has turned bowlers into legends. Some of the biggest seamers in world cricket have employed reverse swing in their arsenal as they went about toppling the opposition’s batting order. Read moreAlaya F’s home made coffee mask is perfect to get rid of dark circles, puffiness and moreBollywood newcomer Alaya F has been very productive with her time at home during the lockdown, imposed because of the coronavirus pandemic, and has been posting some very interesting and helpful workout tips, healthy recipes and sharing her home made skincare routine as well. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-china-and-india-should-be-partners-not-rivals-says-chinese-ambassador-and-all-the-latest-news/story-sqoK8w8BGKkJwwjFO6oT8I.html
10-07-2020||India||Total lockdown in Maharashtra’s Pune from July 13-23||A complete lockdown will be in place in Pune and neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad districts from July 13-23, the Maharashtra government announced on Friday to stem the spread of coronavirus. Only shops related to essential services will remain open, it added.The district reported a record spike of 1,803 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday that pushed the tally to 34,399, while the toll rose to 978. “Complete lockdown announced for Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and some parts of Rural Pune from 13th July to 23rd July. Only shops related to essential services like dairy and medical stores and hospitals will remain open,” said Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar.Twenty two villages have been identified in rural parts of Pune district where this lockdown will be implemented, said Naval Kishore Ram, Pune district collector. The officer added that the decision was taken to break the chain of viral spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/total-lockdown-in-maharashtra-s-pune-from-july-13-23/story-sSOx9XZL9odRVncqdOgDBO.html
10-07-2020||India||Jammu: BSF jawan dies of cardiac arrest||A head constable of the 183 battalion of the Border Security Force (BSF) died of cardiac arrest in Mendhar sector of Poonch district in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) on Friday at around 8.30am, officials said. The deceased has been identified as Uma Shanker, a resident of Ghazipur village in Uttar Pradesh (UP). Later, his body was shifted to Poonch district hospital for an autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-bsf-jawan-dies-of-cardiac-arrest/story-sntzagKLzSAKLY0SFlOfsL.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Partners, rather than rivals’: Chinese ambassador to India||India and China need peace rather than confrontation and should work together to maintain peace and tranquillity along their disputed border until they find a “reasonable solution” to the complicated issue through negotiations, Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong said on Friday.Sun said the two sides should be “partners, rather than rivals” and also addressed calls from some quarters for the “decoupling” of bilateral economic and trade relations and to exclude “Made in China” goods, saying non-tariff barriers and restrictive measures would be unfair to Chinese enterprises and Indian consumers.The envoy further said India and China need to build trust through mutual respect and treating each other as equals. The two sides need to “respect and accommodate mutual core interests and major concerns” and adhere to the principle of non-interference in each other’s internal affairs, he said.Sun conveyed China’s position against the backdrop of partial disengagement by Indian and Chinese troops at key friction points in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) after a two-month standoff.The Indian side is proceeding with the disengagement process with extreme caution and on Thursday reiterated its rejection of China’s claim on Galwan Valley, which was the scene of a violent clash on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and resulted in unspecified Chinese casualties.Sun made the remarks in a nearly 18-minute video posted on the Chinese embassy’s YouTube channel. The theme of his remarks was “Implement consensus and handle differences properly to bring China-India relations back on the right track” and the envoy made several references to the age-old ties between the two sides and the consensus achieved through the informal summits between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping since 2018.The envoy’s remarks focused on five key points – India and China should be partners, rather than rivals, they need peace rather than confrontation, they should pursue win-win cooperation instead of a zero-sum game, they need to build trust rather than suspicion, and bilateral ties should move forward rather than backward.“We need to seek convergence while putting aside differences and not impose one’s will on the other. We should honour our commitment, walk the talk, and ensure implementation of the leaders’ consensus in letter and in spirit,” Sun said.“The two sides should conduct timely strategic communication, enhance mutual understanding and cooperation, manage differences through dialogue, and firmly grasp the direction of bilateral relations,” he added.Referring to the phone conversation on July 5 between the two Special Representatives on border issues – India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and China’s foreign minister Wang Yi – Sun said the two had agreed to strengthen communication through the mechanism of the Special Representatives, hold Meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs without interruption, consistently improve and strengthen confidence-building measures and prevent more incidents that undermine peace and tranquillity in the border areas.The WMCC held its third virtual meeting since the beginning of the border standoff on Friday.Sun acknowledged that China and India have a “sensitive and complicated” boundary issue left over from history and said: “We need to find a fair and reasonable solution mutually acceptable through equal consultation and peaceful negotiation. Pending an ultimate settlement, we both agree to work together to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.”He also referred to the violent clash of June 15 and described it as “an incident causing casualties at the Galwan Valley”. He added, “It was a situation neither China nor India would like to see.”“China has all along advocated that peace is of paramount importance. We are neither a warlike state nor an assertive country. The right and wrong of what recently happened at the Galwan Valley is very clear. China will firmly safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity, and ensure the peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” Sun said.The phone conversation between the Special Representatives resulted in “positive consensus on easing the current border situation” and “frontline troops are disengaging on the ground in accordance with the consensus reached by the Military Corps Commanders”, he said.However, Sun said both sides can “avoid any strategic miscalculation” only by having a “correct view of each other’s intentions with a positive, open and inclusive attitude”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-and-india-should-be-partners-not-rivals-chinese-ambassador-to-india/story-2ucwLXpkme9hwtxBFyVBOP.html
10-07-2020||India||Indian Army soldier killed in unprovoked firing by Pakistan in J-K’s Rajouri||An Indian Army soldier was killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan in the Nowshera sector of Jammu & Kashmir’s Rajouri district, officials said on Friday.Havildar Sambur Gurung (36) was critically injured in the unprovoked ceasefire violation on the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector and later succumbed to his injuries, the army said in a statement.“Havildar Sambur Gurung was a brave, highly motivated, and sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand, defence spokesperson, said in the statement.He added that Indian troops responded strongly to the enemy fire.Gurung hailed from Manbu village in Nepal’s Gorkha district.In a separate incident, a woman, Hakam Bi (58), of Lanjote village in Mendhar sector, died on Thursday after she had sustained injuries due to Pakistani shelling the previous day. Another woman, Resham Bi (60), was also killed on the same day.In June, five Indian soldiers were killed on the LoC in Poonch and Rajouri sectors of Jammu division because of unprovoked Pakistani shelling amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-soldier-killed-in-unprovoked-firing-by-pakistan-in-j-k-s-rajouri/story-OyUCze6SlLNbUyfuKGxjwO.html
10-07-2020||India||Vandalised statue of a tribal icon triggers BJP-TMC tug of war ahead of Bengal polls||The arrest of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker in connection with the breaking of a statue of Kanhu Murmu, one of the four leaders of the 1855 Santhal rebellion against the British and local landlords, has triggered political tension in Bengal’s Purulia district.The Trinamool Congress (TMC) lost the Purulia Lok Sabha seat to the BJP in 2019. The panchayat polls in Purulia were marked by violence in 2018.The alleged vandalism on July 7 took place at the village of Sandhya Rani Tudu, a TMC tribal leader and minister of state for backward classes’ welfare. The village is located in the Manbazar assembly constituency that Tudu represents.The statue was installed on a school ground on June 30 to mark the Hool festival observed by the Santhal community. The local fair committee accused Baidyanath Mandi, a BJP worker, in its police complaint. Mandi, a local resident, was arrested on Wednesday, said Partha Bhunia, officer-in-charge of Manbazar police station.Bengal sees highest one-day jump of 1,088 Covid-19 cases, toll at 854TMC has targeted the BJP, comparing the incident to the vandalism of the bust of 19th century educationist and social reformer Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar at a college in Kolkata during a poll rally by BJP leader Amit Shah in May 2019. It became a raging issue in the Lok Sabha polls but the BJP managed to win 18 of the state’s 42 seats, marking its best ever performance in Bengal. “@BJP4Bengal has sworn to attack and destroy every grain of Bengal’s cultural heritage. First, they vandalized Vidyasagar’s statue and now they have vandalized the statue of revered tribal hero Kanho Murmu in Purulia. We strongly condemn such acts of iconoclasm,” TMC tweeted on Thursday.“Our workers will visit door-to-door across households in Purulia and collect soil from their homes to reconstruct and reinstate the statue of the tribal icon to pay our respects and immortalize his contributions in the district,” TMC said in another tweet.Also Read: BJP ally IPFT holds protest in Tripura over arrest of supporterBJP has alleged that the vandalism is a conspiracy to malign it as TMC is fast losing ground in the state’s tribal belts before the 2021 assembly polls.“BJP has risen exponentially in the tribal belts and won the Lok Sabha seats of Purulia, Bishnupur and Midnapore where tribals constitute a sizable section of the voting population. The ruling party made tall promises in these regions but delivered nothing in nine years,” Khagen Murmu, BJP Lok Sabha member from the Malda North seat and president of the party’s scheduled tribe front in Bengal, told HT. “We will not tolerate this and start an agitation not only in Purulia but in other districts. TMC knows that its days are numbered. Hence, it is trying to rake up an issue by staging an act of vandalism. No tribal will ever touch a statue of Kanhu Murmu,” Murmu added.“Mandi is known to be an honest man and he takes part in our party programmes. It is not possible for one man to dismantle the statue from its foundation. Also, it is not possible to evade detection as policemen are always around since the minister and her family lives in the village,” said BJP Purulia district unit president Bidyasagar Chakraborty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vandalised-statue-of-a-tribal-icon-triggers-bjp-tmc-tug-of-war-ahead-of-bengal-polls/story-yc88b1JqgGspPf0ff7I9SI.html
10-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate dips to 2.72 per cent: Health Ministry||From 2.82 per cent a month earlier, India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 2.72 per cent which is lower than that of many other countries, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday.It also noted that 30 states and Union Territories have a fatality rate lower than the national average.Also, there is an upward trend in the recovery rate which was recorded at 62.42 per cent on Friday. In 18 states and UTs the recovery rates are higher than the national average, the ministry said.“At the national level, the case fatality rate has declined to 2.72 per cent. This is lower than the fatality rates observed in many other countries in the world. The focus of Covid-19 management in the country has been to keep the fatalities low,” it said.The ministry said with the support and guidance of the Central government, the states and union territories have taken many steps like mapping of communities to focus on high-risk groups like the elderly/aged and population with comorbidities, and providing special care to them.There is a focus on the improvement of quality of medical care for coronavirus patients. The country-wide strong network of ASHAs and ANMs along with Ayushman Bharat  Health and Wellness Centres have helped in effective surveillance and contact tracing of the cases, including the lakhs of migrants and returnees, it said. There are 30 states and UTs which have a fatality rate lower than the national average which includes Kerala (0.41 pc), Jharkhand (0.71 pc), Bihar (0.82 pc), Telangana (1.07 pc), Tamil Nadu (1.39 pc), Haryana (1.48 pc), Rajasthan (2.18 pc), Punjab (2.56 pc) and Uttar Pradesh (2.66 pc).Manipur, Nagaland, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Sikkim have zero case fatality rate.There are 18 states and UTs where the recovery rate is more than the national average. They which include West Bengal (64.94 pc), Uttar Pradesh (65.28 pc), Odisha (66.13 pc), Jharkhand (68.02 pc), Punjab (69.26 pc), Bihar (70.40 pc), Gujarat (70.72 pc), Madhya Pradesh (74.85 pc), Haryana (74.91 pc), Rajasthan (75.65 pc) and Delhi (76.81 pc).On Friday, India registered yet another record single-day jump of 26,506 Covid-19 cases pushing its tally to 7,93,802, while the death toll climbed to 21,604 with 475 people succumbing to the infection in 24 hours.In the 24-hour period, 19,138 Covid-19 patients got cured, taking the cumulative figure of recovered cases to 4,95,515 on Friday, the ministry said. “The trend of progressive increase in the number of recovered Covid-19 patients continues. The national recovery rate is 62.42 per cent today,” it said.There are 2,76,682 active cases and all are under medical supervision. The improvement in recovery rate is the result of a combination of preemptive, proactive and graded steps taken by the Centre in collaboration with the states and UTs, the ministry said. “Aggressive testing that ensures early detection of patients, home isolation for the mild/pre-symptomatic patients, effective clinical management of the severe cases, ramped up hospital infrastructure and regular and seamless coordination between the Centre and states and UTs have together resulted in the continuously rising recovery rate in the country.” As of Friday, there are 1,218 dedicated COVID hospitals, 2,705 dedicated COVID healthcare centres and 10,301 COVID care Centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-case-fatality-rate-dips-to-2-72-per-cent-health-ministry/story-A9fV8ST1k258c54dMDBLCO.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Justice only thing killed in CM Yogiji’s ‘encounter raj’: TMC’s Mahua Moitra||Senior TMC leader and MP Mahua Moitra came down heavily on the Uttar Pradesh government on Friday over the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey, asserting that justice is the “only thing killed” in Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s “encounter raj”.Dubey was killed in an encounter earlier in the day, after a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh to Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh met with an accident in the Bhaunti area of Kanpur district and he tried to flee.“It is the job of the courts to deliver justice. It is the job of the police to deliver the accused. Shocking that India under @BJP has confused the two,” Moitra said in a tweet.“Only thing killed in Yogiji’s “encounter Raj” is justice!” she added.Dubey had allegedly masterminded the ambush in Kanpur’s Bikru village, in which eight policemen, who had gone to arrest him, was killed past midnight on July 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-only-thing-killed-in-cm-yogiji-s-encounter-raj-tmc-s-mahua-moitra/story-sXxz3AOvgF7zSLtkhRVEHP.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Inhuman, unreasonable’: Here’s what SC guidelines say on handcuffing criminals||The alleged encounter killing of dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey on Friday has kicked up dust over his not being apparently handcuffed by the police, against the backdrop of the Supreme Court’s disapproving the practice in various orders, calling it “inhuman, unreasonable, over harsh and arbitrary”.The police, on the other hand, has all along been supporting handcuffing at various judicial forums on the ground that the practice has been quite helpful in ensuring that a dreaded accused or convict does not flee the custody.The apex court has from time to time issued a slew of directives on the procedure to be followed while handcuffing an undertrial, maintaining that the insurance against escape does not compulsorily require handcuffing.According to police, Dubey was killed after he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti during his transit from Ujjain to Kanpur and their car met with accident.   It said the gangster snatched a pistol from one of the policemen injured in the accident and was shot when he opened fire while trying to flee, an account being questioned by opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh.Six policemen, including two from the Special task Force, were hurt in the accident and the exchange of fire around 6 am, an official said.With this incident, the debate over handcuffing criminals while taking them from one place to another has ensued once again.The apex court in 1995 held that minimal freedom of movement cannot be cut down by application of handcuffs or other hoops. It had categorically stated that handcuffing of prisoners without judicial consent was illegal.“We clearly declare -- and it shall be obeyed from the Inspector General of Police and Inspector General of Prisons to the escort constable and the jailwarder -- that the rule, regarding a prisoner in transit prison house and Court house, is freedom from handcuffs and the exception, under conditions of judicial supervision we have indicated earlier will be restraints with irons to be justified before or after,” the apex court said.In another case -- Prem Shankar Shukla vs Delhi Administration, the top court in 1980 made important observations on he issue and said that there were other measures whereby an escort can keep safe custody of a “detenu without the indignity and cruelty implicit in handcuffs or other iron In contraptions”.It said: “Handcuffing is prima facie inhuman and, therefore, unreasonable, is over harsh and at the first blush, arbitrary. Absent fair procedure and objective monitoring to inflict “irons” is to resort to zoological strategies repugnant to Article 21.  “Surely, the competing claims of securing the prisoner from fleeing and protecting his personality from barbarity have to be harmonized”.The top court has observed that to prevent the escape of an undertrial is in public interest, reasonable, just and cannot, by itself be castigated. “But to bind a man hand and foot, fetter his limbs with hoops of steel, shuffle him along in the streets and stand him for hours in the courts is to torture him, defile his dignity, vulgarise society and foul the soul of our Constitutional culture,” it said.Referring to Articles 14 (Equality before law) and 19 (Freedoms of speech), the top court had said that when there is no compulsive need to fetter a person’s limbs “it is sadistic, capricious, despotic and demoralizing to humble a man by manacling him”.“Such arbitrary conduct surely slaps Article 14 on the face. The animal freedom of movement, which even a detained is entitled to under Article 19, cannot be cut down cruelly by application of handcuffs or other hoops. “lt will be unreasonable so to do unless the State is able to make out that no other practical way of forbidding escape is available, the prisoner being so dangerous and desperate and the circumstances so hostile to safe keeping,” it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-encounter-inhuman-unreasonable-here-s-what-sc-guidelines-says-on-handcuffing-criminals/story-eERAsML63mPgcGN4SEBJXN.html
10-07-2020||India||Videos tangle matters further in UP gangster Vikas Dubey’s encounter puzzle||Videos that have surfaced after notorious criminal Vikas Dubey was shot dead early on Friday morning while he was being taken to Kanpur have raised several questions about what the police said was an encounter. Vikas Dubey, wanted in connection with the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur last Friday, is said to have attempted an escape after the UP police vehicle he was travelling in overturned. The police said Dubey snatched a gun from an injured policeman and was asked to surrender but he opened fire, forcing them to fire back. ALSO WATCH | Vikas Dubey killed: Watch Priyanka Gandhi, Akhilesh Yadav & Mayawati’s response “After the car overturned, Vikas Dubey tried to snatch a Police weapon and attempted to flee after which there was retaliatory fire by police in which he was injured. He was declared dead after being taken to hospital. We’ll issue an official statement soon,” said UP ADG law & order Prashant Kumar. Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) team along with history sheeter #VikasDubey who was arrested in Ujjain (Madhya Pradesh) yesterday, reaches Kanpur. pic.twitter.com/C405jxATZrOn the question of Dubey having snatched a police weapon, Dr NC Asthana, former DGP Kerala, highlighted that rules mandate that cops must secure their weapons by lanyards. The former Kerala top cop also pointed out that dangerous criminals are handcuffed, raising questions about Dubey’s escaping act. He then shared a video spotlighting the road condition and how an overturned car had all its doors closed.  OUTRAGEOUS STORY of Vikas Dubey encounter. The vehicle is seen lying "conveniently" on its side, all doors closed. Note the road condition. No reason to overturn "so softly"! Open fields all around! Even a fool with a paunch wud not consider running away in open. pic.twitter.com/8NGT2zx6lTA video of three cars crossing a toll plaza early this morning shows Dubey travelling in a car different from the one that was seen flipped on the highway, which the police said was a result of a road accident. The police are yet to comment on how and when the cars were switched.In another video taken at 6:30 am, media persons who were following the convoy bringing back the gangster were stopped by police in Sachendi area of Kanpur. This happened a little while before the encounter took place. #WATCH Media persons, who were following the convoy bringing back gangster Vikas Dubey, were stopped by police in Sachendi area of Kanpur before the encounter around 6.30 am in which the criminal was killed. (Earlier visuals) pic.twitter.com/K1B56NGV5pThe encounter triggered sharp attacks from opposition parties who alleged that the gangster arrested less than 24 hours earlier from a temple in Ujjain had been killed to shield the people who had protected him.“Dead men tell no tales,” former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said in a tweet after news of the encounter emerged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/videos-tangle-matters-further-in-up-gangster-vikas-dubey-s-encounter-puzzle/story-Uk7Gq2C4c5puAOdyTQpBjJ.html
10-07-2020||India||At least 8 people, including 8-month-old, killed in Arunachal Pradesh landslides||Landslides, triggered by incessant rainfall, claimed the lives of at least eight people in two separate incidents in Arunachal Pradesh on Friday amid India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast for heavy rains in the coming days, as the Central Water Commission (CWC) warned of a severe flood situation in the sparsely populated remote border state.In the first incident, four members of a family, including an 8-month-old baby, were killed in a landslide in Papumpare district of Arunachal Pradesh on Friday at around 2:30 am.The incident took place at Tigdo village near the state capital, Itanagar. All four victims were buried alive while they were sleeping. Later, the bodies of the victims were retrieved from the debris.“Saddened by a tragedy that struck Tigdo village in Papumpare district this morning, where four members of a family perished in the landslide,” Chief Minister Pema Khandu tweeted.In the second incident at Modirijo, located between Itanagar and Naharlagun, four persons were buried in another landslide that occurred at 12:30 pm.According to a state government report, bodies of three of the victims have been retrieved, while efforts are underway to recover the fourth person.The chief minister’s office (CMO) has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased.“Incessant rain for the last couple of days that triggered landslides and floods has left trails of large scale devastation in the entire state,” Khandu was quoted in a release from CMO.“Reports have been pouring in about landslides in various locations from around the state capital. Road communication has been badly affected by nature’s fury,” he added.The CM cautioned that as per IMD, there is a likelihood of heavy rain across the state in the next few days. He requested everyone to take precautionary measures and refrain from staying at vulnerable locations.Instructions have been issued to all the districts to keep a strict vigil and continuously monitor the situation to avoid largescale devastation and loss of human lives, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-of-a-family-including-8-month-old-killed-in-arunachal-pradesh-landslides/story-IHKTHbUsIZi0NNQ4V4GLLN.html
10-07-2020||India||ICMR plans nationwide sero-survey to detect exposure of people to Covid-19 infection||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has announced its plan of a nationwide sero-survey which will be carried out to determine the exposure of the coronavirus infection among the population. The new survey will be similar to the one conducted in May, the results of which are still awaited.A sero-survey involves testing of blood serum of a group of individuals and this is used to monitor trends of the coronavirus disease at the district level. The survey is carried out by the ICMR in tandem with the National Centre for Disease Control and with the help of state health departments. The results of the sero-survey that had been conducted by the research body in May, which focused on infections of mid-April is still under process, Rajesh Bhushan, Officer on Special Duty in the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. ALSO READ | India’s Covid-19 deaths per million among lowest globally: Health Ministry“The sero-survey that ICMR conducted across the country focused on infections of mid-April and preliminary findings were shared. Such sero-surveillance studies or any other scientific study is subject to peer-review and those inputs are also incorporated. So that process is going on. We will be in a position to share it once that gets over,” Bhushan said.Based on data compiled from 65 districts out of 83 districts across the country in the first part of the sero-survey, 0.73 per cent of the population surveyed had showed evidence of past exposure to Covid-19, according to ICMR’s data.ALSO READ | India records another single-day spike of new Covid-19 cases at 26,506, tally over 7.93 lakhThe results of the last sero-survey, which has been carried out in Delhi by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as a part of which 22,000 samples were collected from June 27 to July 5 from 11 districts, is also under process.“In the near future, ICMR is planning a follow up sero-survey pan-India to the earlier sero-survey that they had been done for mid-April infections,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-plans-nationwide-sero-survey-to-detect-exposure-of-people-to-covid-19-infection/story-NZn72UXX5QfkmuniCktELP.html
10-07-2020||India||Kin of killed cops find solace in Vikas Dubey’s death while debate rages over gangster’s encounter||While questions continue to swirl around the killing of Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey, families of eight cops, slain in an ambush laid out by Dubey and his men in Kanpur’s Bikru village on July 3, are coming out one after another, welcoming Dubey’s encounter by Uttar Pradesh police in an early morning operation on Friday, when Dubey allegedly attempted to escape after snatching a firearm from an injured policemen.Constable Ajay Kashyap, who was one of the several policemen injured in the early morning police raid at Vikas Dubey’s Bikru village residence on July 3, said Dubey’s death had brought him “solace” and will serve to restore public confidence in the police and government.“It has brought solace to my soul. It would restore public confidence in police and government,” constable Ajay Kashyap was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Dubey’s dramatic arrest in Ujjain on Thursday and his death today has led to mixed emotions and reactions from across the spectrum with a strong undercurrent of suspicion of alleged police-criminal-politician nexus being at work to prevent the dark secrets from coming out. Relatives of some policemen killed in Kanpur ambush had yesterday alleged that Dubey’s arrest had been staged to save him from certain death in encounter with UP police’s special task force (STF).Kamal Kant, a relative of slain Bilhaur circle officer Devendra Mishra, had said Dubey would not have been able to travel across four states untouched and then “surrendered” unharmed had there not been forces working to save him.“This is a scripted surrender to save the criminal,” Kant told reporters at his house in Kanpur.Also Read: Kin of slain Kanpur cop call Vikas Dubey’s arrest a ‘scripted surrender’The relatives of two slain sub-inspectors from Prayagraj and Pratapgarh had sought capital punishment for Dubey, while questioning how he managed to reach Ujjain to save his life.The family members of another slain sub-inspector, Nebulal, from Prayagraj also demanded death for Dubey. Nebulal’s son, Arvind Kumar, said he and his family were not satisfied. The circumstances of Dubey’s arrest were doubtful, he had said on Thursday.Dubey’s elimination in the police action this morning has, however, left some with a sense of justice.“I am very proud of UP Police. Whatever they have done today has brought solace to my soul. I thank the administration and the Yogi government,” Tirath Pal, father of constable Jitendra Pal Singh who was killed in the Kanpur ambush on July 3, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Wife of constable Sultan Singh, who, too, lost his life last week in Kanpur in the elaborate trap laid out by Dubey and his men, says while she is satisfied at the outcome (Dubey’s death), the truth of any political patronage protecting Dubey may not come out ever now, that he is dead.“I’m satisfied. But now how will it come to the fore as to who were backing him (Vikas Dubey)? It could have been unraveled by questioning him,” Urmila Verma, wife of constable Sultan Singh was quoted as saying by the news agency.The Uttar Pradesh police said that three sub-inspector, one constable and two STF commandos were injured during the early morning encounter of Dubey, while he was trying to allegedly flee after the vehicle bringing him to Kanpur from Ujjain overturned just 20 km outside the destination city.Dubey was the sixth person to be killed in the case, while 10 others are under arrest and 12 wanted criminals are still absconding, according to Prashant Kumar, UP ADG, Law and Order.Vikas Dubey was ‘silenced’, his ‘encounter staged’: Who said what after Kanpur encounterOpposition leaders and civil rights activists have questioned the police’s version of events leading to Dubey’s death and demanded a thorough probe to unravel the alleged nexus between cops, politicians and criminals in the state of Uttar Pradesh. They have suggested that Dubey’s encounter was engineered to bury these facts.SP national president Akhilesh Yadav, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and BSP chief Mayawati have all alleged that Dubey’s death will help in preserving the powerful nexus. Mayawati also demanded a probe overseen by the Supreme Court of India to bring out the truth and to serve justice to the families of policemen killed in Kanpur ambush a week ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kin-of-killed-cops-find-solace-in-vikas-dubey-s-death-while-debate-rages-over-gangster-s-encounter/story-wXgffJHRAFiJoMfjT6x6WM.html
10-07-2020||India||‘No need to shed tears, why is Dubey’s encounter by cops being questioned’, says Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday said there was no need to shed tears over the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey in an encounter and wondered why the police action was being questioned.Dubey was shot dead by the Uttar Pradesh police on the outskirts of Kanpur city on Friday morning. The police claimed that he was trying to flee after the car carrying him from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh overturned at Bhaunti in Kanpur district.Talking to PTI, Raut said, “Dubey had killed eight policemen. Attack on the uniform means there is no law and order. Taking strict action is the need of that states police be it in Maharashtra or Uttar Pradesh.” “There is no need to shed tears over the killing of Dubey in an encounter. Why is the police action being questioned?” the Rajya Sabha MP asked.Madhya Pradesh police had arrested Vikas Dubey outside the Mahakal temple in Ujjain on Thursday morning and he was handed over to an Uttar Pradesh police late in the evening.The UP police said that the car carrying him overturned and the gangster snatched a pistol from one of the policemen, but was shot dead when he opened fire while trying to flee.Opposition parties, however, targeted the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the encounter.Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the encounter as well as the ambush in which eight policemen died last week.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the criminal is now gone and asked what about those who had “protected” him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-to-shed-tears-why-is-dubey-s-encounter-by-cops-being-questioned-says-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut/story-k33tn8is6F7oOKJAaV8mWM.html
10-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey was ‘silenced’, his ‘encounter staged’: Who said what after Kanpur encounter||Gangster Vikas Dubey’s killing in a shootout by the police early on Friday triggered attacks from several leaders of opposition parties, including Akhilesh Yadav, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Mayawati.They alleged that Dubey, who was arrested less than 24 hours earlier from the Mahakal Temple in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain had been “silenced” to shield the people who had protected him. The gangster, who ordered the killing of eight policemen last week, was being brought back to Kanpur in a sports utility vehicle when he was shot at following a road accident.Opposition leaders, who had demanded a thorough probe to unravel the gangster’s police and political nexus, hinted that the encounter was engineered to bury the facts.“It isn’t the car that had overturned; the government saved itself from overturning by preventing the secrets coming out,” Akhilesh Yadav, the Samajwadi Party’s (SP) national president, tweeted in Hindi.Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also joined the rank of opposition leaders who reacted to the killing of Vikas Dubey in an encounter with UP police’s Special Task Force. Gandhi raised his suspicion in a succinct tweet in Hindi, without specifically mentioning the encounter which resulted in the gangster’s killing, and said that silence is better than many answers as it honours many questions that could have been raised. कई जवाबों से अच्छी है ख़ामोशी उसकीन जाने कितने सवालों की आबरू रख लीPriyanka Gandhi, the Congress party’s general secretary and UP in-charge, also posted on Twitter on the same lines.“Fine, the criminal’s dead; but what about those who protected him and his crime?” Priyanka Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.Mayawati, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief, in a set of two tweets in Hindi, demanded a probe into the series of incidents since the policemen were killed in Dubey’s Bikru village.“A probe under the Supreme Court should be done into the killing of the policemen and then overturning of the car in which the UP police was bringing the heinous criminal Vikas Dubey while they were in transit from MP to UP and Dubey’s killing by the police,” she said. “A high-level probe is also necessary for true justice to the families of those policemen whom who were killed. And also to identify the nexus of police and criminal politics and strongest of punishment to those involved. Only by taking such steps UP could be made crime-free,” the BSP leader added.“Dead men tell no tales,” former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said in a tweet after news of the encounter emerged.Om Prakash Rajbhar, the president of Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and a former ally in the Yogi Adityanath-led government said: “What was being apprehended has happened. Had the main accused in the Kanpur incident Vikas Dubey spilt the beans then a lot of leaders and officers would have been in trouble. There is certainly a big fish who did not want Vikas Dubey to talk so his voice has been permanently shut before he could open his mouth before a magistrate,” Rajbhar tweeted in Hindi.“So the policemen whom Dubey killed did not get justice. Justice to them would have been done had the syndicate of police and leaders would have been exposed. With Dubey’s death, the hope of justice has been buried too. First the letters went missing, then pieces of evidence were buried, Vikas Dubey has exposed the real face of Yogi government to the people.”Senior Congress leader Jitin Prasada also chipped in.“With the end of Vikas Dubey in police custody the government has ensured that the trail which would have exposed his nexus with the people in positions of power who allowed criminals like him to flourish, has ended too,” Prasada posted on Twitter. In another tweet in Hindi, he said: “People expect justice from government, not revenge. What’s the difference between a soldier and a criminal.”The police shot dead the gangster 20km from Kanpur city. They said the vehicle in which Vikas Dubey was travelling overturned in a road accident and that he tried to flee after that. The gangster, according to a statement by Kanpur Police, snatched a service pistol from one of the policemen in the car and tried to run away. Policemen went after him and told him to surrender and when he did not listen, they shot at him.“But he didn’t listen and started firing at the police with an intention to kill,” the statement in Hindi said. He was shot in police firing and later died at a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-was-silenced-his-encounter-staged-who-said-what-after-kanpur-encounter/story-SL93D4NR3R3kdVRKMlGg7O.html
10-07-2020||India||Kerala HC defers bail plea of gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh to Tuesday||The Kerala High Court on Friday deferred the bail application of Swapna Suresh, the main accused in the Thiruvanathapuram airport gold smuggling case, to Tuesday after her lawyer said he is yet to get a copy of the first information report filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Though the plea was deferred the high court did not stay her arrest. The NIA opposed her bail plea saying the smuggling incident involves international ramifications and the accused enjoyed a good rapport with influential people. She had moved the Kerala High Court for bail on Thursday. The Union Home Ministry had handed over the probe to the NIA on Thursday. This is the first time the agency is investigating a smuggling case.The Customs Department had seized 30 kgs of gold from an air cargo consignment from the United Arab Emirates to the country’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. Suresh, who was working as the operational manager of the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited under the state IT Ministry, had gone underground after the seizure. Later, the CM had transferred his principal secretary M Sivasankar who was close to Suresh.The issue took on political colour after the Opposition Congress and BJP claimed that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan knew about his principal secretary Sivasankar’s alleged link with the prime accused. As the issue flared up, more skeletons started tumbling out of the cupboard of the accused.The Maharashtra -based university, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University, from where she reportedly obtained her B.Com degree made it clear that the varsity did not have a B.Com course and her degree was fake. Later, the controller of the examination Dr Vivek S Sathe sent a mail to a news channel saying it was a fake certificate. She was given a job at Air India-SATS and the Kerala IT department based on this degree. Two days back, her estranged brother also claimed she did not even clear her class 10 examination.Protests by the opposition parties seeking the resignation of the chief minister turned violent at several places. In Kozhikode in north Kerala, many people were hurt after police resorted to baton charge on agitating Youth League workers. In Kochi too, Yuva Morcha protests turned violent. In Kannur, police lobbed teargas shells to control Youth Congress workers who held a rally outside Vijayan’s ancestral house.Despite the CPI(M) and coalition rallying around the CM, many party insiders say the latest incident has dented the image of the government when the elections are just 10 months away. Some of the allies of the ruling dispensation have started airing their displeasure against the way Vijayan protected former principal secretary M Sivasankar. Junior partner the CPI said it had warned him about the “freestyle” of his secretary several times but the CM had ignored them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-defers-bail-plea-of-gold-smuggling-accused-swapna-suresh-to-tuesday/story-t7imPElPdXCswemYEhRZXP.html
10-07-2020||India||India to invite Australia to Malabar naval exercise, Quad stands up to China||India plans to invite Australia to join the annual Malabar naval exercise that has so far included just Japan and the U.S., in a move that could risk China’s ire.The decision to include Australia in the drills -- the first time all members of the regional grouping known as the Quad will be engaged at a military level -- comes as Beijing and New Delhi are caught up in their worst border tensions in four decades. The exercise will bring together the navies of India, Japan, Australia and the U.S. in the Bay of Bengal at the end of the year, according to senior Indian officials who asked not to be identified, citing rules.New Delhi is expected to clear the way next week for a formal invitation to Australia following final government clearance and consultations with the US and Japan, the officials said.“The timing of India potentially letting Australia into Malabar would be especially significant at this juncture,” said Derek Grossman, researcher at the Washington-based RAND Corporation who worked in the U.S. intelligence community for more than a decade. “It would send a significant message to China that the Quad -- U.S., Australia, Japan, and India -- are de facto conducting joint naval exercises, even if not technically conducted under the auspices of a Quad event.”China has been uncomfortable with the informal coalition of four democracies, which was first formed in 2004 to help nations in the Indo-Pacific after the tsunami and revived in 2017. Post the coronavirus pandemic, the grouping has been coordinating efforts every month with Vietnam, South Korea and New Zealand.Indian Navy Spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhawal declined to comment.A spokesperson for Australia’s defense department said in an emailed statement on Friday that while the nation was yet to receive an invitation to Exercise Malabar, “Australia sees value in participating in quadrilateral defense activities in order to increase interoperability and advance our collective interests in a free, open and prosperous Indo-Pacific region.”Strengthening TiesWhile the Malabar exercises between U.S. and Indian navies were instituted in 1992, they have been more regular since 2004 with other Asian nations joining in the annual event. China had objected to the only other time Australia participated in the drills along with India, Japan, U.S. and Singapore in 2007.India’s inclusion of Australia this year follows a defense agreement and upgrading ties to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. The Mutual Logistics support agreement announced in May by Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Scott Morrison allows access to each other’s bases and ports. India has a similar agreement with the U.S.Canberra’s inclusion in the games was “only a matter of time” given improving defense and economic ties, according to Biren Nanda, former Indian High Commissioner to Australia and senior fellow at Delhi Policy Group. Australia’s merchandise trade with India for the year ended June 2019 was A$21.1 billion ($14.5 billion), according to Australia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.“There’s no direct relation between inviting Australia and what’s happening at the Sino-Indian border,” said Nanda in a phone interview. “This was a natural progression. Yet the question will be raised: how would the Chinese regard this? And they will react negatively. Just like they had done earlier.”Weaponized QuadChina objected to Japan’s inclusion in the U.S-India annual Malabar event in 2015 with the then foreign ministry spokesperson Hong Lei warning “relevant countries” to not “provoke confrontation and create tension” in the region. Five years later, with an assertive China pushing neighbors across the Asian seas, Nanda expects a similar response.Yet, there may be more acceptance to the idea of “like-minded democracies that seek to keep the Indo-Pacific free and open” amid India’s rapidly souring on China ties, purely out of frustration, said Rajeswari Pillai Rajagoplan, distinguished fellow at New Delhi-based Observer Research Foundation and author of ‘Clashing Titans: Military Strategy and Insecurity Among Asian Great Powers.’Although India and China are now in the process of disengaging along their 3,488 kilometer (2,167 mile) unmarked boundary in the Himalayas after high-level military and diplomatic talks, the deadly clashes that followed the months-long standoff in the Galwan valley was a blow to relations between the nuclear-armed neighbors.“Especially after Galwan, there’s a growing realization in New Delhi’s elite circles that its increasingly difficult to trust China. They have broken more than four decades of agreements. Good trade ties are no guarantee of peace,” said Rajagoplan. “They have time and again tried to interfere in other nations’ foreign policy. But there’s an agreement in India that China should not have a say in who our friends are.”With Washington indicating its willingness to back the region through an increased force deployment in Asia, the Malabar exercises may take on more importance.“The Quad has always been a security platform but didn’t have a military context to it,” said Rajagopalan. “The Malabar exercises may give it just that thanks to China upping its ante and threatening the region’s security.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-invite-australia-to-malabar-naval-exercise-quad-stands-up-to-china/story-InMstEVp3eqCWf8SrRQyOL.html
10-07-2020||India||BS Yediyurappa to ‘work from home’ after staff test positive for Covid-19||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who was set to hold a meeting with all 198 corporators of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to review the Covid-19 situation on Friday, said today he would be working from home as a precautionary measure after staff members at his office-cum-residence tested positive for coronavirus.“I am going to discharge my duties from home from today for the next few days in view of some of the staff in the office-cum-residence Krishna testing positive for coronavirus,” the CM said in a statement. Noting that he was healthy, Yediyurappa appealed to the people not to panic. He said he would be giving directions and suggestions online.Meanwhile, a few hours ago, the CM did sent birthday wishes to defence minister Rajnath Singh on Twitter. The chief minister’s office was seen tweeting about a 10,100 bed facility at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre. The largest Covid care centre in the country with 10,100 beds has been setup at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre.Its key feature being that everything that an Asymptomatic Covid patient needs will all be available under one roof.#KarnatakaCoronaUpdate pic.twitter.com/zdmGBLNvVeA few days ago, the CM’s residence was shut for sanitisation after a relative of a police constable posted there was infected by the virus.The chief minister urged people to adhere to the guidelines as a precautionary measure to control the spread of coronavirus.The total number of Covid-19 infections in the state on Thursday crossed the 30,000 mark as it reported its biggest single day spike of over 2,200 new cases and 17 related fatalities, taking the toll to 486, the Health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bs-yediyurappa-to-work-from-home-after-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-8qqZoX4yDW9421vvN5dBFK.html
10-07-2020||India||Rajasthan: Accused in 38-year-old bank robbery and murder case arrested||A special operations group (SOG) of the Gujarat Police arrested an accused, who was wanted in a 38-year-old bank robbery and murder case, from Rajasthan’s Barmer district on Friday early morning.Anand Sharma, superintendent of police (SP), Barmer, said the accused, Shaktidan Singh (66), was arrested from Bijawal village that comes under the jurisdiction of Gadara Road police station.The SP said the accused had robbed a bank at Iqbalgarh in Gujarat’s Banaskantha district in 1982. He had opened fire and killed three persons, including a policeman and two civilians, while trying to decamp after the bank heist. He has been absconding since the incident, the SP said.Singh, a notorious dacoit in the past, was an accused in 40 cases in Rajasthan.However, in 1989, he had surrendered before the Rajasthan Police and became an approver after which no case was pending in his native state.But, he was still wanted in the Banaskantha bank robbery and murder case for which he was arrested on Friday early morning by Gujarat Police’s SOG, the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-accused-in-38-year-old-bank-robbery-and-murder-case-arrested/story-6avXnNYmCEAbatPuUyvHUM.html
10-07-2020||India||‘6 dead, 12 still on the run’: UP Police on Kanpur shootout in which 8 cops were killed||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Friday said that 12 criminals, who attacked a police team in Kanpur’s Bikru village on July 3, are still on the run. Eight policemen were killed in the gunfight.“In this case, so far, three people have been arrested, six accused killed and seven people sent to jail (under section 120B IPC). Twelve wanted criminals are still absconding,” Prashant Kumar, ADG (Law and Order), said at a press briefing.The man who planned the killing, gangster Vikas Dubey, was eliminated in an encounter on Friday morning. Dubey was arrested in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain on Thursday after being on the run since the shootout.The police had been aggressively pursuing Dubey and a massive manhunt was launched which spanned across three states. Many of those connected to Dubey, including his relatives, were taken into custody and questioned. Many of his aides were killed in police encounters in different cities.Along with the chase, the police had also launched an investigation about how Dubey got the information about the raid on July 3. It revealed a nexus between the gangster and the local cops, who alerted him about every movement of the police.The Station Officer of Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari, emerged as the biggest link and he along with other sub-inspectors was suspended and arrested. The investigators also found out about the caste factor at play.Dubey was a dreaded criminal, who had more than 60 cases against him. Eleven of those were of murder.Among his long list of criminal charges was the murder of BJP leader and UP minister inside a police station in 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-dead-12-still-on-the-run-up-police-on-kanpur-shootout-in-which-8-cops-were-killed/story-WC8zjIn158YhA2IRDLwkzN.html
10-07-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown won’t impact three-month cheque validity, rules Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said that Covid-19 lockdown will not impact the three-month period of validity of the cheques.A three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde, was considering request of extension of timelines under various laws.When the question came on extension of three-month period of validity of cheques, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) informed the court that the same should not be done as it would impact banking activities. The bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and AS Bopanna, accepted RBI suggestion and kept the three-month validity period of cheque intact. The RBI has fixed validity period of cheque under Section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act. The court noted that all banking systems across the country follow this prescribed period and there is no need to interfere with the same.The central government ordered starting economic activities in the country after an over two-month-long lockdown in phases. While the first phase of relaxation, called Unlock 1, began on June 1, the second of the three phases came into force from July 1.Though considerable relaxations have been given by the government in Unlock 2, there are no concessions for containment zones. The government advisory said that lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the containment zones till July 31. Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control will be maintained and only essential activities are allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-won-t-impact-three-month-cheque-validity-rules-supreme-court/story-OM7RU4ln7wAjvtMRDLpvuI.html
10-07-2020||India||In advice to China and India, Dalai Lama says both should live side-by-side||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama has asked India and China to live side-by-side, underlining that both the countries were powerful and could not destroy the other. The rare comment by the supreme Tibetan spiritual leader came at a time the two countries are trying to resolve the two-month-long standoff along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh.“Both [are] powerful nations yet neither one can destroy the other one, so you have to live side-by-side,” he reasoned in an interview on TIME100 Talks series.The two countries, the world’s most populated nations with billion-plus people, appeared to have “some sense of competition in recent times”, the Dalai Lama said, tracing the historical links between the two countries when scholars from China would come to India to translate Buddhist scriptures and religious text. “Historically, China was a Buddhist country and India was the land of Buddha.”The Dalai Lama relinquished his political and administrative powers over the Tibetan movement and its government-in-exile that runs from Dharamshala in 2011 and since then, mostly refrains from explicitly commenting on political matters. He did, however, when recently asked about the India, China stand-off, link wars to the feudal system when people - king, queen or even religious leaders - were more concerned with their own power.Also Read: India must stand up for Tibet | HT EditorialBut younger leaders and activists of the Tibetn movement - the Dalai Lama turned 85 earlier this week - have been outspoken in their criticism of China.Over the last month or so, there have been protests in Dharamshala’s McLeodganj - also known as Little Lhasa because it is home to thousands of Tibetan refugees, - and elsewhere against China. Tibetan leaders have since then nudged India to take a harder stance over Tibet that had been a natural buffer between India and China till Beijing annexed it in 1949.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-advice-to-china-and-india-dalai-lama-says-both-should-live-side-by-side/story-AHMnH62wyaqa9L7g22BauK.html
10-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey was hit on his chest, arm as he tried to escape from police: Report||Vikas Dubey, the Uttar Pradesh gangster accused of killing eight policemen last week, was on Friday hit by four bullets in the retaliatory firing by members of the Special Task Force (STF) who tried stop him from escaping near Kanpur city, news agency ANI reported.The 48-year-old gangster was shot at by the police team when he tried to escape after the vehicle he was travelling in met with an accident amid heavy rain in the region. The STF team was bringing him back to Kanpur from Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain city.He was arrested outside the Mahakal Temple in Ujjain on Thursday and was being brought to Kanpur.ALSO WATCH | Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey shot dead in encounter “Vikas Dubey had three bullet injuries on the chest and one on his arm,” Dr RB Kamal, the principal of Kanpur’s LLR Hospital, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Dr Kamal said the condition of the three injured police personnel is stable and that bullets brushed by two of them.Also read | Gangster Vikas Dubey killed: The sequence of events in past weekAccording to a police statement, there was an encounter as Vikas Dubey tried to escape when the sports utility vehicle (SUV) overturned early in the morning.Vikas Dubey, it said, snatched a pistol from one of the policemen after the accident and tried to run away. He reached a nearby field, was surrounded and asked to surrender. When he refused to surrender and fired at the team, police personnel shot at the gangster in self-defence, the statement in Hindi said.Prashant Kumar, UP additional director general of police (law and order) said three sub-inspector, a constable and two STF commandos were injured during the incident. Kumar said three people have been arrested, six accused killed, seven people sent to jail under section 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 12 wanted criminals still absconding.Dubey’s death in a police encounter triggered sharp attacks from opposition parties who alleged that the gangster had been killed to shield the people who had protected him. Several opposition leaders, who had demanded a thorough probe to unravel the gangster’s political nexus, claimed that the encounter was engineered to bury the facts.Dubey was on the run since July 3 after he and his men ambushed and killed the eight policemen out to arrest him in his Bikru village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-was-hit-on-his-chest-arm-as-he-tried-to-escape-from-police-report/story-yKTwJtkSPnWwvzPT5Xo86I.html
10-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey encounter: MP home minister says law took its own course, CBI inquiry not needed||Madhya Pradesh (MP) home minister Narottam Mishra said matter-of-factly on Friday that law had taken its own course while justifying the encounter killing of dreaded Uttar Pradesh (UP) gangster Vikas Dubey near Kanpur earlier this morning and rubbishing the opposition’s allegations over the alleged extra-judicial incident.Dubey, who had been absconding for a week on charges of allegedly killing eight UP Police personnel in his native Bikaru village in Kanpur district, including Devendra Mishra, deputy superintendent of police (DySP), was taken into custody in Ujjain, MP, on Thursday morning and handed over to UP Police later at night.Mishra told media persons on Friday that: “Law has taken its own course (kanoon ne apna kaam kiya hai),”He brushed aside the opposition’s allegations that Dubey’s death has snuffed out the trail of political patronage.“On Thursday, the Congress was raising questions, as to how a dreaded criminal like him could be caught alive. A day later, the same party is asking, why was he killed, as many secrets were buried with his death. It shows the Congress’s mindset and its thought process. The party is raising questions against the bravery of our law enforcement agencies.”Mishra attacked the Congress for its duplicitous remarks and pointed figures for making contradictory statements a day apart.“On Thursday, the Congress said that both UP and MP are ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). But the fact of the matter is for all to see. MP Police arrested him (Dubey) and handed him over to UP Police and ensured that the cavalcade safely crossed our state border. Perhaps, those who raised questions on Thursday about his arrest and his death the following day are mourning about the turn of events,” the minister said.The minister fielded media persons’ barrage of questions and made it amply clear that the slain gangster had time to reveal secrets had he wanted to. “If Dubey wanted to reveal any secret he could have done it. He was in police custody for about 17 hours.”He also rejected the Congress’s demand for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the incident. “There is no need for a CBI investigation. What is left for CBI to probe into the incident?” he countered the Congress’s demand.Mishra took on Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav’s “conspiracy theory” that the car, in which Dubey was being taken to Kanpur, did not overturn, but the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government was saved from being dislodged, as the secrets of political patronage that he enjoyed for all these years was gone with his death in the police encounter.“Dubey was a member of his own (Yadav) party. Why is he saying this? I have a poster. On Thursday, Dubey’s mother herself said he was in the SP,” Mishra said.The media persons reminded the minister about the Congress’s claims that he might, too, have a link with Dubey because he was the in-charge of the slain gangster’s native district Kanpur during UP assembly elections in 2017.Mishra shot back at the “idle Congress leaders”, who, he said, are in the habit of spreading canards via social media.“Congress leaders have no work these days except tweeting. Nobody is calling Digvijaya Singh to address any public meeting these days. What do you expect him to do except tweeting in such a situation?” he asked.The minister was categorical about Friday morning’s encounter that led to Dubey’s death. “He was a criminal. He told (the police) about his crimes. You all know about the crime he had committed (in Kanpur). He narrated all this, but said nothing new,” the minister said.Earlier, Rajya Sabha (RS) member and Congress leader Digvijaya Singh had said, “Apprehensions came true. It will not be known, who had links with Dubey. In the past few days, two of his accomplices were killed in encounters with the police. Why there is a similarity in all these three encounters?”He sought to know why Dubey chose Ujjain’s Mahakal Temple to surrender before MP Police. “Who are the influential people in MP whom he trusted and came to the state to save himself from an encounter with UP Police,” Singh added.Another Congress leader and RS member Vivek Tankha tweeted, “There was an apprehension of an encounter since the time he was arrested on Thursday. That’s why a petition was filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday itself. It’s a matter of custodial death. The inquiry into the incident should be done under the monitoring of the apex court.”“Dubey deserved to die. But by hanging by the neck on orders of a court, not at the hands of police, however, justified their anger be. Has the UP government lost faith in its criminal justice delivery system? ... this is absolutely shocking,” he further tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-encounter-mp-home-minister-says-law-took-its-own-course-cbi-inquiry-not-needed/story-cHzqtIJo2AHVV4iAodhuhN.html
10-07-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling scandal: CM Vijayan faces heat as protesters rage||Protests marred many areas of Kerala as the opposition demanded resignation of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the Thiruvananthapuram airport gold smuggling case.The Customs department had seized 30 kg gold from an air cargo consignment from the United Arab Emirates to the country’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. Swapna Suresh, who was working as the operational manager of the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited under the state IT Ministry, had gone underground after the seizure. Later, the CM had transferred his principal secretary M Sivasankar who was close to Suresh.In Kozhikode, many people were hurt after police resorted to baton charge on agitating Youth League workers. In Kochi too, Yuva Morcha protest turned violent. In Kannur, police lobbed teargas shells to control protesters.Youth Congress workers held a protest rally outside CM Vijayan’s ancestral house in Kannur.Bail plea of alleged mastermind Suresh which was to come up in before the Kerala High Court today has been deferred to Tuesday. On Thursday, the Centre handed over the case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) after VIjayan petitioned the government saying the state was ready for any probe. Despite the CPI(M) and coalition rallying around the CM, many party insiders say the latest incident has dented the image of the government when the elections are just 10 months away.The issue took a political colour after the main accused was reported to be very close to many higher ups in the state government. Vijayan’s principal secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS official, has already been transferred.Some of the allies of ruling dispensation have started airing their displeasure against the way Vijayan protected former principal secretary M Sivasankar. Junior partner the CPI said it warned him about the “freestyle” of his secretary several times but the CM ignored them. It said the CM’s favourite trouble shooter has started giving him enough trouble now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-scandal-cm-vijayan-faces-heat-as-protesters-rage/story-QAEHGPWsSnIb5eGIkxAxRK.html
10-07-2020||India||AIIMS Rishikesh to treat neurological disorders among children in Uttarakhand||The Rishikesh-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is being equipped to treat neurological disorders among children in Uttarakhand, a healthcare facility that was not available in the hill state to date.The AIIMS administration has set up a new neurology division in the department of paediatrics, said a hospital statement.Earlier, many children, suffering from neurological disorders in Uttarakhand, had to be taken to AIIMS, Delhi, or Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, for treatment. However, those from the underprivileged socio-economic background couldn’t afford to make the journey to Delhi or Chandigarh for treatment and would suffer from several morbidities, at times, leading to even death.Professor Ravi Kant, director, AIIMS, Rishikesh, said: “The paediatric neurology division will provide state-of-the-art and comprehensive healthcare services for children with epilepsy, cerebral palsy, encephalitis, headache, muscular disorders, autoimmune, and other complex neurological disorders.”The multispeciality hospital has also introduced a doctor of medicine (DM) super-speciality course in paediatric neurology. AIIMS-Rishikesh is the fourth government institute in the country to start this prestigious course and first in Uttarakhand, he said.“The neurology division will run an outpatient department (OPD) facility in the morning and five speciality clinics will cater to children suffering from various neurological disorders. It is also well equipped with an in-patient facility for admitting children with neurological disorders and providing them with all advanced treatment options,” he added.Dr. Indar Kumar Sharwat, an associate professor and the head of the new neurology division, said there are plans to open a Paediatric Epilepsy Monitoring unit in the near future.“The division will initiate a comprehensive neuro-rehabilitation centre for children with multiple disabilities to provide them with various developmental and behavioural therapies under one roof,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-rishikesh-to-treat-neurological-disorders-among-children-in-uttarakhand/story-eDupslm0M8VqesaLtVx2RO.html
10-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Opposition targets UP govt after Vikas Dubey’s encounter and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Dead men tell no tales’: Oppn aims at UP govt after Vikas Dubey’s encounterGangster Vikas Dubey’s death in a police encounter early on Friday morning triggered sharp attacks from opposition parties who alleged that the gangster arrested less than 24 hours earlier from a temple in Ujjain had been killed to shield the people who had protected him. Read more1 lakh km of road built using plastic waste, govt aims to double itThe central government has been using plastic waste in road construction to properly utilise the material which otherwise is not recycled. So far, one lakh kilometre of road has been constructed using plastic waste, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan reported. Read more‘Will seek President’s views’: Chhattisgarh Governor on pending billsChhattisgarh governor Anusuiya Uikey on Thursday said that she will consult the President and University Grants Commission (UGC) after three senior ministers of the state’s Congress government met her urging to clear bills that curtails her powers to make appointments in the universities in the state. Read moreChina cities declare flood ‘red alerts’ as extreme weather threats surgeFour cities along China’s Yangtze river have declared top-level flood warnings over the past two days after torrential rain triggered landslides and inundated roads and farmland, with parts of the river threatening to burst its banks. Read moreHappy Birthday Sunil Gavaskar: Five interesting facts from former India captain’s historic careerFormer India captain and Test cricket legend Sunil Gavaskar celebrates his 71st birthday on Friday. The former right-handed batsman had a historic career in which he went on to score 10,000+ Test runs for the country. Gavaskar was the first cricketer in history to surpass the 10,000 runs mark in the longest format. Read moreDil Bechara Title Song: Sushant Singh Rajput rues getting friendzoned in impressive single take songDisney+ Hotstar has shared the first song from their highly anticipated film, Dil Bechara. The title song features late actor Sushant Singh Rajput as the star of his college, wowing everyone with a cool dance performance. The song has been shot entirely in a single take. Read moreExclusive: Inside the Apple Watch’s dance tracking algorithmsWhen Apple said at this year’s Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) that it can tell you how many calories you spent while dancing, it piqued our interest. Traditional workouts are repetitive, something algorithms excel at tracking. Compared to that, a dance is as erratic as a Twitter trend. Read moreWorld Population Day 2020: Raising awareness about the health and rights of women amid the coronavirus pandemicWorld Population Day is observed each year on July 11th in an attempt to increase awareness about issues regarding global population. First established by the Governing Council of the United Nations Development Programme in 1989, it marks the day that the world reached the population of 5 billion in the year 1987. Read moreMoonwalker Dr Buzz Aldrin shares throwback picture of Earth taken from space in 1969. It’s enthralling“Beautiful,” “amazing,” or “mesmerising,” are few among the many adjectives you will be inclined to use to react to this throwback image recently shared on Twitter. Dr Buzz Aldrin, the astronaut who walked on the moon, wrote “This view of home never gets old” and shared the image. Read moreWatch: Covid death risk higher in elderly, men; Brazil press body sues Bolsonaro||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-opposition-targets-up-govt-after-vikas-dubey-s-encounter-and-all-the-latest-news/story-DYbAcilMNdMTRblcl3Jc7O.html
10-07-2020||India||Maharashtra’s prisons witness surge in Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra’s prison department said on Friday 596 inmates and 167 prison staff have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the state till date. The number of Covid-19 cases across Maharashtra’s prisons are nearing 800 and the death toll stands at four. Meanwhile, 281 inmates and 93 prison staff have recovered till now.The Nagpur Central Prison is the worst hit, with more than 200 inmates and 57 prison staff infected with the virus. A few days ago, 68 inmates out of the 300 at the Akola District Jail had tested positive for Covid-19.The first set of cases in Maharashtra’s prisons was reported at the Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai. More than 100 inmates and prison staff were found to be infected.Last month, Bombay High Court had said the coronavirus tests being conducted on inmates lodged in jails and correctional homes in Maharashtra were not sufficient.Its observation came after the People’s Union of Civil Liberties, one of the oldest human rights group in India, brought to the court’s notice that the number of tests being conducted in jails and correctional homes was terribly low.Maharashtra continues to be India’s worst-affected state by the coronavirus pandemic where the number of cases have crossed the 230,000-mark and the death toll stands at 9,667.(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-prisons-witness-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-Vn8tBJCfz8Bg1kzTA0VM4I.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Dead men tell no tales’: Oppn aims at UP govt after Vikas Dubey’s encounter||Gangster Vikas Dubey’s death in a police encounter early on Friday morning triggered sharp attacks from opposition parties who alleged that the gangster arrested less than 24 hours earlier from a temple in Ujjain had been killed to shield the people who had protected him. Vikas Dubey was arrested from Mahakal temple in Ujjain, nearly 650 km from Kanpur on Thursday morning. He was being taken back to Kanpur in a sports utility vehicle when the incident took place.Opposition leaders who had demanded a thorough probe to unravel the gangster’s political nexus claimed that the encounter was engineered to bury the facts.“Dead men tell no tales,” former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said in a tweet after news of the encounter emerged. Dead men tell no tales #VikasDubeyAlso Read: Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey, arrested for killing 8 cops, shot dead in encounterSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav wondered if the vehicle had indeed overturned or the encounter was designed to stop the UP government from being turned on its head, a reference to the party’s allegations that Dubey had been shielded by local BJP leaders.WATCH:  Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey shot dead in encounterThe gangster was shot dead 20 km from Kanpur city. Police said the vehicle in which Vikas Dubey was travelling overturned in a road accident. The gangster, according to a statement by Kanpur police, snatched a service pistol from one of the policemen in the car and tried to run away. Policemen went after him and told him to surrender. “But he didn’t listen and started firing at the police with an intention to kill,” the statement in Hindi said. He was shot in police firing and later died at a hospital.Also Read: Gangster Vikas Dubey killed: The sequence of events in past weekCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who had yesterday demanded a CBI inquiry, said the criminal may have died. But what about the people who protected him, she asked. अपराधी का अंत हो गया, अपराध और उसको सरंक्षण देने वाले लोगों का क्या?Vikas Dubey, who had 60 cases registered against him, hit national headlines a week back when his gang ambushed and shot dead eight policemen in Kanpur who had come to arrest him. Seven more policemen were injured. It turned out that he had been tipped off about the raid by a local policeman, one of the many who were on his rolls. He had been on the run ever since.The hunt for Dubey ended near Ujjain’s Mahakal temple.Srinivas BV, the Indian Youth Congress president, tweeted that Vikas Dubey’s encounter would come as a relief for BJP leaders in Uttar Pradesh who had helped him. He also referred to two videos tweeted by news agency ANI that it said, showed Vikas Dubey travelling in a SUV of a different make than the one that overturned. In the second video recorded some time before the encounter took place, the news agency said the police had stopped vehicles of journalists following the police convoy at 6.30 am. The encounter took place half an hour later.Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra rebutted the BJP’s critics, saying the cops had done their job.“The law has taken its course. It could be a matter of regret and disappointment for those who raised questions on Vikas Dubey’s arrest yesterday and his death today. MP Police did its job. It arrested and handed him over to UP Police,” Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dead-men-tell-no-tales-oppn-aims-at-up-govt-after-vikas-dubey-s-encounter/story-dXOr9lPNfuXUEwK8HOuCgN.html
10-07-2020||India||Baushuan Ger is Taiwan’s new ambassador to India||Taiwan has named senior diplomat Baushuan Ger as its new representative to India while his predecessor Tien Chung-kwang has been promoted to the post of deputy foreign minister.Baushuan’s appointment was part of personnel changes announced by Taiwan’s foreign ministry on Thursday. Tien, who served as Taiwan’s representative to India for more than seven years, is expected to leave for home on Friday.However, Baushuan is expected to take up his post in India in September, people familiar with developments said. He is currently director general of the department of East Asian and Pacific Affairs in Taiwan’s foreign ministry and has served in the US and the UK.Tien will replace Hsu Szu-chien as deputy foreign minister. Hsu has been appointed as deputy secretary-general of Taiwan’s National Security Council.“Not only does such an arrangement convey approval for Tien’s performance as Taiwan’s representative to India over the past seven years, but it also suggests that the relationship with India is likely to become one of Taiwan’s most important diplomatic priorities in the future,” Taiwan News portal reported on Thursday.Under the “One China policy”, India doesn’t have full and formal diplomatic ties with Taiwan. Taiwan established the Taipei Economic and Cultural Center (TECC) in New Delhi in 1995 as its government representative office in India.Besides promoting bilateral relations in economy, trade, investment, media and tourism, TECC has divisions for consular, economic, education science and technology activities that are responsible for advancing mutual interests between Taiwan and India, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal.Amid the border standoff between India and China, several experts and commentators have called for New Delhi to upgrade its ties with Taipei.In a recent article for HT, Sana Hashmi, Taiwan Fellow at the Institute of International Relations, National Chengchi University, wrote: “India’s foreign policy priorities, particularly with regard to the Indo-Pacific, should accommodate Taiwan. Along with military preparedness and aligning interests with key countries, Taiwan needs to be included prominently in its long-term strategy towards China.”Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen’s New Southbound Policy, launched in 2016, aims to expand political, economic, and people-to-people linkages with countries such as India. Taiwan also cooperated with India during the Covid-19 pandemic, donating one million face masks to protect frontline medical personnel engaged in the fight against the Coronavirus.In a recent editorial headlined “Taiwan must stand with India”, the leading newspaper Taipei Times said the June 15 clash between Indian and Chinese troops “fits a pattern of Beijing’s increasingly aggressive expansionism in the region – which should also concern policymakers in Taiwan”.The editorial said: “The incident should be understood in the context of Beijing’s aggressive behaviour in the region, which has clearly become more frequent since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.”It added, “What motivates Chinese President Xi Jinping’s increased assertiveness in the region? This is a question that Taiwan, India and other regional nations must seek to answer... Taiwan should deepen ties with India, in particular economic, military and intelligence ties, to contain Chinese expansionism and put Xi back into his box.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taiwan-names-new-ambassador-to-india/story-ARz8tkyFMdWkfseZ7mVsfO.html
10-07-2020||India||Odisha’s revenue collection down 23% in first quarter as Covid cases surge||Odisha’s revenue collections have whittled down by 23% in the first quarter (April-June) of the current financial year 2020-21 in comparison to the corresponding period last year because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, officials said.State finance secretary Ashok Meena said the total revenue collection up to June was Rs 8,204 crore, as compared to the last year’s collection of Rs 10,645 crore.The dip is owing to an over 35% drop in the collection of state’s own taxes and revenues such as excise, Value Added Tax (VAT), Goods and Services Tax (GST), stamp duties and registration on the back of an unprecedented economic slump due to the lockdown restrictions, which were imposed since end-March to contain the viral outbreak.However, non-tax revenue collections due to mining royalty went up by around 3% between April and June.The total non-tax revenue between April and June, 2019 was Rs 3,506 crore, which increased to Rs 3,609 crore during the same period this year.Officials said Odisha’s GST collection in the first quarter of 2020-21 fell by 35.25%, as compared to the corresponding period in 2019-20 fiscal. The gross GST collection in the April-June period of 2020-21 fiscal was Rs 5,192.30 crore, while it was Rs 8,019.44 crore in the corresponding quarter of 2019-20.Finance department officials said even programme expenditures of all departments have gone down.The expenditure reduced by around 5.06% in April to June quarter, in comparison to the last fiscal. The total programme expenditure up to June in the current fiscal was around Rs 8,923 crore against around Rs 9,399 crore during the same period in the last fiscal.The dip in revenue collection has come at a time when the daily Covid-19 positive growth rate in Odisha has outpaced the national average.Odisha’s daily Covid-19 positive growth rate has risen from 5.4% to 6.74 % against the national average of 3.4% since last week. While the state’s sample positivity rate at 11.69% has also overtaken the national average of 9.2% until Friday.Sample positivity is total Covid-19 positive cases divided by the total number of tests multiplied by 100.The Naveen Patnaik-led government has recently capped expenditure on state schemes, except those related to agriculture and its allied sector and for combating Covid-19.The finance department in a press statement has announced a blanket ban on the creation of new posts except for the state health and family welfare department. Exceptions to the creation of new posts can only be made subject to approval by the finance department.Only expenditures, relating to Covid-19 management, and under other essential heads would be allowed, it added.A ban has been enforced on the purchase of new equipment, except those related to healthcare and internal security.The state government has banned the purchase of any new vehicle for the next two years and officials have been directed to avoid foreign tours. Air travel is not encouraged, while an emphasis is being laid on holding meetings via video-conference.Last week, the state government appointed a nodal officer for implementation of specific state reforms for availing of additional borrowing of 2% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) during 2020-21 to increase its resource base. Earlier, the Centre had allowed all states to borrow 2% of GSDP over and above the regular limit of 3% because of the pandemic.The opposition -- the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress -- has slammed the government for the hiring freeze for the next two years.Pradipta Naik, the leader of the opposition and a BJP member of the Odisha legislative assembly (MLA), said the recruitment freeze in state government jobs for the next two years is unfortunate, as many posts are lying vacant in several departments.“This is a conspiracy hatched by the state government to shirk its responsibility in the name of Covid-19 management amid an annual spike in the unemployment rate in Odisha,” Naik alleged.Niranjan Patnaik, president, Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC), said during this pandemic the state government was supposed to create more jobs, as many were rendered jobless.“Many good students are staring at an uncertain future because of the state government’s move,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-revenue-collection-down-23-in-first-quarter-as-covid-cases-surge/story-qI0QVvAzuYDE94ccwIOGFJ.html
10-07-2020||India||Bengal sees highest one-day jump of 1,088 Covid-19 cases, toll at 854||West Bengal on Thursday recorded 1,088 Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day spike in infections so far, pushing the tally to 25,911 while a record 27 fatalities in the last 24 hours raised the death toll to 854, the state health department said. Out of the new deaths, 24 were due to comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental, the department said in a bulletin.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here  Kolkata accounted for 13 of the new fatalities, followed by six in North 24 Parganas, three in Howrah, two each in South 24 Parganas and Darjeeling and one in Dakshin Dinajpur district, it said. In the last 24 hours, 535 patients have been discharged from different hospitals in the state after recovering from the infection, it said, adding that a total of 16,826 were cured of the disease so far. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state now stands at 8,231. The bulletin said in the last 24 hours, 322 people tested positive for the disease in Kolkata, 264 in North 24 Parganas, 167 in Howrah, 88 in South 24 Parganas and 53 in Hooghly. The remaining 194 cases were reported from 13 other districts. Since Wednesday, 10,805 samples have been tested in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-sees-highest-one-day-jump-of-1-088-covid-19-cases-toll-at-854/story-ktu3Bac5Oc8qAREvs8FPSK.html
10-07-2020||India||1 lakh km of road built using plastic waste, govt aims to double it||The central government has been using plastic waste in road construction to properly utilise the material which otherwise is not recycled. So far, one lakh kilometre of road has been constructed using plastic waste, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan reported.The construction of every kilometre of road required nine tonnes of bitumen and one tonne of plastic waste. This means for every kilometre of road, one tonne bitumen is saved, which costs about Rs 30,000.Plastic roads consist of 6-8 per cent plastic, while 92-94 per cent is bitumen.Union minister Nitin Gadkari had announced the usage of plastic waste in road construction in 2016. Since then, plastic waste has been used in constructing one lakh kilometre of road in 11 states. In this financial year, the figure will double, according to Hindustan.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) used plastic waste in its roads for the first time in 2018. The MCG has now made the use of plastic waste mandatory in the construction of arterial roads.Assam started using the waste material from this year.Plastic has been used in the 270-kilometre-long Jammu Kashmir National highway. About 1.6 tonne of plastic waste was used in the two-kilometre-long stretch of Delhi-Meerut highway news UP Gate, according to Hindustan. It has also been used in constructing the road connecting Dhaula Kuan to the airport in Delhi, the report in Hindustan said.India generates at least 25,940 tonnes of plastic waste daily, equivalent to the weight of around 4,300 elephants. Of this, about 60 per cent gets recycled, according to the Union environment ministry. The rest gets dumped in landfills, clogs drains, goes into the ocean as micro-plastics, or is burnt, leading to air pollution.In the absence of a proper waste management system, the plastics that get recycled are often dirty, which makes the re-cycling process water-intensive and expensive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-lakh-km-of-road-built-using-plastic-waste-govt-aims-to-double-it/story-iwmkiKjlG86BYIDlg2aLtM.html
10-07-2020||India||Rajnath Singh to meet CDS Bipin Rawat, three service chiefs on current situation on LAC in Eastern Ladakh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday will meet Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and the three services chiefs to discuss the current situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh.The meeting will also review the overall security situation.Asserting that India is committed to ensuring its sovereignty and territorial integrity, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson, Anurag Srivastava said during a media briefing on Thursday, “The diplomatic and military officials of both sides will continue their meetings to take forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation as agreed to by the Special Representatives. The next meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) is expected to take place soon.”Srivastava’s remarks came as the first phase of disengagement between armies of India and China at friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh has been completed and the talks for the second phase are expected to begin in next few days.On July 5, the Special Representatives of India and China on the Boundary Question-- Ajit Doval and Chinese State Councillor and Minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Yi--- had a ‘frank and in-depth exchange’ during a telephone conversation during which they agreed that both sides should complete the ongoing disengagement process along the LAC expeditiously.As part of the first phase of disengagement, Chinese troops have moved back from Finger 4 to Finger 5 in the Finger area. They have already moved back by around two kilometres in the other friction points including Galway valley, Hot Springs and Patrolling Point-15, top government sources told ANI.The Indian side has also moved back as per the mutual disengagement agreed upon during the Corps Commander-level talks, the sources added. The vacant spaces will be treated as temporary non-patrolling zones by both sides and their troops will not come there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-meet-cds-bipin-rawat-three-service-chiefs-on-current-situation-on-lac-in-eastern-ladakh/story-0UVbUvgwfyvDD3p2OwPMPK.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Sure, pure and secure’: PM Modi inaugurates Asia’s largest solar plant in MP’s Rewa||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday Asia’s largest Rewa Ultra Mega Solar Power Project in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa will not only help the state but the entire world as a secure foundation for a clean environment.The Prime Minister dedicated the 750-megawatt ultra mega solar power plant, which the government has said will reduce emission equivalent to approximately 15 lakh tonne of carbon dioxide every year, to the nation through video conferencing. “Solar energy is going to be a major medium of energy needs not only today but in the 21st century. Because solar energy is sure, pure and secure,” the Prime Minister said.“Today, Rewa has really scripted history. Rewa is identified with the name of mother Narmada and the white tiger. Now, the name of Asia’s largest solar power project has also been added to it,” he said. Glimpses from the solar power project that was inaugurated in Rewa, Madhya Pradesh, this morning. pic.twitter.com/uZOZ0YXxAQ“I congratulate the people of Rewa and Madhya Pradesh and give them my best wishes. This solar plant of Rewa will help in making this entire area a big centre of energy in this decade,” he added.Madhya Pradesh’s Governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Union minister of new and renewable energy RK Singh and oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan were among those present during the inauguration virtually.The Rewa Ultra Mega Solar Limited (RUMSL), a joint venture of state-owned Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) and Madhya Pradesh Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd (MPUVNL), comprises three solar generating units of 250MW each located on a 500-hectare plot of land inside a solar park with a total area of 1500 hectare. The Prime Minister said as India is moving towards the new peaks of development, so are people’s hopes and aspirations and the need for energy and electricity. In such a situation, self-sufficiency in electricity is very important for a self-reliant India, he said.“When we talk about self-reliance and progress, the economy is an important aspect. Policymakers from all over the world have been in dilemma for years whether to think about the economy or environment,” he said.“As we are launching large projects of renewable energy, we are also making sure that our determination towards clean energy is seen in every aspect of life. We are trying that its benefits reach every corner of the country, every section of society, every citizen,” he added.The way India’s is utilising solar power, it is going to be discussed further and is being considered as the most attractive market of clean energy.“Keeping this expectation of the world and the humanity from India, we are engaged in connecting the whole world. The result of this thinking is ISA which is International Solar Alliance. This is the spirit behind one world, one sun, one grid,” he said.Central financial assistance of Rs 138 crore has been provided to RUMSL for the development of the park. Mahindra Renewables Private Ltd, ACME Jaipur Solar Power Private Ltd and Arinsun Clean Energy Private Ltd were selected by RUMSL through a reverse auction for developing the three solar generating units.The project is the first renewable energy project to supply to an institutional customer outside the state, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). It will get 24% of energy from the project with the remaining 76% being supplied to the state discoms of Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sure-pure-and-secure-pm-modi-inaugurates-asia-s-largest-solar-plant-in-mp-s-rewa/story-D0PL4ssjPZ3UH7LNsfxZiO.html
10-07-2020||India||BJP chief JP Nadda’s team to get younger players||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s new national team of office bearers expected be announced soon will see more younger representatives, said persons aware of the details.A senior functionary privy to the details said just as the average age of officer bearers including presidents at the 700 plus districts is under 50; the new team that will assist BJP president JP Nadda is also expected to have the same age median.The new national office bearers team and team will have a mix of the new and the experienced and though it is not confirmed if younger, less experienced faces will make it to the party’s decision making body, the Parliamentary Board and the National Executive Committee.In 2017the party leadership took the decision of grooming younger leaders to take charge. “Since then the officials who were appointed at the district and the state level have been in the age group of 4-50. A cut off age of 75 years was already announced for contesting elections or appointments to posts,” the functionary quoted above said.Citing examples, the functionary said the average age of functionaries in Uttar Pradesh is between 40 and 45; while in Bihar, the average age of the district presidents is 45.“There is a concerted move to give younger people more responsibility and offer them the chance to gather experience in administrative processes,” a second functionary said.The party will also stick to its practice of inducting 33% women in the office bearers panel. In 2010, the party had amended its constitution to ensure more representation foe women in party positions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-s-team-to-get-younger-players/story-eMDp1gvdsSQLaJBGUQ12sI.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Will seek President’s views’: Chhattisgarh Governor on pending bills||Chhattisgarh governor Anusuiya Uikey on Thursday said that she will consult the President and University Grants Commission (UGC) after three senior ministers of the state’s Congress government met her urging to clear bills that curtails her powers to make appointments in the universities in the state.On March 26, the Chhattisgarh legislative assembly passed five amendment bills curtailing her powers, a few weeks after Uikey appointed Baldev Bhai Sharma as vice-chancellor of Kushabhau Thakre University and re-appointed Vans Gopal Singh as vice-chancellor of Pandit Sundarlal Sharma Open University in Bilaspur.Sharma was editor of RSS’ mouthpiece ‘Panchjanya’ and was also a biographer of former Sangh sarsanghchalak KS Sudarashan and Singh is considered close to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Chhattisgarh forest minister Mohammad Akbar, Agriculture Minister Ravindra Chaubey and higher education minister Umesh Patel met the Governor for seeking her views on the amendment bills that increases state government’s oversight over the state universities and ‘reduces’ the governor’s role.“We came here for discussion over amendment bills of state universities which were passed in the last assembly and were pending with the governor... We urged the governor for approval of the bills pending with her,” said Chaubey while speaking to media persons.“The amendment bill has been passed by legislative assembly and is pending for approval with the governor. She (the Governor) had sought certain clarifications about the bills which were sent by the government but approval has not been given,” said a senior official working with the chief minister’s office (CMO).The official said that Gujarat government has amended the university appointment rule in 2009 and had reduced the role of Governor in appointing vice-chancellors of the state universities. “In Gujarat, the governor approved the amendment and the state government has powers to appoint vice-chancellors now,” the official said. Commenting over the pending bills, Governor Uikey said she has no intention of delaying approval of any bills and was working as per the law.“After they sent me these five bills for approval, I sent a letter to the higher education department in April and asked about comparative details of such amendments in other states. Four days back, they sent me an answer claiming that Gujarat and one other state had made similar amendments in the past. I asked for the UGC guidelines on such amendments and found that the bill flouts UGC guidelines also,” said the Governor.Uikey said that she will consult UGC and the President of India over these amendments.“I am working as per my constitutional powers of Governor and since it is a matter of students and education, I will consult legal experts, UGC and President of India and then take further steps,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-seek-president-s-views-chhattisgarh-governor-on-pending-bills/story-6mn0FTWVY2E7wmRp7eYr5H.html
10-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey escaped, was asked to surrender, say police. Read full statement here||Gangster Vikas Dubey, who was accused of killing eight policemen last week, was shot dead when he tried to escape after a road accident while being taken to Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh, the police said on Friday. According to a statement by the Kanpur Police, the car in which Vikas Dubey was being taken overturned on the highway and he tried to escape after snatching a pistol from one of the personnel of the Special Task Force (STF).The statement said the police asked Vikas Dubey to surrender but he fired at them, forcing them to retaliate.Here is the full statement issued in Hindi by Kanpur Police after Vikas Dubey’s death:Also read: Plea in Supreme Court seeks CBI probe in killing of Vikas Dubey’s aides in encounters“It is to be conveyed that the criminal wanted in a case registered in Chaubeypur police station on 03.07.2020 under M ​​/ s.192/20 Section 147/148/149/302/307/394 / 120B the Indian Penal Code & 7 CLA Act which is related to the martyrdom of 08 policemen, who has a reward of Rs 5 lakh, Vikas Dubey son Ram Kumar Dubey resident of Bikru police station Choubeypur in Kanpur City, was arrested by Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh police and was being brought to Kanpur city on 10.07.2020 by police and STF team today,” the statement said.“The above police vehicle overturned near Bhaunti, Kanpur Nagar resulting in injuries to the accused and policemen inside in it. After the accident, accused Vikas Dubey tried to escape by snatching the pistol of an injured policeman,” it added.“He was chased and asked to surrender by the police but he did not heed and started firing at the team with the intention of killing them. The police team fired back in self-defence and the accused Vikas Dubey was injured in the retaliatory firing. He was immediately taken to a hospital, where the accused died during treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-escapes-was-asked-to-surrender-say-police-read-full-statement-here/story-uTuJvQ1vio1sIgraFkPbLP.html
10-07-2020||India||Plea in Supreme Court seeks CBI probe in killing of Vikas Dubey’s aides in encounters||A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed before the Supreme Court on Friday seeking CBI probe into the killing of five of Vikas Dubey’s aides by the Uttar Pradesh Police. All the five men were gunned down in encounter.The plea, which was filed before Dubey was killed today in an alleged encounter, also raised concerns that the gangster from Uttar Pradesh too might suffer the same fate. The petitioner Ghanyshyam Upadhyay, therefore, prayed that Dubey should be given adequate security so that he is dealt with as per the law.“Killing of accused by police in the name of encounter is against the rule of law and serious violation of human right and this is nothing short of Talibanisation of the country,” the petition stated.Dubey was killed in an encounter near Kanpur on Friday morning. The gangster was being brought by the Uttar Pradesh Police from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh where he was arrested on Thursday.Also Read: The Sequence of Events in Past WeekThe police said that the convoy in which Dubey was travelling met with an accident. They said that Dubey tried to flee after a vehicle of the convoy overturned and was gunned down in a field.Dubey was being chased since the killing of eight policemen by his men in Bikru village near Kanpur.The police, during their investigation and chase, identified key aides of Dubey who were killed in separate encounters in different cities of Uttar Pradesh.While on July 3 - the day eight policemen were killed - two of his associates, Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey, were killed by police in an encounter in Kanpur, on July 8 the police killed another aide, Amar Dubey, who carried a reward of Rs 50,000, in Maudaha village in Hamirpur district.On July 9, two more aides of gangster Vikas Dubey, wanted in connection with the Kanpur ambush, were killed in separate encounters in Kanpur and Etawah districts.Prabhat Mishra was killed in Kanpur when he tried to flee from police custody, and another aide of Vikas Dubey, Praveen alias Bauwa Dubey, was shot dead in an encounter in Etawah. Mishra was arrested from Faridabad on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-supreme-court-seeks-cbi-probe-in-killing-of-vikas-dubey-s-aides-in-encounters/story-Q36Keu9Eb6bHMMZUeFE3ZP.html
10-07-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Haryana close to 20,000 cases, Jammu and Kashmir inches towards 10,000-mark||India on Friday saw the highest-ever single-day increase in the number of coronavirus disease cases. In the last 24 hours, 26,506 new cases have been recorded which took the country’s tally to 7,93,802. As many as 475 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, which took the toll to 21,604.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi have further increased their Covid-19 numbers. The gap between Tamil Nadu (at number 2) and Delhi has further widened. Other states, specially in south India, have seen a surge too.Here’s taking a look at the statewise situation of Covid-19 infections across the country. MaharashtraThe state’s Covid-19 tally jumped to 2,30,599 on Friday. Over 1,27,259 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 9,667 have died.Tamil NaduThe number of Covid-19 cases in second-placed Tamil Nadu has reached 1,26,581. The state has witnessed 1,765 fatalities due to the coronavirus disease. The number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the state stands at 78,161.DelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 1,07,051 on Friday. As many as 82,226 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the national capital while 3,258 have succumbed to the infection.GujaratGujarat has seen Covid-19 cases reach 39,194 on Thursday. The state has seen 27,718 people recover from coronavirus while 2,008 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-cases in Uttar Pradesh jumped to 32,362 on Friday while the number of recoveries has touched 21,127. The state’s death toll stands at 862.TelanganaThe state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 30,946 as on Friday. While 18,192 have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 331 in the state.Karnataka The South India state has witnessed 31,105 coronavirus cases till date while 486 people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion in the state. Nearly 12,833 patients have recovered from the disease in Karnataka. West BengalAs many as 25,911 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 16,826 recover from coronavirus while 854 people have been killed.RajasthanThe state has reported 22,563 Covid-19 cases till date. The death toll due to the disease stands at 491 in the state while 17,070 patients have recovered.Andhra Pradesh The state has reported 23,814 Covid-19 patients till date. While 12,154people have recovered from the disease across the state, the death toll stands at 277.Situation in other statesThe coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 19,369. Over 16,000 (16,341 to be exact) people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar has reached 13,944, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir has touched 9,501. In Odisha, cases have reached 11,201 while Assam has reported over 14,000 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 7,140, and the number of cases in Kerala is 6,534. Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand is over 3,305. In Jharkhand, coronavirus disease cases have reached 3,246. States with less than 3,000 casesTripura, Nagaland, Ladakh, Manipur, Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Puducherry have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases.Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have reported 500 Covid-19 cases or less. While Chandigarh has more tha 500 Covid-19 cases, the number is over 100 in Meghalaya.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-haryana-close-to-20-000-cases-jammu-and-kashmir-inches-towards-10-000-mark/story-mADLydgoLHRNsAcOkk9lBL.html
10-07-2020||India||After police kill Vikas Dubey in encounter, Akhilesh Yadav questions govt||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday questioned the Uttar Pradesh government after gangster Vikas Dubey, accused of murdering eight policemen on July 3, was killed in an alleged encounter by the police in Kanpur district. Officials said Vikas Dubey was shot dead by the police after he tried to escape following an accident involving one of the vehicles in the Special Task Force (STF) cavalcade bringing him back to Uttar Pradesh from Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain city.Akhilesh Yadav posted his comment on Twitter without directly referring to Dubey.“The car hasn’t overturned but the government has been saved from being overturned because of secrets,” he tweeted in Hindi.Dubey, on the run since the attack on the policemen, was arrested near the Mahakal temple in Ujjain on Thursday.STF officials said there was an encounter as Vikas Dubey tried to escape when the vehicle overturned early in the morning amid heavy rains.They said Vikas Dubey snatched a weapon from one of the policemen after the accident. He then ran to a nearby field and was asked to surrender, which he refused to do, they added.He was killed as the police team fired in self-defence, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-police-kill-vikas-dubey-in-encounter-akhilesh-yadav-questions-govt/story-kpUXXGcAWb3ScdTyqHpvXK.html
10-07-2020||India||India records another single-day spike of new Covid-19 cases at 26,506, tally over 7.93 lakh||India recorded 26,506 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in the highest jump so far, and 475 deaths in the last 24 hours pushing its infection tally to 793,802, according to the Union health ministry on Friday.The country has recorded more than two lakh Covid-19 cases since July 1 and has witnessed over 20,000 infections every day since July 3.There were 19,135 patients of the viral disease who were cured between Thursday and Friday morning taking the number of those sent home from hospitals to 495,512. With that, India’s recovery rate is now 62.42%.On Thursday, the number of recovered cases had overshot the number of Covid-19 active cases by 206,588. The number of recovered is now almost twice the number of active cases. Also read: Sero survey hints at a high Covid-19 infection rate in Delhi“This is a result of focussed attention on effective surveillance through house-to-house contact tracing, early detection, and isolation as well as timely and effective clinical management of COVID-19 cases,” the Centre said in a release.The country’s death toll stands at 21,604 after the new fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.The government has said that India has one of the lowest deaths in the world with deaths per million population at 15.31 which translates to a fatality rate of 2.75%—the global deaths per million population stand at 68.7.The Union health ministry said on Thursday patients over the age of 45 years, who form 25% of the country’s population, account for 85% of India’s Covid-19 deaths.India also has one of the lowest cases per million population in the world at 538 while the global average is at 1497, the government has said.It has also said 49 districts across India account for 80% of Covid-19 cases in the country.Also read: China warns citizens of ‘unknown pneumonia’ with higher fatality than Covid-19Maharashtra continued to be the worst-hit state with more than 2.30 lakh cases and 9,667 deaths. Tamil Nadu has 126,581 Covid-19 cases and 1,765 deaths, while Delhi has reported 107,051 infections and 3,258 deaths till date.Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal have announced lockdowns once again to contain the spread of the virus as there was a surge in Covid-19 cases.The government in Uttar Pradesh, where the Covid-19 tally has crossed 32,000, announced a complete weekend shutdown from Friday 10pm till Monday 5am. In West Bengal, another week of complete lockdown kicked in Thursday afternoon across containment zones. The Covid-19 tally in the eastern state has gone past 25,000.Five districts, including Patna, in Bihar will go under lockdown from Saturday after more than a month as the state’s Covid-19 count neared 14,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-another-single-day-spike-of-new-covid-19-cases-at-26-506-tally-over-7-93-lakh/story-bs1Z1RO1EUj4R9st4jRrOM.html
10-07-2020||India||Gangster Vikas Dubey killed: The sequence of events in past week||Vikas Dubey, the dreaded gangster from Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh who was captured on Thursday, was killed in an encounter on Friday morning.With this, the week-long saga which began after the killing of eight policemen in Bikru village near Kanpur has come to an end. Dubey’s men had killed these policemen on the intervening night of July 2 and 3 when they went to arrest the gangster in connection with an attempt to murder case.The complaint was filed by a resident of Bikru village, who claimed that Dubey tried to kidnap and eliminate him. Reports emerged that the complainant, Rahul Tiwari, first went to Dubey’s house with a policeman - SHO of Chaubeypur police station Vinay Tiwari - but they were both beaten up and threatened by the notorious criminal.The SHO did not tell anyone about the incident, a mistake that proved costly. It later emerged that the cop was regularly in touch with Dubey and provided him will all the updates about police action being planned against him. Deputy Superintendent of Police Devendra Mishra - who was killed in the July 3 encounter - had even prepared a report against the SHO and sent to his senior in March (HT had seen a copy of the letter) complaining of him being hand in glove with Dubey but no action was taken then.The SHO was finally suspended on Wednesday and later he along with a sub-inspector KK Sharma were arrested for allegedly being part of the entire conspiracy.Mishra, meanwhile, prepared a team of 20 officials (including some others from the nearby police stations) and went to Bikru village to arrest Dubey. But the gangster was already aware of the raid, and was prepared to take on the team.When Mishra’s police team reached the village, it found the road near Dubey’s house blocked by an earthmover. As soon as the members of the team got down, Dubey’s men rained bullets on them from the rooftops - a scene straight out of a movie. The cops were caught unaware and couldn’t find a place to save themselves.Some of them tried to hide in a toilet nearby, but the bullets kept grazing past them. Eight of them were killed, including Mishra, and Dubey fled the village.A massive manhunt then began and the police formed more than 40 teams to capture Dubey who used different modes of transport, including motorcycles, an SUV, sand-laden trucks and taxis, to escape. He first went to Haryana’s Faridabad where he was caught on a CCTV footage installed at the hotel.Dubey kept giving slip to the cops, who in the meanwhile razed his house and eliminated five of his close aides. All the men connected to Dubey were questioned and help sought from other state governments too where Dubey went.He was arrested on Thursday in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain. Dubey was seen at the famous Mahakal temple where he arrived around 7.30 am in a private car having UP registration number. After purchasing a ticket worth Rs 250 for VIP darshan of the deity, Dubey went to a shop selling flowers and prasad, where the seller, Suresh Mali, identified the gangster, news agencies reported.The police was informed and Dubey arrested. The man with more than 60 cases including 11 murders, and wanted for the killing of the eight policemen, was handed over to Uttar Pradesh Police which was tasked with bringing him back to Kanpur.On Friday, while the convoy was on its way to Kanpur, it met with an accident in which one of the vehicles in the Special Task Force (STF) overturned. The police said that Dubey tried to escape and snatched a weapon from one of the policemen. He then ran to a nearby field and was asked to surrender, which he refused to do, they added. There was an exchange of fire and he was killed, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gangster-vikas-dubey-killed-the-sequence-of-events-in-past-week/story-kHRkSW6TX04JAduOgVpRpI.html
10-07-2020||India||Army soldier killed in ceasefire violation in J-K’s Rajouri||An Indian Army soldier was killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan in the Nowshera sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district, officials said on Friday.Havildar Sambur Gurung, 36, was critically injured in the unprovoked ceasefire violation on the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector and later succumbed to his injuries, the army said in a statement.“Havildar Sambur Gurung was a brave, highly motivated and sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” Lt Col Devender Anand, defence spokesperson, said in the statement.He added that Indian troops responded strongly to the enemy fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-soldier-killed-in-ceasefire-violation-in-j-k-s-rajouri/story-dnaT0x83s1gchOzSEXurPK.html
10-07-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Asia’s largest solar power plant in MP today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday inaugurate Asia’s largest solar power plant in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district, which the government has said will reduce emission equivalent to approximately 15 lakh tonne of carbon dioxide every year. The Prime Minister will dedicate the 750MW ultra mega solar power plant, which is spread over 1,590 acres of land, to the nation through video conferencing. “Rewa Solar Project is an example of the excellent results that can be achieved if there is a synergy between central and state governments,” the Centre said in a release.Here’s all about the project:* The Rewa Ultra Mega Solar Power Project is one of the largest single-site solar power plants in India and the world.* The project comprises three solar generating units of 250 MW each located on a 500-hectare plot of land inside a solar park with a total area of 1500 hectare. * The solar park was developed by the Rewa Ultra Mega Solar Limited (RUMSL), a joint venture company of Madhya Pradesh Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (MPUVN) and Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI), a central public sector undertaking.* A central financial assistance of Rs 138 crore has been provided to RUMSL for the development of the park. * Mahindra Renewables Private Ltd, ACME Jaipur Solar Power Private Ltd and Arinsun Clean Energy Private Ltd were selected by RUMSL through a reverse auction for developing the three solar generating units.* The project is the first renewable energy project to supply to an institutional customer outside the state, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. It will get 24% of energy from the project with the remaining 76% being supplied to the state discoms of Madhya Pradesh.* It also exemplifies India’s commitment to attaining the target of 175GW of installed renewable energy capacity by the year 2022, including 100GW of solar installed capacity, the government has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-asia-s-largest-solar-power-plant-in-mp-today/story-yaBz5rj5TG78j6DJ3Y9siL.html
10-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Patients over the age of 45 account for 85% of India’s Covid-19 deaths, says govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.85% Covid-19 deaths in 45-plus age bracket: Govt dataPatients over the age of 45 years, who form 25% of the country’s population, account for 85% of India’s Covid-19 deaths, the Union health ministry said on Thursday as it asserted that the country has been able to manage the outbreak “relatively well” with cases and deaths per million of the population here among the lowest in the world. Read moreOdisha official arrested over sexual harassment allegationsPolice in Odisha arrested a 59-year-old senior state government official on Thursday over allegations of sexually harassing a 25-year-old junior. Mahila police station inspector Banita Maharana said director of AYUSH Mission Bibhu Prasad Sarangi was arrested following prima facie evidence of sending obscene messages to the woman employee. Read moreNagaland govt asks employees to declare names of family members connected to insurgent groupsThe Nagaland government has asked government employees to furnish details of family members who are affiliated to various insurgent groups in the state. According to an office memorandum issued on July 7 by chief secretary Temjen Toy, heads of departments have been asked to obtain information in self-declaration forms from all employees “regarding family members and relatives in underground organizations”. Read moreChina warns citizens of ‘unknown pneumonia’ with higher fatality than Covid-19The Chinese embassy in Kazakhstan has issued a warning about an unknown pneumonia sweeping through the central Asian country after more than 600 people died of pneumonia in June. In an advisory issued for its citizens living in the former Soviet Bloc country, the Chinese embassy said the new disease has a fatality rate “much higher” than Covid-19. Read moreCharlize Theron exclusive interview: Old Guard star reveals what she’d advise her ‘self-involved’ younger selfActor Charlize Theron scoffs at the idea that women can’t (or don’t want to) direct action films. She should know. It was a woman who directed her to annihilate innumerable villains in the upcoming Netflix film, The Old Guard. Directed by Gina Prince-Bythewood, the film is based on a comic book, about a group of immortal mercenaries, written by Greg Rucka and illustrated by Leandro Fernandez. Read moreGoogle bans these apps for injecting malware, uninstall them right awayGoogle has removed 11 apps from the Play Store which were infected with the notorious Joker malware. Google has been tracking these apps since 2017. Check Point researchers discovered a new variant of the Joker malware that was present inside legitimate apps. Read moreMumbai Police shows a different side of sarcastic Chandler Bing, him giving important adviceBeing funny is a quality but the character Chandler Bing, from popular TV series Friends, takes it to a whole new level. A benchmark for sarcasm and the king of wit, retorts from Chandler Bing often made us laugh out loud – and continues to do so. Read moreGuided Meditation: Relieve stress and improve sleep patterns with this holistic practiceWe are only halfway into the year 2020, but it seems like it has been going on forever. Most people have always found it difficult to strike a work-life balance, which often tends to take its toll on one’s mental health, and it often goes unnoticed. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-patients-over-the-age-of-45-account-for-85-of-india-s-covid-19-deaths-says-govt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-j4l5UcdX7Kj0tOS9e1PQ8O.html
10-07-2020||India||55-hour Uttar Pradesh lockdown begins today: What remains open, what will close||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has decided to impose a lockdown in the state in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. The lockdown will come into force from 10 pm on Friday and remain till 5 am on Monday.The government, however, insisted that it is not a lockdown. It said the authorities have imposed curbs on certain activities to check the spread of the coronavirus disease.Except for essential and some other services, everything else will be closed in the state.Here is a look at what will remain open and what will be closed.What remains open:• Medical and health services and essential services will continue as before.• Petrol pumps and ‘dhabas’ (eateries usually present on the highways) would also remain open.• No restriction on movement of those working in essential services, corona warriors, sanitation and the door-step delivery staff.• The movement of railways would continue. Uttar Pradesh Road Transport Corporation would make arrangement to operate buses to carry passengers arriving at the railway stations.• Air services (both domestic and international) would also continue as before. There would also no curbs on movement of people from airports to their destination.• Goods carrier vehicles would also not be restricted.• The traffic on national and state highways too would continue.• The ongoing campaign of medical screening and surveillance too would continue unhindered.• Industrial units, which work continuously, would remain open in rural areas.• All big construction works of expressways, bridges, roads and private projects would also continue.What is closed:• All offices and markets in urban and rural areas will remain closed during this period.• Bus services, other than those ferrying passengers to railway stations, woul be prohibited during this period.• Barring those industrial units, which work continuously, other units in the urban areas would remain closed.The UP government order also said that at every public place, an awareness programme would continue with the help of the public address system against Covid-19 and communicable diseases.The magistrates and police officers would hold joint patrolling and the teams of police and UP-112 would ensure these restrictions, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/55-hour-uttar-pradesh-lockdown-begins-today-what-remains-open-what-will-close/story-auxLX8r2F4Vnaqx1S7P0wO.html
10-07-2020||India||India, China military talks next week to focus on Finger Area, Depsang plains||A fourth meeting between top Indian and Chinese commanders scheduled next week along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh is expected to focus on the critical Finger Area and the strategic Depsang plains, with a complex disengagement process that began after previous military talks on June 30 progressing smoothly in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, two officials familiar with the developments said on Thursday, speaking on the condition on anonymity.While the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) pulled back 2km from Patrolling Point 14 (Galwan Valley) and PP-15 (Hot Springs) earlier this week, a similar retreat was completed at PP-17 (Gogra) on Thursday, said one of the officials cited above. The Indian Army, too, has pulled back proportionately in these friction areas.The army has observed some thinning of PLA troops, vehicles and removal of structures from a key spur in the Finger Area near Pangong Tso over the last 48 hours, but it can’t be seen as disengagement, he said.Also read: After Galwan fightback, 16 Bihar moving to Col Babu’s home stateThe Finger Area will be at the centre of the next round of military discussions between the corps commander-ranked officers, with Depsang also figuring prominently on the Indian agenda, said a second official.“Disengagement at Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra looked doable from the beginning. The Finger Area is where negotiations could drag out as Chinese troops have dug in their heels in Finger 4. Getting the PLA to retreat in the Depsang sector is equally critical from the Indian perspective,” he said. The Finger Area, which refers to a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong lake, remains the biggest test and hardest part of the disengagement process, as reported by HT on Thursday.Before the PLA grabbed positions on Finger 4 overlooking Indian deployments, the army would patrol right up to Finger 8 that New Delhi considers within Indian territory. The new positions held by the PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers 4 and 8 are 8km apart.The Indian claim line in this sector extends to Finger 8, while the Chinese claim is up to Finger 4 .Also read| Make 1962 war report public: War veteransThe army is keeping a strict vigil along the contested border in the Depsang sector where the PLA’s forward presence is a matter of serious concern and where a 2013 Chinese intrusion blocked the access of Indian soldiers to several patrolling routes, including the ones leading to PPs-10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13.“With disengagement successfully completed in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, the military commanders will now get down to the more challenging discussions around the Finger Area and Depsang plains,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). The Indian focus should not be entirely on disengagement but on restoration of status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April) in these two important areas, Hooda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-meet-of-indian-and-chinese-commanders-to-focus-on-finger-tangle/story-LCC6UKT7NI496vXjMofYyM.html
10-07-2020||India||Centre urges SC against direct relief in scam cases||The Union government on July 6 filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court suggesting there was a trend of people accused in high-value economic offences approaching the Supreme Court directly — instead of an appropriate court — to get protection from arrest, and that in 44 such instances, the court had granted relief to them, significantly affecting the ability of investigative agencies to go about their probes into these cases.It wanted the court to address the issue, vacate the interim relief orders, and ask the petitioners to follow the prescribed legal route by appearing before the appropriate lower courts.The affidavit was filed in a matter pertaining to Bhushan Steel Ltd, involving the company’s former CFO Nittin Johari, and may be taken up by a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde on July 24.The list of cases appended in the affidavit include the Bhushan Steel Ltd case involving an amount of ~20,000 crore, a bank fraud case against Nilesh Parekh of Shree Ganesh Jewellers worth ~2,762 crore, a case against Vikram Kothari of Rotomac worth ~ 3,770 crore, and other such matters.However, Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta brought up the issue on Wednesday while representing the Union government in a case against Jinofer Bhujwala, arrested in June 2019 in a ~134 crore Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB) fraud case, and spoke of how investigative agencies are finding it difficult to do their work because of the accused often directly approaching the apex court for relief — and getting it.The CJI has asked for a list of such cases heard by different benches and has listed the matter “along with other similar matters” for two weeks from now.Mehta referred to around 60 cases under investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, Companies Act and GST Act etc, including the case against former finance minister P Chidambaram, and the former promoters of Bhushan Steel.He argued that in these large-scale financial frauds, the accused were consciously not resorting to the remedy available under the law — applying to the court of sessions or high court for bail – under section 438 of the CrPC (criminal procedure code) or other statutory remedies.Mehta declined to comment.Senior advocate and Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi told HT that he was ready to argue the issue.“I am appearing in more than one case, including P Chidambaram and DK Shivakumar. The mere dates for listing and hearing have been given. We are ready to argue. Significant issues of law are raised, and we would welcome a decision on such significant issues of law. The issues are important, not individuals,” he said.To be sure, Chidambaram’s case may be different. The former finance minister first moved the Delhi high court for bail. After the court rejected it, he appealed to the Supreme Court. He adopted the same route for anticipatory bail. The high court rejected it, and he was arrested while waiting to be heard by the Supreme Court.Shivakumar was granted bail by Delhi high court last October. The SC dismissed a plea by the Enforcement Directorate seeking cancellation of Shivakumar’s bail.“Every person has the right to move the Supreme Court under Article 32 if his fundamental right is violated. Moreover, for violation of any law whether it be Companies Act, PMLA, or GST, the prosecution must follow the procedure prescribed under CrPC. If there is a cognisable offence, an FIR must be registered first and there would be an investigation and a police diary would be maintained. The FIR would be uploaded online allowing an accused to challenge the FIR and seek bail.“Now the ED in these [economic] offences do not follow the FIR system. They register a report in their records which nobody including the accused knows about and suddenly there is a knock on the door and the accused is picked up. So our argument is that such a procedure is not valid and affects the liberty of the individual. There is already a judgment of the Supreme Court delivered eight years ago that it is mandatory to follow CrPC but they don’t follow it. That is why these cases have been filed and interim relief was granted,” senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, who is appearing for Nittin Johari, told HT.Senior advocate Siddhartha Dave, who is representing Jinofer Bhujwala, told HT: “On their argument that high courts have to be moved first, I would only like to point out how the Supreme Court has been hearing and striking down IPC [Indian Penal Code] provisions criminalising homosexuality and adultery in public interest litigations for violation of fundamental rights. The PMLA cases are one which affect the accused himself. So it is strange that the Centre is raising this argument that high court should be approached first. Besides, various high courts might give different orders. So, in order to avoid such contradictions, SC would be the appropriate forum.”“…in many of the cases, proceedings before the competent court are stayed and investigations have come to a standstill for the reason that the Supreme Court has directed ‘no coercive steps to be taken’”, the affidavit said urging the court to vacate such orders. HT has reviewed a copy of the affidavit.The affidavit said that the accused deliberately do not resort to the remedies available under the law, namely to apply to the sessions court or high court for bail under the code of criminal procedure or other applicable laws. Instead they approach the Supreme Court directly under Article 32 of the Constitution for protection from arrest by investigating agencies, the affidavit added.The grounds cited for claiming such relief is usually that the constitutional validity of the special laws under which action is being taken against them, are under challenge.“In all these matters, such interim reliefs are prayed for on the ground that some or the other provisions of special legislations like Prevention of Money Laundering Act, Companies Act and Central Goods and Service Tax Act are under challenge”, the affidavit said.The affidavit was filed by Arvind Saran (Director in Department of Revenue Director).It said that in some of the cases, interim orders of releasing the accused have been passed by the high courts while hearing the challenge to constitutional validity of the provision.“Further, orders in the nature of bail or staying the trial have been passed without the accused resorting to remedy under Section 439 CrPC (special powers to sessions/high courts to grant bail),” the affidavit added.The Centre further argued in the affidavit that “a very challenge to the constitutional validity may not be a ground to prevent statutory authorities from exercising its statutory powers of arrest etc”.Due to the interim relief, the affidavit claimed, “proceedings in many of the cases before the competent courts have stayed and investigations have come to a standstill for the reason that this court (SC) has directed ‘no coercive action to be taken’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-urges-sc-against-direct-relief-in-scam-cases/story-qL1y3nDp9s0OG5diLP3u3I.html
10-07-2020||India||Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey, arrested for killing 8 cops, shot dead in encounter||Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey was on Friday shot dead by the police after he tried to escape following an accident involving one of the vehicles in the Special Task Force (STF) cavalcade bringing him back to the state from Madhya Pradesh.STF officials said there was an encounter as Vikas Dubey, arrested for killing eight policemen on July 3, tried to escape when the vehicle overturned early in the morning. They said Vikas Dubey snatched a weapon from one of the policemen after the accident. He then ran to a nearby field and was asked to surrender, which he refused to do, they added.Also read| Gangster Vikas Dubey killed: The sequence of events in past weekThere was an exchange of fire and he was killed, they said.“After being chased by the police team, he was asked to surrender but he did not and started firing with the intention of killing them. The police team fired back in self-defence after which Vikas Dubey was injured. He was taken to a hospital, where he died during treatment,” Kanpur Police said in a statement.ALSO WATCH | Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey shot dead in encounter Dubey was being brought back to Kanpur after he was nabbed in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain city outside a temple.The STF vehicle overturned following heavy rains in the region near Kanpur’s Sachendi area. Four policemen were also injured in the accident.The men, including an inspector, have been admitted to the nearest community health centre for treatment.Vikas Dubey was arrested outside a temple in Ujjain on Thursday, ending a manhunt for a fugitive behind one of the deadliest attacks on policemen in recent years.The July 3 shoot-out exposed alleged collusion within Uttar Pradesh police as the force later realised that their men had walked into a trap because some other police officials tipped off Dubey about an attempt to arrest him.A deputy superintendent of police, three sub-inspectors and four constables were killed, some of whom hacked to death, in the failed raid to nab Vikas Dubey.Police in Uttar Pradesh have killed at least five of his accomplices, who were involved in the attack, demolished his sprawling bungalow, and arrested at least a dozen people, including his wife and son, and policemen who aided his escape and shelter.They increased the bounty on his head from Rs 50,000 last week to Rs 5 lakh as he was on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-gangster-vikas-dubey-arrested-for-killing-8-cops-shot-dead/story-YdTi2HwrwifBKoHUEzpgZM.html
10-07-2020||India||Odisha official arrested over sexual harassment allegations||Police in Odisha arrested a 59-year-old senior state government official on Thursday over allegations of sexually harassing a 25-year-old junior.Mahila police station inspector Banita Maharana said director of AYUSH Mission Bibhu Prasad Sarangi was arrested following prima facie evidence of sending obscene messages to the woman employee.“We have arrested Sarangi under Section 354 of the IPC (Indian Penal Code) and Section 67 of the IT act,” said the inspector. The officer, who is due to retire next year, was interrogated for more than hours after his arrest.On Monday, the contractual woman employee had lodged a police complaint against Sarangi alleging that the officer was forcing her to have a physical relationship with him.“He used to ask me to do a video call while bathing. At other times, he asked me to go out with him and have fun without clothes,” the victim said in her first information report (FIR).Sarangi also allegedly threatened to dismiss her when she objected to him sending obscene videos and messages to her on WhatsApp.Refuting the allegations, Sarangi filed a counter FIR against the woman claiming, saying he had not sent any videos or messages containing obscene content to her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-official-arrested-over-sexual-harassment-allegations/story-ykUSTg4nehywtD1qiCexlM.html
10-07-2020||India||Rajasthan to install solar panels atop Rajiv Gandhi Lift Canal, other reservoirs||Rajasthan’s public health engineering department (PHED) is mulling to install solar panels on top of the Rajiv Gandhi Lift Canal (RGLC) and other large reservoirs across the state.Rajesh Yadav, the department principal secretary, said discussions are being held to install solar panels on the 190-km long Rajiv Gandhi Lift Canal in Jodhpur region and other large reservoirs across the state.“This will not only save electricity at the pumping stations but help in producing additional energy,” Yadav said.He said energy can be produced on a large scale by setting up a 110-megawatt solar plant in the RGLC region.“A letter will be sent to NTPC to study the feasibility of the project (installation of solar panel) at RLGC or at other big raw water reservoirs,” said Yadav. NTPC is a public sector undertaking engaged in generation of electricity and allied activities. A senior official of the department said that around 140 such pumping stations have been identified in the state where solar plant of 75-kilo watt capacities is expected to be installed.He said a similar project is being undertaken on the Narmada canal in Gujarat.RGLC is a composite carrier system with eight intermediate pumpings at different stages. The system draws water from the Indira Gandhi Main Canal (IGMC). Various drinking water schemes are sanctioned and have been executed with source as RGLC and are connected and sanctioned at different points on RGLC.Jodhpur city is at its tail end.PHED will use a mobile application for time-bound monitoring of each of the phases of drinking water projects in the state. A special mobile app has been developed for this, through which photographs will be captured with geo-tagging on each stage of the projects.In addition, the department has also developed an app GIMS or Government Instant Messaging System for messaging officials up to the level of executive engineers and junior chemist.This will be used as an alternate to WhatsApp for the exchange of internal information, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-install-solar-panels-atop-rajiv-gandhi-lift-canal-other-reservoirs/story-QN7pilKxc2GTmW6aFBSQMI.html
10-07-2020||India||Nagaland govt asks employees to declare names of family members connected to insurgent groups||The Nagaland government has asked government employees to furnish details of family members who are affiliated to various insurgent groups in the state.According to an office memorandum issued on July 7 by chief secretary Temjen Toy, heads of departments have been asked to obtain information in self-declaration forms from all employees “regarding family members and relatives in underground organizations”.The details are to be submitted by the department heads to the home department by August 7. Names of underground organizations are not mentioned in the memorandum.The employees, who have family members in these organizations, have been asked to mention their names, the organization to which they are affiliated to, position in the organization and the nature of relationship with the government employee in the self-declaration form.The memorandum mentions that the order has been issued “as per instructions”, but there’s no clarity on who had issued the instructions for such a move.A note in the order mentions that family member means spouse, sons/daughters, sibling and parents of the government employee while relative will consist of “anyone who is directly related to any of the family members of the government employee”.Neither chief secretary Temjen Toy nor principal secretary (home) Abhijit Sinha could be reached for their comments on the government’s move.The order comes after Governor RN Ravi wrote a letter to chief minister Neiphiu Rio last month alleging that a few armed gangs were threatening authority of the elected government in the state.Reacting to the letter, the Nagaland government issued a statement last week saying that Ravi’s assessment of law and order situation in the state is “precarious” and doesn’t appear “factual”.Nagaland has several insurgent groups, some of whom are in peace talks with the government. Though a framework agreement with NSCN-Isak Muivah was signed in August 2015 and peace talks with several other groups concluded in October last year, a final agreement on Naga peace talks is still due.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-govt-asks-employees-to-declare-names-of-family-members-connected-to-insurgent-groups/story-0t8Ccr4IIFU17spqQ3Z24L.html
10-07-2020||India||BJP ally IPFT holds protest in Tripura over arrest of supporter||The Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT), an alliance partner of Tripura’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Thursday launched a 24-hour strike at Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) headquarters protesting over arrest of one of their supporters on charges of arson in a BJP office. The TTAADC is nearly 25 kilometres from Agartala and covers almost 68 per cent of Tripura’s geographical area throughout the total eight districts.The strike was peaceful, said police.“We demanded the police to release our party supporter Pradip Debbarma on bail as he was arrested in a fake case. Our 24-hour strike was against his arrest,” IPFT MLA Brishaketu Debbarma told reporters.Debbarma, president of IPFT’s frontal organization Indigenous Motor Workers’ Union (IMWU), was arrested on July 6. He is currently in judicial custody. BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjee said, “Police arrested the person based on their investigation. As far as the BJP is concerned, we didn’t mention his name in the FIR. Being an alliance partner, the IPFT should not blame us. It is because they are also in the government.” A BJP office near Khumulwung was burnt at the end of June, a day before nearly 400 people were supposed to join BJP. Bhattacharjee said that a case was filed against some local people who were allegedly involved in the incident but Debbarma’s name was not in the list.In the 60-seat Tripura Assembly, IPFT has eight MLAs and formed the government in alliance with BJP in 2018. After forming the government, the rift between the alliance partners came to light earlier with a series of clashes over nominations of Block Advisory Committee (BAC) chairmen, ADC village committee executives and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-ally-ipft-holds-protest-in-tripura-over-arrest-of-supporter/story-qavdJ6LGVdHqQCgTfjRfCL.html
10-07-2020||India||ICMR to conduct nationwide sero survey to determine Covid-19 exposure||The ICMR on Thursday said a nationwide sero survey to determine the exposure of the novel coronavirus among the population will be carried out as a follow-up to a similar study conducted in May, the results of which are yet to be released. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will conduct a ‘sero-survey’ which involves testing of blood serum of people to check for the prevalence of antibodies against coronavirus infection.The final results of the sero-survey conducted by the ICMR in May, which focused on infections of mid-April is still under process, Rajesh Bhushan, Officer on Special Duty in the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.  “The sero-survey that ICMR conducted across the country focused on infections of mid-April and preliminary findings were shared. As you know all such sero-surveillance studies or any other scientific study is subject to peer-review and those inputs are also incorporated. So that process is going on,” he told reporters.  “We will be in a position to share it once that gets over,” he said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe ICMR had earlier said on the basis of the data compiled from 65 districts out of 83 districts across the country in the first part of the sero-surveillance study, 0.73 per cent of the population surveyed showed evidence of past exposure to SARS-CoV-2.Bhushan further said the findings of the sero-survey, which has been done in Delhi by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as a part of which 22,000 samples were collected from June 27 to July 5 from 11 districts, is being processed.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “In the near future, ICMR is planning a follow up sero-survey pan-India to the earlier sero-survey that they had done for mid-April infections,” Bhushan explained. The sero-survey conducted in May had two parts -- estimating the fraction of the general population that has been infected with SARS-CoV-2 and estimating the number of people who have been infected with coronavirus in containment zones of hotspot cities, ICMR officials had earlier said.   The IgG antibodies against an infection takes around 15 days to develop in the body.Also read: 85% Covid-19 deaths in 45-plus age bracket, shows govt dataIndia saw a record single-day surge of 24,879 coronavirus infections, which pushed the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 7,67,296 on Thursday, while the death toll climbed to 21,129 with 487 new fatalities, the Health Ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-to-conduct-nationwide-sero-survey-to-determine-covid-19-exposure/story-EfPrhzNOojQPKAHdLGlbJN.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Silence is better than many answers’: Rahul Gandhi on Vikas Dubey’s killing in encounter||Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday joined the rank of Opposition leaders who reacted to the killing of history sheeter gangster Vikas Dubey in an encounter with UP Special Task Force. Gandhi raised suspicion in a succinct tweet, without specifically mentioning the encounter which resulted in killing of the gangster, and said that silence is better than many answers as it honours many questions that could have been raised. कई जवाबों से अच्छी है ख़ामोशी उसकीन जाने कितने सवालों की आबरू रख लीThe killing of Dubey, who was on run after killing eight policemen last week and was being brought back to Kanpur in a sports utility vehicle when he was shot at following a road accident, has raised eyebrows among several Opposition leaders who are stating that the encounter was engineered to prevent secrets from being revealed. Also read | ‘Dead men tell no tales’: Oppn aims at UP govt after Vikas Dubey’s encounterThey alleged that Dubey, who was arrested less than 24 hours earlier from the Mahakal Temple in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain has been “silenced” to shield the people who had protected him. Moving past the encounter, Priyanka Gandhi, the Congress party’s general secretary and UP in-charge, asked about due course of action for those who protected Dubey and his crime. Gandhi also said it should be revealed who are the people involved in raising such a criminal.  उप्र की कानून-व्यवस्था बदतर हो चुकी है। राजनेता-अपराधी गठजोड़ प्रदेश पर हावी है। कानपुर कांड में इस गठजोड़ की सांठगांठ खुलकर सामने आई।कौन-कौन लोग इस तरह के अपराधी की परवरिश में शामिल हैं- ये सच सामने आना चाहिए।सुप्रीम कोर्ट के मौजूदा जज से पूरे कांड की न्यायिक जाँच होनी चाहिए pic.twitter.com/vRHQlsaJ3y“Fine, the criminal’s dead; but what about those who protected him and his crime?” Priyanka Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.अपराधी का अंत हो गया, अपराध और उसको सरंक्षण देने वाले लोगों का क्या?Also read | ‘6 dead, 12 still on the run’: UP Police on Kanpur shootout in which 8 cops were killedIn a scathing remark, Samajwadi Party’s national president and former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh said that the ‘car did not overturn; the government saved itself from overturning by preventing the secrets coming out’. Yadav was referring to the police’s claim which states that the police vehicle carrying Dubey from Ujjain overturned at Bhauti area in Kanpur on Friday morning. Inspector General of Police (Kanpur) Mohit Agarwal said Dubey, who was handed over to UP police force by Madhya Pradesh police force, tried to flee from the spot after snatching the pistol of a inspector leading to an encounter. दरअसल ये कार नहीं पलटी है, राज़ खुलने से सरकार पलटने से बचाई गयी है.Opposition leaders have demanded a thorough probe to unravel the gangster’s political nexus, claiming that the engineered encounter leads to burying of facts.“Dead men tell no tales,” former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said in a tweet after news of the encounter emerged. Mayawati, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief, in a set of two tweets in Hindi, demanded a probe into the series of incidents under the Supreme Court’s scrutiny since the policemen were killed in Dubey’s Bikru village.“A probe under the Supreme Court should be done into the killing of the policemen and then overturning of the car in which the UP police was bringing the heinous criminal Vikas Dubey while they were in transit from MP to UP and Dubey’s killing by the police,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/silence-is-better-than-many-answers-rahul-gandhi-on-vikas-dubey-s-killing-in-encounter/story-Ah53z4StBEebtHzRSN9LeN.html
10-07-2020||India||Make 1962 war report public: War veterans||Amid the border row in eastern Ladakh and worst tensions there since the 1962 India-China war, a group of military veterans led by former navy chief Admiral Laxminarayan Ramdas (retd) has petitioned the government to de-classify the “un-redacted” Henderson Brooks-Bhagat report on the reasons behind India’s defeat in that war.The statement signed by 143 veterans said the report should be made public so that “the military-bureaucratic-political system and the public” can learn from past mistakes.“There can be no sensible reason for this report remaining secret even after 57 years,” said the statement e-mailed to the President, the Prime Minister, the defence minister, the chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs. The signatories to the statement include six retired three-star military officers.Australian journalist Neville Maxwell made portions of the report public in March 2014 by uploading it on the internet, triggering a debate on India’s military defeat in the war and the events that led to it. The report practically held the entire civilian and military leadership responsible for driving the country into a war it wasn’t prepared for. The veterans demanded the setting up a fact-finding body to look into “the intrusions, incursions and encroachments by China” in Depsang, Galwan, Pangong Tso and other places, urging that it should table its in Lok Sabha within a time-bound framework.The veterans sought an overhaul of the country intelligence system. “The incident at Galwan Valley (on June 15) could only have happened because of failure at one or more levels in the political, civil and military establishments, especially in continuous intelligence acquisition and dissemination,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-1962-war-report-public-war-veterans/story-guz5Os1kobljhMcQ44RyIL.html
10-07-2020||India||CWC meeting likely soon to extend Sonia’s tenure||The Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, is expected to meet soon to take a call on extending the tenure of Sonia Gandhi, who completes one year as the Congress’s interim chief on August 10.The extension is a technical requirement under the Congress’s constitution given that a regular president is yet to be elected, a Congress functionary said. It is also a prerequisite for the party to inform the Election Commission of its decision.The process of electing a new president could not be initiated because of Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown enforced on March 25 to contain its spread, the functionary cited above said, requesting anonymity.“Soon after her appointment, there were assembly elections in Maharashtra and Haryana in last year followed by polls in Jharkhand and Delhi. Then Covid-19 struck,” he added.The CWC named Sonia Gandhi as the party’s interim chief on August 10 last year after Rahul Gandhi refused to take back his resignation as Congress president. Rahul Gandhi quit after the Congress’s rout in the April-May 2019 general elections in which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) became the first party to win a majority on its own since 1984. The Congress managed to win just 52 seats in the 543-member Lok Sabha against the BJP’s 303.There has been a renewed pitch for Rahul Gandhi to take over as the party chief, but at least four Congress leaders said on condition of anonymity that he remains adamant on his decision and is unlikely to assume the reins of the organisation in the immediate future.“Rahul Gandhi had raised certain important issues when he resigned last year. What has changed in the party between May last year and now? Not much,” said one of the four, a central leader who looks after the party’s affairs in a north Indian state. “No doubt, Congress leaders and workers want Rahul Gandhi back as the party chief and he is the only opposition leader in the country seen to be aggressively taking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the government but he does not appear to be keen to once again assume the reins at least for now,” he added.The CWC will again make a last ditch attempt to persuade Rahul Gandhi, 50, and in case he refuses to relent, it will consider extending Sonia Gandhi’s term as the interim party president, said the party functionary cited in the first instance.At a fractious CWC meeting on May 25 last year, Rahul Gandhi slammed party veterans for “placing the interests” of their sons above the party’s, said some leaders had lost election from their own strongholds and criticised a section of the so-called GenNext for hankering after posts of power.Rahul Gandhi brought finality to his decision to step down as the party president on July 3 when he tweeted a four-page farewell note listing the reasons.In the letter, he took a sharp dig at his party colleagues for the electoral humiliation the Congress suffered and referred to a lack of support for him, saying he had been completely alone in the fight against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), the BJP’s ideological mentor.“I personally fought the Prime Minister, the RSS and the institutions they have captured with all my being. I fought because I love India. And I fought to defend the ideals India was built upon. At times, I stood completely alone and am extremely proud of it,” he wrote.In the CWC meeting on August 10 last year, Sonia Gandhi accepted entreaties to lead the party once again -- she had quit as Congress chief in December 2017 after almost two decades at the helm from March 14, 1998 to December 16, 2017 when Rahul Gandhi took over -- on the condition that she would stay as chief only until an election is held to choose a full-time president.Sonia Gandhi, 73, had then said her returning as the party chief would again give a handle to the opponents to attack the Congress on grounds that the Gandhi family was unwilling to give up its hold over the party. She had also insisted that this point be included in the resolution.The Congress constitution empowers the CWC to appoint a provisional president pending the election of a full-time chief by the All India Congress Committee, the party’s central unit comprising around 2,000 members from across the country.“The Congress needs to identify a leader who can give it a direction and helps the party in regaining its political voice. Whether that leader will be Rahul Gandhi or anyone else is a decision best arrived at through a genuine democratic process within the party. But the leadership model needs to be a multi-centred one,” said political analyst Chandan Gowda, of Bengaluru’s Azim Premji University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-meeting-likely-soon-to-extend-sonia-s-tenure/story-OFv7sIKLUDA7yUhnILa4EN.html
10-07-2020||India||Assam proposes changes in ordinance on industries to protect land rights of indigenous people||Following opposition and concerns, Assam government on Thursday announced changes to a recent ordinance of setting up industries in order to protect land rights of indigenous people of the state.On June 29, Assam cabinet had passed an ordinance allowing setting up of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) industries by just submitting a self-declaration without taking any permission for a period of three years and added that land for setting up industries would be “deemed converted”.The move had led to apprehensions that ‘outsiders’ would purchase agricultural land and convert them for industrial purpose without any checks, which might hurt land rights of indigenous people.Addressing a press conference on Thursday, industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary informed that in order to address the concerns Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal held a meeting earlier this week to discuss provisions of the “draft ordinance related to use of land”.“It was unanimously decided that stringent measures and provisions should be made so that the right of the indigenous people are protected and kept unaffected,” said the minister.Patowary said a provision has been proposed to be made in the draft MSME ordinance that all provisions of the Assam Agricultural Land (Regulation of Reclassification and Transfer for Non-Agricultural Purpose) Act, 2015 and other laws will have to be followed for setting up any enterprise and no exemption will be given under the aforesaid Act or any land related Act for any business initiative or business enterprise. “Earlier there was a provision that after getting the acknowledgement certificate, agricultural land was proposed to be deemed converted for non agricultural purpose to set up an industry,” said the minister.“But now it is proposed that so far as land is concerned, no such exemption will be given. The business enterprises will have to take all the permission, clearance and approval related to land before starting any industry,” added Patowary.Also all land related laws and provisions under the Assam Agricultural Land (Regulation of Reclassification and Transfer for Non-Agricultural Purpose) Act, 2015 will have to be followed by all enterprises.Existing provisions in the draft ordinance restricting use of public grazing reserves, village grazing reserves, wetland, heritage, historical and archaeological sites, land belonging religious institutions and land in tribal belts and blocks, for setting up industries will remain.Patowary said that due to Covid-19 more than 3.5 lakh people have returned from various parts of the country to Assam and the MSME ordinance was drafted keeping them into consideration so that they could set up industries in own land.“Keeping in mind apprehensions of the people, government has decided to make more stringent arrangement so that there should be no ambiguity that the rights of the local people are protected. The government reassures its commitment to the rights of the indigenous people over their land,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-changes-ordinance-on-land-use-after-protests/story-8iyVPnn1aWBcDrp4Y4abCP.html
10-07-2020||India||Centre’s rural spending doubles amid Covid-19 pandemic||The rural and agriculture sectors have seen higher government spending in April and May because of cash transfers, free LPG cylinders and food grains, apart from new allocation for the rural job guarantee scheme, expenditure data of central departments from the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) shows. The higher spending comes amid a robust monsoon, higher sowing and has helped revive rural jobs. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 30 announced the extension of the provision of free rations to 800 million people until November. The package was announced in March to help the poor when the lockdown to check the Covid-19 pandemic spread was announced. The government in March announced free cooking-gas cylinders to 83 million poor families, a one-time cash transfer to 30 million senior citizens, and money transfers to about 200 million poor women for three months. An additional ~40,000 crore was in May allocated for the federal job guarantee programme, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, as demand for work surged after lockdown left daily wagers jobless.In the first two months of the current fiscal year–April and May–the total expenditure of the agriculture and rural affairs ministries more than doubled in comparison to the corresponding months a year ago. Despite a sharp drop of up to 40% in revenue collection, agriculture, food and rural affairs ministries saw the highest spending, while expenditure on defence, education, among others, lagged, the data released by the CGA shows.In April, the first month of 2020-21, the agriculture ministry spent ~25,717 crore, or 18% of its annual budget estimates of ~1,42,762.35 crore. In May, the farm ministry spent ~31,742, or 22% of the budget estimates. Over the two months, it spent a total of ~57,459 crore. The rural affairs ministry, which funds MGNREGS, in April spent ~38,059 core, or 31% of its budget estimates of ~122398 crore. In May, it spent ~59611 crore, or 49% of its total budget estimates. Together, the rural and agriculture ministries spent ~155128 crore over the two months, more than double the spending of ~45000 crore in the same months of the previous year. The food ministry, which is offering free subsidised food grains to two-thirds of the population, spent ~66290 crore in the two months, which is also twice the amount it spent in the corresponding period last year. “The big gain in employment is happening in rural India. And, it may see bigger gains in the months to come or at least sustain the current gains,” said Mahesh Vyas of the Centre for Monitoring of Indian Economy (CMIE). The government had initially budgeted ~60,000 crore for MGNREGS for 2020-21. In May, it increased allocation to a total of ~1 lakh crore. Compared to the rural sector ministries, the human resources department has seen lower spending of 10% of its total budget estimates over April and May. Similarly, defence services spending was 15%, compared to the previous year’s 22%. “Aggressive use of the MGNREGS scheme, timely rains and enhanced sowing activities seem to have helped engage rural India and bring the unemployment rate down,” Vyas of CMIE wrote in a note||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-rural-spending-doubles-amid-pandemic/story-i5eIke9OcCmOsWXB3E94kL.html
10-07-2020||India||Calls for probe in ‘staged’ arrest among top 10 developments in Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey case||Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey was taken into custody outside a temple in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain on Thursday marking an end to six day long manhunt for a criminal accused of orchestrating one of the deadliest attacks on policemen in recent years that led to death of eight policemen including a deputy superintendent of police, three sub-inspectors, and four constables. The day began with the arrest of two of his aides and ended with controversy over Dubey’s arrest. Here are the top 10 developments throughout the day in Kanpur gangster Vikas Yadav’s arrest case.1. Vikas Dubey is reported to have shouted his name out when being arrested outside the famous Mahakal temple in Ujjain. “Main Vikas Dubey hoon, Kanpur wala!,” he was heard saying by eyewitnesses. Varying versions of how his arrest was carried out emerged through the day. A Madhya Pradesh minister claimed Dubey was caught by a policeman, while police officials, eyewitnesses, and an administration official claimed he was spotted by locals first and may have surrendered before his arrest.2. Madhya Pradesh’s top cop Vivek Johri claimed that a man selling flowers spotted Dubey and informed the security agency at the Mahakal temple, following which the police outpost nearby was informed. When the cops checked Dubey’s identity card, they found it was in the name of one Naveen Pal. He started shouting on further questioning by the cops fearing his identity will be revealed.3. A senior administrative officer, who didn’t wish to be named, said Dubey surrendered to police since he feared that he could be killed in a similar manner as his accomplices. The officer added that Dubey purchased a ticket for Rs 250 from the temple counter at about 8.30am. He later told the flower shop owner that he was Vikas Dubey from Kanpur. The flower seller said he had identified Dubey as he behaved suspiciously and later informed the security agency guard at the gate of the temple.4. A police officer said Dubey kept changing his responses while initial questioning in Ujjain and didn’t correctly reveal how he reached Ujjain and from where and when. The police officer said that Dubey claimed to have arrived in MP through Kota on Wednesday by a bus, but his account was not credible since the interstate bus service is still suspended, the officer added. A liquor company’s manager, who is a relative of Vikas Dubey, was reportedly picked up by police to find out whether he had called Dubey to Ujjain. The police did not confirm his detention.5. A police officer who interrogated him in Ujjain said that Dubey had claimed to have stayed in a city hotel on Wednesday night. Most of the officers involved in the manhunt said Dubey was helped at every step, from leaving to a friend’s place at Shivli in Kanpur Dehat to reaching Ujjain while covering around 1,250 km across four states. The police are particularly looking at who Dubey may have reached out to after the Kanpur ambush, while hiding at a friend’s house in Kanpur Dehat’s Shivli town, three kilometres from his village. Cops said he reached Shivli on a motorcycle as travel by car would have required him to go through the main roads.6. According to police officials who didn’t wish to be named, Dubey’s aide Prabhat Mishra claimed during his interrogation before he was killed in an encounter in Kanpur that Dubey had planned everything from his escape to eventual surrender. He used an SUV to reach Auraiya and then hitched multiple rides to reach Faridabad. Cops added that he had initially wanted to surrender in UP and then in Delhi, which couldn’t materialize.7. Dubey is then alleged to have asked his key shooter Amar Dubey to reach Madhya Pradesh through the Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh. But the police nabbed Amar in Hamirpur and he was killed in an encounter when he tried to escape, the police said. Prabhat Mishra and the staff of the hotel, where Vikas Dubey stayed in Faridabad, said he was confident and relaxed.8. Dubey’s accomplice Prabhat Mishra was killed on Thursday morning while attempting to snatch a cop’s weapon in an attempt to escape while being brought back from Faridabad, UP police officials said. The other aide, Praveen alias Bauwa Dubey, also wanted in connection with the Kanpur ambush, was killed in an encounter in Etawah, the police said.9. Dubey’s wife, his son and their domestic help were also arrested later in the day. According to figures by Kanpur police, the number of people arrested could be as high as 20, including four women who were the spouses of some of the fugitives. Among them was Khushboo Dubey, who married Amar Dubey four days before the shoot-out on June 29. Police have not given any reason for her arrest.10. While BJP MLAs and a Samajwadi Party spokesperson denied any connection with the gangster, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded a CBI probe to ascertain the facts about the alleged patronage and protection to Vikas Dubey. Former MP chief minister Kamal Nath said the gangster’s “safe departure” from Kanpur, arrival at Ujjain and the manner of arrest gave birth to a lot of suspicion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calls-for-probe-in-staged-arrest-among-top-10-developments-in-kanpur-gangster-vikas-dubey-case/story-VHEJxn7nl6WOmJIOS4VtOJ.html
10-07-2020||India||States fall back upon lockdown to stop Covid-19’s expanding footprints||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal have started to go back to lockdown mode to contain the spread of the virus.Uttar Pradesh, where the Covid-19 tally has crossed 32,000 announced Thursday evening a complete weekend shutdown from Friday 10 pm till Monday 5 am.All offices, markets, urban and rural haats, grain markets, and commercial establishments will remain shut during the lockdown period. All essential services such as health services, essential commodities supply will operate as before and there will be no restriction on movements of such people working in these places including corona warriors and door-step delivery persons.Railways will continue to operate the way it has been and the UP roadways would make arrangements to operate buses to ferry the passengers who arrive at the stations. However, barring these, UPSRTC buses would not operate anywhere in the state.In West Bengal, another week of complete lockdown kicked in Thursday afternoon across containment zones. The Covid-19 tally in Bengal has gone past 25,000.The lockdown is spread across all 23 districts and covers 434 containment zones including 25 in Kolkata.Kolkata’s neighbouring districts of North 24 Parganas and Howrah have 95 and 56 containment zones respectively.Entry and exits into these zones have been sealed and only essential services personnel will be allowed. Only shops selling essential items will be allowed to open, no public conveyance will be allowed and all offices and business will remain shut.In Bihar, five districts including Patna will go under lockdown from Saturday after more than a month as the state’s Covid-19 count neared 14,000.The lockdown in Patna, Bhabua and Purina districts will be a week while Supaul and Nawada will observe the lockdown for three days.In Patna , all offices of the Central government, its autonomous/subordinates offices and public offices (with the exception of defence, central armed police forces, treasury, public utilities, disaster management, power generation, etc.) will remain closed during the period.In addition to this, offices of the state government/union territory governments, their autonomous bodies, corporations, etc., (with exceptions of police, home guards, disaster administration, treasury, electricity, sanitation) as well as commercial and private establishments will also remain shut.All places of worship will remain closed during the period and no religious congregation will be allowed.But shops selling grocery, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booths, meat and vegetables, fish will remain open between 6 am and 10 am and 4 pm to 7 pm.The order exempts banks, insurance offices and ATMS, telecommunications, delivery of all kinds of goods including food, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment through e-commerce, petrol pumps, LPG, and gas retail and storage outlets, power generation, transmission and distribution units and services, capital and debt market services, electronic and print media from lockdown.Shortly after the Patna district administration decided to lock down the state capital for a week, four more districts - Bhabua, Purnia, Supaul and Nawada - followed suit on Thursday with different lengths of lockdown.In Assam, the government announced a “total lockdown” in Golaghat town from Thursday evening for eight days to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.Elsewhere in the state, a complete shutdown is already in force for a fortnight in Kamrup Metropolitan district that includes Guwahati city from June 28 for a fortnight. The government is contemplating to extend the lockdown.Maharashtra, where the lockdown is in force till July 31, the government had allowed hotels, lodges and guest houses to operate from July 8 Wednesday, but at 33% of their capacity.Dine-in restaurants, however, will remain to be shut and operate only for takeaways as the government has not taken any decision yet. Restaurants at hotels and guest houses will be available only for the resident guests.Swimming pools, gymnasiums, playing areas, gaming arcades and gatherings of more than 15 people at these hotels will not be allowed, a government notification said.The government has also extended the timings of shops and markets by two hours across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-fall-back-upon-lockdown-to-stop-covid-19-s-expanding-footprints/story-3ex4Wfqnfh9olEbfZ99EGJ.html
10-07-2020||India||85% Covid-19 deaths in 45-plus age bracket: Govt data||Patients over the age of 45 years, who form 25% of the country’s population, account for 85% of India’s Covid-19 deaths, the Union health ministry said on Thursday as it asserted that the country has been able to manage the outbreak “relatively well” with cases and deaths per million of the population here among the lowest in the world.The findings about the age-wise distribution of deaths due to the coronavirus disease in India are in line with what scientists have observed about the global trends of the disease — it is disproportionally fatal for those who are older. Officials, however, did not release any data about breakup of cases based on gender and comorbidities.Senior government officials, during the first Covid-19 press briefing by the health ministry in nearly a month, also reiterated that India has not yet reached the community transmission stage and said that there have only been “localised outbreaks in some geographical areas”. “There may be some localised pockets where transmission is high but as a country, there is no community transmission in India,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said separately on Thursday after chairing 18th meeting of group of ministers on Covid-19.The health ministry press briefing came a day after India saw the largest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 25,724 new infections on Wednesday, the first time more than 25,000 new cases were reported in 24 hours. As of Thursday night, 794,117 confirmed cases of Covid-19 had been detected in the country and 21,577 people had died, with 25,871 cases and 441 deaths being reported on Thursday, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.Government data showed that 85% of all people who have died due to Covid-19 in the country were over the age of 45 years. People between the ages of 60 and 74 years, who are only 8% of the population, form the largest proportion of fatalities — 39%. Those older than 75 (2% of India’s population) account for 14% of the total Covid deaths.At the other end of the spectrum, people under 14 years of age (35% of the population) make up only 1% of all Covid deaths in the country, and those between 15 and 24 years of age (18% of population) constitute 3% of fatalities. Those between the ages of 30 and 44 (22% of population) account for 11% of Covid deaths, the government said. This is the first time in two months that the government has released an age-wise breakup of fatalities in the country. The data released on May 1 showed that of the 51.2% who died were above the age of 60, 42% between 60 and 75, and 9.2%, above 75. “In spite of a population of 1.3 billion people, India has been able to manage Covid-19 relatively well,” Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty, Union health ministry, said.According to the World Health Organization (WHO) report, India has 538 cases per million population while it is at least 16-17 times more in some countries, he said. “We have 15 deaths per million population, whereas we have countries where it is 40 times as much,” he said.On a question about the Covid-19 outbreak in the country entering the community transmission phase, Bhushan said, “We should not forget that in our country, 49 districts alone account for 80% of Covid-19 cases. In a country of more than 733 districts, if 49 districts account for 80%, then it is not justified to talk about community transmission.” He also highlighted data that showed that the proportion of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 has been growing steadily over the past three months, which has meant that the number of active cases in the country has not risen at an alarming rate. As the gap between active cases and recovered cases is growing, he said it ensures country’s health infrastructure is not “creaking under the pressure”.As on July 9, there are total a total of 3,914 dedicated Covid-19 facilities in the country, with 377,737 isolation beds (without intensive care support), 39,820 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, and 142,415 oxygen supported beds along with 20,047 ventilators.On the World Health Organization’s acknowledgement about “emerging evidence” of the airborne spread of the virus, officials said the outbreak was an evolving and dynamic situation that the government was tracking. “We have been keeping abreast with information coming out of WHO headquarters on this aspect, but you would all appreciate and realise that even during the initial stages of the outbreak, we and PM Narendra Modi had repeatedly emphasised the importance of ‘do gaz ki doori (two-metre distance)’ and wearing masks... These concepts protect you from small droplets that may remain suspended in air for longer period of time,” Bhushan added.When asked about ICMR director general’s letter on the launch of Covid-19 vaccine, he said that the 15 August deadline was “only to expedite duly approved clinical trials without compromising on safety and security concerns”.Even as 100-odd vaccine candidates are at various stages of development globally, trials for two indigenous vaccine candidates that have also made it to the human clinical trials stage in India are about to start, officials said. “In record time, indigenous vaccine candidates have been developed for the new disease. The aim of the letter was to ask sites to fast-track it. We need the vaccine today, if we go by conventional methods to develop the vaccine and take two years then it would be of no use,” said Dr Nivedita Gupta, senior scientist, epidemiology division, ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/85-deaths-in-45-plus-age-bracket-govt-data/story-II4EFnB7APRnLuU3MPmyZK.html
10-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India registered, in the first eight days of July, nearly a fourth of the total Covid-19 cases it has seen till July 8.Two out of every three currently active cases were registered in these eight days (which is understandable, because it indicates a surge in cases in recent days, and also that a high number of older cases have been resolved — which one would expect with a recovery rate of 62% — but still interesting), as were around 18% of all deaths from the coronavirus disease. There’s a lag of roughly two weeks in the correspondence between cases and deaths, so it will probably make sense to look at deaths between July 14 and July 21 to understand if the country is becoming better at saving lives.India saw 25,724 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, its highest single-day tally thus far. The number of new cases has increased sharply, from around 10,000 in the middle of June to in excess of 22,000 every day this week. There isn’t a similar pattern with deaths — which is, again, understandable — but the number has steadily climbed. The number of daily deaths was in the 300s in mid-June. It has largely been in the late 400s this week.Clearly, India, as a whole, isn’t flattening any curve right now. Nor, for that matter, is the US, which, like India, is seeing daily records in terms of new cases.But Delhi appears to be — or, at the least, it is showing early signs of doing so. In the first eight days of July, the city registered a sixth of the total Covid-19 cases it has seen till July 8.In Delhi’s case, three out of every four currently active cases were registered in the first eight days of July — which means the city has a better record at resolving older cases than the country as a whole (as reflected in its recovery rate of 75%).The Capital has seen a rise and a fall in this period. From somewhere in the 2,000s in mid-June, the number of daily cases soared to over 3,000 in the last week of the month before dipping to the early 2,000s this week. Just as with India, there isn’t as clear a pattern with deaths, although two days this week have seen numbers in the 40s, the lowest since mid-June.One reason for this is the city’s high testing rate.What about Tamil Nadu, a state that has been as aggressive as Delhi with testing? Like Delhi, it too has managed to bring its positivity rate, or the proportion of people testing positive to those tested, down from its peak. (Regions that do so are clearly testing adequately, because only that will result in positivity rates first plateauing, and then declining).In the first eight days of July, the state registered a little more than a fourth of the total Covid-19 cases till July 8.And almost 70% of currently active cases were registered in the first eight days of July, highlighting the surge of cases that Tamil Nadu has witnessed in this period, as well as its record at resolving older cases (60% — lower than the corresponding number for both Delhi and India as a whole).The state has seen a sharp increase in number of new cases in this period — the numbers are off their peaks seen last week, but still in the late 3000s, higher than in mid-June. The trend is a bit muddied when it comes to daily deaths, but that number rose to the mid-60s by late June, and have stayed there.Tamil Nadu is not flattening the curve by any measure.Why?It’s possible that while the state has increased the depth of its testing, it hasn’t increased the width — unlike Delhi, which launched rapid antigen tests for everyone in a containment zone (and not just those who met the stringent testing criteria).That is an important lesson. Broad-based random testing of anyone willing and wanting to be tested is the way ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-8Mt64XTz67IBje28v0hDqI.html
10-07-2020||India||July 3 ambush was carefully planned, Dubey’s aide revealed||The ambush by gangster Vikas Dubey and his group that killed eight personnel on July 3 was the result of careful planning even as he planned his escape route, his aide Prabhat Mishra told the police while he was in custody, according to officials aware of the matter.Mishra, who was arrested in Faridabad on Wednesday, snatched a pistol from a policeman and tried to escape while being brought back to Kanpur, the police said. Two Special Task Force (STF) personnel were injured and Mishra killed in the exchange of fire on Thursday morning.After the late-night ambush, Dubey spent more than a day at a friend’s house in Kanpur Dehat’s Shivli town, 3km from his Bikru village where the incident took place. While the police were looking for him, he was busy planning his escape, Mishra said, according to officials who did not want to be named.Officials said he could have got help at every step, from leaving to Shivli to reaching Ujjain. He covered 1,250km and crossed four states before his arrest in Ujjain.“Without help, he could not have gone this far; we are pursuing some leads. It will become clear as to who helped him,” one of the officials said.Dubey reached Shivli on a motorcycle as travel by car would have required him to go through the main roads, police said. He reached Auraiya in an SUV made available to him by a resident of Mangalpur in Kanpur Dehat, Mishra said, according to officials.Hitching multiple rides, an official said, Dubey reached Faridabad. Although he initially planned to surrender in Uttar Pradesh, he changed his mind and chose Delhi. That plan did not materialise.He sent his key shooter, Amar Dubey, back from Faridabad and asked him to reach Madhya Pradesh through the Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh. Police intercepted Amar in Hamirpur, and he was killed in an encounter when he tried to escape.“He (Vikas Dubey) was buying time to let his contacts get their chance to facilitate his surrender,” said the official quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/july-3-ambush-was-carefully-planned-dubey-s-aide-revealed/story-qx2nsOHZApSB9UUAaeqCCJ.html
10-07-2020||India||Kin of slain Kanpur cop call Vikas Dubey’s arrest a ‘scripted surrender’||Relatives of three of the eight policemen killed in the Kanpur ambush on July 3 questioned the arrest of gangster Vikas Dubey’s in Ujjain on Thursday with one of them calling it a “scripted surrender”.Kamal Kant, a relative of slain Bilhaur circle officer Devendra Mishra, said had a nexus of corrupt politicians and police officials not been at work, Dubey would not have been able to travel across four states untouched, he alleged. “This is a scripted surrender to save the criminal,” Kant told reporters at his house in Kanpur. Mishra’s daughter, Vaishnavi, has already demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the killing of her father and seven other policemen by Dubey’s men. She said her father had given enough evidence to expose Dubey’s support base within the department and that was why he was killed.The relatives of two slain sub-inspectors from Prayagraj and Pratapgarh demanded capital punishment for Dubey. They, too, asked as to how Dubey managed to reach Ujjain. Ramesh Bahadur Singh, the father of sub-inspector Anoop Singh killed in the Kanpur ambush, demanded a CBI inquiry. Singh was a resident of Belkhari village in Mandhata area of Pratapgarh. “How can Vikas reach Ujjain via Delhi, Haryana when borders of the state (UP) were sealed soon after the incident...Those involved in helping Vikas Dubey should be exposed and action should be taken against them,” he said.The family members of another slain sub-inspector, Nebulal, from Prayagraj also demanded death for Dubey. Nebulal’s son, Arvind Kumar, said he and his family were not satisfied. The circumstances of Dubey’s arrest were doubtful, he said.It seemed that Dubey surrendered in Ujjain in a planned way and had been helped by some policemen and his political patrons, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kin-of-slain-cop-call-it-a-scripted-surrender/story-0holzCxX445ibUMGScnJjJ.html
10-07-2020||India||Cop killer nabbed after 6-day manhunt||Five people were killed, at least a dozen were arrested, and a sprawling bungalow was demolished with bulldozers as the Uttar Pradesh set out to “set an example” in its hunt for Vikas Dubey, a gangster who last week was responsible for the audacious attack on a police group that left a deputy superintendent, three sub-inspectors, and four constables dead. When Dubey was finally caught, it was in Madhya Pradesh outside a temple, hundreds of kilometres away from where he was last seen in the National Capital Region city of Faridabad.“Five criminals in involved in the shoot-out have been killed in encounters with the police and nearly a dozen arrests have been made. The operation is going on to arrest others involved in the ghastly crime,” said Prashant Kumar, the additional director general of police (ADG), law and order in Lucknow.  The first of Dubey’s accomplices to be killed were his uncle Prem Prakash Pandey and nephew Atul Dubey, who were gunned down allegedly during a gunfight in Kashiram Nivada’s jungles on July 3. The following day, on July 4, police sent bulldozers to raze Dubey’s bungalow and destroy two SUVs parked in the compound. By Thursday, when Dubey was arrested, three more people linked to him were killed by police, including two of his closest aides: Amar Dubey and Prabhat Mishra. The five, and two others who were injured in a police encounter, were among seven gunmen who took positions on rooftops on the night of July 2, waiting for a police team led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Devender Mishra.  Mishra and seven who accompanied him would later be killed in the gunfire, and some of their bodies were mutilated in an unheard of attack against law enforcement. The policemen are believed to have walked into a trap, with Dubey tipped off by informants within the police who would later by arrests. The case illustrates problems often regarded endemic in police in India, where allegations of criminal collusion and overreach often run alongside charges of inactionOn Thursday, officials said Dubey is likely to have had continued help from someone on the inside, which allowed him to stay a step ahead. “Without help, he could not have gone this far; we are pursuing some leads. It will become clear as to who helped him,” said an Uttar Pradesh police official, asking not to be named.The police are particularly looking at who Dubey may have reached out to in the immediate aftermath of the attack when he camped at a friend’s house in Kanpur Dehat’s Shivli town, three kilometres from his village.It was here that he was enlisting support to help get out of the area alive and surrender, according to the official, who cited the interrogation by Prabhat Mishra.At least one other police official, who was involved in the hunt, said that Dubey was being tipped off while he travelled over 1,250 km over four states while being on the run. Till now, the state police has moved the entire staff of Chaubeypur police station, from where Dubey is first believed to received a tip-off. As many as 55 police constables, 10 head constables and 13 sub inspectors were sent back to police lines.The then station officer Vinay Tiwari and-sub inspector KK Sharma have been arrested and accused of conspiracy to murder and leaking the information. Anant Deo, who served as SSP Kanpur till June 16, was removed as DIG STF after a special report of the slain DSP Mishra surfaced. Mishra had alleged that Tiwari colluded with Dubey, and recommended action against him.While he remained on the run, the Uttar Pradesh police’s special task force (STF) also went on a spree of arrests, the latest of which included the wife and elder son of Dubey. In all, according to figures by Kanpur police, the number of people arrested could be as high as 20, including four women who were the spouses of some of the fugitives. Among them was Khushboo Dubey, who married Amar Dubey four days before the shoot-out on June 29. Police have not given any reason for her arrest, which experts have questioned for being a case of overreach. Retired IPS officer Prakash Singh, who headed the Uttar Pradesh police between 1991 and 1993, said that while the action may have been sloppy at first, which led to the deaths, the follow up action has been commendable. “Initially police did not have intelligence about Dubey and his armed men waiting for them. But the action there after has been commendable. The current chief minister, Yogi Adityanath is a no nonsense person when it comes to criminals. He does not let political influence come in way of criminals. The current DGP is also a man of integrity. They may have been let down by their juniors initially,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-killer-nabbed-after-6-day-manhunt/story-57dJZ0RwD0EtVaefidpmeM.html
10-07-2020||India||Economy showing green shoots: PM||Claiming that India will play a leading role in global economic revival, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that the call for a “self-reliant India” is not about “being closed to the world” but about merging domestic production and consumption with global supply chains. Modi also said India is one of the most open economies in the world, and invited global companies to invest in the country across sectors including defence. In a speech by video link to the inaugural session of India Global Week, an event organised by a London-based group, India.Inc, the PM reiterated that green shoots were visible in the economy. He also spoke about the reservoir of Indian talent and India’s capacity to reform and rejuvenate; highlighted the economic achievements of the past six years and laid out the contours of the relief package as well as economic reforms in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic; and said India will play a key role in the production and scaling up of the vaccine for the virus once it is developed. “This is an India that is reforming, performing and transforming. This is an India that offers new economic opportunities. This is an India that is adopting a human-centric and inclusive approach to development. India awaits you all,” he said. The PM’s remarks come in the backdrop of a projected contraction in the economy due to the pandemic and the lockdown imposed to curb its spread. It also comes amid speculation about the spirit behind the Self-Reliant India campaign, and whether it would mark a reversal of a liberal, globalised economic paradigm. “Self-reliant India is about merging domestic production and consumption with global supply chains. It is not about being self-contained or closed to the world. It is about being self sustaining and self-generating, and pursuing policies which promote efficiency, equity and resilience,” the PM said. Claiming that very few countries offer the kind of opportunity India does today, the PM mentioned how recent reforms have created a conducive environment for investment and outlined a list of sectors with potential — agriculture, particularly storage and logistics; the micro, small and medium enterprises sector which will “complement big industries”; space; technology and startups, among others.He also mentioned the scope in defence, with relaxed foreign direct investment norms. “One of the world’s biggest militaries invites you to make products for it.” The PM spoke of how India’s pharma industry has been an asset for the world — by playing a leading role in reducing the costs of medicines, providing two-thirds of the vaccines needed worldwide for children and now as a part of international efforts to find a vaccine for Covid-19. “India will have a big role in the development and scaling up of the vaccine when it is found.”The PM said India will have a key role in global revival because of two factors — its talent and its reformist abilities. “Indians are natural reformers.” But he said that the revival India is aspiring for is revival with care, with compassion, and a revival which is sustainable for both the economy and the environment. Claiming that the foundations have been laid by the work done in the last six years, the PM specifically mentioned “total financial inclusion”, record housing and infrastructure creation, ease of doing business and tax reforms such as the Goods and Services Tax. He also spoke about how the relief package in the wake of the pandemic is reaching the poor, with every penny in their hands, with the help of technology. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said.“PM Modi is showing people stars in broad daylight by painting a picture of roses on canvas of cactus stitched with thread of his government’s mismanagement and mishandling of economy,”Modi’s version of “self-reliant” India means solely being reliant on his government’s “hollow slogans and sketchy implementation” rather than being reliant on jobs, profitable business and growth which the BJP has successfully snatched away from the landscape of Indian economy, he added.Shergill said the PM’s approach of labelling 45-year-high unemployment, projects negative growth rate, rising NPAs (by Rs 4 lakh crore in next year), closing MSMEs, evaporating savings, rising fuel prices as “green shoots” fits into classic description “Nero fiddled while Rome burned”.“Tragedy of the nation is while economic recession is spreading like wildfire, the PM is busy window dressing rather than addressing the deepening crisis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economy-showing-green-shoots-pm/story-PKlmwfg4pSNEWJ3UKEdYJO.html
10-07-2020||India||Race for indigenous Covid-19 vaccines: Centre says human trials to begin soon||Human clinical trials are about to start on two indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidates, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, as they join the race with 100-odd potential vaccines that are in various stages of development globally.“For India, it is a proud moment that two of its entirely indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidates are ready for human clinical trials. One of the two is from Bharat Biotech International Ltd. and the other is of Cadila Healthcare Ltd. Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate is being developed in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research [ICMR],” said Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty, Union health ministry.On both these vaccine candidates, animal toxicity studies have been completed.“Animal toxicity studies are conducted on mice, guinea pigs, and rabbits. These studies have already been concluded and the toxicity data in respect of both these vaccine candidates has been shared with the Drugs Controller General of India. The drugs controller has permitted these two vaccine candidates to go in for phase 1 and phase 2 (human) clinical trials,” said Bhushan. The sites for clinical trials have already been finalised, and the trials are about to start.“The results of animal trials data submitted to the department were found to be satisfactory to allow these to progress to next level of human trials. There is a subject expert committee that scrutinises the data set at every level before giving their consent. Nothing substandard can pass through. This is just one step and there are several steps before the vaccine is ready for use,” said a senior official in the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO).Twelve sites have been finalised for the trials.“When the results are out, we will put it in the public domain,” said Bhushan.The director general of ICMR caused a stir last week by mentioning a deadline of August 15 for the vaccine to be ready for public use; experts warned that such a short deadline could compromise on safety and efficacy data. Later, the government clarified that the missive was intended to spur the process on and not meant as a hard deadline.“Whole idea is to have indigenous candidates that our manufacturers have developed in record time for a new disease ready as fast as possible and be made available for public use. DG ICMR’s letter’s intent was to direct sites to fast track the process so that we don’t miss the bus. The vaccine is needed now, and if we go by conventional methods of manufacturing and come up with a vaccine after 2 years then it will be of no use,” said Dr Nivedita Gupta, senior scientist, epidemiology division, ICMR.On the issue of shortage of Covid-related drugs, the drugs controller directed states to take strict action against anyone found black-marketing or selling the medicines above the registered maximum retail price.The drugs controller wrote to companies that are manufacturing Covid-related drugs and made two specific suggestions, Bhushan said.“One is that companies must put in place a 24x7 helpline where patients or their caregivers could contact in case the drug is not available or is being over-charged. The second suggestion was that companies must proactively put on their website the details of their distribution network and their supply lines so that all confusion and anxiety in the market subsides,” said Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/race-for-indigenous-vaccines-centre-says-human-trials-to-begin-soon/story-9rWSZ84T0J11EyxjVt2qnM.html
10-07-2020||India||Odisha’s migrant worker raps his way to fame||A 27-year-old Dalit in Odisha’s Kalahandi district has found fame with rap songs on migrant workers turning the focus on their plight after the lockdown enforced on March 25 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).With the songs going viral, Duleswar Tandi, a 27-year-old science graduate and a migrant worker himself, is being compared to the character played by Bollywood actor Ranveer Singh in the 2019 Hindi film Gully Boy. Tandi, who wiped tables and washed plates at an eatery in Raipur, Chhattisgarh, for a living, came back to his mudhouse in Borda village in March just a day before the national lockdown was announced.“As I watched the Covid cases grow in China, US and European countries, I could sense that it was matter of weeks before the virus comes to India. So I decided to come back,” said Tandi.Several of his friends in the villages nearby who worked in states like Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Chennai and Karnataka could not return for more than a month. Many of them returned a couple of months later, by hopping onto a bus or walking or cycling. Sitting at home without work and seeing the videos of migrant workers travelling in pitiable conditions stoked the inner angst in Tandi.After coming back, Tandi, who goes by the nickname Rapper Dule Rocker in Kalahandi, did a 2.45 minute rap video called Telling the Truth in which he vents his anger against the politicians, calling them thieves. In May, Tandi made a 3.5 minute rap video called Sun Sarkar, Sat Katha (translation) in which he raps about how the coronavirus disease and subsequent distress came as a rude jolt to migrant workers.“In that video I rapped about how the migrant workers who had saved their hard-earned money lost everything in a matter of days after the factories and construction sites were closed due to the lockdown. All that the leaders were doing is giving us sermons instead of helping the migrant workers. I was angry and so wrote down the rap song,” said Tandi, who first migrated for work soon after completing his B. Sc degree in chemistry from a government college in Kalahandi in 2013.With the two acres of land mortgaged with a bank in 2014 for Rs. 50, 000, when his mother had to undergo a surgery in a hospital in Visakhapatnam, Tandi said he had no option but to work. He initially wanted to be a doctor, but his family’s financial condition meant he had to forget that ambition. In 2017, his father, Nilamani Tandi, a farmer and local police station assistant, passed away.The Dalit man had his set his heart in rap music since his college days. “When I used to write lyrics for rap music, everyone used to dissuade me. Everyone used to say what would you gain out of it. But in my heart I knew that I wanted to be a rapper,” he said.In 2014, someone from Punjab saw one of his videos on Facebook and called him to perform in Chandigarh. “It was a new experience for me as I performed in different competitions,” he said. In 2015, he came to Bhubaneswar and made the round of studios for making videos. No one helped him because he did not have the money required to make slick rap videos. “One needs at least Rs 50,000 for making each such rap video which I did not have. So I decided to stick to making the videos on my mobile phone.”The rap songs on migrants that Tandi composed during lockdown have slowly become popular. After hearing his songs, Odia singer Humane Sagar recently gave him Rs 30,000. A local recording studio recently called him, expressing an interest in recording his music.Tandi says his songs would be about common people and their hardships. “I don’t want to promote sleaze or liquor in my songs. Migrant workers like us have too many issues. Those things would find a place in my songs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-migrant-worker-raps-his-way-to-fame/story-u1rTnlOZNHJ9KX0gUrJUjO.html
10-07-2020||India||Men, aged at much higher risk of death from coronavirus: UK study||The risk of death from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is higher for men, old people, and people with greater deprivation, according to the largest analysis to date on the topic, published in the journal Nature on Thursday. Consistent with previous work, the study from the UK found men had a 1.59-fold higher risk of Covid-19-related death than women, and age was a major risk factor.People 80 years and older had a 20-fold-increased risk of death compared to 50–59-year-old people, found the OpenSAFELY study, which analysed pseudonymised health data of close to 17.3 million UK adults to identify the clinical risk factors for Covid-19-related deaths.It also confirmed increased risk of death with various pre-existing medical conditions such as diabetes, obesity and asthma. Black and South Asian people, and those of mixed ethnicity, were 1.62–1.88 times more likely to die of Covid-19 than white people, but contrary to earlier speculation, the increased risk was only partially attributable to pre-existing clinical risk factors and deprivation, or lack of basic necessities.“Men having higher risk has been noted in many countries including India as they have higher comorbidities, are more likely to smoke, and have high levels of Ace-2 receptors in the testes. South Asians, especially women, have lower vitamin D levels as do black populations,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (Ace-2) is the cellular entry receptor used by the new coronavirus Sars-CoV-2 to enter human cells and cause infection. The virus’s crown-like spike protein binds Ace-2 -CoV-2 to invade the air sacs in the lungs, leading to respiratory distress.Data from several countries has consistently shown men carry up to three times higher risk of death from Covid-19 than women. Men accounted for close to two-thirds (64%) of deaths in China as compared to women, with Italy, Spain, South Korea, France, Germany and India revealing a similar gender gap in death rates.The OpenSAFELY study found pre-existing medical conditions such as obesity, diabetes, severe asthma, and respiratory, chronic heart, liver, neurological and autoimmune diseases raised risk of Covid-19-related death.Data from 1.7 million Covid-19 cases and 103,700 deaths in the US from January 22 through May 30 showed people with chronic disease like heart disease and diabetes are 12 times more likely to die and six times more likely to be hospitalised than healthy patients, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). One in five (19.5%) of patients with underlying diseases died compared to 1.6% of those who were healthy, said the CDC in June.Data from 17,299 hospitalised patients in India showed hypertension was the most common pre-existing condition, followed by diabetes, liver disease, heart disease, asthma and chronic renal disease, according to Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme data.People 60 years and older account for 53% of Covid19 deaths in India, according to data from the ministry of health and family welfare. “The chances of severe illness and death increase with age, particularly with people with underlying health conditions. Older age, hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, immuno-suppression, and chronic kidney disease are some of the leading causes that lead to complications and increased risk of death. Obesity is an established risk factor, which is common in an urban private tertiary care hospital such as ours,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman of anaesthesiology and critical care, Medanta -The Medicity , Gurugram.The UK’s OpenSAFELY study also found the most deprived people in the cohort were 1.8 times more likely than the least deprived to die with Covid-19 while clinical factors made only a small contribution to this risk, suggesting that social factors have a role. “The social gradient for comorbidities has reversed in a while ago in the UK, while it has only partially reversed in India,” said Dr Reddy.“We need highly accurate data on which patients are most at risk in order to manage the pandemic and improve patient care. The answers provided by this OpenSAFELY analysis are of crucial importance to countries around the world. For example, it is very concerning to see that the higher risks faced by people from BME backgrounds are not attributable to identifiable underlying health conditions,” said study co-lead Liam Smeeth, professor of clinical epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM), in a statement.The study was led by academics at LSHTM and the University of Oxford, working on behalf of the UK’s National Health Service (NHS) and in partnership with NHSX, a UK government unit driving digital transformation of health and social care. The research team developed OpenSAFELY, a secure analytics environment running across detailed pseudonymized data for 40% of all NHS patients in England. Among the electronic health records of 17,278,392 adults, there were 10,926 deaths in and out of hospital that were linked to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/men-aged-at-much-higher-risk-of-death-uk-study/story-eNrrZMxiritoKVP2P6yXqK.html
10-07-2020||India||War, terror failed to stop Parliament but coronavirus poses new challenge||In December 1971, then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi announced the unconditional surrender of Pakistan in the Lok Sabha, which had continued to sit even as the country was at war.Indeed, records show that Parliament sessions have continued through adversities -- war, the Emergency, even soon after a terror attack -- but now, it has to find a way to deal with the coronavirus disease. The new circumstances forced on everyone by the pandemic have prompted large-scale consultations by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla with officials to find a feasible way to conduct the session within the framework of health guidelines -- social distancing being the most important of them. At last 10 meetings have happened this year to find solutions, and many more are in the pipeline.Work must go on, according to Afzal Amanullah, former parliamentary affairs secretary.“This is a special situation. You need not conduct the session within Parliament complex alone and anyway, holding the session would show our capability of doing so during a pandemic,” he addedWith 770 MPs in both Houses, India has the world’s fourth-largest parliament by number of lawmakers after the UK, Italy and France.During the India-China war of 1962, Parliament’s winter session skipped Question Hour, but nothing else. “The Session was to commence on 19 November 11, 1962 but due to Chinese aggression, it was advanced,” a parliamentary report said. The war started on October 20 and lasted till November 21.From 26 October, Parliament also made a special provision: it started from 12 noon instead of 11 am. While the original schedule was for 34 days, the session lasted for 26 days.According to PRS legislative research, Parliamentarian Hari Vishnu Kamath suggested that “the Parliament of the nation must continue to be in session and have the privilege of advising and guiding the government in this emergency.”During the 1971 war too, the daily schedule was changed. “From 6 to 23 December (due to Pakistani aggression), hours of sittings of Lok Sabha were changed to 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and Question Hour and Calling Attention matters were suspended,” documents state. Similarly, in 1965, the monsoon session ran from August 16 till September 24, although it was cut short in the wake of the war.During the Emergency, imposed by the Indira Gandhi regime, Parliament continued to function. Between June 1975 and March 1997—the tenure of the Emergency—five parliament session were conducted. The monsoon session of 1975—the first after declaration of the Emergency—didn’t have Question Hour or time for Opposition MPs to ask questions to different ministers. The winter session of 1976 too, didn’t have a Question Hour.Several constitutional amendments were cleared hurriedly during this period. One of the most controversial among these was the 42nd Amendment Act that added the words ‘Socialist’ and ‘Secular’ to the Preamble of the Indian Constitution.“Our Parliament has worked through war, famine and economic colpase. Its work did not stop even after a terrorist attack. Democratic institutions should be impervious to unfavouable circumstances. Our Parliament needs to adapt to the challenge posed by the pandemic and innovate to fulfill its mandate to the people,” said Chaksu Ray of PRS legislative research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/war-terror-failed-to-stop-parliament-but-coronavirus-poses-new-challenge/story-soFR2FZjGFkvFq6TXBhIGN.html
10-07-2020||India||Red warning in east, NE, orange alert for U’khand, HP, West UP||Parts of the country’s northeastern and eastern regions are likely to receive extremely heavy rain--over 20 cm daily--this week and face floods, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday as it issued alerts to authorities to remain prepared. Widespread and heavy rains were expected in parts of north-western India from Thursday due to the convergence of moisture carrying winds from the Arabian Sea.IMD issued a red warning for the northeast and parts of eastern India, including Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, from July 10 to July 12. Authorities are required to take action to prevent any rain or flood-related disasters in case of such a warning. An orange warning was issued for Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, and western Uttar Pradesh from July 10 to 13. The three-month monsoon season, which generally begins in June, delivers about 70% of India’s annual rainfall. It is critical for the country’s agricultural sector, which employs over half of its population. The monsoon is important in determining the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds. The rains lasted longer last year and triggered floods that left hundreds dead.Regional Weather Forecasting Centre head Kuldeep Shrivastava said Delhi may receive light rain for the next three to four days but the main impact will be in northern Punjab, Haryana, and Uttarakhand as the monsoon trough shifts northwards towards the Himalayan foothills. “The monsoon trough is now passing over Karnal in Haryana. There is also a cyclonic circulation over Haryana. We can expect widespread and heavy rains in these regions particularly along the Western Himalayas.”The monsoon trough is likely to gradually shift northwards along the foothills of the Himalayas. IMD said the convergence of south-westerlies and southerly winds from the Bay of Bengal over the northeast and eastern India will lead to very heavy rains.IMD said extremely heavy rains are very likely in Uttarakhand over the weekend; Uttar Pradesh, Bihar on Friday and Saturday; sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam, Meghalaya, and Arunachal Pradesh from Thursday to Saturday. “We can expect extremely heavy rains and flooding in the northeastern region. This is mainly a result of the monsoon trough shifting to the Himalayan foothills,” said IMD director general M Mohapatra.The Central Water Commission also issued a flood alert in districts along rivers in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Sikkim, and sub-Himalayan West Bengal on Wednesday.“The Brahmaputra river is continuing to be in floods all through its reach from Upper Assam’s Dibrugarh district to Dhubri in lower Assam. Its tributaries... are also flowing in severe flood situations. There is a forecast for heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy rainfall...,” the commission said in its bulletin.On Thursday, severe flood situation, which involves water levels touching or exceeding the danger level but below the highest level, was recorded in most river tributaries in Assam, Bihar, and some in Uttar Pradesh.According to IMD, Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh have recorded 51% and 73% excess rainfall from July 1-8.Moderate to intense thunderstorm and lightning was very likely in eastern and western Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, eastern Madhya Pradesh, northern Chhattisgarh, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam, and Meghalaya.There have been 13% excess monsoon rains in the country. Eastern India has received 6%, northeast 26%, and south peninsula 10% excess rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-warning-in-east-ne-orange-alert-for-u-khand-hp-west-up/story-MIHeQsnxuAScqVLkp0XWMP.html
10-07-2020||India||After Galwan fightback, 16 Bihar moving to Col Babu’s home state||The 16th battalion of Bihar regiment, or 16 Bihar, whose soldiers fought off numerically superior Chinese troops at the cost of their own lives in the remote Galwan Valley on June 15, is moving out of its forward location in eastern Ladakh after completing its two-and-a-half-year tenure near the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with the developments said on Thursday, speaking on the condition of anonymity.The infantry battalion’s 37-year-old commanding officer, Colonel B Santosh Babu, was among the 20 Indian soldiers killed in a seven-hour deadly conflict near Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan Valley, where outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Beijing has not disclosed the number of fatalities it suffered. Apart from 16 Bihar, soldiers from 3 Punjab, 3 Medium Regiment and 81 Field Regiment were involved in the first deadly conflict between Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC in more than five decades.The battalion is being sent to Hyderabad, which is the capital of Colonel Babu’s home state, Telangana, said an official cited above. Babu’s unit is being replaced by another battalion of Bihar Regiment, 1 Bihar, he said.“Soldiers from 16 Bihar and other units involved in the brutal Galwan Valley skirmish acquitted themselves honourably and fought their way against heavy odds. 16 Bihar is moving to a peace-time location,” said a second official. 16 Bihar completed its two-and-a-half-year tenure in eastern Ladakh in March-April, but its movement to the peace location was delayed because of the lockdown measures announced by the government to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a third official said.“The valour displayed by 16 Bihar in an unprecedented combat situation is bound to be documented in India’s military history. The battalion’s actions will inspire those carrying out front-line duties along India’s vast borders,” said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd).The first wave of fighting in Galwan Valley erupted around 6pm on June 15 after Colonel Babu led a squad of 30 soldiers to a location near PP-14 to verify if the PLA had removed some structures erected in the area despite an understanding reached on June 6 by top Indian and Chinese military commanders on a disengagement plan to reduce rising border tensions.The squad, however, found that a few tents and an observation post were still intact and the Chinese soldiers had not retreated from PP-14. The Indian soldiers confronted the Chinese troops, who refused to remove their installations and vacate the area, triggering a violent clash that involved more than 600 rival soldiers at its peak, as reported by HT on June 22.Limited military disengagement was initiated in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra after the June 6 meeting between the senior commanders. However, the June 15 clash dashed disengagement hopes. A fresh disengagement plan is currently being implemented in eastern Ladakh. The PLA has withdrawn up to 2.5km from friction areas in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, with the Indian Army also pulling back proportionately in those sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-regiment-to-move-out-of-lac-position/story-Us57chKKSmWr3SluluYZAN.html
10-07-2020||India||NIA to probe Kerala gold smuggling case||The Union home ministry directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to probe the Kerala gold smuggling case on Thursday, a day after chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a high-level investigation into the incident that has triggered a major political controversy.A home ministry spokesperson said NIA was handed over the probe “as the organised smuggling operation may have serious implications for national security”.Earlier in the day, Kerala’s ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) asked the Union government for a faster probe into the smuggling of gold through a diplomatic cargo into the state as the main suspect in the racket, a female information technology consultant, moved the high court for anticipatory bail.“Some people are creating a smoke screen to target the state government. We have nothing to hide. The CM had sent a letter to the Prime Minister saying the state is ready for any probe. But it is getting delayed. We suspect delay is aimed at embarrassing the government,” said VS Vijayaraghavan, convenor of the CPI (M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF).Vijayaraghavan alleged that the opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which have sought to link the racket to the state government, were worried about the growing popularity of the LDF because of the successes it has scored in the fight against Covid-19. In New Delhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury echoed the view.The customs department seized 30kg of gold from an air cargo consignment from the United Arab Emirates addressed to its consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. Main suspect Swapna Suresh, who was working as the operational manager of the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited under the state IT ministry, has since gone into hiding. CM Vijayan then transferred his principal secretary M Sivasankar allegedly because he was close to Suresh.Amid the controversy, Suresh sent an audio tape to a news channel in which she said there was a concerted move to target the government with an eye on elections and she had been made a scapegoat. She claimed that she made a call to the customs department to release the consignment at the behest of the he UAE consular office. She also said she feared for her life and was keeping away from public glare until the dust settles.In her plea in the high court, which listed the matter for Friday, Suresh said she was dragged in the case for political reasons and the customs took up the case following a vigorous media trial. A public interest litigation, too, was filed in the court seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation.“This has a familiar ring to the solar scandal that routed the ruling UDF [United Democratic Front] in 2016. A scandal is a scandal and whether there is substance in the allegations is electorally irrelevant. That is the history of the state,” said senior journalist and political observer John Mary. That’s a reference to a 2013 scandal in which a solar energy company used a woman to create political contacts and duped people by offering to make them business partners or offering to install solar power units. The Congress has demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the entire matter, including the alleged involvement of leaders of the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) in Kerala and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the national level.Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said the recent developments in Kerala have highlighted the “brazen attitude and high-level access” of certain individuals to the highest echelons of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-to-probe-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/story-UGUEJ5fa7x3TzvtYycxI5O.html
10-07-2020||India||Banned apps told to disclose location of centres, data collection method||The ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) has sought details about their operations, data collection practices and locations of operational centres from the owners of short video sharing platform Tik Tok and 58 other applications, mostly of Chinese origin, that India banned last week, officials familiar with the development said.A questionnaire seeking the details was sent by the ministry to the parent companies of the apps on Wednesday so that more information can be collated as a follow-up to the ban, which came amid border tensions between India and China.“The emails have been sent to them so that we can collate and analyse more details about the operations of the applications,” a Meity official said on condition of anonymity. “This is a part of the process under the IT Act.”The government banned mobile applications such as TikTok, UC Browser and WeChat citing concerns that they were “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order” amid military tensions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in a violent brawl in Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 that also left an unspecified number of Chinese casualties.Information and Technology minister Ravi Shanker Prasad called the ban a “digital strike” on China. The operators of the applications will also appear in front of a panel to make their case against the ban, officials said.An executive at the operator of the apps said on condition of anonymity that they had been given three weeks to respond to the questionnaire.A Tik Tok spokesperson said the app’s operator was working to respond to the government “within the stipulated time frame.”“We have been in compliance with the laws and regulations of the Government of India and will continue to cooperate, address their concerns and provide necessary clarification. Ensuring the data sovereignty, security and privacy of our users has always been and will continue to be a top priority for us,” the spokesperson said in a statement to HT.India is particularly concerned that these applications could be compromising the data of Indian users, Hindustan Times reported on June 30. The 59 apps have been reported for “leaking data”, according to an IT ministry official who asked not to be named.“All these apps have been reported to have been leaking data. Their malpractices have also been singled out by experts. They have been said to take location data, transfer files to servers in China. Moreover, the beauty apps, such as Beauty Plus and Selfie Camera have also been reported for being a threat as they contain pornographic content,” this person said.Among the banned applications is the popular short-video streaming app TikTok, which has a wide following in India. TikTok, according to Bloomberg data, had nearly 200 million users in India as of January this year and had become one of the most prominent social media tools used by young Indians.“We have asked for more information regarding where their centres are located, how they are collecting data and further details about their operations,” the Meity official mentioned in the first instance said.The panel that will hear the representations from the owners of the apps will include an official from the home ministry, MEITY, Indian Computer Emergency Response Team, and the law ministry, under section 69A of the IT Act.“The apps will have a chance to present their side of the story,” the second official cited above said.According to independent data researcher Srinivas Kodali, the move to ban the apps was premature..“The ministry should have first sought this information and then effected the ban,” Kodali said. “The investigation should have happened first.”Kodali added that most apps, including those made in India, generally store data in the US as it is a cheaper option.“It is likely that these apps stored data in China because it would have been cheaper for them,” he said. “The list, in any case, is selective as Chinese apps like PUBG {an online game} have not been included, despite repeated concerns and red flags raised about it.”“Meity can block the apps because they pose a national security threat, but to ask questions is different since these applications don’t necessarily have to answer to them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banned-apps-told-to-disclose-location-of-centres-data-collection-method/story-IavRAlKptvooLcJqc5G0nI.html
10-07-2020||India||LeT behind shooting of BJP leader in J-K: Cops||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Waseem Bari and his father and brother were killed in an attack executed by two terrorists owing allegiance to the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in north Kashmir’s Bandipore district, the police said on Thursday.All 10 policemen guarding Bari, a 28-year-old former BJP district president, have been suspended on charges of dereliction of duty and arrested after the Wednesday night, according to Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar.The personal security officers (PSOs) of Bari were not with him when the attack took place barely 10 metres away from a police station around 9pm, and face dismissal from service over the lapse, he said.Kumar also said the examination of footage from CCTV cameras in the police station confirmed that Bari was being followed. Both terrorists involved in the attack have been identified and they will be “neutralised soon”, he told reporters in Bandipore.Kumar said a local, identified as Abid, and a foreigner carried out the attack on Bari and his family members in their shop. The family’s residence is in the same building.On Wednesday evening, Bari came back from his in-laws’ house and went to his shop, where his father, Bashir Ahmad, and brother, Umar Bashir, were already present, according to Kumar. His PSOs went to their rooms, he said.“A militant came walking inside the shop and targeted the three from a close range. They received bullets on their heads and unfortunately succumbed to their injuries [after they were taken to a hospital],” Kumar said.He said while one of the terrorists fired upon the three men — all associated with the BJP — another was guiding him from a distance. “When he [Bari] left his house early in the evening for his in-laws’ house, a person is seen in the CCTV footage. And when he returned, the same person is there. It was a planned attack,” Kumar said.“Even if two of his [10] PSO’s remained with him, they would have killed the militant. All the PSOs were suspended and arrested; now they will be dismissed from service for this security lapse,” he said.Kumar stressed that the police are committed to providing protection to everyone who was under threat. “If anyone gets a threat, we appeal them to contact the SSP [senior superintendent of police] concerned and they will be provided with security,” he said.When asked if the security of BJP leaders in the Valley would be strengthened, Kumar said: “Increasing or decreasing security does not stop incidents. What matters is how alert a securityman is and how bravely he fights.”Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Girish Chandra Murmu condemned the killing of Bari and his father and brother.He said the killing of innocent people is against the humanity and the perpetrators of this “cowardly act “shall be brought to justice, read a statement from the department of information and public relations, Jammu and Kashmir.BJP state president Ravinder Raina and general secretary Ashok Koul visited Bari’s residence on Thursday and offered their condolences. Bari, his father and brother were laid to rest close to their house in the afternoon amid tight security.Raina said the frustration of Pakistan and Pakistan-sponsored terrorists with the growing footprints of the BJP in the Kashmir Valley was behind the attack. He added that the killings will be avenged by flushing out terrorists from their hideouts and eliminating them.“Pakistan and its terrorists cannot deter us. The want to demoralise us. That is not going to happen. All of those terrorists involved in the killing will be eliminated,” he said.Security forces have stepped up their offensive against terrorists in the Kashmir Valley, killing 122 of them since the beginning of this year. And 48 were killed in June alone. Among the major successes of security forces this year is the killing of Riyaz Naikoo, a top commander of local militant group Hizbul Mujahideen, in an operation in Beighpora in May.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-behind-shooting-of-bjp-leader-in-j-k-cops/story-z4VDWBpLTevwe3MsPSHT6K.html
10-07-2020||India||Sero survey hints at a high Covid-19 infection rate in Delhi||Around 15% of Delhi’s population appears to have been infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with the rate much higher in some pockets, according to initial results of antibody testing of 22,823 people across the Capital.The overall trend of a Delhi-specific sero surveillance, conducted by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Delhi government across 11 districts between June 27 and July 5, suggests that certain pockets have developed widespread transmission but are still amenable to containment, according to government officials familiar with the findings of the report.The interim findings of the report are higher than the national average of positivity rate for tests — around 10%. To be sure, health experts have said that many people around the world may have had Covid-19 (and since recovered) without realising it because they suffered few or very mild symptoms. A similar survey in New York, for instance, suggested that nearly 14% of the population there had been infected by the virus and recovered.“Interim data indicates the average cross-sectional prevalence looks to be around 15%, which has even gone up to 25% in a few zones. The entire data is not out yet so there may be some variation in the final result, but the overall the trend suggests certain pockets have developed widespread transmission that is still amenable to containment,” the official cited above said, requesting not to be identified. In a serological surveillance, or sero survey, blood serum of a group of individuals is tested in order to understand the prevalence of a virus in that region.The final result of pilot sero survey done by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) across 21 states in April is also being processed, and the research body is preparing to launch a follow-up sero survey soon, officials said.“These studies are subject to peer review, and currently ICMR’s pilot survey that was done around mid-April is being peer-reviewed. It will be put out in public domain once the process is complete,” said Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty, health ministry, during a media briefing on Thursday.He also announced that a follow-up sero survey by ICMR also in the process of being conducted. “There is another sero prevalence study being planned by ICMR across India as a follow up to their mid-April study. For Delhi’s sero survey, 22,823 samples were collected between June 27 and July 5 across 11 districts by the state government and National Centre for Disease Control. It is being analysed in 15 odd laboratories,” Bhushan said.The blood samples are tested for detecting IgG antibodies. The IgG antibodies generally start appearing after two weeks of onset of infection, once the individual has recovered after infection and last for several months. Therefore, the IgG test is not useful for detecting acute infection but indicates episode of Sars-CoV2 infection in the past, say experts.“Merely knowing the volume of people who have been infected will only provide the sense of the spread of the disease; what we must try to know is the quantity and quality of antibodies being produced against the virus. Also, for how long these antibodies stay in human blood so as to know if it’s enough to offer protection against the disease,” says Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology division, ICMR“Our mortality rate is low as compared to other countries such as Italy or US. People dying due to a disease depend on several factors, of which most important is medical care. Fortunately for India, our medical infrastructure is not overwhelmed. We can manage our patients well. Elderly are at high risk, so they should strictly follow preventive measures,” says Dr GC Khilnani, former head of pulmonology, AIIMS, Delhi Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, in a briefing on Thursday about the prevalence of Covid-19 in the country, said that there was no need to panic and that most cases and deaths were reported from limited geographical areas. “We have had a detailed discussion with experts and it is reassuring to know that 90% active cases are restricted to only 8 Indian states, and 80% active cases are in 49 districts. Six states have reported 86% of the total Covid-19 deaths,” Harsh Vardhan said. His comment was not linked to the sero survey.ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sero-survey-hints-at-a-high-infection-rate-in-delhi/story-WTwxsCMLadqyw0vIIMD7jN.html
10-07-2020||India||India again tells China to strictly respect the LAC||India on Thursday again rejected China’s claim on the Galwan Valley and said the Line of Actual Control (LAC) must be strictly respected, a day ahead of a meeting of diplomats of the two sides to build on the de-escalation and disengagement process underway in the Ladakh sector.Both countries said on Thursday they will continue meetings through diplomatic and military channels to take forward the disengagement. People familiar with developments, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs will on Friday hold its third virtual meeting since the beginning of the border standoff between the two countries.The people said corps commanders of the two sides are expected to meet in the Ladakh sector next week, though the date is yet to be finalised, to discuss the next steps in disengagement and de-escalation.India is moving forward with great caution in the disengagement process after the worst crisis along LAC in decades. Troops from both sides have pulled back in a limited manner at key friction points along LAC since the Special Representatives on the border issue – India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and China’s foreign minister Wang Yi – held a phone conversation on Sunday. The two agreed that peace and tranquillity along the border are essential for the overall development of bilateral ties.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava spelled out India’s position on the disengagement process during a weekly virtual news briefing. He said recent Chinese claims on the Galwan Valley are “exaggerated and untenable”. Srivastava added LAC “must be strictly respected” and observed “this is the basis for peace and tranquillity in the border areas”.Neither side should take any unilateral action to alter LAC, he said. “We remain convinced of the need for maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and the resolution of differences through dialogue. At the same time, we are also strongly committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.”In Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian, said the situation in the western sector of the disputed border was “improving”. He added there will be another round of dialogue under the WMCC mechanism.“Following the consensus reached at the commander-level talks, China-India border troops have taken effective measures to disengage at the frontline in the Galwan Valley and other areas,” Zhao said.“The situation along the border is stable and improving. The two sides will continue dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels including by holding [a] meeting of the WMMC on border affairs.”He did not give details of the disengagement or protocols that the People’s Liberation Army is following to pull back troops and equipment.The corps commanders have so far met on June 6, 22 and 30. WMCC has held two virtual meetings on June 5 and 24. On Tuesday, the Chinese foreign ministry told HT its troops had begun to disengage from the Galwan Valley.Zhao said China hopes “India will work together with us to take concrete action and implement the consensus reached and jointly work for de-escalation along the border.”Srivastava said Doval, during his conversation with Wang, “conveyed categorically India’s position on recent developments along the LAC, including in the Galwan Valley area”. He added Doval “emphasised in this context that the Indian troops had always taken a very responsible approach towards border management and at the same time, our forces were deeply committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and security”.Srivastava noted the two shared the view that it was necessary to “ensure at the earliest complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation in the India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquillity in accordance with bilateral agreements and protocols”.He pointed out one of the key provisions of these agreements is the commitment by both sides to “strictly respect and observe the LAC”. Srivastava said Doval and Wang also agreed the two sides “should work together to avoid any incident in the future that could disturb peace and tranquillity”.Experts believe the disengagement and de-escalation process could be long-drawn.Jayadeva Ranade, president of the Centre for China Analysis and Strategy, said: “I would not be surprised if the disengagement process stretches on for some time. The disengagement is being done point by point, and 72 hours is set aside for verification at each point. But even now, disengagement at Pangong Lake, Depsang, and Demchok has not even come up.“In the worst-case scenario, the Chinese would have no hesitation in stretching it till winter. They have got all the infrastructure in place but this is not a problem for us. It is a good sign that the Indian Army is leading the discussions on the ground because there will be some more tough negotiations ahead.”Ranade said the imminent threat has been deferred but India cannot let down its guard. “For the Chinese, it is an unfinished chapter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-again-tells-china-to-strictly-respect-the-lac/story-8PNPe5KzD42pmkiEPXJBQO.html
10-07-2020||India||UGC considering a later start to academic calendar||New DelhiUniversity Grants Commission (UGC), the higher education regulator, is considering a later start to the academic calendar as the Covid-19 pandemic continues to keep campuses shut and universities struggle to hold examinations.An expert committee headed by Central University of Haryana vice chancellor R C Kuhad has written to UGC that admissions to undergraduate courses be completed by the end of October and the new session begin by November, according to a person familiar with the developments who requested anonymity.The panel has also recommended that for postgraduate courses, the admission process be completed by the end of November and the session commence from December 1.The human resource development (HRD) ministry and UGC had appointed the Kuhad committee to make recommendations on the calendar for the Covid-hit academic year 2020-21. The panel had earlier recommended that the session begin from September-October .With no improvement on the pandemic front, the Kuhad panel has now sent revised recommendations to the UGC, which is expected to take a call on them in the coming days, according to the person cited above.Significantly, it was in the same revised report that the Kuhad committee had also suggested that exams for the final year in all courses be held -- whether online, offline or a blend of both. The report also suggested that all university exams be completed by September 30.“The UGC had in an emergent meeting on July 6 discussed the part of the report about exams. Most of the suggestions were accepted. However, the committee has also given revised dates for the academic calendar. The UGC is yet to take a call on the revised dates. The panel has suggested that the session for Bachelor {degree} programmes begin from November 2 and Masters programmes from December 1,” said the person.The Kuhad committee’s suggestion on further pushing the start of the academic calendar to November and December would be discussed in the coming weeks based on how the situation evolves, a second person aware of the matter said.“It is expected that results of all school boards would be out by July-August so the session for undergraduate courses can begin early. The postgraduate courses would begin after university results are out. However, there may also be a need to compress semesters or readjust syllabus etc if the session gets too curtailed,” said the second person.According to an academic calendar issued by UGC earlier, admissions to the undergraduate and postgraduate programmes for the 2020-21 session ought to be completed by August 31. If the necessity arises, provisional admissions could be made and documents of qualifying examinations cleared by students may be accepted up to September 30.The Academic Session 2020-21 may commence from August 1 for old students and from September 1 for fresh students, the UGC said.Former UGC member Inder Mohan Kapahy said: “Considering the trajectory of spread of Covid in India to extend the beginning of academic sessions for UG and PG courses from November and December respectively is a reasonable decision. However the decision of the Kuhad Committee, accepted by the UGC, to make it mandatory to hold the final year semester end or year end examinations in offline/online/mixed mode needs revist. The UGC has done away with the compulsory requirement for such examinations for non final year UG and PG students. They shall be promoted in ac ordnance with average performances and internal assessments in the previous years or semesters. Why should the same formula not be applied also to final year students. It should be appreciated that final year students are in a state of psychological limbo from March 2020 onwards. They are worried about future admissions to higher classes or about their job prospects. Epidemiologists are predicting that peak in India may reach after two or three months. Final year exams may require to be further postponed. This shall add to the stress already accumulated on the young minds. UGC should apply the same rational formula for all students whether in final or non final years.”“We can study on our own. But there is definitely advantage of being in a classroom. There are no labs available to a student at home and no social life either. These are uncertain times which are affecting students. We hope the policymakers take the best decisions to bring learning back on track,” said Shubham, a student pursuing B Tech in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-considering-a-later-start-to-academic-calender/story-i7vGh7ztssN7CeA3nTdwCI.html
10-07-2020||India||Maharashtra adds 5,368 new Covid-19 cases, 204 deaths take toll close to 10,000-mark||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 5,368 new Covid-19 cases and 204 deaths, taking the state’s coronavirus count to 2,11,987, the state health department said. The state, which is worst-hit by the coronavirus pandemic, registered a slight dip in fresh cases today after recording over 6,000 new patients on Sunday.With the addition of 204 fatalities, the death toll in Maharashtra due to the viral infection has now mounted to 9,026, the health department’s data indicated.Despite having a low recovery rate, at least 1,15,262 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far. The state has till date carried out 11,35,447 tests of suspected Covid-19 patients.ALSO READ | ‘India’s Covid-19 positivity rate at 6.37 percent’: Ministry of HealthFinancial capital Mumbai on Monday detected 1,200 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the maximum city’s coronavirus count to 85,724. The death toll in Mumbai has now surged to 4,938.The number of active cases in Maharashtra currently stands at 87,681 and the western state’s recovery rate among coronavirus patients is 54.37%, significantly lower than the national average which crossed the 60% mark last week.The national positivity rate of Covid-19 -- the average rate of samples testing positive for the coronavirus disease across the country-- stands at 6.73% now, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare informed on Monday.The ministry said that the Centre had stressed increasing testing, prompt contact tracing and timely clinical management of all Covid-19 cases in the country.ALSO READ| ‘Not correct to sack workers when industrial activities have begun’: ThackerayA record single-day jump of 24,248 Covid-19 cases took India’s tally close to the 7-lakh mark on Monday, while the death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 19,693 with 425 new deaths, according to the Union health ministry.With this, the country has recorded over 20,000 cases of the infection for the fourth consecutive day.On Sunday, India overtook Russia to become the third worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic. The United States and Brazil are the only two countries that are ahead of India in terms of the total number of coronavirus patients currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-adds-5-368-new-covid-19-cases-204-deaths-take-toll-close-to-10-000-mark/story-uxG9LemsBPD6LMbYMHb1pL.html
10-07-2020||Today's||Why Vikas Dubey killing marks a watershed in history of encounters||Much of the commentary surrounding the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey conflates two separate issues. The first is the whole business of encounters, in which policemen kill suspects in custody and then pretend that they were shot while being apprehended or while escaping.The second is the killing of Dubey and what it tells us about the state of law and order in India, the brazen nature of custodial deaths in today’s India and the nexus between politicians and gangsters.Of the two issues, the problem of so-called encounter killings has already been much discussed. No person who believes in the principles of the Indian Constitution can support murder by policemen. The Constitution provides for due process and protects the right of the citizen to be regarded as innocent till proven guilty.The problem is that the vast majority of middle class Indians, even if they don’t actively support encounters, are willing to turn a blind eye. Among politicians, bureaucrats and policemen, the proportion of those who strongly support encounters is even higher.The argument that used to be offered for the popularity of encounters focussed on the inadequacy of the legal system. Cases take years to come to trial. In the interim gangsters are given bail and resume their criminal activities. Even Dawood Ibrahim, it is often pointed out, was out on bail when he fled the country for Dubai.Moreover, most cases rely on witnesses. In India, the police lack the resources to protect witnesses so by the time the case comes to trial, the witnesses have been intimidated into changing their testimony. In many countries this would be seen as an argument for reforming the judicial system, or building more courts and speeding up trials. In India, however, this is seen as an argument for bypassing the judicial system entirely and letting policemen play judge, jury and executioner.As far back as the late 1960s, encounters were used to finish off the Naxalite movement. In the 1980s they were used during the Punjab insurgency. And it is now taken for granted that if there is an insurgency against the Indian state, the judicial system will be replaced by a policeman’s gun.The use of encounters in normal policing used to be controversial but it has gradually been accepted as a matter of course. In the 1980s the Mumbai police killed gangsters at will to free the city from the grip of the underworld. In many cities, police officers are earmarked for execution duties and even romanticised in popular media.In recent years public support for these killings has grown, partly as a result of encouragement on social media and on news TV. Anyone who raises doubts about the execution of a gangster is attacked for being on the side of the bad guys or for failing to support ‘our men in uniform’.The danger with this let’s-just-kill-them-all hysteria is that the police now have carte blanche in many states to kill who they like, when they like and how they like.If there is a case that arouses public anger, they don’t really need to find the culprit. It is easy enough to round up some random suspect and then declare that he was “killed while trying to escape”.Those of us who have questioned this pro-encounter frenzy have tried to point out that even those who regard encounters as pragmatic and expedient must worry about the effect they have on the police and therefore on law and order in general.The killing of Vikas Dubey in police custody vindicates every doubt and every reservation that has been expressed about our willingness to turn the police into executioners.From what the police themselves have told the media, Dubey was a gangster with political links and patronage and had ties to the police department. These ties allowed him to flourish for years and to ignore the many cases (for such offences as murder) that were registered against him.In early July, a police party that went to arrest him was ambushed and eight policemen lost their lives. The UP police said then that Dubey had been tipped off by one of its men.In the week that followed, the UP Police seemed strangely unable to apprehend him. Various Dubey associates were caught and killed (on grounds of “trying to escape from custody” etc.) Eventually, Dubey was arrested in Ujjain on Thursday. There is still some doubt about whether he was apprehended by the Madhya Pradesh police or whether he arranged to give himself up in a very public place to ensure that he was not shot “while trying to evade capture.”During the arrest process, he was eager to establish his identity, shouting his name out so that every bystander (many of whom were filming the arrest on their mobile phones) knew that he had been taken alive.Till that point, it had been widely speculated that the UP police would kill him because he knew far too much about the policemen he paid off and the politicians who had kept him in business.But once he was captured alive and on camera, that became difficult to do.Or did it?Because the UP police killed him anyway.They shot him while transporting him from Ujjain to Kanpur, offering the usual story that he had been shot while trying to escape.Journalists have pointed out many holes in the police version. The police claimed that the car Dubey was in had overturned. In fact, video footage shows that Dubey was in another car. More tellingly, there were journalists following the police convoy. They were stopped before the “encounter” so that they could not see what actually happened. One group of journalists had to hand over their car keys to the police after they were stopped.Besides, why would Dubey, who had gone to such lengths to ensure that he was taken alive in a public place, suddenly change his mind and attempt an escape thus providing the UP police with the perfect opportunity to kill him?None of this makes much sense. But what makes the least sense is this: how brazen do the UP police have to be to go ahead and kill a man who everyone said they would bump off?Their cock and bull story about the circumstances of the shooting is so weak that it suggests that they didn’t even bother to make up a convincing explanation. They were going to shut him up and didn’t care what anyone would say.We have now reached the situation that the legitimisation of encounters inevitably leads us to. The police can kill anybody, even when it is obvious that they have a clear motive: the man could divulge information that would harm the political and law enforcement establishments. And they can do it in the most brazen manner possible when everyone has already warned that they will bump him off.Excuses will be made. The usual questions will be asked: Who do you trust? A gangster or the police? Are you sorry that this loathsome character is no longer among us? And so on.But the killing of Dubey marks a watershed in the history of encounters in India. Till now, the debate was about the ethicality of encounters .Now, it has gone beyond that.The issue that matters is: have we become a country where politicians can patronise gangsters and then, when things get awkward, ask the police to bump them off even as the whole country is watching?The killing of Vikas Dubey suggests that the answer is a resounding yes.(The views expressed are personal.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-vikas-dubey-killing-marks-a-watershed-in-history-of-encounters/story-cv7Qh3HBpYDZCoRtrnPf7I.html
10-07-2020||Today's||The monk is now a tough administrator | Opinion||The monk is now a tough administrator and his ‘measure for measure’ policy gets amplified as and when his personal or the government’s image is threatened.Highly conscious of his image that he has cultivated brick by brick in three years, his day starts with a meeting with senior officials of the information department. By then, he has read most of the prominent dailies.Perhaps Swami Chinmayanand , one of the architects of the temple movement, may have lots to share, whom many believed Yogi would bail out because of the saffron they wear.Though the opposition still accuses the government of going soft on Chinmayanand, the latter has much to complain about. Another former BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who mustered some initial support in the administration, too, was abandoned to fight a legal battle.The fact remains Yogi will not compromise his government’s image. He will spare none; he will dump old associates without a wink of his eyelid if they are wrong. No doubt, many now dub him ruthless.Take for instance, the dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey. He couldn’t have grown his empire without political patronage.His pictures with political leaders, including a former chief minister and present ministers, had gone viral while the UP police were chasing him ever since he murdered eight cops.But the growing criticism of his government escalated the police action against Dubey. Yogi gave one week’s time to the state director general of police to nab him — dead or alive. The incident took place on July 3 last and Vikas Dubey surrendered on July 9.Obviously, he surrendered after all help from his resources and sources were snapped by the government– the friendly cops were suspended while others turned hostile, his close associates were gunned down. Eventually, he surrendered for his life, knowing Yogi won’t spare him now.The fact is on the eve of Dubey’s surrender, the chief minister was personally monitoring the actions on the ground, keeping in touch with his Madhya Pradesh counterpart. The state police, too, were collaborating with cops of four adjoining states.And now Yogi has relaunched his campaign against gangsters, demolishing the empires of Mukhtar Ansari, Atiq Ahmad in east UP and Sundar Bhatti and Sushil Moonch in west UP. In his last campaign against criminals, colloquially dubbed ‘thoko drive’, about 100 criminals were gunned down, all having rewards on their heads. Questions were raised on the encounters – fake or real.Dubey’s surrender before the expiry of the seven-day deadline, and on the day when the Prime Minister had a one-hour interaction with the NGOs of his constituency, won Yogi much appreciation for his administration in handling the Covid-19 pandemic.And this is not the first time. Earlier, also the Prime Minister had publicly lauded Yogi when he had said, “Whoever shows courage in crisis gets success. What you have done is an example for the world.” The Prime Minister had then compared UP’s 24 crore population, equal to four European countries, and the number of Covid deaths.While the opposition does not spare him for his alleged communal face or acts, he brazenly follows his ‘Hindutva agenda.’ He does not brook criticism — anti-CAA protestors are facing the music for ‘ damaging government property’ and some media personnel have been booked in cases.Although some BJP MLAs are also critical of him for not entertaining personal requests—he has turned down requests from union ministers too – Yogi has succeeded in demolishing ‘ power centres ’ in the party.However, when it comes to PMO or BJP leadership, he is all eyes and ears.Barely three years back, when Yogi had taken over as the chief minister of the most volatile state, people had raised eyebrows as he had no administrative experience, though he had been an MP for several terms till then.The opposition, as well as experts, had then quipped, “Running a math is different from running a state.” His saffron robes and his religious practices were discussed. But after three years in office, it is his 18-hour work schedule that has overshadowed everything.He performs duties of the monk before people wake up- at 4 am, followed by yoga. His fitness routine also has a brisk walk in the evening. No doubt, hard work has yielded dividends - among BJP chief ministers he is rated the best- and is a star campaigner in elections next to the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-monk-is-now-a-tough-administrator-opinion/story-GQ1q11LfQX9S8B7kraFI0N.html
10-07-2020||Editorials||Vikas Dubey’s mysterious death | HT Editorial||Vikas Dubey is dead. On Thursday, when he was arrested in Ujjain, this newspaper argued that his arrest must mark the beginning — not the end — of the story about the nexus between politics and crime in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and a broken administrative and police system. But there appear to have been forces which did not want that story told. On Friday morning, in highly mysterious circumstances, Dubey died, and so did the story he may have told. It is important to reiterate first principles here. Dubey was a gang lord; his list of crimes was long; he allegedly led the attack and killing on eight policemen in Kanpur last week. Such a man deserved to be punished for his crimes. But India prides itself on the rule of law. When a crime is allegedly committed, a process kicks in. The perpetrator is arrested, contingent on judicial sanction. Suspects are questioned. Evidence is amassed. Interrogations are conducted. A case is built up. The court examines the evidence and testimonies; the defendant has a right to legal defence. On the merits of the case, based on the law, the judiciary hands down its decision, which can then be appealed against. In a civilised society, this process is undertaken, not just because the guilty is presumed to be innocent until convicted, but because this is the only way to sustain the legitimacy of the system and prevent arbitrary exercise of power. Even Ajmal Kasab, caught red-handed in the 26/11 attacks, got a trial. In UP, there appears to be a pattern where this process is, often, not followed. There have been a spate of extrajudicial killings — encounters, in popular parlance — since the current government took office in 2017. This is attributed to a stern approach where patience for due process is limited. Even before Friday, this impatience with process, the desire to satiate the thirst for instant justice, as well as, more controversially, ensure Dubey did not speak about his political and bureaucratic linkages were being seen as factors that would cut short his life. The circumstances of his death — he was shifted into another vehicle before the shoot-out; journalists following the convoy were stopped before the encounter took place; the absence of evidence to show how his car overturned — will only add motive to mystery. If UP wants to set an example, it must institute an independent probe on the manner of Dubey’s killing and his entire network. India may have one less criminal today, but it has also fallen short of its own principles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/vikas-dubey-s-mysterious-death/story-WALHdGhE5KaaJjMLfoCitJ.html
