14-07-2020||News||Europe can be a key ally for India||The leaders of the European Union (EU) and India will meet for the first ever-virtual EU-India summit today (July 15). This 15th EU-India summit comes at a crucial time — just as India is dealing with a major military crisis on the border with China, and the EU is coming to its own reckoning of China as an aggressive power. That the summit is even taking place, given the coronavirus crisis and the domestic preoccupations of both partners, is a sign of how far the EU-India relationship has come. For India, this shouldn’t be a business-as-usual meeting. As India tries to develop a comprehensive response to Chinese power by strengthening partnerships, economic decoupling and diversification, and as attitudes in Europe shift decisively away from China, the EU can be a crucial partner for India on several fronts. This meeting follows on the heels of a strained EU-China summit, which didn’t even yield the customary joint statement, but a rather pointed statement from Brussels on “defending EU interests and values” in a “complex partnership” with China. In stark contrast, the meeting with India is set to produce a new road map for the partnership and a slew of initiatives on security, trade and investment, digital economy, infrastructure connectivity, coronavirus crisis response, and the climate crisis. This difference between the two summits is no coincidence. In fact, Europe’s perception of India has been changing in tandem with increasing tensions with China. In 2018, the EU released a new strategy for cooperation with India, calling it a geopolitical pillar in a multipolar Asia, crucial for maintaining the balance of power in the region. Paris and Brussels have been actively pushing Europe to see India as a truly strategic partner. Yet, in the public eye and in strategic circles in New Delhi, the value of the EU as partner is constantly underestimated. Since it is not a traditional hard power, many cannot imagine a role for Europe in dealing with the pressures New Delhi is facing. There are perennial misunderstandings on capabilities — where Brussels can deliver to Indian interests as opposed to areas where Paris or Berlin would be better partners. But as India deals with the China challenge, the EU can be a valuable partner in several strategic areas. For example, on 5G technologies, as India reconsiders Huawei due to security concerns, European companies such as Ericsson and Nokia will be important players. Also, as India looks to check Chinese investment in its technology sector, Europe will be an important alternative. It is crucial for India to plug into the debates in Brussels on their 5G toolbox and the digital agenda to discuss mutual security concerns. Next, as India grapples with rising Chinese influence in its neighbourhood, Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) investments and infrastructure connectivity are in the spotlight. The EU has its own connectivity strategy, providing around €414 billion in aid globally, and is already partnering with Japan and the United States (US) to provide alternatives to BRI. This is a crucial opportunity where Brussels can deliver what India needs. Entities such as the European Investment Bank are active in India, investing in metro and other infrastructure projects. India should explore this partnership with the EU to not only fill domestic infrastructure needs but also as part of India’s neighbourhood diplomacy. On the pandemic and China’s response, India and the EU have similar concerns. There is huge apprehension in Brussels on the disinformation campaign led by China around the origin and responses to the virus. There is also an increasing recognition that Chinese influence in international organisations needs to be countered. The EU and Australia coordinated to push for an independent enquiry into the origins of the virus at the World Health Assembly. As India takes the chair of the World Health Organization’s executive board, the EU can be a powerful ally in checking Chinese influence at WHO and beyond.With troubles in EU-China relations, debate on the Indo-Pacific is also picking up in European capitals besides Paris. The EU has several programmes on maritime domain awareness and information-sharing in the Indian Ocean, which are now expanding to include South and Southeast Asia. The German navy has shown an active interest in contributing to Indian Ocean security and collaborating with partners. Japan and Australia are active diplomatically in pushing to get Europe on board the Indo-Pacific. India should actively advocate its vision of the region and explore avenues for cooperation with the EU, particularly to check Chinese presence in the Indian Ocean.Finally, as India looks to shore up domestic capabilities and strengthen its economy, it cannot afford to ignore the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with Europe which is languishing after many rounds of failed negotiations. The EU is India’s largest trading partner and the second-largest destination for Indian exports. As Europe looks to diversify supply chains and move away from China, India shouldn’t miss the opportunity to attract investments and deepen its relationship with the world’s largest trading bloc, which has already negotiated FTAs with Vietnam, Japan and Singapore. Europe doesn’t face a territorial threat from China, and the push and pull of European policy towards China will continue. Imperfect alignment on China shouldn’t limit Europe-India cooperation. Europe has decisively moved away from a China policy based solely on economic engagement to checking Chinese influence domestically and internationally, with the tools Brussels knows best — economics, technology, and diplomacy. India needs to rethink what it wants its partnership with Europe to look like and yield. Europe can be an unlikely but useful partner as India deals with the China challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/europe-can-be-a-key-ally-for-india/story-6Y3sw21v3ASCXArt5IQXXK.html
14-07-2020||News||Adopt a new paradigm to deal with Covid-19 spread||The Covid-19 situation in India is turning grim with new infections per day racing towards the 30,000 mark. We now have the third-largest number of infections globally. The redeeming feature is the high percentage of recoveries, which can be explained by demography with a larger number of young people getting infected, but shedding the virus in a short period. But case fatality rate is rising especially among elderly and people with co-morbidities.It is time to identify where we are falling short in our responses. Sporadic corrective measures are not helping. We should realise that the pandemic is no more limited to certain identifiable groups who can be accessed through contact tracing or contained by locking down geographical areas. The pandemic in India is out in the open, whether we technically name it community transmission or not. It is time to adopt a new paradigm in the response to quickly get ahead of the curve.Until now, we have based our entire response on the number of reported cases, which will touch the million-mark soon. Most of them are symptomatic cases detected by testing. Experts are of the opinion that, for every symptomatic case, there could be several undetected asymptomatic cases. No organised attempt has yet been made to ascertain the estimated number of total infections that India could have which is necessary for a meaningful response.India had done this earlier in 1999 when the Aids epidemic was at its peak. At that time, we claimed 90,000 reported cases, which was not credible. A nationwide sentinel survey done by the National AIDS Control Organisation estimated HIV prevalence in the country to be around three million. The government, at that time, bit the bullet and announced the figures to a shocked nation. It was chaotic for a few days, with the media pouncing on the government for hiding the facts, but it helped the country mount a strong response for the next 10 years which reversed the trend and brought down new infections by 56%. The estimated prevalence was further revised as 2.4 million.We need to make a similar effort to determine the size of the pandemic by a national-level surveillance programme. This will provide valuable inputs about the profile of the pandemic, its urban-rural, male-female orientation, and identification of risk groups who need greater care. Once the size of the infected population is known with a reasonable degree of accuracy, the health care system can be geared to meet the increasing load of symptomatic cases who will report for admission. It will become easier to do advance planning for procurement of drugs, diagnostics, life-saving equipment like oxygen, ventilator systems and protective gear for the health care personnel and prevent the system from getting overwhelmed.A complementary effort has to be initiated in the area of testing also. Currently, testing is done only for symptomatic cases and contacts. A limiting factor for expansion of testing is the high cost of reverse transfer-polymerase chain reaction test kits and availability. More rapid test kits, both blood-based and swab-based, are now available in the market at relatively affordable cost. The Indian Council of Medical Research has already evaluated many of these kits for sensitivity and specificity.Under the new strategy, testing should cover a larger section of population based on risk factors, and not just on exposure to Covid-19. People at risk should be able to access testing at voluntary testing facilities in high-prevalence states to start with, and, later, in other parts of the country also. Many countries, including the United States, have introduced voluntary testing, which has promoted health-seeking behaviour in the population. The kits can be provided either free or at subsidised cost to testing centres.Greater efforts are needed to save the lives of people who are more vulnerable to Covid-19, such as the elderly and those with co-morbidities. Patients often die of co-morbidities due to lack of attention to and care for those health conditions in Covid-19 hospitals and care centres. Specialist medical attention should be provided to them in Covid-19 hospitals to treat the co-morbidities. There were similar instances in the 1990s, when out of fear and stigma, HIV-infected persons were not treated for opportunistic infections and co-morbidities.In the last few weeks, a number of drugs have been re-purposed, with varying degree of effectiveness, for treatment of moderate and severe cases of Covid-19. The timely and effective use of these drugs should help in reducing mortality even in severe cases. The central and state governments should adopt effective procurement mechanisms to make these drugs available in sufficient quantities to physicians treating Covid-19 patients.Covid-19 has also disproportionately affected the marginalised sections of the population such as HIV-positive persons, tuberculosis patients, sex workers, drug users and gay and transgender people, many of whom are facing discontinuation of treatment for their existing medical conditions. Marginalised groups who have lost their means of livelihood need to be enlisted into the social support system to save them from starvation and death.If India has to fight a long and sustained battle against Covid-19, it can’t happen only through biomedical interventions. We need a wholesome and all-encompassing programme, which involves all sections of the population affected by the virus. India’s strength lies in its strong communities, who should be mobilised in full strength to take the country ahead of the pandemic curve and control its spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/adopt-a-new-paradigm-to-deal-with-covid-19-spread/story-rcH8wTSgXlqdkqMd6JGf5J.html
14-07-2020||News||Harper’s open letter on justice is not just||Harper’s Magazine set out to do a noble thing last week. It wanted to steer change. In 532 words, it tried to right a centuries-old wrong. An open letter, published on July 7, titled A letter on Justice and Open Debate was signed by stalwarts like authors Margaret Atwood, Salman Rushdie, Malcolm Gladwell, academic Noam Chomsky, psychologist Steven Pinker, and feminist Gloria Steinem among 150 others to fight for the cause of free speech, open debate and democratic values, specific but not limited to the United States (US). Acknowledging overdue police reform in the US that is challenging racism and social injustice, the letter also casts a shadow over the alleged intolerance of protest movements.The letter created varying degrees of resonance in the US and democracies across the world. It questioned the growing constriction of free ideas. While it said that Donald Trump represents “a real threat to democracy”, it also warned against hasty reactions to transgressions that leave no room for “considered reform” — a swipe at the toxicity of cancel culture (which I wrote about here). It expressed concern about an increasing intolerance in the spheres of literature and journalism, in which the boundaries of what can be said without reprisal are narrowing. It also condemned “a stifling atmosphere” that restricts debate and destroys democracy.While rich in intent, something didn’t quite fit. This cohort of artists signed a letter with an assortment of good ideas, free thought, and sharp criticisms. But haven’t we heard all this before? Open letters of this kind have been around for a while. And the argument itself lacked novelty, making it seem inane rather than transformative.What stood out, however, were the signatories without whom this letter would be lost in the mail. They are the crème de la crème of the arts. Diverse, yes. Acclaimed, yes. Controversial, also, yes. This begs the question: Why were (some of) these high-profile, arguably divisive, artists brought on to sign a letter on the urgent need to be, well, less divisive?Let us first take a look at the political positions of some of these signatories. In 2017, one of the signatories, Steven Pinker tweeted “Police kill too many people, black & white. Focus on race distracts from solving problem...” This view, it is widely recognised, is blind to structural inequality and discriminatory attitudes that are embedded in the way power operates. Also in 2017, Bari Weiss, in The New York Times wrote, “When I will inevitably get called a racist for cheering cultural miscegenation, I might borrow a line from the director of Taylor Swift’s new video, who wrote: ‘I am down for cultural appropriation. That sounds hot. Appropriate me.’ Feel free to steal it as well.” — in an article titled Three Cheers for Cultural Appropriation. While the piece was meant to be a funny take on cultural appropriation as fashionable, cultures and traditions are the bedrock of communities, passed down from one generation to the next, and cannot be simply brought down to a good laugh for a newspaper’s audience. JK Rowling, whose insensitive and derogatory comments about the transgender community are now increasingly casting a shadow on her literary accomplishments, recently found herself in another messy controversy when she called gender reassignment surgeries “a new kind of conversion therapy for young gay people”. On finding out that Rowling was one of the signatories, trans author Jennifer Finney Boylan tweeted “I did not know who else had signed that letter. I thought I was endorsing a well meaning, if vague, message against internet shaming. I did know Chomsky, Steinem, and Atwood were in, and I thought, good company. The consequences are mine to bear. I am so sorry.”These are some of the big names in the list of 150-odd artists. Some of the views held by the signatories — on race, gender, sexuality, LGBTQ+ issues, cultural appropriation and more — are regressive, and are given a platform because of the weight of their words as powerful voices. As members of various communities, and the all-encompassing Internet, their views outside of the letter are directly proportional to the letter’s success. And this was why the letter’s overall reception has been at best, lukewarm, and at worst, simply bad. Rather, it generated significant, even necessary, outrage all of last week.The main criticism is that these artists, who claim that spaces are often not free or fair, have not been free or fair themselves. While some are champions of social justice movements, others have only inhibited the growth of movements through their regressive views. Placing the latter and the former together gives the readers a mixed bag of empty words with little substance to drive change.Artists do not exist in a vacuum. Neither does the letter. Nor do the social justice movements they are talking about. They build from the ground up; intensifying in the roots of the system and ultimately, breaking oppressive structures from its very foundations.The world as we see it today has never been more of a paradox. We’ve never been more connected, but divisions continue to intensify. The global economy has never been more integrated, and yet, economic disparities are stark. This is why protest movements are a key driver for change. It can take one movement to dismantle social hierarchies that have been around for centuries. This is why the signatories of the letter are as significant as the letter itself. And instead of simply claiming that the world is an unequal place, the authors must now take the time to introspect, and realise that their platforms are key spaces for these movements to unfold. Their positions of power give them the opportunity — and the Black Lives Matter movement also gives some of them the right moment — to pass the microphone. If this does not happen, the letter defeats its own purpose.Harper’s Magazine did not do a noble thing last week. And inadvertently, the backlash that erupted from it was far nobler than the open letter itself.marika.gabriel@htdigital.inThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/harper-s-open-letter-on-justice-is-not-just/story-JXLLag18mRpE2SOhgFYQhK.html
14-07-2020||Gurugram||MCG will shift death, birth registration office to Sector 39||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to shift its death and birth registration branch from its Civil Lines office to its Sector 39 office, amid complaints of violations of social distancing norms and the municipal staff not wearing masks. MCG’s death and birth registration branch had been working out of the MCG’s Civil Lines office since 2008, the year the civic body was created.Seven MCG officials have so far tested positive for Covid-19. Last week an internal complaint was made within the MCG, which stated that outside the death and birth certificates registration branch office in Civil Lines, there is a queue daily and virtually everybody flouts social distancing norms. The MCG officials also continue to overlook this with impunity. In addition, officials inside the branch were on occasions found to be not wearing masks despite dealing with more than 40-50 people on a daily basis. The MCG subsequently decided to shift the entire branch to its sector 39 office, from where its health department operates. Officials said that this was done to ensure that the health department officials keep a closer vigil on the death and birth registration branch officials. Another reason, sources said, was shifting of the branch to a remote part of the city would translate into lesser number of people approaching the MCG manually for procuring death or birth registration certificates, thereby reducing human interaction and possibilities of flouting social distancing norms. People will be encouraged to apply for the process online instead.“There are several reasons for shifting the office. A few officials of the death and health registration branch were already working at the sector 39 office. Hence, it made sense to shift the civil lines wing there as well . This way, health department officials can keep a constant check on them and ensure social distancing and the norms regarding wearing of masks are not flouted. In addition, due to the distance, we are anticipating the total number of visitors to the office will be much lower and their temperatures can also be measured,” said an MCG official, privy to the matter.Barring the MCG’s Civil Lines office, which is facing some technical issues, its sector 42, 39, and 34 offices are all being monitored with thermal scanning cameras. Thus the entry of MCG staff and visitors is largely being allowed in the Civil Lines office without temperature reading.As per MCG officials privy to the matter, furniture, files, and other electronic equipment is in the process of being transferred and the branch is expected to be operational by the end of this week.“Amidst the coronavirus outbreak our first and foremost priority is the safety of the public and our staff. Hence any step which has been undertaken is done so, keeping this is mind,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-will-shift-death-birth-registration-office-to-sector-39/story-BXv4eLdytzMslOalJIdHZJ.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||EOW books two developers for duping home buyers of ₹12.5 crores||The housing fraud unit of economic offences wing (EOW) has registered a cheating complaint against two developers who allegedly accepted ₹12.50 crore from a Matunga-based businessman Bipin Savla, 58, and his two relatives under the pretext of selling them seven flats in their housing projects in Wadala and Bhandup. However, they were neither given possession nor their money was returned.Bipin Savla, 58, who is into share market trading, in his complaint (HT has a copy), has alleged that developers Kashyap Mehta and Atul Bharani in 2013 lured him and his two relatives into investing money in their housing projects in Wadala and Bhandup by buying flats offering returns on 12% interest rate.Mehta and Bharani are directors of Sunshine Housing Pvt. Ltd., Mayurpankh Fine Builders Pvt Ltd., Sunshine Trecon Pvt. Ltd and Sunshine Housing and Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. and the FIR names the two and their four companies as accused, the police said.Savla stated in the complaint that he and his two relatives since 2013 have invested total ₹12.51 crores for buying seven flats in Mehta and Bharani’s housing projects in Wadala and Bhandup. However, the two did not deliver the flats by the year 2016, as promised. When the complainants approached them, they agreed to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with them assuring them that the housing projects would be completed by June 2018, however, the two again ended up violating promises made in the MoU.Savla alleged, “The accused had accepted more than 20% of the money for his three flats, but did not make the agreement for the registration of the flats, did not accept funds in an independent bank account and did not pay him after selling the flats in open market, as promised in the MoU, hence, flouted rules under Maharashtra Ownership of Flats Act (MOFA).” The complainant also alleged that the accused transferred one housing project in Bhandup in which he was to buy flats, to his partner’s name.“The accused had accepted money from home buyers with pure intention of cheating,” Savla said.EOW officials were conducting a preliminary enquiry on Savla’s complaint for over a year’s time. “After finding material in the complaint in a preliminary enquiry an FIR has been registered at the Bhoiwada police station against Kashyap Mehta and Atul Bharani and their four companies under sections 409, 420 and 34 of Indian Penal Code and 13, 14, 3, 5 and 8 of MOFA,” said an EOW officer requesting anonymity.When contacted Kashyap Mehta he said he is no longer part of the Sunshine group and has nothing to do with the alleged fraud. Bharani was unable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/eow-books-two-developers-for-duping-home-buyers-of-12-5-crores/story-jOEzlE6MyaO0cQM8NznsVL.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Byculla to get cable-stayed bridge||A cable-stayed road overbridge (ROB) will be constructed between Byculla and Sandhurst Road railway station. The current ROB between both the stations will also be reconstructed.The construction and reconstruction work will be undertaken by Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited(MRIDCL).Eleven ROBs and one road underbridge (RUB) will be also constructed by MRIDCL in the city.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday signed an memorandum of understanding (MOU) with MRIDCL on the construction of the bridges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/byculla-to-get-cable-stayed-bridge/story-J5An15AdqDKvOrlp5gI7mI.html
14-07-2020||City||Reduce commercial tax, allow us to open shops: Shopkeepers association||After almost four months into the lockdown, shopkeepers in Thane have now requested the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) to reduce the commercial property tax and allow the shops to operate, especially in the prime market locations.“The corporation needs to think before taking such decisions. We unanimously request the civic body to reduce the commercial property tax and give permission to the shops to open up,” said Rasik Chedda, chairman, Ram Maruti Road Shopkeepers Association. Despite the announcement of Mission Begin Again across the state, Thane city is under complete lockdown till July 19, due to the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases.The shopkeepers were hopeful of earning a living after the first phase of Unlock was initiated, however, a lockdown was again imposed on July 2. This has impacted their income.“We have to pay rent for our shops, give salaries to employees and take care of other bills. It is getting difficult for us as our businesses suffering due to lockdown. We had opened our shops for a brief period following the odd and even system, we also adhered to all rules. TMC should consider our requests,” added Chedda.A TMC official said, “We are yet to decide on permitting the shops to open; our prime focus is to ensure that the Covid situation is under control. Allowing shops to open may lead to an increase in the spread of virus as people will go out to shop, we shall find a way to resolve the shopkeepers’ issues as well.” He added that they have not yet decided on reducing the property tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reduce-commercial-tax-allow-us-to-open-shops-shopkeepers-association/story-4xMIGzeUMiSatjP4LBVCML.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||173 Indians stranded in Dubai reach Chandigarh||An evacuation SpiceJet flight from Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) arrived at Chandigarh International Airport with 175 passengers on Tuesday as part of the Vande Bharat mission to bring home Indians stranded in various countries abroad. Another flight from Sharjah brought in 141 passengers on Monday. The evacuation flight from Dubai, which arrived at 4:39 pm, is the fourth one from the Emirates. With this, a total of 19 flights have arrived at Chandigarh International Airport under phase-2 of Vande Bharat from the US, Ukraine, New Zealand, Kuwait, and Sharjah and Dubai in the UAE, bringing home approximately 2,000 passengers. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that all the passengers arriving from Sharjah and UAE had been asked to undergo strict institutional quarantine at their respective districts. The administration had also taken their passports in its possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/173-indians-stranded-in-dubai-reach-chandigarh/story-s3i8qopRAlkdYMjD7fiRVI.html
14-07-2020||City||3,000 lockdown violation cases registered in Thane since March||More than 3,000 cases for lockdown violations were registered by the Thane police since March when the government imposed curbs to stop the spread of Covid-19. The cases have been registered under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant.A majority of the cases were registered in Kalyan, followed by Thane city (Zone 1), Ghodbunder Road (Zone 5), Ulhasnagar (Zone 4) and Bhiwandi (Zone 2).Following the announcement of the nationwide lockdown in March, 44 police jurisdictions in Maharashtra had issued prohibitory orders. Imposing section 188, Thane police have renewed the prohibitory orders, with revisions as per the changing nature and rules of the lockdown.Police have registered the highest number of cases – 2,960 – against violators for roaming without reason and gathering in public. Since April, 733 cases have been registered against those caught not wearing masks. Sixteen cases were registered for assault of police personnel; 14 for spreading rumors through social media; five for illegal transportation of migrants, and two for fabrication of documents for issuance of passes.Balasaheb Patil, deputy commissioner of police, special branch, Thane, said, “Our police personnel are constantly ensuring a strict lockdown is followed in the city and issue several reminders, circulars and make announcements when there are any changes. We are taking action against people who are roaming around for no reason after the general market timings are over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-000-lockdown-violation-cases-registered-in-thane-since-march/story-9jCIJe6VwWl3gvKnVybRsM.html
14-07-2020||City||Thane NGO criticises TMC’s handling of Covid pandemic||Volunteers of Thane Matdata Jagran Abhiyan, an NGO working on social issues, on Tuesday gathered at the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) headquarters to protest the civic bodyt’s alleged lack of efforts to handle the Covid-19 pandemic. The group demanded a meeting with TMC commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma, however, he was unavailable.“There are many private hospitals that have not been considered to be used as Covid facilities. Moreover, there aren’t enough testing centres that are easily accessible, nor are the government testing centres functioning free of cost. Schools which have been converted into quarantine centers do not have proper hygiene facilities,” said Chetana Dixit, volunteer, Thane Matadata Jagran Abhiyaan.The group has decided to visit the civic chief’s office again on Wednesday to discuss these issues. “There need to be more affordable provisions. Healthy locals should be allowed to volunteer at Covid centers,” said Unmesh Bagave, antoher volunteer.Calls to the civic commissioner went unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-ngo-protests-against-tmc-s-handling-of-covid-pandemic/story-biQvBPiRfniiK54t27wXyL.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||30 facilities set up in Maharashtra for scientific disposal of Covid-19 bio-medical waste: MPCB||Thirty common facilities have been set up for the treatment and scientific disposal of Covid-19 bio-medical waste generated across the state, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) informed the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday.In an affidavit filed in the HC, Shankar Waghmare, MPCB’s regional officer at Kalyan, stated that the general waste generated at Covid treatment, isolation and quarantine facilities is being disposed of in accordance with provisions of the Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules, by burying it in deep pits at civic dumping grounds.Contaminated bio-medical waste from these centres is being collected by common treatment facility operators for scientific disposal at separate, dedicated sites, the affidavit stated. It added that 82℅ of urban local bodies in Maharashtra have set up separate teams for the collection of contaminated Covid-19 waste.The affidavit was submitted in reply to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Dombivli resident Kishor Sohoni, who complained that though prevailing rules mandate scientific disposal of bio-medical waste, bio-medical waste generated at Covid-19 treatment centres in Kalyan was being dumped at Adharwadi dumping ground by garbage collectors.His PIL, filed through advocate Sadhana Kumar, stated that such dumping of contaminated waste was very dangerous, considering the spread and intensity of the Covid-19 infection.“During this pandemic, the direct disposal of bio-medical waste from Covid hospitals is a serious threat to human life and should be stopped immediately,” he said, adding, “Rigorous monitoring is required to ensure such waste does not end up infecting others, including garbage collectors.”MPCB has, however, maintained that no Covid-19 bio-medical waste was found dumped at Adharwadi dumping ground when Waghmare along with MPCB and Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) officials visited the site.The civic body has set up a dedicated site for disposal of bio-medical waste at Umbarde, for which a mechanism has been created to monitor the collection and disposal of Covid-19 bio-medical waste generated within the limits of the municipal corporation, the affidavit added.A bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Anuja Prabhudessai has now posted Sohoni’s PIL for hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/30-facilities-set-up-in-maharashtra-for-scientific-disposal-of-covid-19-bio-medical-waste-mpcb/story-9nQiFbaQDJarJ3Yr5KkFkL.html
14-07-2020||City||Family blames cop’s son for murder of vegetable vendor, alleges extortion bid||The family of a 34-year-old vegetable vendor, was shot on July 9 in Greater Noida West and died during treatment on Tuesday, has alleged that a policeman’s son is behind the murder.The deceased was identified as Durgesh, who had filed a case in May against three people, including the son of a police sub-inspector posted with the fire department, for allegedly assaulting him when he refused to pay “protection money” to the suspects. Based on his complaint, a case was registered at the Surajpur police station and Mohit, the prime suspect, and his two associates were arrested. But they were later let go on bail. On July 9, around 5.30pm, Durgesh was shot by two men on a motorcycle while he was tending to his shop outside AVJ Heights society.He was rushed to a nearby private hospital by the locals and was undergoing treatment since then, but he succumbed to injuries on Tuesday morning. His death has angered the other vendors in the area who claimed that the extortion racket was the reason for Durgesh’s murder. They also said this was a way to scare them into paying the protection money.The family alleged that they were constantly being pressured by the suspects and their acquaintances to withdraw the case Durgesh had filed.“They had been threatening us for almost two months but my father did not want to take back the case. He was against the extortion bid from the start and that is why he has been killed,” Raju, Durgesh’s son, said.Police have registered a case and a probe in the matter is underway.“Mohit is in police custody and we are interrogating him regarding the shooting. Arrests will be made soon,” deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander said.Police said they suspect him to be involved in the case but clarified that he was not one of the shooters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/family-blames-cop-s-son-for-murder-of-vegetable-vendor-alleges-extortion-bid/story-faN8dE90NcGB5gixpfY89N.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Eid celebrations should be symbolic this year, CM appeals to Muslim community||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has appealed to the Muslim community to keep Bakri Eid a low-key celebration in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Muslim leaders have, however, demanded that the government allow the markets in Mumbai to be opened for the sale of goats.In a meeting of senior ministers, officials on Tuesday, Thackeray reviewed the preparations and demands raised by the community for Eid on August 1. “The celebration this year shall be symbolic as has been in the case of other festivals over the last four months. Transportation and crowding may lead to the spread of the virus, and should be avoided,” Thackeray said.Home minister Anil Deshmukh also has appealed to the community to celebrate the custom of kurbani (sacrifice) online.“We welcome the government’s stand and are ready to observe it in a subdued manner as we did during the month of Ramzan and Ramzan Eid. However, the government has not clarified its stand on kurbani, which is an age-old custom. The government should allow the trading of goats at the BMC markets in each of the wards,” said Arif Naseem Khan, former minority welfare minister and Congress leader.During a meeting convened by Mumbai’s guardian minister Aslam Shaikh on Monday, government officials had floated the idea of a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the celebration, and markets for sacrificial goats. A section of government officials and cabinet members are reportedly not keen on allowing the markets in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/eid-celebrations-should-be-symbolic-this-year-cm-appeals-to-muslim-community/story-NFvcniCLIEEQe4BAPmaRtJ.html
14-07-2020||City||Noida comes up with plot scheme for IT, yoga centres||NOIDA: In a bid to boost economic growth and generate employment, the Noida authority on Tuesday decided to launch a property scheme that will offer plots for residential and institutional purposes. Officials said that the institutional plots will be allotted for the purpose of information technology (IT) and IT-enabled service, and building meditation and yoga centres, among others.According to the officials, it will be an open-ended scheme that will start on Thursday. As of now, the plot size ranging from 2,000 square metres to 15,000 square metres in different sectors will be available for the allotment, they said. “Every month applicants can apply and compete to get a plot in this open-ended scheme. The objective of this scheme is to fuel growth and create employment,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority.The authority is identifying the institutional plots in different sectors across the city, the officials said, adding that there are eight plots available this month for the scheme. The applicants can purchase a brochure for Rs 5,900 online from the website -- noidaauthorityonline.in. However, only those can apply in this scheme, who get a registration done by paying Rs 20,000 plus goods and service tax via online, the officials said.Once the applications are received, the authority will examine them before calling the eligible applicants for interview. “We will conduct interview of applicants after examination of their forms every month,” said Maheshwari.The institutional plot scheme is a new scheme for IT and IT-enabled services, the officials said. The scheme for residential plots has been launched multiple times in the past three years. But every time there are hardly any takers for the residential plot scheme due to slowdown in the housing sector, the officials said.The authority will also restart residential plot scheme to sell 353 plots in sectors 11, 12, 19, 23, 27, 31, 39, 41, 44, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 52 and 53, among others. The authority has also offered 13 commercial plots for CNG and petrol stations, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-comes-up-with-plot-scheme-for-it-yoga-centres/story-UBNAMUVTek0lCMvRLk8B7I.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||HC awaits apex court decision for migrants before deciding on WB natives||Observing that as the Supreme Court is seized of the condition of migrant labourers stranded in Maharashtra, the Bombay high court has said that it will await further orders of the apex court before addressing the concerns of the petitioners. The petitioner has claimed that nearly 56,000 migrants wanting to go back to West Bengal are stranded as the state government is not providing sufficient special trains and buses for the same.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Anuja Prabhudessai while hearing the public interest litigation filed by Centre for Indian Trade Union and others was informed by senior advocate Gayatri Singh that though the state in an earlier hearing had submitted that it had sent back all migrants desirous of going back to their hometowns and as there was no further demand it was not arranging Shramik special trains, there remained migrants especially those wanting to go to West Bengal who were still stranded.Singh drew the attention of the bench to a Supreme Court order relating to migrants especially those in Maharashtra and said that as nearly 56,000 migrants wanted to go back to West Bengal the court should direct the state to arrange for the same.However, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni informed the court that the last time a Shramik special train had been arranged for West Bengal it had very few migrants on it and hence there was no point in arranging for more trains.After hearing the submissions, the court observed that as the state was asked to respond to the interim applications filed by two organisations in the petition before the SC it was not keen on passing any orders. The court also made an observation on the condition in WB due to the Covid outbreak. “We do not consider it appropriate to pass any order at this stage for facilitating movement of alleged stranded migrant labours to West Bengal, as prayed for by Singh. In our view, it would only be just and appropriate not to dispose of the PIL at this stage and to await further orders that might be passed by the Supreme Court in respect of migrant labours,” said the chief justice and posted the PIL for hearing in the first week of August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-awaits-apex-court-decision-for-migrants-before-deciding-on-wb-natives/story-hfHUJvMTR1VgTrMVWsxT3K.html
14-07-2020||Noida||Noida cops initiate preliminary inquiry into girl’s death at boarding school||The Noida police have launched a preliminary inquiry into the death of a 14-year-old girl from Haryana who was allegedly found hanging in her boarding school in Noida on July 3. The incident came to fore on Sunday when a video of the girl’s mother started doing the rounds of social media. She alleged foul play in her daughter’s death and said the school, located under the Sector 49 police jurisdiction, was behind the girl’s death. The family also said her hanging was a cover-up. In the video, the woman also requested the public and officials to take up the matter and act against the school. A suicide note had allegedly been found at the spot, in which the girl had taken allegedly responsibility for her act. The girl’s body was later cremated school authorities without informing the police.Though the school authorities claimed they had the parent’s consent to carry out the cremation, the parents on Monday claimed that they were “forced by the school to give the consent”.The family had later filed a complaint with the local police in Haryana and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.However, Noida police is yet to receive a formal complaint from them.“We have started a preliminary inquiry in the matter. ACP, women safety, had also visited the parents yesterday (Monday). On Tuesday, the family came to Noida and we spoke at length. We are working on taking statements from all family members, the family’s neighbours, and officials of the school,” Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women safety, said.She said police are trying to determine who is liable for her death and under what sections.“Even if this was a suicide, the school should have informed the local police. The physical evidence has been destroyed now,” the DCP said.She said experts have also been called in to match the handwriting from the suicide note with that of the girl’s to confirm its authenticity.“We know that she wouldn’t take her life. Something happened to her and the school is covering it up. We want action to be taken against them. But we neither have the means nor the resources to fight them. We are scared,” the mother said.The school authorities, however, said everything was done with the consent of the family and the allegations against them are baseless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-cops-initiate-preliminary-inquiry-into-girl-s-death-at-boarding-school/story-DqCnXNUXe2P8YQOs0ncVJL.html
14-07-2020||City||With two more deaths, toll reaches 35 in Gautam Budh Nagar||NOIDA: With reports of two more deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, the overall toll in Gautam Budh Nagar has gone up to 35. However, the details of deceased have not been revealed by district health officials. According to the daily health bulletin released by the state control room, GB Nagar reported 167 new cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total count of Covid-19 positive cases in the district to 3,614 on Tuesday.A total of 2,728 Covid-19 patients, including 138 on Tuesday, have been cured and discharged in the district so far, the bulletin said. “So far, 35 Covid-19 positive patients have lost their lives in the district. As a result, the district now has 851 active cases,” the bulletin stated.The bulletin said that in the past 24 hours, 28 Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh have lost their lives and their death audit report is awaited.According to the state health bulletin, the overall tally of Covid-19 positive cases in the state has reached 39,724 with 1,656 new cases in the last 24 hours. “While 983 patients have lost their lives due to coronavirus infection in the state so far, 24,981 patients have been cured and discharged from different hospitals in the state till date,” the bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-two-more-deaths-toll-reaches-35-in-gautam-budh-nagar/story-nkOlcRDarue5cqyylEvszH.html
14-07-2020||Noida||Noida: 400-bed Covid hospital to be operational by July-end||Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (ACS) for health, Amit Mohan Prasad, on Tuesday said that the 400-bed dedicated Covid-19 hospital being constructed in Gautam Budh Nagar’s sector 39 will be made operational by July-end.The construction is being constructed jointly by the Tata Project Limited and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, while Prasad said the state government too was pitching in. “It is really encouraging that so far 154 beds with oxygen facilities have been prepared in the general ward. With 24 beds in intensive care units (ICUs) and seven in emergency ward, besides six ventilators, this hospital will soon be a boon for Covid-positive patients in the district,” Prasad said. The hospital will care for moderate coronavirus disease cases.District officials were asked to provide all help to the hospital. “We have also started the process of identifying well-trained staff and expert doctors for this hospital. I hope by the end of July, this hospital will be fully operational,” he said over phone.Later, during a review meeting with the district administration and the health department officials, he also directed the health officials to take up surveillance and ensure immediate tracking of Covid-19 patients. “It is really satisfactory that as many as 1,041,346 houses were tracked during the 10-day special surveillance drive that ended on Sunday. This campaign was launched with the intent to identify vulnerable people, including those suffering from cancer, renal disease, diabetes, TB, liver ailments, elderly, pregnant women and children below 10 years of age. In this drive, samples of around 35,000 people were taken in the district, of which only 825 were tested Covid-19 positive. The district has 2,894 beds ready against its identified strength of 5,574 beds,” he said.Hailing the efforts made by the district magistrate and his team in containing the positivity and fatality rates, Prasad said that the state government is all set to ensure timely recovery of all the Covid-19 positive patients. “Suhas (the DM) and other officials of the district, have really done a good job. I have asked them to focus on more extensive surveillance, to check the community spread,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-400-bed-covid-hospital-to-be-operational-by-july-end/story-RfhFQLpFeCrymgC4dwqReL.html
14-07-2020||City||Cases surge to 1,508, after 97 test Covid-19 positive in Ludhiana||The district today recorded the biggest spike of 97 positive cases in a single day. Besides, three more persons succumbed to Covid-19, taking the death toll to 35. The number of positive cases has now gone to 1,508.A resident (60) of Dehlon died of Covid-19, while the other death, a man (57) from Iqbal Nagar died at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). A 40- year- old woman from Vijay Nagar died of the virus at Mohandai Hospital.The positive patients include civil judge junior division (CJJD) Rajbir Kaur and her husband who is a government employee.On July 10, Kaur held the court proceeding as duty magistrate and so 11 persons including two stenographers, two naib court and one ahlmad, four lawyers including additional public prosecutor and Salem Tabri police station SHO Baljeet Singh have been placed in home quarantine. Kaur is the seventh high-rank officials to have tested positive within a fortnight.Earlier DCP Ashwani Kapoor, five public servants including, ADC-G AS Bains, ADC-Jagraon Neeru Katyal, Khanna SDM Sandeep Singh, Payal SDM Mankawal Singh and MC joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh tested positive for Covid-19.Beside, Moti Nagar police station SHO and four cops deployed at CIA staff and five healthcare workers have tested positive.A 60- year- old man from Dhuri town of Sangrur and 62 year- old man from Jalandhar and a man (65) from Kot Khalsa, Avtar Avenue Amritsar died of Covid-19 in Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) in Ludhiana.While Congress councillor from Ward No 88, Manpreet Singh Grewal was found Covid-19 positive.He is the second Congress leader to have tested positive for coronavirus. Earlier former youth Congress district president Rajiv Raja was tested positive. Both Manpreet Grewal and Raja are currently placed under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cases-surge-to-1-508-after-97-test-covid-19-positive-in-ludhiana/story-0RX7tROFdUVHpP8uZARKqI.html
14-07-2020||City||Quack held in Ludhiana with 10,000 tablets of habit forming drug||The Machhiwara police arrested a man with no training or licence to deal with medicines for drug peddling on Monday and recovered 10,000 tablets of Tramadol, a habit-forming drug, without relevant documentation.Rajinder Singh of Sherpur Basti of Machhiwara was arrested when he failed to stop his Maruti Alto Car at a special naka set up at Heddon bet, said Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh Inspector Sukhvir Singh, SHO at police station Machhiwara, said when forced to stop and frisked, Rajinder was found to be carrying the tablets.A case under sections 22, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered against him at the Macchiwara police station.The SHO added that Rajinder Singh was also already facing trial in a drug peddling case lodged at the Macchiwara police station in 2011. He is a quack and runs a clinic in the basti (settlement), selling drugs to addicts visiting him. The policemen is questioning him to find out where he sourced the drugs.Earlier on July 3, Ludhiana police recovered 39,000 tablets of Tramadol in two cases and arrested four men, including a chemist and owner of a medical laboratory , without relevant documentation. Tramadol is a schedule ‘H’ drug under the Drugs and Cosmetic Act, 1940, and can be sold under prescription of a registered medical petitioner. It is misused by drug addicts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/quack-held-in-ludhiana-with-10-000-tablets-of-habit-forming-drug/story-MNNgWonIMA4rRUzqxDMI2O.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Burglars flee with Ludhiana store owner’s auto loaded with furniture, TV, mattresses||Burglars made off with a bed, two dressing tables, one LED television screen, an air cooler, and four mattresses from a store in Nanak Nagar at Karabara road early on Tuesday, loading the goods on an auto parked at the premises, police have said.Store owner Ashok Virmani, 48, of Salem Tabri informed the police after his employee Rinku reported for work in the morning at 9.30 am and called him. Rinku found the locks of the main shutter broken and the tempo missing with other goods.CCTV camera footage in the store showed four men in the store. The empty auto was later found parked in a vegetable market.The owner has claimed losses of ₹1.50 lakh in the incident.Virmani added that two thefts had taken place in the market two days ago at a dhaba and a grocery store.Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, SHO at the Daresi police station, said investigations had started and attempts were being made to identify the men in the CCTV camera grabs after a case was registered.Night patrolling in the area would also be increased, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/burglars-flee-with-ludhiana-store-owner-s-auto-loaded-with-furniture-tv-mattresses/story-EvyxS4TSwzGV9nMhMRmnqM.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||₹2,166 cr credit sanctioned to MSMEs in Punjab to mitigate suffering||As part of efforts to mitigate industry suffering and provide proactive financial assistance, ₹2,165.53 crore have been sanctioned to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) under Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) with ₹1,133.93 crore having already been disbursed. Punjab stands at 3rd position among all states in India with 94.93% sanctions, according to official data. There are approximately 1,64,769 MSME eligible loan accounts involving an eligible loan amount of ₹4,372 crore, of which 1,11,881 eligible borrowers have opted for the scheme till last week. Following adverse impact of Covid-19 pandemic on various industries/sectors, the department of financial services, Union ministry of finance India through National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company Ltd (NCGTC) introduced the ECLGS for providing 100% guarantee coverage for additional working capital term loans up to 20% of the entire outstanding loan liability up to Rs 25 crore as on February 29, 2020, subject to certain stipulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-166-cr-credit-sanctioned-to-msmes-in-punjab-to-mitigate-suffering/story-5xwjJWdzej4hVZoo0Dn81I.html
14-07-2020||Noida||New govt order allows markets to open on all five weekdays||In a breather to traders, the Uttar Pradesh government has allowed shops to remain open on all five weekdays and close only over the weekends.The state government on Tuesday issued fresh guidelines ordering all shops, markets, malls and administrative offices to remain closed from Friday 10pm to Monday 5am. The order, however, allows emergency services, grocery shops, etc., to open even on weekends.Following the nationwide lockdown, markets were allowed to be open from May 21 onwards, but only on alternate days based on the odd-even shop numbers system. By easing these restrictions, shopkeepers can now remain open for business for 20 days a month, as opposed to the earlier 11 days.“In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, all administrative offices across the state, apart from those involved in emergency services and banks, will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday. All rural and urban markets, shops, haats, grain markets, business centres, etc., will be close during this period (Friday 10pm to Monday 5am). They will be allowed to open from 9am to 9pm for the rest of the week. The weekend markets will also have to be open during weekdays only,” said an order signed by chief secretary Uttar Pradesh dated July 14.The new restriction plan allows public transport, goods transport, fuel stations near highways, IT and IT enabled services to operate without any restrictions and will also allow all domestic and international flights. “District magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, Suhas LY, has informed that new guidelines issued with respect to weekend restrictions from the state government shall be applicable in the district from today. All concerned parties are requested to note and comply,” a statement from the district administration said on Tuesday.Meanwhile,traders’ organisation have welcomed the move stating that with more days for business, they expect revenue to rise.“It’s a good step as earlier we got only 11 days a month to open shops which will now be 20 days. The trade has suffered heavily due to the lockdown, and business is only 10-12 % of what it used to be before the lockdown began in March. We now expect business to increase to 25-30% of what it was before March. However, weekend closure is an awkward decision as the working class will face issues in making purchases, as most of them would do so during weekends,” Sushil Kumar Jain, president, Sector 18 market association, and head of the Confederation of All India Traders Association, Delhi-NCR, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/new-govt-order-allows-markets-to-open-on-all-five-weekdays/story-hnV9hiuirHCXEasmvjcW8J.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Nine deaths, 213 fresh Covid-19 cases in Punjab||Punjab on Tuesday reported nine deaths and 291 fresh Covid-19 cases. With this, the number of positive patients’ count in the state has reached 8,511 and the death toll to 213.Six patients, three from Ludhiana and one each from Amritsar, Sangrur and Jalandhar died while 108 patients, 97 from Ludhiana, tested positive for the virus. This is the highest single-day spike in Covid cases in Ludhiana district. The positive patients include a 32-year-old civil judge (junior division) and her 33-year-old husband, who is a central government employee.In Patiala, 78 persons tested positive for the virus. Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said 52 are from Patiala city, nine from Nabha, eight from Rajpura, two from Samana and seven from different villages across the district.Two women from Sangrur, aged 55 and 60, died at Government Medical College Patiala DMC, Ludhiana.A 62-year-old man of Kahlwon village in Jalandhar district succumbed to the virus at the DMC, Ludhiana. Besides, 65 persons tested positive for the virus in the district. Meanwhile, nine persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar.A 62-year-old man of Partap Nagar in Amritsar died of the virus at a private hospital. The district also reported 15 fresh Covid-19 cases of which three are new community transmission cases and 12 are contacts of positive patients. Besides, two people contracted the infection in Gurdaspur district.Twelve people, including eight doctors of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, and the mother of the Faridkot deputy commissioner tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said that among the positive patients, 10 are staff members of the medical college’s orthopaedic department.Besides the ortho department, the OPD and cath lab have been closed, while the medical superintendent is also quarantined as he was in contact with positive patients.A 53-year-old resident of Fazilka district tested positive for Covid-19 after his death on July 12. Meanwhile, two people were tested coronavirus positive in Fazilka, three in Bathinda and two each in Muktsar and Kapurthala.Mohali reported two deaths and 21 fresh cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-deaths-213-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-punjab/story-vIAiYKgsb0Z5ztDMx0M5TK.html
14-07-2020||City||Weekend curbs: Ghaziabad admin to fully implement govt’s order, markets to open five-day a week||Ghaziabad: Traders in the district got a big relief on Tuesday after the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary issued a formal government order for weekend restrictions in the state, ending the two-day uncertainty over the opening of markets for five days a week.On Tuesday, the Ghaziabad administration said that the order will be fully implemented, thus allowing the markets in the district to open from Monday to Friday between 9am and 9pm. The different markets in the district were operating on alternate days.“The order issued by the UP chief secretary will be fully implemented and all directions mentioned therein will be fully applicable in Ghaziabad,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.In his order on Tuesday, state chief secretary RK Tiwari said that the restrictions would be in place from 10pm on Friday to 5am on Monday till further orders to contain the Covid-19 spread in the state. During this period all markets, haats, mandis, commercial establishments, all government offices (barring those engaged in essential services and banks) shall remain closed, the order said.“Any other day for scheduled weekly closing will be shifted to Saturdays and Sundays and weekly markets, operating on Saturday/Sunday will function from Monday to Friday. All religious places may open during the period while observing social distancing and health protocols. The industrial units, including IT and IT-enabled services, will continue to function as usual. Railways and UP roadways will function normally like before. Mandis and shops dealing in fruits and vegetables will remain open as usual,” the order stated further.The order has brought a major relief for traders as they were opening their shops for three days in a week.“Extended timing will increase sales and efficiency of work. Now, with the UP government order, there is no confusion. The market sentiments will also improve and all traders will work in accordance with the timings and days of opening applicable for them,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti – Indirapuram.Rajneesh Bansal, chairman, Turab Nagar Vyapar Mandal, said, “The alternate day opening had given rise to number of disputes between shop owners and tenants over non-payment of rent. In order to settle the disputes, monthly rentals have been halved till the restrictions continue. Now, with revised timings and five-day week opening, customers will also be benefitted as they can move around in different markets in a single day which was not possible with alternate day opening.”On Sunday, the government had announced that all markets in the state would be allowed to open from Monday to Friday and they will remain shut for two days on weekends for cleanliness and sanitization drive in order to break the chain of infection. But the Ghaziabad DM had said, “The administration is waiting for the government order about opening of markets. Once we receive it, we will be implementing the directions.”Apart from alternate opening days, the markets in Ghaziabad remained shut on Sundays while traders had to deal with different opening and closing timings announced from time to time.On May 22, the Ghaziabad administration issued orders for opening of 34 major markets in different areas from 10am to 5pm. There were subsequent orders that all shops would be allowed to open from 9am to 9pm from June 8. On July 2, the administration further revised timings for shops (from 9am to 7.30pm) after the UP chief secretary on June 30 directed for imposition of night curfew from 8pm to 6am in six districts of Meerut division, which includes Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts. However, the extended night curfew restriction (8pm to 6am) in Meerut division were applicable till July 10.The state government had directed for two-day weekend restrictions for the first time on July 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/weekend-curbs-ghaziabad-admin-to-fully-implement-govt-s-order-markets-to-open-five-day-a-week/story-ngclCAM2u6ftA0t82VNSXJ.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Vehicle with artwork on its body can’t be denied registration: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has ruled that a vehicle can’t be denied registration merely because there is artwork on its body. The bench of justice Jaishree Thakur directed the Chandigarh administration to register one such car, which was denied registration, within two weeks.The multicolour Ambassador Grand Harit-C-1800, belongs to a high court lawyer, Ranjit Malhotra, who had bought it from a counsellor of the European Union posted at Delhi in July 2019. He received the 2009 model Bharat Stage- III car in August, upon which he obtained a no-objection certificate from the registering authorities at Delhi and completed other formalities. But the Chandigarh authority refused to register it. The reason for purchasing the vehicle from Delhi was the art work done on the car’s body by a renowned Mexican artist, Senkoe, Malhotra had told court in his petition filed after the registration was denied. He also cited a vehicle being used by JW Marriot Hotel in Delhi, which has the face of painter Salvador Dali spray painted on it. Such cars are plying in Delhi without any hindrance, he had told court. The administration had argued that during inspection it was found that the colour of the original vehicle had been changed from white to multicolour. No vehicle can be altered so as to change the original specification made by the manufacturer, which in the instant case would be the colour of the vehicle, the UT had told court.“The reason for denying registration merely on the ground that there is art work done on the body of the vehicle, where the base remains white, defies logic. Any reasonable person can easily make out that a white car had some art work done upon it. Like a canvas with a spray of flowers. The base colour of the canvas would remain as it is,” the bench said.The bench observed that the car had not been subjected to any alteration as would change its basic structure, nor has there had been a change in any of its basic features. “No doubt the art work done upon it is colourful, but has it changed the basic structure of the car or has the vehicle been altered in any manner which is not permitted by virtue of Section 52 of the Act? The answer is in the negative,” the bench said. Section 52 of the Motor Vehicles Act 1988 bars any kind of “alteration” in the car.The court said any person who drives upon the GT Road would see slogans, quotations and colourful paint jobs done on back and front of trucks that ply from Jammu and Kashmir to Kanyakumari. “Some of the standard ones are ’OK TATA’, ’Horn Please’, ’Hum Do Hamare Do’, ’Mera Bharat Mahaan’, ’Use Dipper at Night’. The trucks are beautifully decorated with artwork done on some panel or the other,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vehicle-with-artwork-on-its-body-can-t-be-denied-registration-hc/story-umXLm0leGiI67mropOWf5J.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Multani abduction case: CBI deliberately not sharing documents, says Punjab Police||In its reply to the court of special magistrate for CBI, the Punjab Police said the central probe agency was “deliberately” not sharing the documents related to the 1991 alleged abduction of Balwant Singh Multani, a case in which former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini is an accused.Multani, who worked as a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO), was picked up allegedly by police after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then Chandigarh SSP. Later, the police claimed that Multani, son of a former IAS officer, had escaped from the police custody and his whereabouts were not known.In the last hearing, the CBI had refused to share the status report, which was returned by Punjab and Haryana High Court to the investigating agency in 2016, saying it was an “internal communication” between the CBI and the court.On Tuesday, seeking directions from the court to the CBI for handing over the documents, the Punjab Police said “status report is not an internal communication or privileged document between the high court and the CBI”. The matter will now come up for hearing on July 20 for final arguments and the CBI court is expected to pronounce its order on the matter.On May 6, a case was registered against Saini and seven others in Mohali on a complaint from Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh.On June 6, the Punjab Police moved an application in the CBI court, Chandigarh, seeking documents of the preliminary probe as the case was initially investigated by the CBI in 2007. In its reply, the CBI had said it keeps records only for five years. On June 8, the police filed another application seeking the status report that the high court had returned to the investigating agency in 2016 which also had the documents with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/multani-abduction-case-cbi-deliberately-not-sharing-documents-says-punjab-police/story-xVWe6GPaOQicrN3vsorcDK.html
14-07-2020||City||Delhi: Lessons on gender sensitivity, life skills, sign language to be imparted in North body’s schools||New Delhi: From training teachers in dispelling myths related to transgender persons and include trans-children in classrooms to making students ready for life challenges, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation is gearing up for reforming the methods of imparting education in the over 700 schools run by it.At least 35 life and survival skills, such as reading maps, how to strike a conversation, road rules, how to be safe while using social media, seek help from strangers or respond to disasters, among others, will be made part of the curriculum taught in municipal schools, civic officials said.“The reforms are part of a larger initiative to make classrooms inclusive. So far, the course curriculum is literacy-based only and does not prepare students for the challenges of life. These skill sets are crucial for the holistic development of students that will help them become successful adults,” said Ira Singhal, deputy commissioner of the North body, who is leading the initiative.She added that it is an extensive exercise for which 75 ‘mentor teachers’ have been tasked with preparing lesson plans for tagging the skills with corresponding subjects.“We are preparing classroom plans on how to teach a particular skill and what chapter of a subject it could be tagged along with. Teachers will be given guidebooks for imparting these lessons as part of the course. Besides, we will also prepare short videos for the same, for which we have roped in a private player to provide technical support. The idea is to subtly introduce these skill sets in the course,” she said.Teachers are being trained virtually through webinars in the exercise. The skills will vary from learning how to manage time, money, visit a bank, know about helpline numbers in times of emergencies, such as police, fire and ambulance services, read maps for navigation, gender sensitisation, personal hygiene and how to cope with failure, and the like. The plan will be implemented in various stages and will take about a year to be introduced to all classes, while being evaluated in every phase.The North corporation has 714 primary schools under it where nearly 2.5 lakh children are imparted basic education from nursery up to class 5. Most of the children enrolled in these schools come from low-income groups. TRAINING OF TEACHERS, PRINCIPALS Apart from this, about 7,500 teachers and heads of the north body’s schools will also be trained on transgender sensitivity under the project titled ‘Purple Board’, to be launched Monday. The focus of the programme will be on dispelling myths around transpersons and sensitising teachers on how to make schools inclusive of trans and gender non-conforming students by addressing trans-phobia and dealing with trans-bullying.For this, the civic body has tied up with SPACE (Society for People’s Awareness, Care and Empowerment), an NGO working in the field of gender issues. “We will be training around 500 teachers and principals per day in two to three different batches for a month-and-a-half. We are glad that the civic body has engaged us in this programme, as this will be the first such initiative for municipal schools, where children are young and need to be dealt with sensitively from early on,” said Anjan Joshi, executive director, SPACE. He added that it is important to introduce schools to trans-identities, the terminologies associated with them and the needs and rights of such persons. “It is a matter of education and awareness. There have been many cases when transpersons have shared their experiences of being bullied, abused or mocked when they were merely class 2 or 3 students, not just at the hands of peers but even teachers at times. At such a young age, such experiences can deeply impact a child’s mind and how they begin to identify with their own selves. These are the issues that will be addressed through these training sessions,” he said.For instance, he added, there are many children who do not confirm to the gender identity they are assigned at birth, due to which they start having identity issues as they grow, which calls on the need for a gender-neutral atmosphere in schools such as in the case of gender-specific washrooms and uniforms, which must not be meant solely for the conventional gender identities.The NGO will conduct a refresher course for teachers once the schools reopen. Also, a session on gender issues will be organised for children, in which parents will also be engaged. Singhal said that so far, trans-children have been facing social boycott and have been deprived of an education. Even those who attend school for some years drop out at some point. Training is required to bring trans-children on the same platform as other students, she said.The Delhi government had last year launched a training curriculum for teachers to handle concerns of trans-students.TEACHERS, STUDENTS TO LEARN BASICS OF SIGN LANGUAGEIn another reform towards inclusive education, the civic body has been training teachers in the different aspects of disabilities and how to make children with special needs part of the same classroom.“It has been made compulsory for all teachers to learn the basics of sign language, after which they will help all students of classes 4 and 5 learn the same. This is crucial because children who have hearing disabilities are not able to communicate even with their peers, friends or parents, as nobody understands sign language except for them, which isolates them and affects their overall development. It will be a fun exercise for all regular students as well to learn sign language and be able to have a basic conversation with their peers when they are assimilated in the same classroom,” said Singhal. So far, there are around 1,000 children with special needs enrolled in the North body’s schools. The civic body, with the help of special educators, will also conduct an assessment of all students to identify undiagnosed disabilities, including learning disabilities, which are often left unidentified, so that early intervention could be made. Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-lessons-on-gender-sensitivity-life-skills-sign-language-to-be-imparted-in-north-body-s-schools/story-ZL1LS1XDJ8LsCfeTZMp5MJ.html
14-07-2020||City||Kejriwal hails govt school results, says AAP’s education model has made history||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s education model in the national capital has made “history” with the government schools posting their best ever pass percentage of 98% in CBSE Class 12 results announced on Monday. Also, for the fifth year in a row, the Delhi government schools had a better pass percentage than private schools. It was 5.9 percentage points more this year. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal hailed the students for their performance and said that no government schools in any state have achieved such a great result in the last 70 years. “The private schools in Delhi have achieved 92.2% results, and government schools have received 97.92%, which is the highest among the government schools in the entire country. Examinations were conducted in a total of 916 schools of the Delhi government, out of which 396 schools have received 100% results,” he said.The chief minister said the AAP government in Delhi has completely changed the education system. “If the students, teachers, and principals are the same, how a revolution in the education system was brought about? It is because the politics of Delhi changed, it is you, the people, who voted for an honest government in Delhi. The AAP government believes that if we want to strengthen the future of the country, we have to invest the most in education. All that is changing is not because of us, it is because of the teachers, students, and parents. We have just changed the atmosphere, and we have given facilities where students can study and be taught, and the teachers can teach,” he said.According to the data provided by the Delhi government on Tuesday, the number of schools securing 100% pass percentage has risen to 396 this year from last year’s 203 schools. Similarly, 897 schools have secured above 90% results, higher than last year’s 732 schools. The 21 Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalayas (RPVV)-- the model schools of the Delhi government --- have recorded the pass percentage of 99.92%. Out of five Schools of Excellence (SoE) -- all-English medium schools of Delhi government --- three recorded 100% pass percentage. In a major improvement, the pass percentage of evening shift schools has also improved to 96.53% over last year’s 90%. In Delhi, around 150 government schools run in double shifts — for girls in the morning and boys in the evening.Though government schools posted a better result, Kejriwal said that there is no competition between private and government schools. “The government schools in Delhi were considered inferior and were looked down upon. People wanted to send their children to private schools. But today, the results have change this perception. Today, the students in government schools are feeling much more confident, and studying in government schools is considered a matter of pride.”Terming the Class 12 results of government schools encouraging, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said, “It is not only the pass percentage that is improving, but the marks scored by students are also constantly improving. That is determined by the Quality Index (QI), which reflects the performance of our students by checking and comparing the aggregate marks scored by them. The Average QI went up to 341.79 this year from 306 recorded last year and 291 in 2018.”Kejriwal also urged the students who could not clear the exams not to get disheartened. “I want to tell the 2% of children who have either failed or have got compartment, please do not be disheartened. We are with you. We will conduct extra classes for you, and I am sure that this 98% passing result will turn into 100% after we obtain the results of the compartment. The Delhi government is with you,” he said. The overall pass percentage in CBSE Class 12 exams is 88.78%, compared to last year’s 83.40%. The board had to cancel exams of 12 subjects across the country and 11 others in riot-hit north-east Delhi in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The students were evaluated on the basis of the average of marks in exams they took before the lockdown came into effect on March 25. The board also decided against releasing the merit list. considering the prevailing situation. Several government school principals said that their results have improved this year. Rajpal Singh, principal of RPVV in Dwarka, said, “The average score of our 137 students is 450.5 out of 600 this year. It means the majority of them have scored above 90%.”The AAP government in Delhi has been focusing on school education ever since they came to power in 2015. The pass percentage of the first batch of Class 12 students under the AAP government was 85.9% in 2016. It has improved over the years to 88.2% (2017), 90.6% (2018) and 94.24% (2019).Educationist Meeta Sengupta said the Delhi government has made two major changes in public education in the city -- invested a lot of money in improving infrastructure and motivated teachers. “They have tried to do many things that motivate and encourage parents, students and teachers. They brought an entrepreneurship angle to the classes. It’s an attitude. They have made an organised effort and translate which is commendable,” she said.NDMC and Navyug SchoolsThe schools run by New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) have also recorded an improvement in CBSE Class 12 results with the pass percentage increasing to 95.41% from last year’s 94.21%. The pass percentage of Navyug Schools have also increased to 98% this year from last year’s 97.6%.In a statement released on Tuesday, the NDMC said, “Regular mentoring and monitoring by the NDMC at all levels created an environment of accountability and responsibility. Subject wise enrichment sessions and visits by academic consultants/officers to observe different aspects of academics proved to be very effective. Simultaneously, attention was paid to ensure regularity and punctuality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-hails-govt-school-results-says-aap-s-education-model-has-made-history/story-nC7S14afnbiMe0gZyLT6wM.html
14-07-2020||City||CBSE to announce class 10 results on Wednesday||New Delhi: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will announce the class 10 board examination results on Wednesday, officials said on Tuesday.Union Human Resource Development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” made the announcement on Twitter. “My dear Children, Parents, and Teachers, the results of class X CBSE board examinations will be announced tomorrow. I wish all the students best of luck.”The board had announced the class 12 results on Monday. While the class 12 exams were rescheduled to be held in July in all parts of the country, the class 10 exams were slated to be held only in northeast Delhi, where CBSE had to postpone exams earlier in view of the communal riots in February. The exams of six subjects, including Hindi, English, Science and Social Science, were pending in northeast Delhi. However, later all exams were cancelled in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The CBSE is yet to reveal the alternative mode of evaluation for students of class 10.Last year, a total of 17, 61,078 students appeared for the CBSE class 10 exams, out of which 91.1 % had passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-to-announce-class-10-results-on-wednesday/story-Ti8SGgF66pfRCEVgbunxIJ.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||6 more Haryana districts attain critical tag as contagion statistics get grim||Six more districts in Haryana have joined Faridabad, Gurugram, Sonepat and Rewari this week for having more than 200 coronavirus active cases and more than 15 active cases per lakh population, both critical values as per the parameters recommended by the Union health ministry.Health officials said this indicated that contagion spread is picking up in other parts of the state besides the national capital region (NCR).The newly marked critical districts having over 200 active cases are Hisar, Rohtak and Ambala while Jhajjar, Mahendragrah, Panipat and Rohtak have bagged the critical tag for having more than 15 active cases per lakh population, as per the health department statistics.Another worrying aspect is that the doubling rate for infection, which is calculated over a seven-day period, has fallen below the critical value of less than 14 days in five districts for the first time since the outbreak. These are Hisar (10.3 days), Mahendergarh (13.8 days), Panipat (10.8 days), Rewari (11.1 days) and Sirsa (13.6 days).While the sample positivity rate, which reveals the number of positive cases per sample tested, has increased since July 5 in three NCR districts, there have been no new additions in the number of districts displaying critical value of over 6% positivity rate. The sample positivity rate in Faridabad has increased to 14.2% from 12.9%. In Rewari, it has gone up to 9.2% from 7% and in Sonepat, the increase is 6.9% from 6.8%. The rate, however, came down from 11.8% to 9.8% in Gurugram this week. Bhiwani with a sample positivity rate of 5.9% and Jhajjar with 5.5% are closing in to cross the 6% critical mark.However, additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora, said Haryana’s recovery rate of infected cases is over 75% and the fatality rate has come down to 1.38%. “Those two aspects and the fact that active cases are in and around 5,000 per day matter the most,” he said.Following central government’s diktat, the state government had increased the Standard Q Covid-19 antigen detection testing in the five troublesome NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Jhajjar and Rohtak. More than 15,000 antigen tests have been done in Gurugram with a positivity rate of 3.5%. The antigen positivity rate in Faridabad has been 8.4% while it is 4.9% in Sonepat, 2.3% in Jhajjar and 1.4% in Rohtak, as per the last week’s statistics.The ACS said the fact that the positivity rate is low in the NCR districts despite increased antigen testing is an encouraging sign. “Now, all the districts have started the antigen testing. We are also buying two lakh more antigen testing kits,” Arora said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6-more-haryana-districts-attain-critical-tag-as-contagion-statistics-get-grim/story-Pq9ubFsxY7SiDj6vVtbedK.html
14-07-2020||City||Students making a perfect mark in painting||New Delhi: When N Sriya, 18, painted a cityscape composition depicting four friends near a water body with trees all around, a cycle, and buildings in the background for her Class 12 Central Board of Secondary Education Painting exam, even she did not expect that it would get a perfect 100 score. The Class 12 student from Delhi Public School, Vasant Kunj, said the marks had helped improve her aggregate to 94%.High or perfect scores in arts and literature unheard of till recent years are becoming a norm. Teachers from the capital’s top schools say it is because of multiple evaluation components – theory, practical, and internal assessments – that students score well in these subjects.Of the 65 students who scored 100 in various subjects in Amity International School, Mayur Vihar, this year, 33 got it in Painting and 18 in Sculpture. At DPS, Vasant Kunj, of the 27 students who secured 100 in various subjects, seven got it in Painting and at least 10 scored more than 95. Out of 16 students studying Painting at Springdales, Pusa Road, barring one student, all scored above 90.Ashok Ninawe, associate professor at the College of Art, Delhi, said high scores in Class 12 does not have any bearing on the quality of professionals who pass out of the institution. “Students scoring 100 in art is unusual. However, the course and evaluation of the board papers is basic. If students fulfil the elementary criteria, they can be awarded perfect scores. For pursuing a higher education degree in the subject which includes professional-level courses. Also, students have to pass an entrance exam which tests their capabilities at a different level. So it doesn’t affect the quality of students opting for the field after school,” said Ninawe.Students opting for Painting in Class 12 are evaluated on three components -- 30-mark theory paper, 70-mark practical examination which entails painting a theme-based composition on the spot, doing a still-life portrait of inanimate objects; and a 20-mark portfolio of work done in the two years of their higher secondary education.When asked what prompts evaluators to give perfect scores in art, teachers said for still-life sketching, shading, balance, and the precision helps students fetch marks. Ram Bali, who teaches at DPS, Vasant Kunj, said, “The assessment is done keeping in mind that they are students and not artists. As long as they get the basics right, they are likely to get perfect scores.”Bali said that when it came to the 25-mark painting composition, evaluators check if the theme of the topic matches with the different elements in the students’ paintings. For instance, if the topics ask for a painting of a summer vegetable market, students will have to paint vegetables available in the season and also take note of the clothes the human figures are wearing. Examiners look for the presence of at least three human figures, animals, and different elements in the painting.If a student’s portfolio is promising, teachers also ignore “silly mistakes” like leaving a white spot on the painting or the compromised quality of the paper, which sometimes affects the watercolour painting.“Painting anatomically correct human figures with multiple elements and suitable colour schemes as per the topic helps us score better,” said Sriya.Tuhin Bhattacharya, who teaches Painting at Amity, Mayur Vihar said, “In the 30-mark theory paper, there are different types of questions like whether the wheel in the Indian flag is Persian blue or Navy blue. If students go through the textbooks carefully, they will be able to answer the questions. For their portfolio, presentation matters as well. For instance, detailing on the mounds being used for the paintings can help them score better.”Of the 12.18 lakh students who registered to appear for the Class 12 CBSE examinations this year, over 1.10 lakh candidates had registered for Painting this year – indicating an interest among students towards the subject.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-making-a-perfect-mark-in-painting/story-x7dypnJ02hJd6F1s3I5K6K.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana dyeing unit faces action after STP found non-functional||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) conducted a surprise inspection at a dyeing unit in Phase-8 of Focal Point area on Tuesday and found its effluent treatment plant (ETP) was not functional, with the likelihood of contaminants being dumped into Buddha Nullah.PPCB officials said a non-functional ETP meant that effluents from the unit, Aggarwal Scientific Dyers, were flowing into the nullah through Municipal Corporation (MC) sewer lines. “The owner is a habitual offender as earlier an environmental penalty of ₹20 lakh was imposed to him when the monitoring committee of National Green Tribunal (NGT) had visited the unit in August last year and found the ETP non-functional. The unit was allowed to operate only after the owner submitted the environmental compensation.” said Sandeep Bahl, PPCB superintending engineer.“A report regarding the same has been prepared and strict action will be taken against the firm,” said Bahl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-dyeing-unit-faces-action-after-stp-found-non-functional/story-ykR7fgx4QBwYE8Z9DgsA8I.html
14-07-2020||City||DU final-year open-book exams from Aug 10 to 31||New Delhi: The Delhi University will conduct its final year open book examination between August 10 and 31, the timeline suggested by the Delhi High Court after the varsity submitted a date sheet for holding the exam.In an affidavit submitted on Tuesday, the university said it has decided to start the open book examination from August 17 and conclude the process by September 8. It had also said that the date sheets for the undergraduate courses has been finalised and those for the postgraduate courses will be declared before July 20.The high court is hearing a bunch of pleas by several students which had challenged the decision of the university to conduct the open book examination, stating that students do not have ample resources to appear in the exam.Responding to the DU affidavit, a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said, “You were so confident about the conduct of exams. Now you have pushed it to mid-August. Why are you starting in August and why not July. When you were already prepared then why are you not conducting the exams now”?The bench said that the exams should be “compressed” and the declaration of results should be done at the earliest. It said that it was about the future of 2.7 lakh students and they cannot be made to wait till November 30. It asked Vinay Gupta, Dean of Examination, about the feasibility of changing the schedule.The court proposed that the first set of mock test should start from July 27 instead of July 31 and the second set of mock test should be conducted from August 1 instead of August 4. Gupta agreed to the changes while also agreeing that the online examination will be conducted from August 10 instead of August 18. He also agreed to concluding the exam by Aug 31, as proposed by the court, instead of September 8. The university, however, has not issued a fresh notification yet. The court asked the varsity to give a timeline for the conduct of the physical exams while also indicating the timeline for the declaration of the results of the online open book exams. The matter would be now heard on July 22.Earlier, explaining the challenges in the conduct of exams, DU’s counsel Sachin Datta told the court that there are certain problems such as data entry. He said that due to a large number of students, a lot of data has to be put online after the exams. He said that the students would be given additional time till July 22 to fill the forms.He also submitted that colleges and students would be able to access the exam portal created on the DU website to check their data like name, date of birth and other information. He said if they wanted to change or correct any data entry, the students will have to ask the college concerned.To a specific query from the court, Datta said that the physical and blended mode exams would be conducted two weeks after the open book papers.Students and teachers, however, persisted with their demand for cancellation of the examination. DU Executive Council member Rajesh Jha, who teaches at Rajdhani College, said, “Despite experiencing chaos, glitches, and crashes during previous mock tests and even leakage of personal data of students, the university has decided to go ahead with online open book exams. Students and teachers are opposed to online exams since it is anti-student and anti-social justice.”Students said the changes have only added to the uncertainty around the final-year exams. “The ongoing court cases were our last hope, now that the issue has become highly political. However, today’s hearing has disappointed all of us because shifting the exams earlier by mere 6-7 days does not solve any of our problems. We expected the court to direct DU to resort to alternative measures which are less discriminatory and far more justifiable in nature,” said Naman Biyani, a final-year student at the university.While the university has suggested students to use common service centres in their localities to write online exams in case they do not have the internet facility at home, the students have maintained that those who live in remote areas were at a disadvantage since there might not be electricity and internet connections in their localities.(With inputs from Kainat Sarfaraz)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-final-year-open-book-exams-from-aug-10-to-31/story-rGEoC2qUo9HQ6J9zJXueOJ.html
14-07-2020||Delhi||DDA approves extra FAR for warehouses, extends deadline for use conversion charges to Dec 31||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) Tuesday approved a slew of proposals to help the business community in the capital meet the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, apart from approving proposals to make its housing projects financially viable.The land-owning agency, during a meeting chaired by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, has approved a proposal to increase the ground coverage of warehouses in integrated freight complexes and wholesale markets from 30% to 40% and the floor area ratio (FAR) from 80% to 100%. This has been done as the demand for warehouses has increased as most people now prefer to do their shopping online in view of social distancing norms to contain the spread of Covid-19.A senior DDA official, on condition of anonymity, said, “Due to changing times and introduction of numerous online shopping sites, the demand for the ‘warehouse to home’ model of business has increased, and so has the need for warehouses for various commodities.” The proposal will now be placed in the public domain for suggestions/objections before it is notified.The DDA also approved a proposal to extend the deadline for payment of use conversion charges (which are to be paid by property owners for using a residential building for commercial purposes) and an additional FAR from June 28 to December 31, 2020. “Chaired @Official_dda Authority meeting. Sale of 50 per cent of EWS flats of DDA quota in group housing projects simplified to avoid double stamp duty thereby reducing cost & facilitating expeditious allotment,” Baijal later tweeted. A lot of commercial establishments were sealed in 2017 for misusing property use norms and these establishments were supposed to pay a use conversion charges to get the property de-sealed.The pandemic, DDA officials said, has adversely impacted the real estate sector. To make its housing problems, especially in situ redevelopment projects, financially viable, the DDA has decided to give additional FAR to the builder on the remunerative component.The senior official, quoted above, said this will help the DDA start work on 16 of its in situ redevelopment projects for which it is preparing detailed project reports. The DDA plans to redevelop 30 slum clusters as part of its in situ redevelopment policy.Currently, in an in situ the project, the developer is supposed to construct housing on 60% of the land and use remaining land for commercial purposes to recover the cost of the project. The DDA has decided that the maximum FAR on the remunerative component will now be 300, irrespective of the land use. The FAR earlier was 200.Another senior DDA official, also on condition of anonymity, said, “Developer entities will come forward for in situ projects only when they know they can recover the project cost. We are planning to tender five in situ redevelopment projects by the end of the year. This will help the developer entity recover the project cost.” The proposal will now be placed in the public domain for suggestions/objections before it is notified.The land-owning agency has further simplified the allotment process for houses in EWS (economic weaker section) category. This has been done to avoid double payment of stamp duty.Until now, 50% of EWS houses constructed by private developers were purchased by DDA for allotment to people in the EWS category. In the process, the stamp duty was being paid twice—once when the flats were sold to DDA by the builder, and then again by allottees when they purchased it from the DDA.“The burden of the dual stamp duty was getting transferred to the beneficiary and in the process the cost of flat was rising, which was defeating the sole purpose of affordable housing,” the second DDA official said.The DDA has now decided that the developer entity will be allowed to undertake actual transfer of property to the EWS allottee, once approved by the DDA, the second official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-approves-extra-far-for-warehouses-extends-deadline-for-use-conversion-charges-to-dec-31/story-VJvkFVRj4AHqEjWpuHTGjM.html
14-07-2020||City||Day after losing bail, former Jalandhar bishop Mulakkal tests positive for Covid-19||A day after a Kerala court cancelled the bail plea of former Jalandhar bishop Franco Mulakkal, who is accused of raping a nun, he tested positive for Covid-19 here on Tuesday. District health department nodal officer Dr TP Singh Sandhu confirmed that Mulakkal was found infected with the virus in a TrueNat test that records results faster than the RT-PCR test. Mulakkal’s public relations officer Father Peter Kavumpuram claimed that the former bishop’s health “was not so good”.Fr Kavumpuram said Mulakkal had met his lawyer Mandeep Singh Sachdeva on June 29 and 30. When the lawyer tested positive on July 2 and his daughters on July 5, the names of his contacts were listed. Mulakkal too was called for a check up, but tested negative on July 6 and was in home quarantine since. On July 12 night, he developed some symptoms and was taken to the civil hospital. Mulakkal has now tested positive for the virus, he said.On Monday, a special court in Kottayam that is hearing the nun rape case cancelled Mulakkal’s bail and issued non-bailable arrest warrants against him. The court posted the case for hearing on August 13. The case surfaced in 2018 after a 43-year-old nun had complained to the police in Kottayam that Mulakkal had raped her several times between 2014 and 2016. The nun is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab.But Mulakkal denied the allegations saying he was implicated after he took action against her for financial irregularities in the convent. Later, a special investigation team was formed and it arrested him in September 2018. After spending 40 days in jail, he was granted bail. He was later removed from the post of the bishop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-losing-bail-former-jalandhar-bishop-mulakkal-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-x1cfpYdOhVBU3IRcvlp9fO.html
14-07-2020||City||Plagued by missed deadlines, fresh tenders to be floated for Faridkot sewerage project||Faridkot The state government will float fresh tenders for laying interlocking tiles and connecting houses to sewer lines under the Faridkot sewerage pipeline project as the private firm that was allotted the project has missed multiple deadlines.The project was announced in 2014 by the previous SAD-BJP government. Its ground-breaking ceremony, however, was performed by then deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal in June 2016. The Rs 284 crore project (Rs 210 crore cost of the project and Rs 74 crore for 10 years’ maintenance), which included laying a sewerage system and sewage treatment plant for the cluster of Faridkot, Jaitu and Kotkapura, was scheduled to be completed in 18 months.It was jointly allotted to Mumbai-based construction companies, Shapoorji Pallonji Company Pvt Ltd and Khilari Infrastructure Pvt Ltd. Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon, political adviser to the CM, said that even after laying the foundation stone three times, funds were not released for the pipeline project. “In 2017, after putting a lot of efforts, the Congress government got Rs 125 crore approved from Housing and Urban Development Corporation for the project. The company has failed to complete the project on time. In the meantime, 250 notices were sent to the company and Rs 10 crore penalty was imposed for various reasons. The government has taken back the works laying of interlocking tiles and connecting houses to sewer lines from the private company. We will soon float fresh tenders for these works,” he added. Work on the project remained suspended for more than 13 months with the change of government in the state due to ‘payment issues’, it was restarted in January 2018. However, the contractors have missed the third extended deadline of June 30 to complete the work. Most roads in the city that were dug up to lay drainage pipes have not been levelled after laying the pipeline. The dug-up roads were covered at many places by just putting sand into them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plagued-by-missed-deadlines-fresh-tenders-to-be-floated-for-faridkot-sewerage-project/story-B39JBqMRdJXFosx3dTowyN.html
14-07-2020||City||Niti Aayog team reviews Covid-19 preparedness in NCR districts||A team comprising officials from Niti Aayog on Tuesday held detailed discussions with officials of four districts of Meerut division and asked them to follow Delhi’s model of combating Covid-19 — ramping up testing while simultaneously making efforts to bring down the case fatality rate. The team led by Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul arrived in Ghaziabad on Tuesday and took a review of different strategies being adopted by the NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh.The visit came after Union Home Minister Amit Shah had held a video conference with UP and NCR officials in June 18 and called for a unified approach to deal with the Covid-19 outbreak. On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also appreciated efforts of the Centre and Delhi government in containing the Covid pandemic outbreak and directed that a similar approach adopted in the entire NCR.“The Niti Aayog officials also called for a consolidated policy for NCR and asked officials to increase antigen testing in UP and work towards bringing down number of fatalities. We gave a presentation to the team about the recently conducted special surveillance drive in Meerut division and also appraised them about strategies we have adopted to bring down the case fatality rate, especially in the month of July,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate.The officials told the team that four districts of Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut and Baghpat, under the Meerut division, had a case fatality rate of about 3.04% (124 deaths) in the month of June. This had come down to .7% (23 deaths) in the first 11 days of July.The team was also apprised that a total of 15,89,22 testing were conducted till July 12 and 8,684 cases turned positive with positivity rate of 5.46%. The recovery rate stood at 66.44%.“The team praised our district for two indicators — tests per million and case fatality rate. These are the two factors which are observed by the Centre. All the credit goes to our health teams. We have better TPM (tests per million) indicator than other districts in Delhi, UP and Haryana, besides keeping our case fatality rate low. We are already working on a strategy of ‘track, contain and treat’,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar.Till July 12, Gautam Budh Nagar district had conducted at least 45,902 tests, according to data prepared by Meerut division officers for the review meet.. During the special surveillance drive conducted from July 2 to July 12 in Meerut division — which comprises six districts and was the most affected by Covid-19 — the teams identified 14333 suspected cases from 3278871 households surveyed in the districts of Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut and Baghpat.Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health), who was also present during the meeting in Ghaziabad, requested the team for five lakh more rapid antigen test kits for UP and said that testing will be hiked to 50,000 tests per day in the next few daysTill July 12, the total testing in UP reached 11,56079 and daily testing has also been ramped up to 40,000 tests per day, which stood at about 60 tests per day in March, according to UP officials..“We also suggested the team members that some beds in government hospitals in Delhi should be reserved for patients from NCR region for better treatment. We also told them that Khoda and Loni areas were affected by Covid-19 and we implemented the sector scheme to contain cases. So, such a scheme should also be adopted by bordering districts in Delhi in order to effectively check the spread of Covid-19,” Pandey added.The Ghaziabad health department officials told the team that they have adopted strategy for better identification of positive cases, their effective contact tracing with the help of police officers and early referral to Covid hospitals.“There were 51 deaths in the month of June. In July, however, there has just been seven deaths in the first 14 days. For better treatment of critical patients we have reserved 20% of ICU/ventilator beds in private hospitals and critical patients are immediately referred for treatment. We have roped in eight private hospitals, which have total of 544 beds,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad.According to the figures complied for the Niti Aayog team, the officials said that at present they have 3176 (L1 category), 3390 (L2/L3 category), 331 (ICU) and 2348 (oxygenated) beds which are operational in the four districts.The L1, L2 and L3 hospitals are dedicated facilities which have come up under UP government’s three-tier health structure to deal with Covid-19 cases. The L1 category hospitals are meant for asymptomatic patients while L2 category facilities admit Covid-19 patients with moderate health complications. The L3 category hospitals deal with positive patients requiring critical care.According to official figures, the four districts at present have a total of 971 active containment zones with 326 in Gutam Budh Nagar, 362 in Ghaziabad, 267 in Meerut and 44 in Baghpat.Earlier in the day, additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad also visited the MMG district hospital and inspected the premises, where a new RT-PCR laboratory will be set up on directions of UP chief minister.“The additional chief secretary directed that the RT-PCR machine will arrive from Lucknow in the next two days and four new staff members will also join. We will also provide with four lab technicians and two other staff. We are expecting that the new laboratory will start functioning within next 10 days and this will be Ghaziabad’s first in-house RT-PCR testing facility,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical superintendent of MMG Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/niti-aayog-team-reviews-covid-19-preparedness-in-ncr-districts/story-XQY7x2I7Yuw7YKL0U1jKDM.html
14-07-2020||City||2 gangsters held with 3 pistols, other weapons in Jalandhar||Jalandhar Rural police busted a gang of international arms smugglers and highway robbers, with the arrest of two gangsters, Gurpreet Singh alias Gora, and Germanjeet Singh. Gora had been declared a proclaimed offender (PO) and the gang was involved in smuggling of weapons from across the border into India.They were arrested from Bhogpur and police recovered a bullet proof jacket, a .455 bore pistol, two Glock 09 mm pistols with four cartridges, one pump action 12 bore rifle, one .32 bore revolver, one .30 bore pistol and live cartridges, DGP Dinkar Gupta said. The Verna car they were on was also seized. Gora already faces criminal charges in 14 cases of attempt to murder, assault, snatching, dacoity, gang war and others across the state and is a PO in 13 of these cases.Jalandhar Rural SSP Navjot Mahal said the police had got a tip-off that Gora of Bariar village, and his aide German Jeet Singh of Jawandpur village, were going towards Behram in a Verna car (PB 46 Q 4951) and were planning to commit some heinous crime, such as snatching vehicles from highway at gunpoint.Gupta added Gurpreet’s additional disclosure before police led to the additional recovery of 12 bore pump action rifle with five cartridges, two 9mm Glock Pistols (Made in Austria) with two live rounds (etched with Pakistan Ordinance Factory markings), one revolver .455 bore with five live rounds, 19 rounds of .32 bore revolver and eight rounds of .32 bore special revolver. All these weapons were packed in a plastic pipe and buried in earth on canal bank near Rayyia (Amritsar).The DGP added during preliminary interrogation Gora revealed that he was in close contact with Baljinder Singh Billa Mandiala, who has links with Pakistan-based drug and arms smugglers, Mirza and Ahmdeen, and had received many consignments of weapons and drugs from them in the Ferozpur area. Gupta added Pakistani drug/arms smuggler Mirza had been working as courier on Indo-Pak border for Khalistan Libration Force and had smuggled many weapons to Indian territory. It has also been learned that a part of 5 AK-47 weapon consignment recovered from the Indo-Pak border on September 24, 2019 by STF Punjab, was also meant for this apprehended criminal Mandiala.The DGP added Gurpreet Singh was a member of Billa gang run by another notorious gangster Baljinder Singh alias Billa, currently lodged in jail. Through his mentor, Gora was in touch with Pakistan-based illegal arms smugglers. Having managed to secure bail in previous cases, Gora had now been putting up at a gurdwara in Nanded in a clandestine manner.A case under Sections 392 (robbery), 212 (harbouring offender), 216-A (harbouring robbers or dacoits), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and 25, 27 Arms Act has been registered against gangsters at Bhogpur police station, SSP Mahal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-gangsters-held-with-3-pistols-other-weapons-in-jalandhar/story-1VJaRL86vBvtIgT9vFEvZL.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Cycle and parts manufacturers’ body calls for ban on import of Chinese products||At a time when the cycle industry is reeling under slowdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) has sought a ban on import of cycle and cycle parts from China.Members of the association conducted a meeting on Monday and wrote to Union minister of state for commerce and industry, Som Prakash, in this regard. Senior vice-president of the association, Gurcharan Singh Jamco, vice-president Satnam Singh Makkar, cashier Achhru Ram Gupta, secretary Harsimerjit Singh Lucky and joint secretary Valati Ram Durga also participated in the meeting.General Secretary of the association, Manjinder Singh Sachdeva, said, “The bicycle industry is facing crisis and will be able to survive and flourish only if the government bans import of cycles and its parts from China. This way, the government would also help the industry become ‘Aatma Nirbhar’.”Propaganda secretary RS Sarhali said, “There are few items on which ban cannot be imposed due to agreements which were made in the past. But, the government can increase duty/fee on import of such items. The Ludhiana industry is capable of manufacturing parts which are being imported from China and by imposing a ban, it will increase demand for local products.”Earlier, All India Cycle Manufacturers Association (AICMA) had sent a list of parts including reflectors and alloy rims currently being imported from China, to the government proposing the same to be placed under restricted category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-cycle-and-parts-manufacturers-body-calls-for-ban-on-import-of-chinese-products/story-LAVg9fQ8OTTjKKiqUoHp2J.html
14-07-2020||City||Bhiwani man hacks wife, daughter-in-law to death before ending life||A 50-year-old man consumed some poisonous substance after hacking his wife and daughter-in-law to death at Bhiwani’s Paluwas village on Tuesday, police said.A former Border Security Force (BSF) employee, the man had taken up farming some years ago. Bhiwani deputy superintendent of police (DSP) (headquarters) Virender Singh said he killed his wife and daughter-in-law, aged 50 and 32, and later committed suicide.“His neighbours rushed him to the Bhiwani civil hospital, where doctors pronounced him dead on arrival. Later, we visited the crime scene and found the bodies of his wife and daughter-in-law. It appears to be the outcome of a family dispute,” the DSP added. As per villagers, the incident took place around 11am when the man’s son had gone out. “He raised an alarm after he found his wife and mother dead on his return. His father was seen sitting near the bodies and sobbing before he consumed poison. The 80-year-old mother of the accused had locked herself with her two minor grandsons in a room when the incident took place,” one of the villagers said. The DSP said they have registered a case of murder against the farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwani-man-hacks-wife-daughter-in-law-to-death-before-ending-life/story-r2AWuH1reDLjlwFQ2hRbGL.html
14-07-2020||City||Ludhiana illegal mining: HC asks DC, sessions judge to visit spot, submit report by July 22 or face contempt||Chandigarh Perturbed over violation of orders, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday warned district and sessions judge and deputy commissioner, Ludhiana, of contempt of court and asked them to visit areas on the banks of Sutlej river and submit a report whether illegal mining is taking place.The order was passed by the high court bench of justices SN Satyanarayana and Archana Puri as it transpired in the court that the duo as directed did not visit the spots affected by illegal mining as mentioned in a petition. It was on June 25 that high court had disposed of a plea of one Balvir Singh of Ludhiana, who alleged illegal mining and misuse of Sutlej embankment from ‘burji’ numbers 52/53 till ‘burji’ number 148 near villages Mattewara, Jhugian, Mangli, Ror, Boothgarh and Gadisheru in Ludhiana. A report was sought from both officers by July 15 after undertaking a visit to the spot.On Tuesday, the petitioner had alleged that there is concerted effort on the part of the government agencies to remove the evidence of illegal mining at the site. He had produced a video recording of events on various occasions between the last date of hearing and July 14.The Punjab government counsel had told the court that the deputy commissioner had personal inconvenience in visiting the spot and he would seek modification in the order to depute someone else. “We are not willing to accept that, more particularly, in the background of the accusation and allegations made against officials of the state in supporting the illegal miners for removal of the evidence available at the place. We feel that it is appropriate that the order dated June 25, 2020, shall be implemented in letter and spirit,” the court said, adding that the officers will visit the spot within four days and submit a report by July 22 and any failure in this will be viewed as contempt of the court’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-illegal-mining-hc-asks-dc-sessions-judge-to-visit-spot-submit-report-by-july-22-or-face-contempt/story-Z1UgHTKnFLWou394hCIE9L.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Over 70% Haryana Covid cases concentrated in 4 NCR districts||Haryana continued to grapple with the fast spreading Covid-19 on Tuesday with the state recording 699 new infections and four fatalities in the last 24 hours, the health bulletin stated. Two patients in Gurugram and one each in Rewari and Palwal districts lost their battle to the virus, taking the state’s death toll to 312. The total number of positive cases in the state stood at 22,628, while the active cases were 5,226.As per the data, until Tuesday evening, more than 70% (15,923) of the cumulative number of positive cases (22,628) were confined to Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Rohtak districts.Similarly, at least 57% (2,996) of the total active cases (5,226) are also in these four NCR districts. Gurugram has 1,084 active cases, Faridabad 893, Sonepat 606 and Rohtak 413. New cases were recorded in 18 districts with Gurugram taking the lead where 160 fresh infections were reported followed by 115 in Faridabad and 96 in Rewari.Among other districts where new cases were detected included Sonepat (55), Ambala (46), Rohtak (40), Mahendergarh (43), Jhajjar (26), Palwal (23), Sirsa (19), Nuh (18), Panipat and Karnal (15 each), Bhiwani (12), Kaithal (9), Jind and Panchkula (3 each), and Yamunanagar (1).Meanwhile, 453 patients recovered on Tuesday even as the Covid-19 positive rate stood at 5.9%.Hisar MP dischargedHisar MP Brijendra Singh on Tuesday got discharged from a Delhi hospital. “I don’t have any symptoms, but I still am not a Covid-negative patient. I will be appearing for a test in the next couple of days and till then, would remain in home quarantine,” the MP added. Curbs in districts bordering Delhi: Vij Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said the state government was planning to impose curbs in the districts bordering Delhi. “Majority of the Haryana cases are concentrated in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar. So, we are discussing imposing restrictions to contain the spread of the virus. We will go ahead after considering all aspects,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-70-haryana-covid-cases-concentrated-in-4-ncr-districts/story-pnn98Qfb0a9BVmuLSjZADP.html
14-07-2020||Kolkata||Bengal government extends Covid-19 lockdown in containment zones till July 19||The Mamata Banerjee administration in West Bengal has extended the lockdown in 605 containment zones for another three days, till July 19.An order issued by the state home secretary on Tuesday also said that lockdown would be imposed in four towns – Malda, Raiganj, Siliguri and Cooch Behar from July 15. All these towns are located in north Bengal. West Bengal has registered a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases since the last week of June. Out of 32,838 cases registered in the state till date, at least 17,665 cases were added since June 24. The state government has enforced strict lockdown in containment zones since 5 pm of July 7. It was supposed to be enforced for a week. On Tuesday it was extended for another three days. Initially there were 434 containment zones including 25 in Kolkata zones. The number has been increased to 605 on Tuesday.All government and private offices have been shut down, non-essential activities have been banned, congregations have been strictly prohibited, no public transport are being allowed and markets have been shut down in the containment areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-government-extends-covid-19-lockdown-in-containment-zones-till-july-19/story-FXMhHRLHdti6tV94Rk35dP.html
14-07-2020||City||Missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib: Record of SGPC publishing house sealed||Amritsar Amid controversy over missing ‘saroops’ (copies) of Guru Granth Sahib in Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) publishing house at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib on May 19, 2016, the Akal Takht has seized the record of publishing house at the gurdwara on Tuesday. At the time of the incident, the SGPC has claimed that only 14 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib were damagedNow, years after the incident, the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) had alleged that the damage was done on a mass level and this fact was hidden to save the then SAD-BJP government from public wrath, at a time when the issue of Bargari sacrilege was already on the boil and next assembly polls were close. On the basis of the statement of a retired employee of the SGPC, the PHRO maintained that 267 ‘saroops’ went missing after this incident as per record, and a probe must be conducted to ascertain their even the SGPC had demanded a probe from the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs. It had said the matter must be probed by a retired judge or any prominent Sikh personality.whereabouts.A couple of days ago, even the SGPC had demanded a probe from the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs. It had said the matter must be probed by a retired judge or any prominent Sikh personality.Tuesday’s action came on the direction of Akal Takht’s acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh. Additional head granthi (priest) of Akal Takht Giani Malkiat Singh and Akal Takht jathedar’s personal assistant (PA) Jaspal Singh reached the publishing house on Tuesday afternoon and sealed all record pertaining to the alleged missing ‘saroops’ in a cupboard.“On the direction of Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, we have sealed the record of all the saroops from 2015 to till date. The SGPC had already requested the jathedar to probe the matter. This record will now be accessed only by the team to which the jathedar will entrust the probe. There is anger among the Sikh sangat about the issue, but the truth will soon come out,” said Giani Malkiat Singh. PA Jaspal Singh said the sealed record include ledgers and other important documents pertaining to publications of Guru Granth Sahibs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-saroops-of-guru-granth-sahib-record-of-sgpc-publishing-house-sealed/story-DqgAaqjvUMHZqC2WbPM5DI.html
14-07-2020||City||HP governor seeks early investment clearance for Renukaji dam project||Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattateaya has requested the Centre to expedite granting investment clearance to the 40MW Renukaji Dam project so that its proposal gets approved from the cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA) and construction can be started soon.In a written communiqué to Union minister for Jal Shakti, water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the governor said that the state is committed towards fulfilling the objectives of the project and all technical clearances have been obtained.He said statutory clearances including environmental and forest clearance Stage-1 of the project have also been obtained.“Only forest clearance Stage–II is left, which will be obtained after getting funds from Centre and subsequent deposition of Rs 577.62 crore in the state compensatory afforestation (CAMPA) fund account,” he said.Dattatraya said the project is of national importance and will provide 0.498 BCM live storage in its reservoir and water supply to the tune of 23 cusecs to Delhi.Six states of the Yamuna basin - Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan – will benefit from the project, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-governor-seeks-early-investment-clearance-for-renukaji-dam-project/story-pbxTnQaTv68ytKGwWNkPlJ.html
14-07-2020||City||PSPCL hydel projects surpass power production target set by central body||The hydel projects run by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) surpassed electricity production target set by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) for the first quarter of the 2020-21 fiscal year.PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said the hydel projects generated 1,419 million units against the target of 1,055 million units in the April 1-June 30 quarter. “The Mukerian project generated 380.18 million units against the target of 118 million units (322% of the target), the highest in the last eight years. The Anandpur Sahib project generated 198.34 million units against the target of 168 million units (118% of the target),” he said. Prasad added, “The Shanan power house in Himachal Pradesh’s Joginder Nagar generated 213.05 million units against the target of 194 million units (110% of the target), second highest in last five years. The Ranjit Sagar dam project generated 512.58 million units against the target of 460 million units (111.4% of the target). The UBDC project generated 114.804 million units.” The CMD claimed that this was done through optimum utilisation of available resources and close monitoring of power generation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-hydel-projects-surpass-power-production-target-set-by-central-body/story-NTw1tGeU2QMjxC1wVz6o1N.html
14-07-2020||City||750 cases, 25 deaths reported in Pune city on Tuesday||Pune: The city, on Tuesday, reported 750 Covid positive cases in the last 24 hours with 25 more deaths taking the virus-related death toll in the city to 874. The total count of positive cases in Pune city has touched 29,107.The number of patients in critical care is 513. Also, 728 persons were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the discharged count at 18,824. While 8 more death was reported outside PMC jurisdiction, two from Pune Cantonment Board area and six from other districts and Pune rural area.According to the information given by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department, of the 25 deaths reported on Tuesday, the oldest deceased patient was a 90-year-old male from Kothrud area admitted to Bharati Hospital who had pneumonia. While all other deceased were elderly patients above 40 age and the youngest of them was a 43-year-old male from Katraj area admitted to Bhakare Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/750-cases-25-deaths-reported-in-pune-city-on-tuesday/story-vCD5AZmAbIJ2ri5gePSKlK.html
14-07-2020||City||COVID-19 PILOT PROJECT: 500 undergo rapid antigen testing in Punjab, positivity rate 15.6%||Over 500 people have undergone Covid-19 rapid antigen testing in the five worst-affected districts of Punjab in the last five days as part of the state health department’s pilot project.Of the 504 symptomatic people tested in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mohali and Patiala districts, 79 tested positive for the coronavirus, with a positivity rate of 15.6%, health officials said.Antigen testing detects foreign substances found on or within the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the body through nasal swab samples. The test is performed outside the conventional laboratory setting and is used to obtain a diagnostic result in 30 minutes.Also, the swab samples of those tested negative for Covid-19 in the antigen test reports were sent to the virus research and diagnostic laboratories (VRDL) of the state for confirmatory RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction) testing to check whether both the tests show same results.The RT-PCR is the most commonly used test for Covid-19. It is based on a process that repeatedly copies and amplifies the specific genetic fragments of the virus. The test is done in a lab and it takes 5-8 hours to test a sample. The state government started the antigen testing project on July 10, with 5,000 kits at its disposal. Nearly 1,000 testing kits were given to each of the select districts. “So far, 252 antigen tests have been done in Jalandhar, the highest among all the districts, followed 124 in Patiala, 66 in Ludhiana, 51 in Amritsar and 11 in Mohali. Eighteen people tested negative in antigen tests were found to be infected in RT-PCR tests,” state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said. “Also, some RT-PCR reports of people found negative in antigen testing are awaited. Since the antigen test results are available within 30 minutes, we are able to identify and isolate positive cases to prevent further transmission of the infectious disease,” Dr Bhaskar added.‘MORE ACCURATE THAN RAPID CARD TESTING’The health officials said the reports of antigen testing kits are showing more accurate results than those through rapid card testing, the testing technique which was discontinued by the state after contradictory reports surfaced.“So far, all those found positive in antigen testing have also been found infected in RT-PCR tests. The only drawback of this is that we are using antigen testing only on symptomatic people,” said Amritsar assistant civil surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh.“For cross-checking, we have also done RT-PCR tests on some people found infected in antigen testing and most of the reports were accurate,” Dr Bhaskar said.The state government will conduct antigen testing on the migrants coming back to the state in the wake of reopening of industries and for work in paddy fields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-pilot-project-500-undergo-rapid-antigen-testing-in-punjab-positivity-rate-15-6/story-FzU4wLH0mtqzDHeeox9EhM.html
14-07-2020||City||Covid-19 claims four lives in Chandigarh, Mohali||Coronavirus disease claimed four more lives in the tricity on Tuesday, rising its death toll to 20. While two of the deceased were Chandigarh residents, the other two were from Mohali district. All of them had comorbidities and were undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, where they breathed their last on Tuesday.The number of fatalities in Chandigarh has reached 10 while Mohali has recorded nine deaths. In Panchkula, one death has been recorded so far. As many as 11 of these patients were aged 60 or above.The Chandigarh residents have been identified as a 50-year-old man from Dhanas and a 52-year-old woman from Sector 46.The Dhanas man was a cancer patient on chemotherapy at the PGIMER. He tested positive on July 3 and was put on ventilator in the intensive care unit. “Because of respiratory failure due to coronavirus, he couldn’t survive,” said a hospital release.The woman patient suffered from “severe diabetes” and was in the ICU at Sohana Hospital for more than 15 days, before being referred to the PGIMER on July 11, and was diagnosed with Covid, pneumonia and sepsis, said the release. The two cases from Mohali are of a 65-year-old man from New Chandigarh (Mullanpur) and a 48-year-old man from Jawaharpur in Dera Bassi. The Jawaharpur man was suffering from diabetes and hypertension and was hospitalised on July 9. The Mullanpur man had a chronic disease and was admitted to the PGIMER on July 5. Both were cremated according to the safety protocol, said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh.The case fatality rate of Chandigarh and Mohali stands at 1.6% and 2%, respectively, lower than the national average of 2.6%.6 KIDS AMONG 21 CASES IN MOHALIMeanwhile, 21 fresh cases were reported in Mohali district, taking the total to 444. In a steep spike, as many as 78 cases have been reported in the past three days.Six of those found infected on Tuesday are children. In Mohali city, the infections have been reported from Sector 68 besides Phases 4 and 9. Other cases are spread across Peer Muchhala, Dhakoli, Jawaharpur and Dera Bassi town besides LIC Colony and Gillco project in Kharar.All have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. As of now, 158 cases remain active.Making an appeal to the public to restrict movement and come out only if absolutely essential, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “We are going strict on enforcement of safety protocols. No loitering will be permitted. Enforcement teams will not just issue warning or challans, but register FIRs for non-compliance to directions issued by the state government.”12 NEWS CASES TAKE UT COUNT TO 600With 12 fresh infections, Chandigarh’s Covid-19 count touched 600 mark on Tuesday. The jump from 500 to 600 cases has taken place in just six days. The fresh cases have been reported from eight different areas. Among them, three are from one family (two men, aged 20 and 49, and a woman, aged 40) in Sector 19. They are community contacts of a patient from Panchkula. In Manimajra, a 38-year-old woman and a 15-year-old girl have tested positive. Similarly, two cases have been reported from Dhanas.One case each has surfaced in Sector 32, Dadumajra Colony, Bapu Dham Colony, Ram Darbar and Badheri.Meanwhile, with 23 more people being discharged, the number of recoveries has reached 446 while the active cases are 144. TWO WOMEN TEST POSITIVE IN P’KULATwo new Covid-19 cases also surfaced in Panchkula, taking the district’s total to 155. Both are women, aged 42 and 55. While the former resides in Sector 7, the other is from Sector 26.Apart from 155 district residents, 63 persons from other areas have also tested positive in the city so far. Among the locals, 118 have been cured and discharged while 36 cases are still active. Reports of 359 people are awaited, stated a health department release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-claims-four-lives-in-chandigarh-mohali/story-ElVHdvyuvdKStjHqMy91yL.html
14-07-2020||City||RCF Kapurthala rolls out 4 specially designed coaches to fight Covid-19||The Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, on Tuesday rolled out four specially designed coaches equipped with several amenities such as foot-operated water taps and soap dispensers with a view to avoiding coronavirus infection. Foot-operated features are available on the lavatory and compartment doors, flush valves of lavatories as well as door latches. The coaches are in AC (air-conditioned) as well as non-AC segments. Also, forearm-operated handles have been fixed on the compartment doors of AC coaches. The handrails and latches are coated with copper which has anti-microbial properties that weaken the virus in a few hours. Besides, AC ducts of the coaches have been enabled with plasma equipment to sterilise the air and surfaces. The use of ionised air makes the coaches resistant to viruses and particulate matter, said railways general manager Ravinder Gupta. “Nano titanium dioxide coating has been applied on the coaches. The water-based coating kills viruses, bacteria, fungi and enhances indoor air quality. Titanium dioxide is considered to be a safe substance and is harmless to humans. The coating has been applied on washbasins, lavatories, seats, berths, snack tables, glass windows, floor and all surfaces that passengers come in contact with during their journey. Stickers have been pasted in the coaches as a reminder to passengers to observe precautionary measures. “These coaches may prove to be a milestone in passenger transportation by helping fight the deadly virus,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rcf-kapurthala-rolls-out-4-specially-designed-coaches-to-fight-covid-19/story-zKIGmB6QDUhXwGjXsfR21J.html
14-07-2020||City||14 recovered patients donate plasma at Rohtak’s PGIMS, 50 more queue up||Fourteen patients who recently recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have donated plasma at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak to help those suffering from severe infection. Dr VK Katyal, head of medicine department at the medical institute, said at least 50 other patients have pledged to donate plasma as well.“We are taking plasma from people aged between 18 and 60 based on their health conditions. We only take it from cured patients after two weeks of their recovery. We had conducted convalescent plasma therapy on three patients, of whom one tested negative later. One of them showed improvement, while the third one did not respond well. It is a promising therapy for severely ill patients, but there is no proof that it works for all. We are treating people with this therapy and we would be able to comment more on its efficacy after conducting trials on more than 100 patients,” Dr Katyal added.He said it was not an ‘ultimate cure’, but could help patients with moderate symptoms.“A plasma donor should have normal weight, haemoglobin level above 12 and no history of diabetes or hypertension. The therapy will be administered to those with respiratory rate higher than 30 (normal is 20), oxygen saturation less than 90% (normal is 95 to 100%), or those with pus in their lungs,” the doctor said. PGIMS to set up plasma bank Dr Katyal said PGIMS will be setting up a plasma bank which would become functional by next month. A donor from Rohtak’s Baland village, Sumit Kumar, appealed to the recovered patients to donate plasma to help those struggling with the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-recovered-patients-donate-plasma-at-rohtak-s-pgims-50-more-queue-up/story-7kvQoJd3pABnrzxsnmLA5H.html
14-07-2020||Pune||Seniors, domestic helps irked as lockdown brings in new set of challenges||Activists working for the welfare of domestic helps and senior citizens said that the citizenry and public representatives have become apathetic to the needs of the poor and the needy and described both the categories as most vulnerable sections who will be badly affected due to reimposition of the lockdown.Vaishali Patkar, president of Aundh Vikas Mandal, which looks after senior citizens, said, “Senior citizens are fearful of the spread of Covid-19. With househelps are not coming in, it has again created a challenge for them. We are extending our full cooperation by allocating volunteers who bring medicines and provide medical help to them.”Manibhai Gujarati (70), a resident of Hadapsar, said, “Our main problem is food supplies as the tiffin owner has stopped his service due to the lockdown. The entire market is shut and there is not other option, but to cook. It is a very challenging task at this age. I live here alone and depend on my maid for all household chores. The lockdown was not needed. In most societies, neighbours are self-centred and do not care about the welfare of others.”Amol Kirtikar, a city resident who currently is in New Mexico, sought Patkar’s help for his mother. “My 72-year-old mother is in Pune, living alone with her caretaker. Our tiffin provider told us they were unable to obtain a police permit to deliver during the lockdown. So from tomorrow, we have no arrangements for food. Will you be able to help us find an arrangement that will work during the lockdown? I will be grateful ,” he said. Patkar ensured that the food arrangement was done.Mangalabai Kadam, a maid from Kasewadi said that she has been asked to stay at home during the lockdown period till further orders. “The economic situation is bad and we have no money left. If the lockdown continues, it might lead to penury. We need financial assistance from the government like monthly grocery and medicine allowance to survive,” she said.Pune District House Maids’ Association president Kiran Moghe, said, “The maids lack social protection and have been reduced to living in poverty amidst rising malnutrition and illness. This is a very scary scenario and minimum wages must be paid to the domestic workers and their health needs need to be taken care of by the government and the society as a whole.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/seniors-domestic-helps-irked-as-lockdown-brings-in-new-set-of-challenges/story-LARAosi1h0LGSZqn6wETuI.html
14-07-2020||City||8 deaths, 346 fresh infections push J&K tally to 11,173||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded eight Covid-19 deaths, while 346 persons tested positive for the disease, taking the total number of cases in the region to 11,173, officials said.Of the new cases, 290 are from Kashmir and 56 from Jammu division. Among these, 46 patients have a travel history.As many as 39 prisoners tested positive at district jail in south Kashmir’s Anantnag, creating panic among the inmates, their families as well as the officials. Earlier, five jail mates had tested positive there.“44 inmates of Anantnag jail have tested positive till now,” the district’s deputy commissioner Kuldeep Singh Sidha told HT. “We will be ascertaining how the infection hit the jail. Firstly, we are enhancing testing here,” he said.In Jammu, BJP state president Ravinder Raina and 18 workers of a soft drink company based in Bari Brahmana of Samba district were among those who were declared infected on Tuesday.Among the eight persons who succumbed to the disease, seven were from Kashmir while one who died in Jammu was a 47-year-old agriculture officer. Following his death, Directorate of Agriculture, Directorate of Animal Husbandry and other offices situated in Jammu’s Talab Tillo area were sealed.With this, the death toll in the UT has risen to 195 —177 fatalities in Kashmir and 18 in Jammu division till date. The UT, particularly Kashmir valley, is witnessing an increase in the death toll and daily new cases for the past one month. In the past fortnight, 94 persons have died while 3,676 new cases emerged.Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole on Tuesday chaired a weekly review meeting on Covid-19 pandemic here and urged for dedicated ambulance service for patients and directed the health authorities to increase bed capacity in all hospitals besides manpower, equipment and consumables.Active cases in the UT stand at 4,755 after 128 more patients recovered on Tuesday. A government spokesperson said 28 people were discharged in Jammu division and 100 in Kashmir.The number of people who have recovered since the first cases emerged on March 9 has reached 6,223, taking the recovery rate to 55.69%. In the past week, the recovery rate has also gone down below 60 percent.Of the total recoveries, 4,669 were cured in Kashmir while 1,554 in Jammu division.In Kashmir, the highest jump in cases was witnessed in Srinagar district where 127 more people tested positive, followed by Anantnag (58) and Pulwama (39). In Jammu division, the highest number of 14 cases was reported in Doda district, followed by 11 in Jammu district.Till date, 3.17 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 38,211 in home quarantine, 4,755 in hospital isolation, 24 in hospital quarantine and 45,537 under home surveillance. Besides these, 2.29 lakh people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.The highest daily tally of positive cases was recorded on June 7 with 620 cases and two deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-deaths-346-fresh-infections-push-j-k-tally-to-11-173/story-Q7lhCAGYQRHMSRTFbYPQVM.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Miscreants dupe man-father, steal cash from car in Ludhiana||Miscreants tricked a man and stole a bag containing Rs 2 lakh from his car in Humbran road on Tuesday. PAU police have registered a case against unidentified accused and initiated investigation.Pankaj Agarwal, a resident of South City, said him and his father Surinder had come to Humbran road for an eye check-up. Agarwal said that after the checkup, a passerby told him that there was oil leaking from the engine of the car. As they alighted from the car, someone stole the bag from the car.Assistant sub-inspector Nishan Singh, investigating officer in the case, said a case has been registered under Section 379 (theft) of IPC. Police are scanning footage from CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/miscreants-dupe-man-father-steal-cash-from-car-in-ludhiana/story-jyOlkegh6AdnoU6xoSxYSM.html
14-07-2020||City||Sonepat woman alleges gangrape at gunpoint, 9 booked||A 28-year-old woman from Sonepat has accused nine people of gangrape at a rice mill in Taraori, police said on Tuesday. Karnal superintendent of police Surender Singh Bhoria said as per the complaint of the victim, an FIR has been registered against nine people, including a woman. The victim alleged that the accused, including owners and employees of the rice mill, lured her by offering a job on July 12. “They called me to a rice mill near Saunkra village and served me tea laced with sedatives. Later, eight of them raped me at gunpoint,” she added. The case has been registered under sections 376 D, 506 and 120 B of the IPC and sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.The woman was hospitalised and her statement could not be recorded before the magistrate, the police said. Taraori police station in-charge Sachin Kumar said a probe was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sonepat-woman-alleges-gangrape-at-gunpoint-9-booked/story-pZKYHQNiWXLG7Bgrj5He2N.html
14-07-2020||Pune||Covid Impact: One session a day at Pune district court||With a focus on top and priority cases, the Pune district court has announced it will be functional for only one session a day in July amidst an increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city.The Pune Bar Association (PBA) has appealed to litigants and lawyers to compulsorily wear masks and maintain social distancing while visiting court premises. However, a court notification further stated that the taluka court will function in two sessions.It further mentions that the taluka courts located in containment zones will function for one session, while others in non-containment zones will operate in two sessions.According to the PBA, the court is functional between 11am to 2pm and the court is hearing only urgent and important matters of top priority like bail. The notification to the effect was released by principal judge Neeraj Dhote.Pune bar association president advocate Satish Mulik said, “Currently, all the lawyers’ fraternity and those visiting the court premises are requested to follow the highest standards of hygiene, social distancing and wearing of masks. The most important cases are being dealt with in the court and the court will function only for one session during the entire month of July taking into account the rapidly spreading Covid-19 infection. With the announcement of the lockdown, the number of visitors to Shivajinagar court has reduced,” he said.Vaishali Chandane, advocate, president, family courts association said, “The family court will function from 10.30am until 3.30pm. All the safety precautions are to be undertaken and guidelines followed to prevent the spread of infection.”BoxThe bar rooms where the lawyers store their case documents and files were opened for access after three months for only two hours. The bar room was opened after requests were made by PBA. The bar room was closed again until further orders, PBA informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-impact-one-session-a-day-at-pune-district-court/story-TEzbjpjnVnx75uKl1d6YWI.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||50% reservation for women in panchayats on the anvil: Haryana deputy CM||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday said the BJP-JJP government was contemplating reserving 50% seats for women in panchayats. He said 20 states have already done the same and Haryana would take this farsighted decision to strengthen the panchayati raj institutions. He said the state government would also give two-wheelers (scooty) to the women panches, sarpanches and other members working in the panchayati raj institutions for their excellent performance. Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of rural development and panchayat, said the state government was preparing a list of 100 such women who have done outstanding work in villages. “The empowerment of women means empowerment of the entire family and society and this would definitely be a step in the right direction,” he said.He said after making education qualification mandatory for the panchayat elections, revolutionary change has been witnessed in the performance of panchayats .He said 100 women, who have performed exceptionally well, would be given ‘scooty’ under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) by Honda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/50-reservation-for-women-in-panchayats-on-the-anvil-haryana-deputy-cm/story-FB1jFEohfekPF2w3yXsrJP.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar seeks Gadkari’s intervention to resolve SYL canal logjam||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday urged Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari to resolve the long-pending Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue with Punjab so that the state gets its ‘legitimate’ share of water.Speaking after Gadkari inaugurated and laid foundation stones of 11 highway projects through a web-based function, Khattar urged the Union minister to intervene and raise the SYL issue before the Centre for early resolution. Earlier, Gadkari inaugurated three big road projects worth Rs 2,240 crore, an official spokesperson said.These projects included 35km four-lane Rohna/Hasangarh to Jhajjar section of NH 334-B, the 70km four-lane section between Punjab-Haryana border and Jind and 85km two-lane Jind-Karnal Highway on NH 709.Gadkari also laid the foundation stone of eight road projects worth Rs 17,787 crore, including 227km six-lane access controlled greenfield expressway from Ismailpur to Narnaul, four-lane Gurugram Pataudi-Rewari section, four-lane Rewari-Ateli Mandi section and six-lane Narnaul bypass among others.Gadkari said the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) would spend Rs 2 lakh crore on the construction of new roads in Haryana in the next two years. He said apart from these road projects, the 687km long Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway passing through Jind would also benefit Haryana and give a major boost to the state’s economy.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, cooperation minister Banwari Lal and MP Dharambir Singh were also present on this occasion at Chandigarh, while health minister Anil Vij, sports minister Sandeep Singh, social justice and empowerment minister Om Parkash Yadav, and other MPs and MLAs joined the function through videoconferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-seeks-gadkari-s-intervention-to-resolve-syl-canal-logjam/story-ne7rbvwzrD3GIE4xGip6gO.html
14-07-2020||City||9,917 cases in Navi Mumbai, death toll reaches 310||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Tuesday reported 239 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total count to 9,917. Five deaths were reported on the day, taking the Covid toll to 310.With 58 new cases, Airoli once again reported the highest number of cases, followed by 38 in Ghansoli, 37 in Kopar Khairane, and 34 in Nerul.An officer from NMMC said, “While the daily number has increased, the recovery figure is more than that of the new cases. So far, 6,072 people have recovered, and the recovery percentage has increased slightly to 61%. The active cases are stable at 3,535.”The Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Tuesday recorded 175 new Covid-19 cases. This is the third-highest single-day spike, breaking the previous record set just three days ago. For the second consecutive day, no death has been reported. The toll stands at 96.The daily recovery figure has again fallen to 134 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-917-cases-in-navi-mumbai-death-toll-reaches-310/story-9nGRDFiEdzCz9C1RHeKXiJ.html
14-07-2020||City||4 booked for flouting lockdown norms in Ludhiana||Stepping up efforts against those violating lockdown norms, the police booked a shop owner and street vendor for operating beyond permissible hours on Tuesday. A bus driver was also booked for not following norms. In the first incident, the Basti Jodhewal police have booked shop owner Harmesh Singh of Anandpuri Colony, his wife Surinder Kaur and son Malkit Singh for keeping their shop open beyond permissible hours at Kali Sadak in the old city area.ASI Gurmukh Singh, who is investigating the case, said that he was on patrolling duty when he found the shop open. A case under Sections 188, 269, 270 of the IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act was registered against the accused.In another incident, the Shimlapuri Police have arrested a street vendor identified as Jagtar Singh for selling eatables beyond permissible hours. A case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act was registered against him.Division Number 5 police have arrested Deepak Sharma of Railway Colony, Surjit Singh of Dadiwal of Amritsar and Sanjiv Chanva of Dhyan Singh Complex for sending labourers to their native places in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar without following mandatory norms.A case under Sections 188 and 269 of IPC and Section 57 of the Disaster Management Act was registered against the accused.A case was also registered against 35 unidentified persons at Division Number 8 police station for protesting against a school at fountain chowk. The protestors did not avail permission from authorities for staging the protest.Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal said that they are spreading awareness on maintaining social distancing among people. He added that according to new rules of the state government there is a complete ban on all types of public gatherings.Police chief, DC visit containment zonesCommissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal along with deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma visited containment zones in the city on Tuesday to take stock of the situation there. The top officials interacted with the residents and asked them to stay indoors. The police and district administration have been receiving complaints that residents of containment zones are reluctant in giving samples for Covid-19 test.DC urged residents to cooperate with the health department officials while they visit the area to take their Covid-19 test. The police chief urged the residents to follow all directions issued by the government and warned of strict action against any violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-booked-for-flouting-lockdown-norms-in-ludhiana/story-WQ2pASdM6TemRe38azRjON.html
14-07-2020||City||Panipat man hires contract killers to shoot his wife dead, held||Panipat police on Tuesday arrested a man for allegedly hiring contract killers to shoot his wife dead.As per the police, accused Sandeep of Panipat had last month hired two killers — Mohit and Deepak — to kill his wife Rita. He struck the deal at ₹50,000 and even gave advance of ₹10,000. The murder was planned for June 29.The police said that the accused opened fire at the woman, but she survived the attack. Panipat DSP Satish Vats said during their investigation, it was found that Sandeep had an extramarital affair and he wanted to get rid of his wife. He said Sandeep, along with Mohit and Deepak, has been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panipat-man-hires-contract-killers-to-shoot-his-wife-dead-held/story-xrbTGI2eWqsnsLpi8jeMmJ.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Stricter curbs imposed on residents of containment, micro-containment zones in Ludhiana||A day after almost 100 Covid-19 cases were reported from Ludhiana, government imposed stricter curbs on people living in containment and micro-containment zones. Residents were told that movement for only essential activities has been permitted by Punjab government in these areas.The health department suggested that people should not get out of their houses and cooperate with the administration. Media wing teams of the health department also briefed them about FIRs and challans which will be imposed on those flouting guidelines.Health department teams also carried out sampling drive in containment and micro containment zones of the city.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said sampling was conducted in Field Ganj, Salem Tabri and Kidwai Nagar areas of the city.He said that as per Punjab government’s guidelines, areas from where five or more cases have been reported are to be declared micro- containment zones and those with 15 or more cases are to be declared containment zones.People were advised to take all precautionary measures as per the Punjab government’s guidelines including wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining social distancing.People were also encouraged to take part in sampling as it is the only way out to detect positive cases at an early stage. Around 40 samples from micro-containment zones were collected by the mobile medical team.The health department has declared GK Estate, Kidwai Nagar and Vijay Singh as new micro-containment zones.Activities like social, political, sports, academic, cultural, religious, marriage functions and other large congregations will also remain prohibited in containment and micro-containment zones.The civil surgeon has requested all residents of Ludhiana district to stay at home and cooperate with the department in this crucial time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stricter-curbs-imposed-on-residents-of-containment-micro-containment-zones-in-ludhiana/story-1dBae6vhhDFgahpYPD4F9N.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four booked for killing Karnal man, injuring brother||A 21-year-old man was killed and his younger brother injured in an attack by four persons in Nigdhu village in Karnal district, police said on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Prajwal of Haibatpur village and the injured is Ujjwal, who has been hospitalised. The police were yet to ascertain the reason behind the attack, but have registered an FIR against Kaka, Gandhi, Prince and Boby on the complaint of victims’ father Heeralal. He told the police that his sons were attacked on the outskirts of their village late on Monday. Nighdu police station in-charge Suraj Bhan said the case has been registered under sections 148, 149, 302, 323 and 506 of the IPC and sections of the SC/ST Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-booked-for-killing-karnal-man-injuring-brother/story-pH9YIiASaJcM7jRvhynp4L.html
14-07-2020||City||Heavy rush at Ludhiana MC offices despite ban on gatherings||Though Section 144 of the CrPC has been imposed in the district, the municipal corporation (MC) offices continued to witness a heavy rush of residents on Tuesday. The authorities, on the other hand, have turned a blind eye to the risk posed by the gatherings and held a meeting at MC office. On Tuesday, Congress MLA (North) Rakesh Pandey and around a dozen councillors and leaders of North constituency conducted a meeting with MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and civic body officials to review development projects at Zone D office.Residents had also gathered at the MC offices for day to day works giving social distancing a miss. There was no check on the entry of residents in the offices. Requesting anonymity, an MC official said, “The higher authorities are conducting meetings and risking the lives of others at MC offices. After joint commissioner, Kulpreet Singh, Congress councillor, Manpreet Grewal testing Covid-19 positive, the public movement in MC offices should be restricted at the earliest.”MC commissioner Sabharwal said that the entry of residents have been restricted in MC offices and only important meetings are being held keeping social distancing in mind.”“The residents can submit complaints online at mcludhiana.gov.in or through CRAMAT application. A complaint box is also put up outside the MC offices. Most of the applications would also be accepted in Suvidha Kendras only, where it is easy to maintain social distancing,” said Sabharwal.MLA Rakesh Pandey said, “Social distancing was implemented during the meeting and all other norms were followed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rush-at-ludhiana-mc-offices-despite-ban-on-gatherings/story-2ImV7kPzZ1SH97FXQ9XUqI.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: NGOs observe symbolic protest after Jagraon bridge misses 4th deadline||Taking a dig at the railways department and Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) over delay in completion of Jagraon bridge project, different NGOs staged a symbolic protest and observed the fourth ‘death anniversary’ of the bridge on Tuesday.Due to imposition of Section 144 in the district, some members reached the spot while others observed the protest online through social media. The members of Yuva, an NGO, staged a drama wherein an imposter ‘Kumbhkaran’ depicted the authorities and the other members tried to wake him up from deep slumber so the construction work could be expedited.Social activists Satpal Singh and Gurpal Singh Grewal said, “The residents are bearing the brunt of the delay. The project has missed several deadlines, but the work has still not been completed. This has resulted in traffic bottlenecks at the bridge.”Rahul Verma, member of an NGO, Sambhav, said, “The work is going on but the pace is too slow. The railways has almost completed its work but MC needs to expedite the construction of retaining wall and approach road at one side of the bridge.”Some residents also took to social media and took a dig at the authorities. Mayor Balkar Sandhu, who had earlier claimed that the bridge would be opened for traffic by the mid-August, could not be reached for comments. In July 2016, the railways department had closed one leg of Jagraon Bridge that lead to traffic chaos in the city. Since then, residents have been pressurising the district administration to expedite the construction work of the bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-ngos-observe-symbolic-protest-after-jagraon-bridge-misses-4th-deadline/story-h9cTntvseuBST3Ajm4jD0J.html
14-07-2020||City||CBSE Class-12 results: Girls outshine boys in Himachal||With an overall pass percentage of 96.47% girls of Himachal Pradesh outshine boys in CBSE Class-12 results as the latter had an overall pass percentage of 92.33%.Overall pass percentage of the state’s students was 94.24%. This year like ICSE, CBSE too did not issue any toppers’ list due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.As many as 9,202 students from Himachal had registered for CBSE examinations, of these, 9,163 students appeared and 8,635 have passed.In DAV Senior Secondary School New Shimla, Vaibhav Singh, a student of arts stream, scored 98.8% and was the topper of the school followed by Nirmanyu Chauhan, of arts stream who secured 98.2% marks. With 97.2%, Abhay Segal was topper in commerce stream while Sakshi Negi was topper in science stream with 96%.In Lawrence School, Sanawar, Jaiveer Singh secured 97% in humanities and was topper of the school followed by Rivan Singh who secured 96.60% in commerce stream. Anshruta Thakur topped in arts stream with 96.20% marks.In Loreto Convent Tara Hall School, Shimla, Esha Sharma secured 97.2% marks in commerce stream and was topper of the school followed by Prachi Negi who got 96.4% in commerce stream. Rishika Rakta and Aavni Masoi topped in non-medical and medical streams with 93.6% each.Shreyash Kumar, a student of science stream, in Bishop Cotton School, Shimla, secured 89.5% and was school topper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-class-12-results-girls-outshine-boys-in-himachal/story-VTwiP80fQdoEJ06x3NMdIL.html
14-07-2020||City||Gang of snatchers busted, 5 held in Ludhiana||Focal Point police have busted a gang of snatchers and arrested five persons. With this, the police claim to have solved about 16 cases of snatching and burglary.The police have also recovered a pick-up auto, motorcycle, illegal pistol, sharp-edged weapons and iron rods and other items from their possession.The accused have been identified as Anok Lal Singha alias Bangali, a native of West Bengal is the kingpin of the gang, Surinder Mishra alias Johny and Ravi Giri, both natives of Uttar Pradesh, Jeeta of Ambedkar Nagar of Giaspura and Gaurav Kumar Verma of Makkar Colony of Daba. Station house officer inspector Mohammad Jamil said that the police have arrested the accused from a vacant plot near Sahnewal airport following a tip-off. The accused were hatching a conspiracy to commit robbery in the city. The police conducted a raid and arrested them.During interrogation, the accused confessed to their involvement in 16 cases of snatching and burglary. The accused were active in Sahnewal, Giaspura, Sua road, Village Gobindgarh, Jalandhar Bypass, Daba and Dhandhri Khurd.“The accused are staying in rented accommodations in the city. After executing the crime, they used to hide in their accommodation,” Jamil said.“A case under Sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity) and 402 (assembling for purpose of committing dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-of-snatchers-busted-5-held-in-ludhiana/story-q2uI1wSOh0kRQWUr9geJcL.html
14-07-2020||City||One held for murder bid in Jagadhri||Nearly three weeks after a man tried to kill a woman in Jagadhri’s Sector 17, Yamunanagar police on Tuesday arrested the accused. Dharmendra Kumar alias Indra from Saharanpur, a former construction supervisor, told the police that he was unemployed due to the lockdown and targeted the house with an intention of robbery as he “had built it and was familiar with its interior”. SP Kamaldeep Goyal said on June 26, victim Nisha Rani had complained that a man tried to kill her when she was alone at her house, but she managed to escape. A case was registered under sections 324, 451 and 307 of the IPC and sections of the Arms Act at Jagadhri city police station. The accused was nabbed by the anti-narcotics cell. He was produced in a court that sent him in two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-held-for-murder-bid-in-jagadhri/story-tzoxFb3g7oqnHk8VpK5ZNM.html
14-07-2020||City||Punjab: New curbs on gatherings dashes hopes of wedding industry revival||A day after the Punjab government has imposed a complete bar on all public gatherings while restricting social gatherings to five and marriages/other social functions to 30 instead of the current 50, city’s wedding organisers on Tuesday said that there is not even flicker of hope for the industry. The banquet hall owners said that the industry was already getting a tepid response from people when the government had restricted gatherings in marriage function to 50 and now this decision will force them to shut premises. President of Marriage Palace Welfare Association Amarjit Singh Sant said, “Even after weddings were allowed to recommence under strict guidelines, we received a poor response from people. With the new guidelines, the state government has dashed hopes of revival for the industry. The impact on the industry will be felt for years to come.”The owners said that with just 30 guests they would be able to recover their operational costs.According to the new rules, the management of marriage palaces/hotels shall be held responsible and shall face suspension of licence in case of violation of norms. Further, the management of marriage palaces/hotels/other commercial spaces will have to certify that adequate arrangements for ventilation of indoor spaces have been made.President of Hotels and Restaurants Association, Amarvir Singh said, “Banquet hall owners will have to incur more fixed charges than their profits. The government should rather announce that marriage functions are not allowed in palaces and hotels.”Owner of Kohinoor Hotel at Pakhowal road, Pritam Singh said, “It seems that the decision to open marriage palaces and banquet halls has been taken to collect revenue from owners.”Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal opposes new guidelinesState general secretary of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Sunil Mehra, and district President, Arvinder Makkar slammed the state government by stating that 50 persons are allowed to travel in congested buses, but are allowed to gather in wedding functions.Mehra, however, applauded the government’s decision taken by state government wherein the government lifted home quarantine rule for those visiting state for less than 72 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-new-curbs-on-gatherings-dashes-hopes-of-wedding-industry-revival/story-gvjbxKI7wKcwgh6zKKCtoM.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Akali Dal accuses Cong of teaming up with dera||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday said the Congress party has teamed up with Dera Sacha Sauda to take on the SAD in the 2022 assembly elections, in exchange of promise to absolve the Sirsa-based sect of sacrilege crimes.Addressing a press conference here, SAD leaders Balwinder Singh Bhunder, Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Singh Grewal and Sikander Singh Maluka said the Congress government was in the process of weakening the sacrilege case under an understanding with the dera. “The Congress first pressured the dera and is now using it as a political tool against the SAD. However, by doing so, they have exposed themselves,” the SAD leaders said.“We would not allow the Congress party to do dirty politics on the issue of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib. The prime accused in the sacrilege case was murdered in jail because the Congress government did not want the truth to come out. The family of Behbal Kalan police firing case prime witness, who died by suicide, had held a Congress minister and the Faridkot Congress legislator responsible for his death. All this points to that the hands of Congress party are dirty,” the leaders said.Referring to media interactions by state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar and dera supporter Veerpal Kaur held in tandem, Akali MP Bhunder said Jakhar tried to cover up the failures of his government by launching a false and malicious campaign against the SAD, while Veerpal tried to spread a canard which was refuted by the very police officer she credited it to. “It seems Veerpal is also a Congress mole and playing to the tunes of the Congress party,” he said, adding that the party will take a legal recourse.Grewal said the Congress party was trying to cover up its failures and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had already performed ‘ardas’ that “nothing should remain” of those who had indulged in the acts of sacrilege as well as of those who were behind it. He also made it clear that the SAD didn’t take the support of the dera in the 2017 assembly elections.“Some SAD candidates had solicited the support of the dera in their individual capacity and later sought forgiveness from the Akal Takht. In contrast, Congress leaders, including MP Preneet Kaur, and Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, relatives of Manpreet Singh Badal, Kewal Singh Dhillon, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and others never repented for visiting the dera headquarters seeking political support. He also pointed out that the father-in-law of the dera head’s daughter was a vice-president in Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/akali-dal-accuses-cong-of-teaming-up-with-dera/story-32pEYAo2pHLzelgtuR8JpM.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Admission process for Class 11 at 40 Chandigarh govt schools to start from July 21||The education department has decided to start online admission for Class 11 of 40 government schools from July 21 for the 2020-21 academic session.The last date for submitting the online registration form is July 30. As many as 12,500 seats are available at government schools in four streams- science, arts, commerce and skill courses.Candidates have to submit online registration forms with scanned documents as per details mentioned in the prospectus. To help students complete the process, admission help desks have been set up in 20 government schools. The desks will be operational from 9am to 1pm on all working days.Director of school education, Chandigarh, Rubinderjeet Singh Brar, said, “We have made all arrangements for students so they don’t face difficulty getting admission.”Moreover, 20 options for different schools/streams will be available to students in the registration form. Candidates scoring above 60% have to fill a minimum of 10 options for schools and streams. Candidates with less than 60% have to fill minimum of 15 options.The online prospectus will be available at www.chdeducation.gov.in and www.nielit.gov.in/chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/admission-process-for-class-11-at-40-chandigarh-govt-schools-to-start-from-july-21/story-1dvnB4I17A2BrgDqdP4z1M.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to decide on extension of term for students’ council||Panjab University will decide on extension of term for the Panjab University Campus Students’ Council (PUCSC) till the next elections are held. The term of the current students’ council ended on May 31.The issue was raised in the syndicate meeting on Monday since there is low possibility of elections being conduct in the near future amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The discussion was held in the zero hour of the syndicate meeting. It was decided that legal aspects will be analysed before a decision is taken.A committee has also been formed under the chairmanship of vice- chancellor Raj Kumar with syndicate members Ashok Goyal and Navdeep Goyal as members.“The panel headed by V-C will look into legal possibilities of the term of extension. It was decided that student representation should be maintained during this time as we are not aware when elections will be held,” a syndicate member said.Other student organisations raised the issue that members of the current students’ organisation should not represent students using their official positions.Even members of ABVP had written to dean students’ welfare (DSW) SK Tomar alleging that PUCSC members are using their official positions even after their term had ended.Another syndicate member said, “This is a very delicate issue and nothing should be decided in haste by the university. Since election is a democratic process and term of the student council ends on May 31 every year, the committee will look into all legal aspects to make the decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-decide-on-extension-of-term-for-students-council/story-H869AQJzxHPSs99Fj5kqfI.html
14-07-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 7th Covid-19 death, 78 new cases take state’s toll to 3,686||With the death of a 37-year-old female patient in Nainital district on Tuesday, Uttarakhand reported its seventh Covid-19 death. The state also reported 78 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally of total cases to 3686.The health bulletin released on Tuesday mentioned that the death of a 37-year-old female was reported from Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital, Nainital. The patient expired on July 13 in the hospital.“As per death summary, the cause of death is reported as chronic kidney disease/shock/infective endocarditis/systemic hypertension/bilateral pneumonitits/septeceamia/ COVID-19 positive,” stated the bulletin.A total of 50 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand, of which seven patients died due to the contagion.Uttarakhand on Tuesday reported 78 fresh Covid-19 cases of which maximum were from US Nagar (34) district.Three cases reported were of healthcare workers from different districts and 30 cases were found to be close contacts of earlier detected positive cases. The others had returned to the state from places like Mumbai, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi-NCR, Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat and Kerala.The new cases were reported from Dehradun (12), Haridwar (22), Pauri (3), Tehri (5), US Nagar (34) and Uttarkashi (2).Eleven Covid-19 patients were discharged from Nainital district on Tuesday.The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 36.79 days, while the infection rate is 4.10%. The state has so far tested over 98000 samples of which results of over 5800 are awaited.Uttarakhand has a total of 86 containment zones with seven such zones in Dehradun district, 11 in Udham Singh Nagar district, two in Nainital district, 62 in Haridwar district and four in Uttarkashi district.Meanwhile, Uttarakhand government on Tuesday announced allocation Rs 9.24 crores for setting up infrastructure for processing solid waste generated in the state. The funds have been approved for nine urban local bodies across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-reports-7th-covid-19-death-78-new-cases-take-state-s-toll-to-3-686/story-3uf3fYdQierFanSdICbiFI.html
14-07-2020||City||Days after Kashmir visit, J&K BJP chief Ravinder Raina tests positive||Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina, who had visited slain colleague Waseem Bari’s residence along with several other leaders in Kashmir’s Bandipora, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.“For five days I was in Bandipora where our party leader Sheikh Waseem Bari, his brother and their father were martyred. Covid infection rate is more in Kashmir and this morning I had a mild fever. My first report tested me positive, though I am asymptomatic. I am going for second test and will follow all the guidelines of the health ministry and the J&K administration,” he told HT.As per sources, he has been hospitalised in Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Super Specialty Hospital in Kakryal, Reasi district.As Raina had met several people during the funeral in Bandipora, the administration has started contact tracing.A party member said, “All the top BJP leaders, including party general secretary Ram Madhav, Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh and vice president Avinash Rai Khanna, besides workers will be quarantined and tested as per contact tracing protocol due to contact with Raina, who has tested positive.”“Have gone into self-quarantine with immediate effect from 4pm today, after receiving the news about #Corona positive test of J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina who had accompanied us from Srinagar to Bandipora on 12th July,” Dr Jitendra Singh posted on his Twitter handle.Similarly, Ram Madhav tweeted, “Am quarantining myself for a few days since my colleague and BJP J&K president Ravinder Raina tested positive for Covid-19 today and I was with him 48 hours ago in Srinagar. I tested negative five times in last two weeks. Yet taking precautions to ensure my safety and others’. I wish speedy recovery for Raina.”BJP vice-president Khanna said he has been tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/days-after-kashmir-visit-j-k-bjp-chief-ravinder-raina-tests-positive/story-YF0jUAvRRuzqCqDmTDXq3H.html
14-07-2020||City||Police start reviewing security of Kashmir-based political leaders||After the killing of former BJP district president along with his father and brother in Bandipora last week, the police have started reviewing the security of leaders of different political parties based in Kashmir.Police said BJP leader Waseem Bari, his father Bashir Ahmad and brother Suhail Bashir were killed by two Lashkar militants in a pre-planned attack, despite them having a posse of ten security personnel, who have been arrested and dismissed from their services for being absent when the militants targeted the trio from a close range. Politicians from various mainstream parties have expressed concern over their security arrangements, especially in Kashmir. Two BJP leaders, including Yuwa Morcha’s Baramulla president Maroof Bhat and party vice-president from Kupwara Asif Ahmad, recently resigned from their posts, owing to the issue.A senior police officer confirmed that the security of politicians is being reviewed and could also be upgraded on the risk assessment of different leaders. “After the political killings in Bandipora, the security of party leaders is being again reviewed,” the officer said.Top BJP leaders like general secretary Ram Madhav and state president Ravinder Raina had also flagged the issue of security of their leaders before police officials.Confirming that two BJP leaders resigned from the party in Kashmir after the killing of Waseem Bari and his family members, BJP state spokesperson Altaf Thakur said, “Most of our workers have security, but leaders are still without security. The party leadership has taken up the issue with the government.”Thakur said they have been assured that within a week’s time the security of politicians will be reviewed. “The security of not only BJP leaders, but those affiliated with other political parties would also be reviewed or upgraded,” he said.Last month, Congress sarpanch from Anantnag Ajay Pandita was also killed by militants. The Congress had said that despite threat and requests he wasn’t provided any security cover.After the revocation of Article 370 last year, the security of many politicians affiliated with different parties was downsized or withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-start-reviewing-security-of-kashmir-based-political-leaders/story-q0zBkOiesYwOcOWtlwlgYK.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 tally rises by 6,741 to 2,67,665; toll 10,695||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally jumped to 2,67,665 on Tuesday with the addition of 6,741 fresh cases while 213 more patients succumbed to the infection, including 70 in Mumbai, taking the state’s fatality count to 10,695, Health department said.A total of 4,500 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the number of recovered cases to 1,49,007, it said.The recovery rate in the state is 55.67 per cent, while the fatality rate is 4 per cent, the department said.The state now has 1,07,665 active cases.Mumbai reported 954 cases in the day, taking its total count to 95,100 while the death toll has gone up by 70 to 5,405.Apart from Mumbai, 15 fatalities were reported each from the limits of the Thane Municipal Corporation and rest of the district while 12 patients died in areas under the Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation, which are parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).Vasai-Virar belt and Navi Mumbai, which also fall under the MMR, each reported 8 deaths, the department said.From other parts of the state, 10 fatalities occurred in Pune city, 9 in Pimpri-Chinchwad township and 7 in Jalgaon district (barring Jalgaon city), it said.The MMR, including Mumbai city, accounted for the highest 2,893 cases in the total 6,741 new cases on Tuesday.The number of cases in the MMR now stands at 1,79,760 and the death toll at 7,543.Pune city reported a rise of 1,139 cases in the day, followed by Pimpri-Chinchwad (541), Kalyan-Dombivali (405), Thane (304), Nashik (266), Navi Mumbai (258) and Ulhasnagar (210) cases.Currently, 6,98,854 people are in home quarantine and 42,350 in institutional quarantine in the state.A total of 13,72,939 people have been tested in the state so far, it said.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally is as follows: Positive cases 2,67,665, new cases 6,741, deaths 10,695, discharged 1,49,007, active cases 1,07,665, people tested so far 13,72,939.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-rises-by-6-741-to-2-67-665-toll-10-695/story-ZNmVk5aBRDL9LUDaEtrxkJ.html
14-07-2020||City||J&K L-G visits kin of slain BJP leader in Bandipora, hands over ₹20L aid||Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu on Tuesday visited the residence of BJP leader Sheikh Waseem Bari in Bandipora, who along with his father and brother was killed by militants last week.The L-G handed over financial assistance of ₹20 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased and conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members.Murmu strongly condemned the killings and said the perpetrators of this dastardly act of violence would be brought to justice. “Such a heinous act is an attempt to spread fear, and there can be no justification for such attacks,” he said.On Sunday, Union minister Jitendra Singh and BJP general secretary Ram Madhav had visited the family and handed over ₹10 lakh aid to the family. Bari is survived by his wife, two minor children and a sister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-l-g-visits-kin-of-slain-bjp-leader-in-bandipora-hands-over-20l-aid/story-kXwGyxvZ95Mtjtl6UopdoK.html
14-07-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal extends total lockdown in containment zones till July 19||The West Bengal government on Tuesday extend the total lockdown in containment zones till July 19. According to a notification by the Home Department, the rigorous containment in these areas would be extended from July 15 to July 19. These zones are located in and around Kolkata, besides Jalpaiguri, Malda, Cooch Behar, Raiganj and Siliguri, it said. The total lockdown was enforced in the containment zones from 5 pm of July 9 to stem the spike in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-extends-total-lockdown-in-containment-zones-till-july-19/story-tFt5gcAnbUFOVO1egWssfK.html
14-07-2020||City||Kashmir opens for tourism but residents scorn poor timing of move||While Kashmir is set to welcome tourists after the administration opened the sector on Tuesday, the valley residents have ridiculed the decision which has come when the region is witnessing an unabated spike in Covid-19 cases and re-imposition of lockdown restrictions.The tourism department officials said the protocol committees and health teams are on the ground, but they expect that it may take some time for trickling down of the message to potential visitors.“We have started getting congratulatory messages from the outside tour operators and everything is in place. Our officials are on the ground to make sure that every precaution is taken. However it may take at-least two weeks to one month for the tourists to start bookings,” said Kashmir tourism director Nisar Ahmad Wani.The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday decided to open the tourism sector in a phased manner with effect from Tuesday, allowing only by-air arrival. All incoming tourists must have confirmed hotel bookings for the duration of their stay and confirmed return air tickets besides compulsory RT-PCR testing of everyone on arrival.Ironically, the order came on the same day when the administration imposed restrictions in parts of the valley, including Srinagar — the worst affected district— by designating over 88 containment zones amid a surge in coronavirus cases over the past few weeks. Earlier, the Amarnath pilgrimage was also given a go-ahead besides opening of parks.These decisions have been sharply castigated by people even associated with tourism.Ashfaq Siddiq Dug, president of Travel Agents Association of Kashmir, said it was an ill-timed move and an insult to the sensibilities of the locals.“It is a shame. How can I welcome tourists when the locals are being herded into their homes? How do you expect tourism to flourish in this scenario and how can we be sure if they are not carriers,” asked Dug.“The ground situation is not conducive. The decision to open the tourism sector is as good as building castles in the air. Probably it has a political angle to it to show to the world how much we are enthusiastic about starting tourism,” he said.The number of people infected with the disease in J&K has already crossed 10,800 with 187 fatalities — 170 in Kashmir and 17 in Jammu division till Monday evening.Moin-ul-Islam, an engineering student, questioned how locals will agree amid the dichotomy of the decisions. “This is why people don’t follow the guidelines. Locals asked to stay at home and tourists welcomed. How are we supposed to adhere to their orders,” he asked.Others jibed whether only locals were susceptible to the virus and the visitors were immune. “Does the virus become hyperactive and harmful when it comes to dealing with the natives and goes into hibernation mode with respect to the visitors and pilgrims? Has the critical thinking in Kashmir been quarantined or put in isolation? Or, may be, declared a containment zone,” said author and political commentator Gowhar Geelani on Twitter.The tourism director, however, defended the administrative decision saying that the people associated with the sector have been suffering losses. “Please ask those who are associated with tourism like pony riders, tourist guides and Shikara rowers whose families have been suffering from hunger. There are so many who really want it,” Wani said.“We are not saying that we will bring them without taking all the precautions. We will follow proper protocol,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-opens-for-tourism-but-residents-scorn-poor-timing-of-move/story-aGW4G4AO3mtpuw7KvBP3YP.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali man held for duping on pretext of house allotment under central scheme||A Mohali resident has been booked for allegedly duping a man of Rs 1.6 lakh on the pretext of getting him a house under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. The accused has been identified as Mohammad Akhlash Saify of Jujhar Nagar, Mohali.Complainant Mohammad Amjad of Sector 45, Burail, who works as a tailor, said last year, he had applied for a EWS (economically weaker sections) house under the central scheme. Saify, who is also a tailor, said he can help him get a house and took money in instalments. Saify even took him to see a house in Bapu Dham and handed over some documents, which later turned out to be fake. The complainant got suspicious when Saify failed to hand him the house keys and lodged a complaint. The case has been registered under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code at the Section 26 police station. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-man-held-for-duping-on-pretext-of-house-allotment-under-central-scheme/story-Dug7yDDmCBucsdpGlKrS7O.html
14-07-2020||City||Kalyan’s Covid lab to conduct 3,000 tests a day, starting next week||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) will soon begin operations of its own Covid-19 swab testing lab as work on the facility is in its final stage. The lab will allow the civic body to conduct 3,000 tests a day and release reports faster.“We have been planning to open our own testing lab which will allow us to do more testing in a day. We do around 900 tests presently, but once the new lab is open, we will do 3,000 tests, “said a KDMC official.The civic body recorded 336 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total count to 13,576. The city also recorded nine new deaths, taking the toll to 207.The lab has been set up at Trimurthi Park in Gauripada, Kalyan (West), with help from Krssna Diagnostic. On Tuesday, Kalyan MP Shrikant Shinde visited the site and assured that it would be opened in a week.“The lab will start functioning in a week after it receives permission from the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories. The lab will help conduct testing for areas like Kalyan Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath, Badlapur, and Bhiwandi,” said Shinde.Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) commissioner Raja Dayanidhi has also decided to adopt the Dharavi pattern in the city to curb the spread of the virus. The civic body revealed that it will soon begin antigen tests in its jurisdiction. The decision was taken during an online meeting on Tuesday.In the first phase, the civic body will acquire 4,000 rapid antigen kits, 2,000 more in the second phase, and 10,000 in the third phase. Around 550 volunteers will conduct the door-the-door survey in the city.UMC recorded 193 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total count to 4,618. The city has recorded 71 deaths.“We will soon start the door-to-door surveys with the help of corporators, and also conduct antigen testing to get reports on time and start treatment faster,” said Dayanidhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-s-covid-lab-to-test-3-000-test-a-day-starting-next-werek/story-V9XpS2guuwjM5d0DU5xC1M.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt orders probe into mention of Covid-19 on marksheets||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday ordered an inquiry after marksheets of agriculture universities in the state were found to have the words “promoted Covid-19” stamped on them.Agriculture minister Dada Bhuse ordered inquiry after BJP leader Ashish Shelar raised the issue.“It has come to light that marksheets of agriculture universities have ‘promoted Covid-19’ stamps. This is wrong and unjust for students,” tweeted Shelar, a former minister.Maharashtra has four agriculture universities.In a letter to the director general of Maharashtra Council of Agriculture Education and Research and vice- chancellors of agriculture universities, Bhuse said the government had not given any instruction that marksheets should mention that the student has been promoted (without holding examination) due to the pandemic. The minister ordered an inquiry into the matter and action will be taken against those found responsible, an official statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-orders-probe-into-mention-of-covid-19-on-marksheets/story-5Hh4uoBFjhdJ1HIl4YZEFK.html
14-07-2020||City||HP CM dedicates devp projects worth Rs 73 cr for Banjar||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday dedicated developmental projects worth about Rs 73 crores in Banjar Vidhan Sabha constituency of Kullu district through video conferencing.He said that Banjar has immense potential from tourism point of view. “To promote eco-tourism there, state government has started online booking facility for forest rest houses at Soza and Jibhi. Rs 12 crore silk centre was being established at Banjar to promote sericulture,” he said.He added that work on Gadagushani Degree College is in progress. Around Rs 100 crore is being spent on 26 roads under the PMGSY scheme in the area.Thakur laid the foundation stones of lift irrigation scheme ay Wahami Nala in Hurala Naraish to be completed by incurring Rs 10.63 crore; lift irrigation scheme at Damoti, Walagad, Chethar, Khaba of Banjar area on which Rs 7.14 crore will be spent; lift irrigation scheme at Sinud, Hathithan, Khokhan and Haat by spending Rs 14.16 crore; and lift irrigation scheme at Bhatgran, Tuniseri of Banjar area to be completed using Rs 1.48 crore.These irrigation schemes will provide irrigation facilities to 567 hectare, 450 hectare, 343 hectare and 128 hectare of land, respectively.CM laid foundation stone of additional building of PWD rest house at Gadagushaini to be constructed for Rs 2.47 crore; metalling of 7km Sainj-Deuri road and Neoli-Shaishar road to be completed using Rs 4.95 crore and Rs 14.87 crore, respectively.He laid foundation stones of helipad in Banjarto be constructed by spending Rs 2.90 crore. He said the rest house will provide better facilities to locals and tourists visiting the area.Thakur laid foundation stones of upgrade of 12.5km Bhuen-Diyar raod to be completed by incurring expenditure of Rs 11.61 crore; and about 10km Deuri-Shanad-Shrikot road on which Rs 6.14 crore will be spent. These roads will benefit about 6,200 people in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-cm-dedicates-devp-projects-worth-rs-73-cr-for-banjar/story-P0oJBkJHdw46HlPZrx0FcI.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents rush to register their dogs fearing hefty fines||The hike in the penalty for non-registration of pet dogs has led to a 10-fold increase in the number of residents coming forward to complete the formalities, say Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) authorities. From 10 applications a day, the MC now gets around 100 forms a day for dog registration.The UT administration had hiked the penalty from Rs 500 to Rs 5,000, while notifying the Chandigarh Registration of Pet Dogs (Amendment) Bye-laws 2020 on July 2. The cost of registration had also been hiked from Rs 200 to Rs 500 per dog.The hike had been approved by the MC General House last year. ‘MOST APPLICATIONS FROM GOVT OFFICIALS’Dr Amrit Warring, medical officer health (MOH), MC, said, “While earlier, we got around 10 registration applications a day, we now get more 100 a day. This has happened after the 10-fold increase in the penalty. Interestingly, most of the new applications for dog registration are coming from government officials.”The MC has not only increased the penalty for non-registration, but, also increased the fine for repeat offences. If the violation is of a continuing nature, then an additional fine is imposed which may extend to Rs 200 for a maximum of seven days for which the breach continues. Earlier, the said fine was Rs 20.If a non-registered pet dog is seized or detained under the bylaws, the owner has to pay maintenance charges of Rs 1,000 instead of the earlier Rs 100 a day to claim the dog.“It is a welcome step we expect the trend to continue in coming months. People generally avoid registration, but, with stringent penalties, city residents are keener to register their dogs instead of paying hefty fines,” said Warring.The MC is building a database for the pet dogs. “With more people coming to register their dogs, our database will be better and indicate the status of dog population. We will see a better management of pet dogs now,” Warring said.As per the Chandigarh Registration of Pet Dogs Bylaws, it is mandatory for dog owners to register each pet at the MC office, once the canine is four months old. Only two dogs are allowed per family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-rush-to-register-their-dogs-fearing-hefty-fines/story-TSwKDakDiLxx8zEYnUJ9GK.html
14-07-2020||City||Kullu admn suspends Shrikhand Mahadev Yatra due to covid||The Kullu district administration has suspended the annual Shrikhand Mahadev Yatra after a demand was raised by the villagers in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The order to this effect was issued by Kullu deputy commissioner Richa Verma on Monday.The annual yatra is usually held in Nirmand Development block of Anni subdivision in district from July 15 and concludes by month end.“Anni sub-divisional magistrate, in a letter dated June 27, had recommended suspension of the yatra due to prevailing situation amid Covid-19 pandemic and heavy snowfall in the region,” the DC said.She said, nearby gram panchayats including Chail Bhalsi, Arsu, Sarahan, Nore, Tunan, Nishani and Rahanu also raised the same request.“Keeping in view public safety and government guidelines, Shrikhand Mahadev Yatra is suspended for all activities including pilgrimages, mountaineering, and tourism,” Verma said.Any deviation of the order will be viewed seriously and strict legal action will be initiated against the defaulters, she added.The yatra involves a 35-km arduous trek to 16,900-feet high summit where a 72-feet high split rock is worshiped by the devotees as Shivalinga. The harsh trail meanders through alpine meadows, deep gorges and slippery glaciers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kullu-admn-suspends-shrikhand-mahadev-yatra-due-to-covid/story-TqO35MqAl7PEuWNCvG1TlK.html
14-07-2020||City||Hamirpur NIT director loses financial, admn powers||The management of NIT, Hamirpur has divested the powers of director Prof Vinod Yadava with immediate effect.This was after a meeting between the Union minister of state for finance-cum-corporate affairs Anuarg Thakur and Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal regarding NIT Hamirpur affairs.Complaints about working of the director were raised by the staff and others. Prof Chandra Shekhar, chairperson, Board of Governors (BoG), at NIT Hamirpur confirmed the development.The institute will soon get a new director as the Union HRD ministry was unhappy with the working style of the present director.A senior ministry official is also expected to visit the institute for an on-the-spot inquiry into the allegations levelled against Prof Yadava.Questions were being raised on his working since he took over as the director of the institute, especially with regard to appointment of new faculty and other issues.The matter took a political turn after local Congress MLA Rajinder Rana highlighted anomalies in the working of the director and accused the ruling BJP government of helping him.Some staff members and others had urged the Union HRD ministry to hand over reins of the institute to someone else and prevent the present director from influencing those opposed to him.Rana, flag-bearer of a campaign against Prof Yadava, had demanded his immediate removal. He had also called for a high-level inquiry into the blatant misuse of powers by the director.As per reports, Dr Lalit Awasthi, director NIT, Jalandhar, has been given additional charge of NIT, Hamirpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hamirpur-nit-director-loses-financial-admn-powers/story-9BlEKYHCrPPce2Wog69p9H.html
14-07-2020||City||Two more lose battle against Covid in Mohali, district’s toll rises to 9||Coronavirus disease claimed two more lives in Mohali district on Tuesday, rising its death toll to nine.The deceased have been identified as a 65-year-old man from New Chandigarh (Mullanpur) and a 48-year-old man from Jawaharpur in Dera Bassi. Both had comorbidities and were undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. The Jawaharpur man was suffering from diabetes and hypertension and was hospitalised on July 9. The Mullanpur man had a chronic disease and was admitted to the PGIMER on July 5. Both were cremated according to the safety protocol, said Dr Singh.Meanwhile, 21 fresh cases were reported in the district, taking the total to 444. Six of those found infected are children. In Mohali city, the infections have been reported from Sector 68 besides Phases 4 and 9. Other cases are spread across Peer Muchhala, Dhakoli, Jawaharpur and Dera Bassi town besides LIC Colony and Gillco in Kharar.All have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. As of now, 158 cases remain active.Making an appeal to the public to restrict movement and come out only if absolutely essential, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “We are going strict on enforcement of safety protocols. No loitering will be permitted. Enforcement teams will not just issue warning or challans, but register FIRs for non-compliance to directions issued by the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-lose-battle-against-covid-in-mohali-district-s-toll-rises-to-9/story-oVoNxuXwqtriLw6GzOtSlO.html
14-07-2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 situation in Madhya Pradesh aggravates, more than 5,000 cases in fortnight||Covid-19 situation in Madhya Pradesh has witnessed an alarming spike in the positive cases particularly in four cities of the state- Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior and Morena much to worry of the state government that drove chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to visit Gwalior-Chambal region a couple of days back to review the situation over there, as per the government’s data and officials.As the situation has aggravated Gwalior district administration announced on Monday night clamping curfew in the city for seven days while also ordering sealing of the border of the district. Indore on Monday announced rescheduling of opening of markets as per a left-right method meaning thereby the shops on one side of the road will be opened on one day to be followed by opening of shops on the other side of the road the next day, as per the administrative authorities in the districts. In Morena, collector Priyanka Das announced that until and unless positivity rate of samples was reduced to 4% from 10% the administration will not be able to allow opening of markets. “In the past seven days sampling reports 42% were tested positive including 40% from the urban area”, she said in a meeting. The grim and worsening situation in the state can be gauged from the fact that in the past 15 days the state has witnessed more than 5,000 new cases. On an average, this fortnight has seen almost 335 new cases every day or in other words almost 14 cases every hour. The exact number is 5021 to take the tally of the state Covid-19 cases to 18,207, as per the health department’s bulletin released on Monday night.In comparison, the state had seen 13186 Covid-19 positive cases till June 28 night. Thus on an average, the period of 101 days since Corona cases were first reported in the state on March 20, almost 131 positive cases were reported daily or more than five cases per hour. Thus, growth of Covid-19 cases went up by more than 250% during the past fortnight, as per the government’s data.Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior and Morena contributed 2903 Covid-19 positive cases to the total of 5,021 which is 57.81% of the total with Bhopal reporting the maximum number of cases- 850 followed by Indore with 737 cases, Gwalior- 665 and Morena-651.As per the health department’s bulletin, Gwalior became the third district in the state with maximum number of Covid positive cases- 1016 after Indore (5352) and Bhopal (3590). Morena in Gwalior-Chambal region closely follows Gwalior with 976 cases. There are 21 more districts in the state out of the total 52 which have Covid cases in three digits from 101 in Vidisha to 896 in Ujjain. WORRYING DEATH RATEAs per the health department’s data, in the past one fortnight the state witnessed 106 deaths. Thus, seven deaths were reported daily on an average whereas earlier in the 101-day period the state reported more than 5 deaths every day. The total deaths reported so far in the state is 663, as per the health department’s bulletin.Indore tops the death chart with 269 deaths followed by Bhopal (122), Ujjain (71), Burhanpur (23), Sagar (22), Khandwa (17), Jabalpur and Khargone (15 each), Dewas (10) and remaining in 29 districts. Though the death rate in the state has been reduced to 3.64% at present from once close to 5%, it’s still higher than the national average death rate- 2.61%. Ujjain continues to report the highest death rate among major cities in the state at 7.72% followed by Indore with 5.02%. Bhopal’s death rate among Covid-19 patients is 3.39%.Right to Information (RTI) activist Ajay Dubey said, “The situation is alarming given the fact the state government is manipulating the data on the patients and deaths. It has been seen that the government withholds the data on death to be released later. Also, the fact remains that the number of tests being conducted on suspected Covid patients is much less in comparison to what is required. That’s why the real situation is hardly reflected in the government’s bulletins.”Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said, “The state government claimed to have taken a number of measures to control the situation particularly in Indore and Bhopal but while situation is further aggravated in the two cities Gwalior-Chambal region became another big Covid hotspot. At the same time, Malwa-Nimad region and parts of Mahakoshal, Bundelkhand and central regions continue to pose a major challenge to the state government. The situation has worsened during the unlock period and the state government seems to have no idea how to control the situation.”Admitting that the Corona infection was on rise in the state health minister Prabhuram Choudhary who was assigned the portfolio of health department on Monday said, “This is why I have decided not to celebrate my birthday on Wednesday. However, the state government under the leadership of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan started a ‘Kill corona campaign’ from July 1 to control the situation in the entire state. I will review the situation and my priority is to upgrade the hospitals and other infrastructure of the public health system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/covid-19-situation-in-madhya-pradesh-aggravates-more-than-5-000-cases-in-fortnight/story-JJEVpbWW227oeqCW5oEvLP.html
14-07-2020||City||Dera’s revelations exposed anti-Sikh face of Akali leadership: Jakhar||Chandigarh Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday said that Dera Sacha Sauda’s statement regarding its support to the Sukhbir Singh Badal-led Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the 2017 state assembly polls has exposed the nexus between them.Jakhar said the existence of the nexus which was suspected by people so far has been proven to be true by the Sirsa-based dera’s admission that they voted for Akalis. “It is unfortunate that the SAD which proclaims itself as a Panthic outfit joined hands with the dera just for the sake of political power,” he told reporters here. He was accompanied by cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.The PPCC chief’s statement came a day after the dera’s state committee, in a press conference, termed the Punjab Police’s probe into alleged sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib as a conspiracy of the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government to defame the sect for political mileage. It also cited the dera’s call to its supporters to back the SAD in the previous polls as the probable reason behind the government action.Responding to dera’s statement, the PPCC chief accused the SAD of backstabbing the Panth by hobnobbing with Dera Sacha Sauda to remain in power. “The candid admission by dera followers has established beyond any doubt that a deal was struck between Sukhbir Badal and the dera chief as per which the latter was granted pardon and his movie was screened across the state,” he alleged.Jakhar also said the people of state in general, and Sikhs in particular, would never forgive Sukhbir Badal as the dera had never admitted till now about giving political support to any party. He said that Panthic organisations should come forward and demand excommunicating Sukhbir from Sikh faith for hobnobbing with these anti-Sikh forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dera-s-revelations-exposed-anti-sikh-face-of-akali-leadership-jakhar/story-DiShVAslOuLXkAZrXSGLUN.html
14-07-2020||City||2 booked for threatening cops, snatching motorcycle from delivery boy in Mohali||A day after two miscreants threatened cops and snatched a bike from a food delivery boy in Phase-10, police booked two unidentified persons for criminal intimidation and attempt to murder.The incident took place around 6pm on Monday, when assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Surjit Singh, who was at a naka near Phase 9/10 lightpoint, stopped a Suzuki Baleno car headed towards Phase 10. The two occupants of car immediately started arguing with the ASI and then sped away after hitting him with the vehicle. Later, another set of cops stopped the car near the Phase 10 market. This time, the men panicked and fled towards the showrooms, leaving the vehicle behind. Then, one of them threatened a Swiggy (online food delivery application) delivery boy with a gun and sped away with his bike. It was later recovered near Burail Jail.Police found out that the Baleno car belongs to Sajjan Singh, a resident of Banga town in Nawanshahr, who is currently staying abroad but the owners had been frequently changing over the past some time.Phase 11 station house officer, Jagdeep Singh, said, “The suspects are yet to be identified. We are trying to trace them through the vehicle’s registration number. The closed-circuit television camera footage is not clear enough to identify them, but we are hopeful of arresting them soon.”The case has been registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (voluntarily obstructing public servant in the discharge of public functions), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25, 27, 54, 59 of the Arms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-booked-for-threatening-cops-snatching-motorcycle-from-delivery-boy-in-mohali/story-juqkGlVdSBXWp2UIEqrfgJ.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Class-12 results: Chitkara International School announces 100% result||Chitkara International School on Tuesday announced that all its students had cleared the Class-12 board examinations, the results of which were declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education on Monday. As many as 77 students of the school had appeared for the examination, of which Jessica Saini, Jasmine, Rohan, Saksham, Saurabh, Sukhman, Prabhjot, Ishiqa, Smridhi and Hira Bahadur attained over 90% marks.Saini, who is pursuing the humanities stream, topped the school with 96% marks. Notably, she secured 98 marks in political science. Sukhman, also a humanities student, secured 95%. Samridhi, a non-medical student, and Rohan Sagar, a commerce student also secured 95% marks. Principal Dr Niyati Chitkara said “I would like to extend my hearty congratulations to the Class-12 students. We particularly take pride in the kind of personal, emotional and academic growth exhibited by the scholars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/class-12-results-chitkara-international-school-announces-100-result/story-PQabXZWy91n8HnSPQtAbZI.html
14-07-2020||Lucknow||UP Vidhan Sabha speaker dismisses pleas to disqualify two Cong MLAs||In a major relief to rebel Congress MLAs Aditi Singh and Rakesh Singh, Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit on Monday rejected the Congress petition seeking their disqualification from UP assembly. The speaker dismissed the petitions against both the lawmakers saying they did not attract provisions of 10th schedule of Constitution of India and thus “lacked substance.”“After scrutinizing all the documents in the light of Supreme Court’s orders, I am of the view that Rae Bareli (Sadar) MLA Aditi Singh does not attract provisions of 10th schedule of the Constitution of India and hence cannot be disqualified for defection. The petition seeking her disqualification is therefore rejected for lacking force,” said Speaker in his 45-page order dated July 13, 2020.The Congress has seven members in the state assembly and much signification was being attached to the petitions seeking disqualification of two MLAs as they represented assembly segments of Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s Rae Bareli Lok Sabha seat.Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra had filed a petition on November 26, 2020 seeking Singh’s disqualification for attending special session of the state legislature convened on the occasion of 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi to discuss the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals on October 2, 2019. Singh while attending the special session in defiance of the whip had allegedly praised chief minister Yogi Adityanath in the house.In his order, speaker did not accept the Congress contention that by attending the special session, the Congress MLA had voluntarily given up her membership and said public representative was expected to put up point about development of the constituency and restriction of freedom expression of public representatives was not in accordance with the provisions of the constitution. He quoted the Supreme Court’s orders to make his point that only such issues could be brought under provisions of the 10th schedule of the Constitution that may be related to policies of a political party or that may decide the confidence in a government. Any observations about SDGs or Mahatama Gandhi’s birth anniversary did not attract the provisions of 10th schedule, he said.Speaker further observed that the whip issued by the then Congress Legislature Party leader Ajay Kumar Lallu on October 2, 2019 was not in accordance with the conditions laid down by the Supreme Court of India in Kihota Hollohan case (AIR 1993 SCC111). SC’s order quoted by the speaker reads “it would be appropriate that the direction or whip which results in such disqualification under paragraph 2(1)(b) is so worded as to clearly indicate that voting or abstaining from voting contrary to the said direction would result incurring the disqualification under paragraph 2 (1) (b) of the Tenth Schedule of so that the member concerned has knowledge of the consequences flowing from his conduct in voting or abstaining from voting contrary to such a direction.”Speaker said analysis of the facts mentioned in the SC verdict make it clear that the opponent (Aditi) could not be disqualified for attending special session of the house. He, however, rejected Aditi’s contention that the petition has been filed by the Indian National Congress that was a political party and not a person and thus was not in accordance with rules of the house. He quoted budget session and Covid-19 as valid reasons for turning down the petitioner’s plea that Aditi’s reply should not be placed on record in view of the delay. Speaker observed that the petition should have been filed under provisions of para 2 (1) (b) of the 10th schedule instead of para 2 (1) (A) of the 10th scheduled of the Constitution of India.On the other hand, the petition seeking disqualification of Rakesh Singh was filed alleging that the legislator worked for the BJP by attending BJP rallies and worked for the saffron party before and after filing of nomination for Lok Sabha election by his brother Dinesh Singh as a BJP candidate on April 15, 2019. Rejecting petition seeking disqualification of Rakesh Singh he observed that the points made by petitioner did not support the contention that the Congress MLA had voluntarily given up membership of the house. Dikshit said photographs given by the petitioner did not establish that the MLA’s vehicle was being used for BJP’s campaigning. He said photographs also did not prove that the MLA was working for the BJP on the day of polling for 2019 Lok Sabha elections.Congress to file appealLucknow: The Congress has decided to file an appeal against Speaker Hridaya Narain Dishit’s order rejecting party’s petitions seeking disqualification of two Rae Bareli MLAs Aditi Singh and Rakesh Singh.“Yes, we will file an appeal against the Speaker’s order that was undemocratic. Speaker is a member of the BJP and has apparently given his order under government’s pressure,” said Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu. “We are exploring all options and an appeal will be filed soon,” said Lallu.Congress to file appeal in HCThe Congress has decided to file an appeal against Speaker Hridaya Narain Dishit’s order rejecting party’s petitions seeking disqualification of two Rae Bareli MLAs Aditi Singh and Rakesh Singh in Allahabad High Court.“Yes, we will file an appeal against the Speaker’s order that was undemocratic. Speaker is a member of the BJP and has apparently given his order under government’s pressure,” said Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu. “We are exploring all options and an appeal at Allahabad HC will be filed soon,” said Lallu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-vidhan-sabha-speaker-dismisses-pleas-to-disqualify-two-cong-mlas/story-U5v5nSCUiPuotO9OUS2w9M.html
14-07-2020||Pune||Pune admin tests 5,168 samples in a day||PUNE A total of 5,168 samples have been tested in the past 24 hours in Pune, of which 1,432 were made using the rapid antigen testing kits.As of Monday, a total of 1.66 lakh samples have been tested in the city.The city reported 832 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and nine deaths due to the infection on Monday.Four deaths were also reported, of residents from outside the jurisdiction of the Pune municipal corporation (PMC).Of the 9,412 active cases in the city, 486 are in critical condition. A total of 18,000 patients have been discharged after being declared cured of the infection, of which 614 were discharged on Monday. The deaths reported on Monday include three from Sassoon General Hospital - a 27-year-old male from Kondhwa; a 53-year-old male from Market Yard and a 65-year-old female from Hadapsar.Two deaths were also reported from Jehangir hospital: that of a 40-year-old male from Hadapsar and a 55-year-old male from the Thakur bakery area.One death each was reported from the Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital, of a 55-year-old male from Kondhwa; from Symbiosis hospital - a 75-year-old male from Shivane; from Ruby Hall Clinic - a 62-year-old male from Wanowrie; and from Noble Hospital - a 54-year-old male from Hadapsar. The four deaths from outside PMC limits are of a a 42-year-old male from Beed reported from Surya Sahyadri; a 66-year-old male from Thane at Symbiosis hospital; and an 84-year-old female from Camp reported from KEM hospital, and a 75-year-old female, also from Camp at Sassoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-admin-tests-5-168-samples-tested-in-a-day/story-32l0vJzlgiwvPz3esNAKjN.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chartered flight brings back second group of 174 stranded Indians from UAE||Amritsar: As many as 174 Indians, who had been stranded in various parts of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) because of the closure of companies where they were employed due to the coronavirus pandemic, were brought back by a chartered flight at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport on Monday night.The flight, which was organised by Indian businessman and philanthropist SP Singh Oberoi, departed from Ras al Khaimah in the UAE on Monday.This was the second of the four chartered flights arranged by Oberoi to bring back the Indians from the UAE. On July 7, a chartered plane brought back 177 Indians to Chandigarh airport.According to Oberoi, the third and fourth flights will land in Chandigarh and Amritsar on July 19 and 25, respectively.He said, “Thousands of Indians still want to return. Many companies in the UAE have been closed due to the pandemic and the Indians who had been working with them have been left in the lurch. Some of them are not even able to arrange two square meals.”Oberoi said few passengers had bought their tickets, but the tickets for most were purchased by his Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust. He said his trust will also pay for the passengers’ Covid-19 tests.He announced that his trust will soon open skill development centres in all districts of the state with the motive of providing free training to those who are returning from the UAE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chartered-flight-brings-back-second-group-of-174-stranded-indians-from-uae/story-Ta023pGicxUBE1qCyHmVsI.html
14-07-2020||Pune||Punekars throng markets in panic-buying spree||With a ten-day lockdown coming into force in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad from Tuesday, chaotic scenes prevailed at markets, shops and ATMs on Monday as residents stepped out in huge numbers to stock up essentials.Many areas in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad witnessed huge rush and people were seen flouting the safety norms amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Many residents broke all the social distancing norms especially at vegetable markets and senior citizens had a hard time while standing in long queues.Meena Adhyapak, a senior citizen from Bibwewadi-Kondwa road, said, “Being a 72-year-old and going for grocery shopping is not an easy task during this time. I was waiting for more than 25 minutes in a queue to buy a packet of milk.”“People are stocking up more than what is required,” she said.Yash Oswal, a resident of Camp, said, “Vegetables and fruits were sold at high rates than usual and people did not hesitate to buy due to the lockdown.”Vedant Shinde, a resident of Sahakarnagar, said, “There was a long queue at liquor shops. Only a few shops had appointed security to make sure people are following social distancing and other safety norms.”Another resident Apurva Kulkarni, said, “I did not go out for shopping today (on Monday)as I knew there would be rush outside. People are ignoring all safety norms and stocking up essentials by risking their life.”“All the essentials will be available even during the lockdown period. So there is no need to get involve din panic buying,” said Kulkarni.Shubham Ghosh, a resident of Bavdhan, said, “I didn’t feel the need to buy more and stock up as all the essential commodities are going to be available throughout the lockdown period.”Another resident Sumit Mathpal said, “Today my neighbour bought 30kg wheat flour and she stays alone. Moreover, it is going to be available every day in the store.”Isha Pisal, a resident of Padmavati, said, “I visited a stationery store (lighthouse) today I had to wait for 20 minutes just to get inside the store. While returning home I saw a huge crowd at wine shops.”A grocery shopkeeper in Undri, Ghansham Thakkar, said, “People have been rushing to our shop from the last three days. They are buying more than usual.”“Due to the crowd it is becoming difficult to maintain social distance,” he said.Rajesh Jain, a helper in pharmacy, said, “The rush from past three to four days has increased. People are stocking diabetes medicines for more than a month even though the lockdown is not going to last that long and the medicines are available too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/punekars-begin-lockdown-by-closing-out-shopping-sprees/story-RNOEST5svSIEkUmKWLt2AP.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||CBSE Class 12 results: Game for more, these sports stars score high off the arena too||They’re international and national level players, excelling in fencing, cricket, water sports, even badminton, and the discipline has helped them focus with an eagle eye on success in other fields – academics for instance. Meet Arpita Malik, Khushneet Kaur and Muskan Chabra, three young stars who have romped home with a neat 93% and above in the Central Board of Secondary Education Class 12 Board exams, the results of which were announced on Monday. An international athlete in water sports and Khelo India scholarship holder in badminton, Malik has scored 93% in humanities in the boards.A student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 16, Malik has been a participant in the Dragon Boat World Cup in China last year. She has also been ranked nine in junior women’s doubles in the national badminton circuit and competed in 14 national badminton championships over the years.Malik attributes her success to consistency and discipline. “I give equal importance to sports and studies. I continued devoting time to sports even during the exams and similarly, even during my competition days in sports I follow my academics schedule.”What keeps her motivated to pursue her dreams in sports and academics is her desire to achieve more. “ My parents, coaches and teachers have gone out of their way to help me,” says Malik, who has trained under former national badminton coach Surinder Mahajan. A national medallist in fencing, Khushneet Kaur has won numerous laurels for Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 10, where she studies, and for Chandigarh at the state and national level. She has a score of 94% in the medical stream in the boards.A multiple national medallist in fencing, Kaur says she has been “able to balance studies with sports because of continuous preparation in both.”Fencing is a “passion, and when you have passion for something I think anything is achievable,” she declares. Support of parents, teachers and coaches have helped and “I have been able to score a good percentage and have won medals in fencing at the national level,” Kaur adds.National-level cricketer Muskan Chabra, a student of Carmel Convent School, Sector 9, has scored 94.2% in commerce. A cricket player for Punjab in the Under-16 national championship who represented Chandigarh in the Under-19 and U-23 national championships in the 2019-20 season, Chabra says, “Cricket is my passion, but at the same time I understand the importance of the education as well. So, I gave priority to both cricket and studies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbse-class-12-results-game-for-more-these-sports-stars-score-high-off-the-arena-too/story-97eEzA1seLmOA5dsfX3qLP.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Eight doctors of Faridkot medical college, DC’s mother among 12 test positive for Covid-19||Faridkot: Twelve people, including eight doctors of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, and the mother of the Faridkot deputy commissioner tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said that among the positive patients, 10 are staff members of the medical college’s orthopaedic department.“Eight doctors, a staff nurse and a ward boy were found infected with the virus. We have issued instructions to the medical superintendent to sanitise the ortho department and conduct contact tracing,” he said.Besides the ortho department, the OPD and cath lab have been closed, while the medical superintendent is also quarantined as he was in contact with positive patients.Faridkot deputy commissioner Vimal Kumar Setia was also home quarantined after his mother tested positive for Covid-19.“The mother of the Faridkot DC and one more person have tested positive for Covid-19. All the patients have been admitted to the isolation ward of the medical college and hospital,” Dr Rajinder Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-doctors-of-faridkot-medical-college-dc-s-mother-among-12-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-rwxyfhesR43n5KiKfq7NhP.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Supreme Court refuses to grant parole to self-styled godman Rampal from Haryana||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to grant parole to self-styled godman Rampal from Haryana, who is undergoing life imprisonment in murder cases.A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and justices R Subhash Reddy and AS Bopanna dismissed the plea of Rampal seeking parole to attend the wedding of his granddaughter, scheduled on Wednesday.On October 17, 2018, engineer-turned self-styled godman Rampal and his 13 followers were sentenced to life imprisonment in a second case of murder registered at Barwala police station in Hisar district of Haryana on November 19, 2014.Rampal and his followers were convicted for murder, wrongful confinement of people and criminal conspiracy. A woman was found dead at Rampal’s ashram in Hisar district on November 19, 2014. Rampal was arrested the same day for murder and other charges were slapped on him. He was also sentenced for life in another case of murder on October 16, 2018, involving the death of four women and a child at the Hisar ashram on November 18, 2014.On October 11, 2018, Rampal and his followers had been convicted in two cases of murder and other offences, including wrongful confinement of his victims at his ashram in Hisar.He and his followers since their arrest in November 2014, were convicted after a four-year trial by the lower court in Haryana in 2018.The two murder cases against Rampal and his followers were filed at Barwala police station on November 19, 2014. Besides the murder charges, the Barwala police had also invoked the offence of wrongful confinement, among others, in the two FIRs.In November 2014, as the police arrested Rampal, holed up inside his ashram, his followers and devotees, numbering more than 15,000, surrounded the sprawling 12-acre complex to prevent his arrest. Six people — five women and an infant — were killed in the ensuing violence.Before becoming a self-styled godman, Rampal worked as a junior engineer in a Haryana government department for 15 years before quitting in May 1995. He later set up an ashram in Barwala area of Hisar and another one in Rohtak district and gradually gained popularity as a spiritual leader. He took to full-time preaching, touring villages and the cities across Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/supreme-court-refuses-to-grant-parole-to-self-styled-godman-rampal-from-haryana/story-JnV6v1CFVsNhLGyYJUrUQJ.html
14-07-2020||City||Chamba’s centuries-old Minjar Fair to be symbolic affair this year||Dharamshala Chamba’s famed Minjar festival, believed to have first started in the 10th century to mark the victory of King Sahila Varma over the king of Kangra, will just be a symbolic affair this year, due to the covid-19 pandemic and the resultant restrictions on gatherings. The centuries-old traditional Hindu fair symbolises the blossoming of maize in the historical town, located on the banks of the Ravi River. The fair is associated with the monsoon, in which the farmers pray for heavy rain for a good harvest, is scheduled from July 26 to August 2.Minjar itself refers to silk tassles, worn by locals on their dresses that glow like maize blossoms in the sun.“The Minjar fair will be celebrated symbolically sans festivities this year due to Covid-19 pandemic,” Chamba deputy commissioner Vivek Bhatia confirmed.The festival will begin on July 26 with a ceremonial Puja and offering of holy Minjars at the historic Laxmi Narayan and Raghuvira temples. There will be no cultural festivities and sports activities. The Chowgan (public promenade), the main venue of the fair, will remain closed for the general public. Only some local artists will sing traditional ‘Kunjri-Malhar’ at the town’s cultural hall that will be telecast live on the local cable network. “The festival will end on August 2 with the immersion of Minjars in the Ravi,” the DC added. Later, the palanquin of lord Raghuvira, the chief deity of the region, is led around the town in colourful procession on opening and closing day.THE SYMBOL OF COMMUNAL UNITYMinjar fair symbolises not just the blossoming of maize, but also the close ties between Hindus and Muslims. The festival starts after a Muslim Mirja family offers the first holy Minjar at Laxmi Narayan temple. Muslims do the embroidery on the Minjars, a tradition that has been followed sine the festival began. MANIMAHESH YATRA MAY ALSO BE SYMBOLICThe DC added that the annual Manimahesh Yatra, scheduled from August 12-25, may also be organized symbolically. Lakhs of pilgrims undertake the arduous 14-km yatra to oval-shaped glacial-fed Manimahesh Lake in tribal Bharmour sub-division, to catch a glimpse of Mount Kailash, believed to be the abode of Lord Shiva, and offer prayers. The lake is located at a height of 13,500-feet in the Pir Panjal mountain range of Himalayas. This year, however, pilgrims may not be allowed to visit the lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chamba-s-centuries-old-minjar-fair-to-be-symbolic-affair-this-year/story-zMFWHf9i6WX9Pfo6Go9fKM.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh departmental exams to be held from September 21||SHIMLA: Departmental examination for officials serving on a regular basis in the Himachal Pradesh government will be held from September 21 to 29, except on Sunday i.e. September 27, 2020.A spokesperson of the Himachal Pradesh Board of Departmental Examination said that officials of the Indian Administrative Services (IAS), HP Administrative Services (HPAS), tehsildars, naib tehsildars, IFS/HPFS, all other gazetted officers and eligible non-gazetted officers (superintendent grade II and senior assistant), technical and non-technical, HP Board of School Education (Class-II officers), engineering officers (civil/electrical/mechanical) of HP State Electricity Board Ltd, assistant engineers (civil)/senior managers of HPTDC Ltd would be eligible for the departmental examination.He said that for the convenience of candidates appearing only in Paper-I i.e. financial administration, the board shall conduct the examination at Government Degree College, Dharamshala, and Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Mandi, and centre of excellence, Government Degree College, Sanjauli, Shimla. For other papers, it shall be conducted at the centre of excellence, Government Degree College, Sanjauli, Shimla.Those who intend to appear in departmental examinations should send their applications on the prescribed application forms with two attested passport-size latest photographs through their respective heads of departments/competent authorities to the secretary, HP Board of Departmental Examination, Fairlawns, Shimla, so as to reach HIPA latest by September 10, 2020.The candidate should ensure that the photograph affixed on the advance copy and the application sent should be the same. If any form is incomplete, it would be rejected.However, candidates may send advance application forms directly to secretary, HP Board of Departmental Examination by August 10. Roll numbers will be issued only after the receipt of their application forms through proper channel i.e. through heads of departments/competent authorities.The last date of receipt of application forms through proper channel would be till 5pm on September 10. The application form can be downloaded from the website of HIPA www.hipashimla.nic.inand applications received thereafter will be rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-departmental-exams-to-be-held-from-september-21/story-1Bddv3totBZMB8QC9mk3UN.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal’s Covid-19 tally rises to 1,309, with 18 new cases||Himachal’s Covid-19 tally breached 1,300-mark on Tuesday with 18 more people testing positive for the virus.Seven cases were reported in Chamba, three each in Solan and Una, two each in Kangra and Shimla and one in Kinnaur.The state’s total covid count has mounted to 1,309.Himachal breached the mark on the 117th day of reporting its first case, which was detected on March 20. The 1,200-mark was reached on July 12. Hundred new cases were added in the tally in just two days.In Chamba, three Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) personnel and an army jawan were tested positive.Chief medical officer Rajesh Guleri said that in Samot area, a 31-year-old jawan, his wife, and two children have tested positive. Two more jawans of the paramilitary forces were detected positive in Bharari and Garnota villages.All have a travel history from Kerala. An army jawan, who returned from Roorkee, was found positive in Kandei village near Dalhousie.Two people, including a pregnant woman, were tested positive in Nalagarh of Solan district. Two cases were detected in Chhatri village of Shahpur subdivision in Kangra.96 CASES IN TWO DAYSA total of 96 cases have been detected in Himachal in two days with the hill-state witnessing steepest single-day spike of 78 cases on Monday, said special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal.The Baddi-Bartotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial belt of Solan district recorded a total of 72 cases. As many as 69 cases were reported in BBN on Monday. “Most of them are migrant labourers working in factories here,” said Solan chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta.Solan district’s tally has now shot up to 259 of which 104 are active cases.Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh is emerging as the new hotspot of Covid-19 cases.Since the outbreak, Himachal has recorded 1,309 cases, of which 938 have been cured and 347 Active cases. Nine people have succumbed to the contagion, while 13 patients migrated out.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 314 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 276 cases. Solan has 259 cases, Una 144, Chamba 68, Shimla 62, Bilaspur 52, Sirmaur 46, Mandi 40, Kinnaur 36, Kullu eight and Lahaul-Spiti district four.13,610 TESTS PER 10 LAKH PEOPLEHimachal is conducting 13,610 tests per 10 lakh people, better than the national average of 8,271 per 10 lakh people. Till date, a total of 1.03 lakh tests have been conducted.The state also has a high recovery rate of 71.8% as compared to the national average of 63.01%. The death rate in the hill state is 0.90%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-s-covid-19-tally-nears-1-300-with-69-cases-in-bbn-industrial-belt-of-solan-district/story-DKAAq2Ac8YnmPWHIgVFoUN.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Coming to Punjab for less than 72 hours? No quarantine, only undertaking needed||Chandigarh: Those coming to Punjab for less than 72 hours are now exempt from the mandatory home quarantine, and only need to submit a formal undertaking at the border check post.Announcing this relaxation for inbound domestic travellers, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said it had been decided to provide this concession to facilitate students wishing to come for examinations or business travellers etc, whose stay in the state is less than 72 hours from the time of their arrival. It has been decided to exempt such travellers from the 14-day mandatory home quarantine requirement that remains in place for domestic inbound travellers in Punjab, he said.The exempt travellers will, however, need to submit a formal undertaking with the officer in-charge (OIC) of the check post in a standard format provided on COVA app, which they would have to download on their phones. Besides entering their details in the app’s travellers’ information section, these persons would have to undertake that the COVA app will remain active throughout their period of stay in Punjab.UNDERTAKING THAT NOT FROM CONTAINMENT ZONEThe additional SOPs for such travellers requires them to voluntarily submit that they are not coming from any containment zone and undertake not to stay for more than 72 hours in Punjab from the time of arrival in the state.During this period, they shall commit to monitoring their health and maintaining distance from those around, and also interact with the assigned surveillance team in case they suffer from any symptoms consistent with Covid-19 and will immediately call 104.All due precautions would have to be strictly adhered to and non-adherence to wearing of mask/social distancing would make them liable to be acted upon under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.ONLY EXEMPTION TO THE RULEIf within a week of return any such person is tested positive then he/she will have to immediately contact the Punjab government at 104 and assist them in contact tracing.While the Government of India had recently waived the requirement of home quarantine for domestic travellers and replaced the same with self-monitoring, Capt Amarinder Singh has made it clear that quarantine restrictions will continue to remain in place in Punjab on account of rising numbers. Today’s announcement is the only exemption to the rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coming-to-punjab-for-less-than-72-hours-no-quarantine-only-undertaking-needed/story-PmJz2bsztJuzhcG5TvTODN.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||30 Youth Congress activists flout Covid-19 guidelines, hold cycle rally in Amritsar||Amritsar: A day after the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government banned public gatherings in Punjab to check the spike in Covid-19 cases in the state, activists of his party’s youth wing took out a bicycle rally in Amritsar on Tuesday to protest the fuel price hike by the central government.Flouting the latest government guidelines, the cycle rally was organised by Amritsar South Youth Congress president Simranjit Singh Rajput. Unit vice-president Rajive Chhabra and Amritsar YC secretary Vivan Khurana, the son of District Congress Committee (urban) chief Jatinder Sonia also took part in the rally, which was taken out from Sultanwind Road to Sakattari Bagh.Before the start of the rally, 30 party activists gathered at the site, ignoring social-distancing norms.They did not have permission from the district administration to hold the rally.“We had taken the approval from our party leader Barinder Dhillon. But no permission was taken from the administration. We know that the chief minister issued new guidelines on Monday but our programme was planned. We took care of social distancing. Only 20 to 22 cycles were used for the rally,” Chhabra claimed.A child was also brought to the rally and made to wear a banner, criticising the fuel price hike by the BJP-led central government.The Amritsar (rural) police had booked 1,000 workers of the opposition Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for holding protests on the same issue last week. Four former Akali legislators were among those booked for flouting social distancing norms and holding the protest without permission.WILL FIR BE REGISTERED AGAINST VIOLATORS?On Monday, the chief minister made first information reports (FIRs) mandatory against those holding public gatherings.A notification issued by the government said joint teams of police and civil administration should strictly enforce the restrictions on public gatherings, restricted to five people under Section 144 of the CrPC in all districts.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP), law and order, Jagmohan Singh said he was not aware about the rally. “Gathering of more than five people is banned. I will ask the station house officer (SHO) concerned to send the report in this regard. Action will be taken as per the law if the guidelines were flouted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-youth-congress-activists-flout-covid-19-guidelines-hold-cycle-rally-in-amritsar/story-fU2ahI7BUWJU5iI8kCzGEK.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Returnees from 10 new cities, including Gurugram and Faridabad, to undergo institutional quarantine in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla: With the hill state seeing a spurt in Covid-19 cases, the Himachal Pradesh government has updated its list of high-load infected cities and districts.People returning from Surat (Gujarat); Palghar, Raigad and Nashik (all in Maharashtra); Aurangabad (Bihar); Thiruvallur (Tamil Nadu); Ranga Reddy (Telengana); Madurai (Tamil Nadu); Faridabad (Haryana); and Bengaluru (Urban) will have to undergo institutional quarantine.Apart from these places, 10 cities from the list released on June 12 also figure in the updated one. They include Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmadabad, Thane, Pune, Hyderabad, Chengalpattu, Gurugram, Kolkata and Delhi.Jaipur and Jodhpur in Rajasthan and Indore in Madhya Pradesh have been excluded from the list after a decrease in the number of cases among people returning from there.Additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman said that the chief medical officers of the districts have been directed to monitor the movement of people. “Returnees from these areas will be institutionally quarantined,” he said.GUIDELINES FOR DIALYSIS PATIENTSThe state government has issued guidelines for dialysis patients. At present, the health department runs 15 dialysis units in health institutions across Himachal Pradesh.The mortality due to Covid-19 is high in patients suffering from chronic kidney disease (CKD), hence it’s imperative to take extra care of such patients, Dhiman said.“Keeping in view the instruction of the Government of India, a new arrangement has been made for the dialysis of Covid and non-Covid patients,” he said.Covid-19 patients with CKD from Shimla, Solan, Sirmaur and Kinnaur districts will be treated at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla. Those from Mandi, Bilaspur, Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti will get treatment at Lal Bahadur Shastri Medical College, Ner Chowk, while patients from Kangra, Una, Chamba and Hamirpur will be treated at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda.The dialysis of Covid and non-Covid patients will be carried out in separate blocks in these health institutions.All other dialysis units shall provide uninterrupted dialysis services 24x7 to the CKD patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/returnees-from-10-new-cities-including-gurugram-and-faridabad-to-undergo-institutional-quarantine-in-himachal-pradesh/story-VFxMymH9w5H3thb1kNY0LJ.html
14-07-2020||Bhopal||Marriage hall owned by Bhopal rape accused razed, allotment of govt bungalow cancelled||The Madhya Pradesh government on Monday cancelled the journalist accreditation and allotment of the government bungalow to a 68-year-old man accused of sexually exploiting several minor girls in the state capital of Bhopal, officials said.The Bhopal district administration demolished an illegally-constructed marriage hall owned by him, they added.A reward of Rs 30,000 was also announced by district police in Bhopal for information to help them arrest the accused, who runs a small vernacular newspaper, said police.Another minor girl registered a first information report (FIR) against the man accusing him of raping her in Bhopal for at least two years. Five minor girls had lodged a similar FIR on Sunday against the accused who is absconding, said police.Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC), district administration and police jointly razed his marriage hall in Talaiya area of Bhopal city. “The rape accused Pyare Miyan had constructed the marriage hall on government’s land. He was running it illegally. Hence, it was demolished today,” Avinash Lavaniya, Bhopal collector’s, said. Irshad Wali, Bhopal’s deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, said they are trying to nab the man. “He is booked under section 366 (a) (procuration of minor girls), 376 (2) (n) (repeated rape), 120 b (criminal conspiracy) and sections 5/6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act,” Wali said.“Police have got a three-day remand from the court for interrogation of Sweety Vishwakarma, 21, who worked as an assistant to Pyare Miyan. Vishwakarma used to take girls to Pyare Miyan by luring them in the name of getting a job of housekeeping in posh areas bungalows,” he added. Mangla Prasad Mishra, the director in the directorate of public relations (DPR), in a letter to Wali the man’s state-level accreditation as a journalist, has been cancelled with effect from July 13, 2020, “as per accreditation rules due to his involvement in a crime.”In another letter to the chief secretary on Monday, Mishra said the allotment of a government bungalow to the man was cancelled as he was no longer a state-level accredited journalist.Five teenaged girls were found by a police patrolling team in an intoxicated state in Ratibad area at 3am on Sunday. During counselling by Childline, the girls revealed that the man used to call them to attend parties and raped them, said police.“More girls are expected to come… with their complaints as he has been raping the minor girls who are from the weaker section for a long time after forcing them to consume liquor,” Archana Sahay, Childline’s director, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/marriage-hall-owned-by-bhopal-rape-accused-razed-allotment-of-govt-bungalow-cancelled/story-PccL2mh7Ww9pEiVBjiiGnO.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Pakistan govt lays astroturf in Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara to facilitate pilgrims in hot weather||Lahore: The Pakistan government has laid a 16,000-foot artificial turf in the courtyard of the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara to facilitate bare-footed pilgrims walk on the marble floor in the scorching heat, a top official said on Monday.Sikh pilgrims from Pakistan have been visiting the gurdwara after it was reopened on June 29 following its closure for three months due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“Astroturf was laid on the marble floor of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib last week,” Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) spokesperson Amir Hashmi said.He said the gurdwara floor is carpeted with 16,000-ft turf in the courtyard to facilitate pilgrims as they have to walk bare-foot on the marble floor and in this hot weather, it is difficult to walk or sit on it.Indian pilgrims are currently not visiting the gurdwara as India temporarily suspended the pilgrimage and registration for the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara on March 16 in view of the coronavirus outbreak.Pilgrims of all faiths from India are allowed to undertake round the year visa-free travel to the historic gurdwara in Pakistan’s Punjab province.NO GREEN SIGNAL FROM INDIA“Still there has been no green signal from India to allow Sikhs to visit the gurdwara,” Hashmi said, adding Pakistani Sikhs, however, are visiting it since June 29.Sikhs from Pakistan and India are allowed to visit the Darabar Sahib by following the standard operating protocol (SOPs) for social distancing. ETPB and Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee have made special arrangements for the safety of the pilgrims.Earlier, foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi said that Pakistan had conveyed the Indian side about its readiness to reopen the corridor in connection with the occasion of the death anniversary of Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjeet Singh on June 29.Sources in the government of India in New Delhi had said Pakistan was trying to create a mirage of goodwill by proposing to reopen the corridor on June 29.SHORT NOTICE OF TWO DAYSThe sources also wondered why Pakistan proposed to reopen it in such a short notice of two days while a bilateral agreement on the corridor provided for information to be shared by both sides at least seven days before the date of travel.The 4km-long Kartarpur Corridor provides visa-free access to Indian Sikh pilgrims to visit the gurdwara, the final resting place of Sikh faith’s founder Guru Nanak Dev, who had spent the last 18 years of his life in Kartarpur.In November last year, the two countries threw open the corridor linking Dera Baba Sahib in Gurdaspur in India and Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan, in a historic people-to-people initiative.Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara is located in Pakistan’s Narowal district across the Ravi river, about 4km from the Dera Baba Nanak shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pakistan-govt-lays-astroturf-in-kartarpur-sahib-gurdwara-to-facilitate-pilgrims-in-hot-weather/story-juaCtl6UIzgxrEjr2xmH3J.html
14-07-2020||Delhi||Rail Bhawan shut for 2 days after officials test Covid-19 positive||The Rail Bhawan, headquarters of the Indian Railways, will remain shut for two days from July 14 to carry out intensive sanitisation after some officials were found Covid-19 positive in the premises, according to an order issued on Monday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn a circular, the Railway Board said, “Some Officials of Railway Board have tested Covid-positive during the Special Rapid Antigen Testing Camp organized at Rail Bhawan on July 9, 10 and July 13. Accordingly, it has been decided to close all Offices at Rail Bhawan on July 14 and 15 to carry out intensive sanitization of rooms and common areas.”During this period, all officers, staff would work from home and are to be available at all times on the phone and other electronic means of communication, the board said.In case of any requirement for urgent work at the office, the specific directive would be given to the concerned officials for attending office, it said.With 40 new Covid-19-related deaths and 1,246 positive cases reported in Delhi on Monday, the tally of people infected with coronavirus in the national capital has climbed to 1,13,740.The number of active cases in Delhi is at 19,017 and 91,312 patients have been cured and discharged so far. 3,411 deaths have been reported due to Covid-19 in the city according to the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rail-bhawan-shut-for-2-days-after-officials-test-covid-19-positive/story-5b3WOgArpTFwstGNeNilyH.html
14-07-2020||Kolkata||Bengal bureaucrat overseeing movement of migrant workers dies of Covid-19||West Bengal residents on Monday reacted sharply after a young bureaucrat who was overseeing the movement of migrant workers died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Debdutta Ray, who was in her mid-thirties, was a West Bengal Civil Service (Executive) officer and posted as deputy magistrate at Chandannagore in Hooghly district.She is survived by her husband and a four-year-old son.Ray was the first senior civil servant in the state to die of the coronavirus disease. She died at a hospital in Serampore where she was admitted on Sunday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThough she tested positive last week at a hospital in Barrackpore in North 24 Parganas district, where she lived, the bureaucrat opted to stay in quarantine at home, officials said. Her condition suddenly deteriorated on Sunday and she was rushed to the hospital.The news went viral on social media with people circulating the news and Ray’s photographs in thousands.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted her condolence message on Monday night.“Grieved to hear about the untimely passing away of Debdatta Ray, who was posted as Deputy Magistrate & Deputy Collector in Chandannagar. A young WBCS (Exe) Officer, she was at the forefront fighting the pandemic & displayed outstanding devotion in discharge of her duties,” Banerjee wrote.“I, on behalf of the Govt of West Bengal, salute her spirit & the sacrifice she’s made in service of the people of #Bengal. Spoke to her husband today & extended my deepest condolences. May the departed soul rest in peace & lord give her family strength to endure this loss,” the chief minister added.Ray was known to be very active in the ongoing combat against the pandemic.She was overseeing the movement of migrant workers housed at a transit camp in Dankuni after they arrived in Shramik Special trains from different states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-bureaucrat-overseeing-movement-of-migrant-workers-dies-of-covid-19/story-TuAjtzBtL0CbSgbOPmwJQL.html
14-07-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru braces for week-long lockdown, Deve Gowda wants state shut||Even as urban and rural Bengaluru readied itself for a week-long lockdown starting Tuesday 8pm, former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda demanded that the Karnataka government announce a statewide lockdown as the number of Covid-19 cases continues to spiral. The former PM also appealed to the people to cooperate with the government and follow the safety protocols.Grocery shops, meat shops, and other essential but non-emergency establishments would be open only between 5 am and 12 noon. However, all other commercial private establishments would be shut for a week.On Monday Karnataka registered 2,738 new cases, taking the tally to 41,581, including 757 deaths and 16,248 discharges.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Meanwhile, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa made it clear that the lockdown would not be extended, after the Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry criticised the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-braces-for-lockdown-deve-gowda-wants-state-shut/story-iCGInFJOWlLVt8BKlflOfM.html
14-07-2020||City||‘Operation Lotus’ will not be successful in Maharashtra; backing BJP in 2014 was political ploy: Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, who is considered the architect of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, said that the “Bharatiya Janata Party-sponsored Operation Lotus” will not be successful in the state and that the Uddhav Thackeray-government will successfully complete its five-year term. Pawar termed ‘Operation Lotus’ a gross misuse of power and said that it is a means to weaken and destabilise a democratically elected government with the “use of central powers”.For the first time, Pawar also clarified on the NCP’s support to the BJP in 2014 and said it was a “political ploy”. He admitted that the step was taken to keep the Sena and BJP away. The clarification came in the third and the final part of his interview to Shiv Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut, for the latter’s mouthpiece Saamana. The interview was published on Monday.Pawar said that Operation Lotus will not have any impact in Maharashtra, when Raut, who is the executive editor of Saamana, asked him if the Maharashtra government, too, would collapse. “Some people from their [BJP] party have been saying this. First they said it’ll collapse in three months, then in six, and now some are betting on September, while others on October. I am confident that the Uddhav Thackeray government will complete its full term. Operation Lotus or anything else will have no impact here,” he said, adding that the parties can even contest the next Assembly elections together, if all goes well.The statement comes amid the political crisis in Rajasthan, where there are speculations that the Congress government under chief minister Ashok Gehlot may collapse.Speaking on his party’s outside support to BJP in 2014 to form the state government, the Maratha strongman said it was done to keep BJP in check by not allowing Sena to form a government with the national party.“I sincerely wished that Sena and BJP would not come together. But when I realised that Sena will go with the BJP, I made a statement that we will give them outside support. The reason behind it was that the BJP was in power in the Centre and with a CM in Maharashtra, they will not allow Sena or other parties to function in a democratic political setup. They would have sooner or later betrayed everyone and therefore this was a political ploy,” Pawar clarified.Interestingly, Raut did not quiz Pawar on his nephew and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s move to back former CM Devendra Fadnavis to form the 80-hour government, amid talks between the three parties in November last year.But Pawar dismissed claims of him and Fadnavis holding talks to form a government in the state.“Some BJP leaders spoke to my colleagues and me about the government formation, saying they didn’t want to go with the Shiv Sena. They said since I had good relations with the prime minister, I should intervene and give my approval. Hence, to avoid any confusion and perception about myself and my party, I met the PM at Parliament House and told him the NCP will not go with the BJP. If possible, we will form government with the Shiv Sena or sit in the Opposition, I told the PM,” Pawar said.He revealed that he told Raut, his Rajya Sabha colleague, about his intention about the meeting.Pawar also targeted Fadnavis and said that he did not think the latter had any say in the decision-making process at the national level. He added that people came to know who Fadnavis was only after he became the CM.When asked about the Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi being made to vacate her bungalow, Pawar said it was “low level politics”.“I don’t think this is cultured behaviour. Power should be used with humility. Such things happen when the arrogance of power gets into the head. Priyanka is the daughter of a former PM, who was assassinated. You may have political differences. But there is no wisdom in using power to harass political opponents. This is not vendetta politics but low-level politics,” he said.Pawar also expressed that the Opposition parties have the capability to provide an alternative to the nation.“Earlier this year, there were some meetings and the Opposition parties discussed some policies. But then the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country. Once this crisis is over, it will again gain momentum and I will take the initiative. Providing an alternative [for BJP] is the need of the hour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/operation-lotus-will-not-be-successful-in-maharashtra-backing-bjp-in-2014-was-political-ploy-sharad-pawar/story-URLj6RvgXrEv5nhUYlBWSI.html
14-07-2020||City||300 fliers from Dubai claim they were made to wait at Mumbai airport for 10 hours||More than 300 Indians who landed in Mumbai from Dubai on an Emirates flight on Monday morning went through a harrowing experience after they were made to wait at the airport for around 10 hours . The flight landed at the city airport around 8am, but passengers were first made to wait inside the aircraft for around three hours and then made to sit in a room for around four hours without being given any reason. The fliers claimed they were later made to stand in a queue for immigration and other formalities for long and were able to leave for a Vashi hotel only by around 6pm. After they deboarded, they were not given any food at the airport, the passengers claimed. At night, the passengers were taken to a Thane hotel after many of them claimed that the hotel rooms were exorbitantly priced.Thane resident Anish Rane, who was stranded in Dubai for three months, said, “The crew made us wait inside the aircraft till around 11.15am stating that health officials were not available to conduct the mandatory tests. However, even after we de-boarded none of us were screened and entered the airport without any test.”An Airport Health Organisation (APHO) official said after passengers deboard, they go to the screening counter where the body temperature is automatically recorded and displayed on the monitors with the help of thermal cameras. “We no longer follow the earlier system of screening passengers with handheld thermometers. Once a passenger arrives at the screening counter, they submit their self-reporting forms (a copy of which is stamped and given back to passengers) and proceed for immigration formalities,” he said, adding that to prevent crowding at the counters, airlines make passengers wait inside the aircraft.Passengers said after the immigration, they were asked if any of them was feeling unwell or uneasy. They claimed that officials did not ensure that social distancing norms were followed in the queue for immigration and while the police completed their quarantine-related formalities.“Passengers were brushing against each other while standing in the queue, thereby increasing the risk of getting infected by Covid-19. I was tested negative for the virus before leaving from Dubai but how can we be sure about our safety if we come in close proximity with others who may have been infected?” said a passenger, who did not wish to be named. Khargar resident Aafaque Sheikh said the passengers received breakfast during the flight and were provided with water at the airport but . Sheikh said even after they left the airport, they were not given any clarity on where they would be quarantined.”They took us to a hotel on a state transport bus and charged us ₹320 for it. We were not given the option of choosing a hotel of our choice. There was no official on my bus and passengers could have fled,” he added. Additional municipal commissioner P Velarusu said that passengers are informed of bearing their own expenses when they book their travel. “It is only in exceptional cases [in case the fliers are labour class passengers] that we take the passengers to government hospitals. If a passenger hails from Thane or any other district then the decision of allotting them a hotel for their institutional quarantine is taken by their respective district collector,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/300-fliers-from-dubai-claim-they-were-made-to-wait-at-mumbai-airport-for-10-hours/story-UbSSVR8SsQ1U3zwqs1XhiL.html
14-07-2020||City||Maharashtra government appeals to citizens to file complaints about plasma sale||The state appealed to citizens to come forward and register complaints if they come across people or groups who offer plasma on sale for lakhs of rupees for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The state is coming across several complaints of plasma sale and gangs that run fake fitness certificate rackets.Plasma therapy emerged as an effective method to treat Covid-19 patients, but owing to the paucity of plasma donors, some potential donors reportedly contacted the relatives of the patients and offered the plasma for lakhs of rupees, a statement issued by the state cyber cell revealed on Monday. The statement added that the rackets involved in such illegal practices are also creating fitness certificates of donors which are mandatory for plasma donation. Stating that cyber criminals could be behind such rackets, home minister Anil Deshmukh said, “There is also the possibility of plasma being sold through the dark web and other illegal channels. We urge the relatives of patients to undergo treatment only from recognised hospitals and doctors.”During plasma therapy, the antibody rich plasma extracted from a recovered patient is administered to a patient undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-appeals-to-citizens-to-file-complaints-about-plasma-sale/story-ctHzYUMeXhO4rluY9QbcuI.html
14-07-2020||City||Kalyan-Dombivli civic body brings 80% beds in all private hospitals under its control||Kalyan The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) will control 80% of the beds in all registered private hospitals, except for the ones reserved for paediatric intensive care units (PICU), neonatal intensive care units (NICU), day-care units and haemodialysis. The step is taken to ensure that Covid-19 as well as Non-Covid patients receive treatment at reasonable rates amid the coronavirus outbreak.As per the new directions the hospital has to display all the beds available, including the 80% which is now under KDMC control and reveal how many of them are vacant, filled as well as the rates fixed by the government and the rates of the hospital on a board outside the hospital. Likewise, a patient and his/her relatives visiting the hospital need to be given detailed information about the charges during admission. “If a patient requests for a bed which is under the 80% category and if it is available, it will be mandatory for the hospital to treat the patient. Also, it will not be possible for hospitals to charge patients more than the rate fixed by the government for the treatment. There can be no discrimination against patients. The corporation already issued notices to two hospitals for charging exorbitant rates,”said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC.Patients can complain about the exorbitant rates charged by the hospital or the unavailability of beds on 0251-2211866 in the war room of civic headquarters, KDMC said. Staffers who refuse to treat Covid-19 patients will also face action and lose their licences. Social activist Sreeniwas Ghanekar,52, who is also the founder of Alert Citizens’ Group, Kalyan, said,” We have been complaining about the unfair practices at hospitals and have asked the civic body to come up with some regulations on it. Now with the civic body deciding to take over 80% beds in the hospitals, we will also monitor the entire process and make sure people get treatment at reasonable rates within the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-brings-80-beds-in-all-private-hospitals-under-its-control/story-Mtv7x7GRbwLuQOpBv6c8oM.html
14-07-2020||City||Thane on ‘Mission Zero’, gets four antigen testing centres||To curb the rising number of Covid-19 cases within the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), the civic body initiated ‘Mission Zero’ within the city along with the Indian Jain Association. All nine wards within the corporation have received a mobile dispensary as a part of the initiative. Thane city also received its first set of antigen testing centre, with around 1 lakh testing kits. The four centres in different parts of the city will soon start operations. Thane city reported 333 new cases and seven deaths on Monday, after which the city’s total Covid-19 count surged to 12,957, while the death toll stands at 196. “We have to start the treatment of patients as soon as they are tested positive, to break the chain. Those with symptoms, especially, should be given treatment at the earliest. We also need to make sure that the virus is detected on time, for which these mobile dispensaries will prove to be beneficial and help in identifying those with fever and other Covid-19 symptoms,” said Eknath Shinde, Thane’s guardian minister and cabinet minister said at the flag off for the ‘Mission Zero’ initiative at TMC on Monday.Shinde also inaugurated the antigen testing centre at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa on Monday. Apart from the Kalwa hospital, two other private hospitals and a Covid care facility will also have these antigen testing centres.“These rapid antigen testing kits will be used for high risk patients from hots pots, containment zones and slum areas within Thane city,” said an official from the municipal corporation. Civic commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma said that the situation is not out of control in the city. “Although the numbers are increasing, we have not lost control of the situation yet. We have increased the number of testing which is also the reason behind the spike in the city’s positive cases. Almost 80% patients are asymptomatic and hence there is no need to panic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-on-mission-zero-gets-four-antigen-testing-centres/story-IbxYJ31SqXsQEVY1HyENDI.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||IMA opposes move to make Covid-19 report must to buy remdesivir and tocilizumab||Days after the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) made it mandatory for customers to show prescriptions and Covid-19 test report to buy remdesivir and tocilizumab drugs, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday wrote a letter to the state government criticising the apex drug regulating body’s decision. It said the move will make it more difficult for patients and their families to procure the drugs as a number of times test reports show false negatives or inconclusive results, and urged the body to make the drugs available with only prescription or recommendation from hospital.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMembers of IMA said every day Maharashtra requires almost 1.5 lakh vials of remdesivir and that hospitals across the state are facing an acute shortage of the two drugs. Due to the sudden rise in demand for these drugs, suppliers are selling them to highest bidders, said IMA. According to patients and doctors, the drugs are available at five to 10 times the actual cost in the black market. A vial of remdesivir costs between ₹5,000 and ₹5,500 while that of tocilizumab is around ₹92,000.“These illegal activities are happening due to sudden rise in demand. Almost 20% patients need the drugs. At present, we have more than 1 lakh active patients. In addition to this, if we include around 5,000 patients with inconclusive reports, we have 25,000 patients who need remdesivir every day,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of IMA’s state wing. “As we give remdesivir six times a day, the state will require 1.5 lakh vials every day. But we don’t even get 75,000 vials a day,” he added.Remdesivir is the only drug approved by the United States food and drug administration for treating Covid-19 patients. While tocilizumab is still imported, remdesivir has now been certified to be manufactured by two Indian companies Cipla and Hetero Drugs.To address these issues, FDA has decided that these two injections will directly be supplied to hospitals. However, outside patients, who need to buy the said drugs, will have to show a prescription or a recommendation from hospital as well the Covid-19 report to place an order.“There are cases of false negative reporting where swab test reports show absence of the virus but the patients have all the symptoms. In such cases, we can’t let the patient die off. Thus, this new rule will further lead to the harassment of patients,” he said. DR Gahane, joint commissioner of the state’s food and drug administration, said they will look into the matter. “We are trying to track the nexus involved in illegal sale of the drugs. The rules are being strengthened to fill up the gaps and provide the drugs to needy patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ima-opposes-move-to-make-covid-report-must-to-buy-remdesivir-and-tocilizumab/story-v4Y8Fe6o65eOYJHtgWwI3K.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Senior citizens account for 22.5% of cases in city and 54.3% of deaths’||Senior citizens are the most vulnerable to Covid-19, confirms data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Of the 91,457 people diagnosed with Covid-19 in Mumbai till July 11, 22.5% (20,664) were aged 60 years and above. In the same period, of the 5,241 reported deaths in Mumbai, 54.3% (2,847) belonged to the same age group.Ramdas Chauhan, 71, a resident of Indira Nagar, was admitted to Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital (popularly known as Sion hospital) on June 28 after he tested positive for Covid-19. At the time, he had complained of minor breathlessness but his oxygen saturation was above 95%. Five days later, in the middle of the night, he had to be put on a ventilator because his oxygen levels had dropped to 75%.Chauhan’s family members blame the hospital for negligence, but the hospital says Chauhan’s underlying ailment – diabetes — aggravated his health condition unexpectedly. “Often, health conditions of senior citizens deteriorate faster within hours of admission, especially among patients with cardiac ailment, diabetes and hypertension. We have seen patients walk normally into the hospital, but within hours of admission, die due to sudden rise in complications,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, in-charge of Sion hospital.Medical experts say senior citizens are more susceptible to Covid-19 compared to other age groups because of already-weakened immunity. An advisory issued by the Union health ministry reads, “Elderly people are at a higher risk due to their decreased immunity and body reserves as well as multiple associated comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Also, the course of disease tends to be more severe in case of elderlies resulting in higher mortality.”BMC’s data shows that of the 200 patients between 90 and 100 years of age, 37 have died of the infection (fatality rate: 18.5%). Of the 1,893 Covid-19 patients who were in the age group of 80-90 years, 365 succumbed to the infection (fatality rate: 19.2%). There have been 6,058 patients aged 70 to 80 years, of whom, 928 have died of Covid-19 (fatality rate: 15.3%). Among Covid-19 patients aged between 60 and 70 years (12,513), 1,517 have succumbed (fatality rate: 12.1%).City doctors say senior citizens are now more vulnerable because lockdown restrictions have been eased and younger members of the household are stepping out, thus increasing the risk of infection.Dr Pratit Samdani, internal medicine expert at Breach Candy Hospital, said more than 80% senior citizens have comorbidities that make them vulnerable to Covid-19. “Almost 15% [of Covid-positive senior citizens] die mostly because of cytokine storms, when inflammation starts in organs,” he said.BMC has so far screened 575,476 people who are 60 years old and above across wards and found 2,437 have oxygen saturation below 95%. “We have isolated hundreds of senior citizens from slums to save them from getting infected in congested chawls. They have been kept in lodges, hotels, schools which has helped save lives,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/senior-citizens-account-for-22-5-of-cases-in-city-and-54-3-of-deaths/story-BnfKxp1JOtCRCPOqSSZxEJ.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||26 of Bachchans’ contacts test -ve||Two days after four members of the Bachchan family – actor Amitabh, 77; his actor-son, Abhishek, 44; his actor-daughter-in-law Aishwarya, 46; and granddaughter Aaradhya, 8 – tested positive for Covid-19, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday said 54 of their close contacts were traced, of which 26 tested negative. The remaining 28, who were at low risk, have been home quarantined.BMC officials said Abhishek had gone out for film-related work in the past few days before testing positive. Vishwas Mote, assistant municipal commissioner, of BMC’s K-West ward where the family lives, said, “We had identified 54 close contacts of which 26 were at high risk. They have tested negative. The remaining 28 include the people who may have come in contact with Abhishek. We are constantly monitoring the situation, as per the protocol.”Bachchan and Abhishek got admitted to Nanavati Hospital with mild symptoms on Saturday late night. Following this all members of the Bachchan family were tested using rapid antigen kits on Saturday. Bachchan’s wife Jaya, 72, daughter Shweta Nanda, 46, Aishwarya and Aaradhya tested negative. However, later they were tested using the RT-PCR method, in which Aishwarya and Aaradhya tested positive on Sunday. Aishwarya and Aaradhya are quarantined at home. Four bungalows of the Bachchan family in Juhu-Vile Parle area have been sealed and declared containment zones.BMC in a statement issued on Sunday afternoon had said, “Thirty staff members working for the Bachchan family have been tested for Covid-19. In the Jalsa bungalow, there is space for isolation and the staff members will be kept there. If any assistance/facility of the BMC is required, we will take necessary steps for the same.”Bachchan, meanwhile, put out a tweet on Monday evening, again thanking the wellwishers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/26-of-bachchans-contacts-test-ve/story-7s7Mi8FKU44wP4UnPHK1cK.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Expect heavy rain on Wednesday: IMD issues alert||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued an orange alert for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar, and a red alert for Raigad and Ratnagiri for Wednesday.An orange alert directs authorities to be prepared for ‘heavy to very heavy rain’ while red alert means extremely heavy rain at isolated places.A yellow alert for moderate rain with heavy showers at isolated areas has been predicted for Tuesday.Mumbai suburbs on Monday witnessed moderate showers with intermittent spells of intense rain while only light rain was recorded in south Mumbai. Santacruz weather observatory recorded 26.8mm rain between 8.30am and 5.30pm, while Colaba recorded 4mm. In Mumbai, maximum rain was recorded at Mulund at 46mm, while Kasarvadavali in Thane recorded 51.4mm and Airoli in Navi Mumbai recorded 47mm.Between 8.30am Sunday to 8.30am Monday, Santacruz recorded 69.6mm rain while Colaba recorded 22.4mm rainfall. IMD classifies 15.6mm-64.4mm as moderate rain and 64.5mm-115.5mm rain as heavy.“Rain intensity is likely to increase due to weather systems in the Arabian Sea that are intensifying. Extremely heavy rain is expected for south Konkan while very heavy rain across isolated areas is expected for north Konkan, including Mumbai, in the coming days,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.Independent meteorologists said intense rain on Wednesday could lead to water-logging at low-lying areas. “Heavy rain is expected from Wednesday evening onwards due to an east-west shear zone coupled with an upper air circulation in the Arabian Sea. Some places could see intense rains of around 70mm-80mm while other areas may also witness three-digit rainfall figures over 24 hours,” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of Mechanical Engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/expect-heavy-rain-on-wednesday-imd-issues-alert/story-9hL1jLvc68gOBRddVUsnfO.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Teltumbde seeks bail, says no charge sheet in 90 days||Academic and activist Dr Anand Teltumbde, arrested in connection with Elgar Parishad case, has approached the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court for bail and challenged the court’s decision to give the NIA another 90 days to file a charge sheet against him.Teltumbde, an engineer and Indian Institute of Management (IIM) graduate who used to teach at the Indian Institute of Technology (Kharagpur) and at the Goa Institute of Management, was arrested after the Supreme Court refused to grant him protection. On April 14, Teltumbde surrendered before NIA in Mumbai. NIA had said it needed to probe Teltumbde’s alleged links with banned outfit Communist Party of India (CPI, Maoist).It has since been 91 days and no charge sheet has been filed, which qualifies Teltumbde for default bail. On Sunday, the special NIA court granted the NIA an extension of 90 days to file a charge sheet against Teltumbde.In his plea before the special NIA court, Teltumbde said he would like to challenge the order passed by the NIA court granting NIA an extension to file charge sheet. He pleaded that his application before the special court be taken on record and treated as an application for default bail.According to the prosecution, Teltumbde delivered a “provocative presentation” and speeches on December 31, 2017, during an event at Shaniwarwada in Pune which led to the violence at Bhima-Koregaon in January 2018, state-wide agitation and loss of life. NIA has alleged Teltumbde was the convenor of the programme and his call data records show he was in touch with the other arrested accused present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-teltumbde-seeks-bail-says-no-charge-sheet-in-90-days/story-3Y2iSdyBqtr0odqjTJkHUP.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Varavara Rao taken to Sir JJ Hospital; lawyers move high court||Telugu poet and activist Dr P Varavara Rao was shifted out of Taloja Jail to Sir JJ Hospital on Monday. Rao’s lawyers have also moved the Bombay high court (HC), citing concern for Rao’s deteriorating health in their appeal against the decision of the special court under National Investigation Agency (NIA) to reject his application for interim bail. Rao, 81, is under arrest for alleged links to the violence at Bhima-Koregaon on January 1, 2018.A source from Sir JJ Hospital confirmed Rao had been brought to the hospital for a medical evaluation. Rao’s daughter P Pavana said, “We have come to know through other sources that Rao was taken to hospital for testing on Monday morning. We have received information that the doctors would first conduct tests and later decide on his admission. However, there is no official communication from the authorities to the family.”Rao, who has been in jail for 22 months, had earlier sought interim bail on the grounds of failing health and susceptibility to Covid-19, but on June 26, the NIA court rejected his application. While Rao’s plea challenging this decision in HC is scheduled to be heard on July 17, his lawyers have sought an urgent hearing today after Rao’s family raised concerns about Rao’s health.On Saturday, Rao’s family spoke to him on the phone and found him delirious. A fellow inmate informed the family that Rao is unable to walk, brush his teeth or go to the bathroom on his own. The family has issued a press statement on Sunday detailing Rao’s medical condition.While opposing the interim bail application before the special court, NIA had stated that since Rao has been charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, there is no provision to grant him temporary bail. NIA had submitted that jail authorities could be directed to ensure Rao was provided proper medical attention, whenever required.According to Rao’s appeal, the special court had failed to consider that Rao, 81, had been admitted to Sir JJ Hospital on May 28 after he lost consciousness and was discharged in haste as his plea for interim bail was coming up for hearing. The appeal has sought calling of all records pertaining to the interim bail application (which was rejected by the special court) and says Rao should be granted interim bail because of his medical condition.On Saturday, Rao’s family was informed by a fellow inmate that Rao is unable to walk, brush his teeth or go to the bathroom on his own. The family issued a press statement on Sunday which detailed Rao’s condition. It said Rao may be suffering from a serious electrolyte imbalance which could result in brain damage, and therefore is in need of emergency healthcare. Meanwhile, another petition has been moved by Rao through advocates R Sathyanarayanan and Susan Abraham on Monday against the superintendent of Taloja Jail for not complying with the prescription of Sir JJ Hospital to conduct regular medical check-ups. As a result of this non-compliance, Rao’s health has further deteriorated, said the petition. The petition has also sought directions to the jail authorities to produce all of Rao’s medical reports and submit the courses of action adopted by them after June 2 to take care of Rao. Directions have also been sought to send Rao for medical check-up immediately to a private hospital for check-ups, at his expense. The petition is expected to come up for hearing later this month.(With inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-varavara-rao-taken-to-sir-jj-hospital-lawyers-move-high-court/story-bWan5JRMruN4i7h8VHsCnL.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Interim relief to schools in Maharashtra to hold online sessions for Class 1 and 2 students||The Bombay high court (HC), as an interim relief, directed the state to not take any coercive action against schools that are conducting online classes in contravention of the June 15 government resolution (GR) which did not permit institutes to hold online classes upto Class 2. The court directed the state to file its response in a week and posted the matter for hearing on August 7.Meanwhile, the court also directed the schools from taking action against those students who do not wish to cannot attend online classes. A division bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice NR Borkar, while hearing a petition filed by Parents Teachers Associations of United Forum and two parents, was informed by advocate Swaraj Jadhav that the June 15 notification lacked scientific reasoning and also violated the fundamental right of children to education.Jadhav submitted that the two parents who petitioned were aggrieved by the restrictive guideline as their children were left without education, and hence the court should set aside the notification as it also put restrictions on the number of hours that the school could conduct online classes. Jadhav further submitted that as schools were willing to provide online classes for children of all age groups, the notification was discriminatory and hence should be set aside. The state, through additional government pleader Bhupesh Samant, however, opposed the petition and said that the decision in the notification was based on scientific reasoning and also meant to safeguard children studying in Class 1 and 2 from being exposed to the harmful effects of computers or mobile phones, through which the online classes would be conducted, Samant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/interim-relief-to-schools-in-maharashtra-to-hold-online-sessions-for-class-1-and-2-students/story-47fj2U34HN3Jg6WLrHiqeI.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Final-year exams can’t be held in Maharashtra: State body headed by CM||Days after the University Grants Commission (UGC) directed universities across India to conduct final-year exams by September-end, the state government on Monday, reiterated its stance that it is not in a position to hold the exams. The decision was taken in a meeting held by the state disaster management authority, headed by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray.“Following the fresh guidelines from UGC on holding the final-year exams, we decided to discuss the matter again before the state’s disaster management authority. After reviewing the current Covid-19 situation, we came to the conclusion that the state is not in a position to conduct exams in the next two months,” state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said.The CM asked officials in the meeting to see if the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the Disaster Management Act, which are invoked in the state to curb the spread of Covid-19 outbreak, can override all the other Acts pertaining to holding exams in the state. “The CM asked what’s the importance of these Acts if they can’t be implemented as per the situation,” a senior official who attended the meeting said.The state said it will inform UGC about its decision again. Samant said that conducting exams amid the Covid-19 outbreak would endanger the lives of students.“We urge the UGC, the human resource development ministry and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accept our decision, as no one can guarantee that the 8.5 lakh students who will appear for the exams won’t get infected with the virus. Forcing students to appear for exams would mean that we are not concerned about their health and safety. Even the parents of students are opposed to holding exams now. Besides, the state never said that it will not conduct the exams, but is only saying that it is not possible to hold them currently or in the near future as many colleges are converted to Covid centres,” said Samant.He also questioned the status of students in the containment zones. “Over 1 crore people are in 12,419 containment zones. How will the students staying there give exams? The UGC guidelines should clarify such issues as well,” Samant told reporters.On July 6, UGC directed all universities to conduct the exams in online, offline or blended modes. Prior to the UGC’s directives, the state disaster management authority on June 18 decided to cancel the final-year exams for non-professional courses and recommended the central authorities to cancel the final-year exams of professional courses too, owing to the Covid-19 crisis.“The authority also noted that the number of infected patients in the state has increased much more since the time it held its last meeting on June 18. Even Bollywood actors and Raj Bhavan employees are getting infected despite remaining confined indoors. Then how can we say that the students won’t get infected with the virus,” said Samant. When asked if the state can award degrees to students without giving final-year exams, Samant said, “We are studying the technicalities and if required will again call for the disaster management authority’s meeting to take a further decision.” Maharashtra is not the only state that expressed inability to hold exams in the current Covid-19 scenario. Punjab, West Bengal, Delhi and Haryana too declared the cancellation of final-year exams. Thackeray is likely to speak to the CMs of these states. “The chief minister said we should talk to them and understand what are they doing about the UGC directive”, the official said.On July 11, UGC general secretary Rajnish Jain said the commission’s guidelines are binding on all the states. Officials also said the state is also waiting for the Bombay high court’s decision on a public interest litigation challenging the state’s decision to not hold final-year exams. The court will hear the matter on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/final-year-exams-can-t-be-held-in-maharashtra-state-body-headed-by-cm/story-uC9zuJRTF599Gi3rTd9rrN.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Nallasopara man held for rape threat to comedienne||Mumbai cyber police have arrested a 28-year-old man from Nallasopara, who in a video allegedly issued rape threats to a city-based comedienne. The woman had recently courted controversy after a video of her stand-up act performed last year went viral, in which she has been accused of insulting Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Later, she apologised on social media and deleted the video. On Monday, Umesh Dada alias Imtiyaz Shaikh was arrested by Mumbai Police, informed home minister Anil Deshmukh through his Twitter handle. On Sunday, a YouTuber, Shubham Mishra, was arrested from Vadodara on charges of threatening and abusing her. Shaikh is a friend of Mishra.“We have taken suo motu action and have arrested Shaikh from Nallasopara. We are investigating who helped him make the video. We are probing if Mishra and he decided to put up the objectionable video together. He has been booked under sections 294, 354A, 354, 354D, 504 and 34, 505, 506, 509 of the Indian Penal Code and 67A of Information Technology Act. He would be produced in court tomorrow [Tuesday],” said Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (Cyber), Mumbai Police’s crime branch.Two more people have been identified, who are friends of Shaikh and had made a similar video abusing and threatening the comedienne. Their video, too, had gone viral. “Both are residents of Virar and will be arrested soon,” said DCP Karandikar.The comedienne’s clip went viral following which, first a Shiv Sena leader complained against her to the home minister. Later, activists from Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) vandalised the place in Khar where she had performed. After video of MNS’s stunt was shared on social media, Mishra and Shaikh uploaded videos on social media, threatening to rape her for disrespecting Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. They also abused her mother and sister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nallasopara-man-held-for-rape-threat-to-comedienne/story-hLVyAW0xY4nA7F9PsMGjJL.html
14-07-2020||City||Covid-19 outbreak: Mumbai showing signs of recovery?||Even though the Covid-19 outbreak is yet to be contained, recent developments, from lower average growth rate to increase in doubling rate to 51 days, have brought a sigh of relief for frontline workers and civic authorities.The daily average cases in Mumbai went to as low as 759 and did not cross 1,500 since the first week of June, despite an increase in daily tests. The increase in doubling rate from 41 days on July 1 to 51 days as on Monday is a positive sign, said civic officials. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has attributed the increase in doubling rate to their ‘Mission Zero’ plan introduced on June 22. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Chahal, said, “A study done by a group of professors stated that the city’s R0 measure (also known as the reproduction number, is a measure of how many people may be infected by one patient) has come down from 9 to 1.1. This is a good indication of our situation. Along with this, the biggest advantage of increasing doubling rate is we get availability of beds in terms of using those beds on rotation as cases take a longer time to double. We need 200 beds every day, considering the current daily average cases as 85% of those are asymptomatic and can be kept in non-hospital beds.”A senior civic official said, “When the plan was launched, the doubling rate of the city was 37 days. The aim was to increase it to 50 days in 2-3 weeks.” Mission Zero is a 35-day action plan to increase surveillance in areas, specifically six administrative wards that had a higher growth rate and bring down the number of daily cases reported in these areas.Along with this, the city’s recovery rate has also reached a high of 70%, whereas the recovery rate on July 1 was 57%. Of the 92,720 Covid cases in Mumbai as on Monday, 65,000 patients have already been treated and discharged. Experts, however, said a lot more needs to be done. Madhav Sathe, retired professor of microbiology at Nair Hospital, said, “The situation in Mumbai looks under control, but it is also important to contain the virus in the outskirts, Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Our recovery rate of 70% is a good sign for the city, but the city is not testing to its full capacity and should at least conduct 12,000-15,000 tests per day. The strength of private testing labs has also not been utilised fully. Our next aim should be to bring down the fatality rate to below 3% from the current 5.5%.” On Monday, Mumbai reported 1, 158 Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 94,146. Forty-seven deaths took the toll to 5,335, according to the state health department data. The data further states that 750 patients were recovered and discharged on Monday. A total of 65,622 patients have been treated and discharged by now. The active patients in the city are 22,900. The number of Covid tests done till Sunday is 3.96 lakh. Dharavi reported six new cases on Monday. The total cases in Dharavi reached 2,334. Of them, 2,039 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-outbreak-mumbai-showing-signs-of-recovery/story-3UQmBjys918e4hUWCzgdxH.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Cops seeking legal opinion in complaint against comedienne: Home minister||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday said that the Mumbai Police have sought legal opinion in the complaint against a city-based stand-up comedienne and action will be taken if she is found guilty of the alleged insult to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in her year-old video. “The decision on further course of action will be taken after we get an opinion. Action will be taken if she is found guilty,” he said. Deshmukh has also said that all those who have used foul language against the comedienne on social media will face strict action. Two such persons have been arrested in Gujarat and Maharashtra, he added. “All those who have used extremely objectionable and derogatory language against the stand-up comedienne will face action. Police have started preparing a list of all those threatening her and action will be taken against them,” he said.Deshmukh said that they will also look into the complaint against MNS workers who allegedly vandalised the restaurant where the show was shot in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cops-seeking-legal-opinion-in-complaint-against-comedienne-home-minister/story-Tqq32o3encO5kFZxJdJdwO.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra scores 90.39% in CBSE Class 12 tests||The state saw a success rate of 90.39% at the CBSE Class 12 exams, the results of which were declared on Monday morning. A total of 20,552 students appeared for the exams from the state. Pune division, which covers Maharashtra, Goa, Daman-Diu and Dadra Nagar Haveli, recorded a 90.24% success rate, ranking 10th among the 16 regions. The board did not release a merit list owing to cancellation of a few papers. Across the country, 157,934 students scored 90% and above, compared to 94,299 last year. Also, 38,686 students scored 95% and above across India, up from last year’s 17,693. As a few papers could not be conducted due to the Covid-19 outbreak, marks were given on the basis of average of the best scores in other papers. This was the first year of examinations after the board set up a Pune divisional office for the state. Until 2019, schools in the state were a part of the Chennai division. This year, students from 339 schools appeared for the exams from Pune division across 213 exam centres. Principals said they could see a significant improvement in the scores of students. J Mohanty, principal at DPS Nerul school, said the class average had increased to 91.7% from 90.4% in 2019. “Nearly 71% of the 299 students who had appeared for the exams scored 90% and above. Over the past few years, our school has been bettering its performance,” he said. Kala Gangadharan, principal at Rajhans Vidyalaya in Andheri, said the board’s move to include multiple-choice questions seems to have helped students in the science stream. “A large number of students who appear for the boards also write competitive exams like JEE. They are well-versed with the objective format and find it easy to score,” she said. “The result this year, amid all challenges and uncertainties, has come out well in time to everyone’s relief and with great amount of satisfaction to students and parents. Schools and parents must prepare their wards to accept the result in the context of the pandemic and help them now focus on the next step,” Jose Kurian, regional director (western zone II), DAV Public Schools.Despite his disability, 18-year-old scores 95.8%Varun Manoj, 18, secured 95.8% in his Class 12 boards and his excitement is evident. Born with optic atrophy, Varun did not let it affect his ability to do well. “I used a laptop for all my school work and various softwares to keep up with the studies,” said Varun, a student of Delhi Public School, Nerul. He added that apart from what was taught in class, he depended majorly on soft copies and audio books to catch up with what was taught in class everyday.While his school teachers and parents were a constant support, the gritty teenager also feels his decision to strike a balance between studies and his love for music helped him. “I love playing keyboards in my spare time and continued to do so. I would like to pursue a degree in Information Technology and I aspire to work with Microsoft in the future,” said Varun.TV actor juggles work and studies, scores 89.4%Anushka Sen, a student of Ryan International School, Kandivli, has been working in the TV and film industry since she was 9. Juggling between hectic work schedules and studies, she scored 89.4%. “I was shooting for a film in Jammu just before my exams so barely had any time to prepare. Despite that, I tried to work hard. I am used to managing both my studies and my work as I have worked on various TV serials and films in the past,” she said. Anushka wants to continue acting but she also plans to pursue a Bachelor in Mass Media. “I have learnt the practical aspect of this industry by working here for nearly nine years, but I want to learn the theory now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-scores-90-39-in-cbse-class-12-tests/story-Jn7zQg0J3CQOJXh03OvL4M.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||20 lakh litres of milk unsold daily in state||Owing to lockdown which led to shutting down of industrial-commercial activities, the state has been reporting more than 20 lakh litres of excess milk each day. As opposed to the daily production of around 2 crore litre of milk each day, including 1.5 crore litre in the organised sector, the daily consumption has come down to about 1.75 crore litre, forcing milk brands to convert excess milk into skimmed milk powder (SMP).Every year between May and August, milk supply generally drops below the demand, owing to a decrease in production. However, this year companies are reporting excess milk owing to shutting down of hotel, confectionary and sweet industries as well as restrictions on the exports of the milk products.“This led to a demand-supply gap of more than 30 lakh litre at the initial stage of lockdown. It has now come down to more than 20 lakh litre. Milk brands, in both private and cooperative sectors, were forced to convert milk into SMP. The stock of SMP in Maharashtra has now piled up to 60,000 metric tonne. However, with the fall in its price, dairy brands may end up sustaining loss of ₹80-₹100 for each kilogram,” said Arun Narke, former president of Indian Dairy Association.Of the total 2 crore litre milk produced each day, organised sector comprising private, cooperative and government brands account for 1.25 crore litre. Of this, cooperative sector accounts for 39%, while private brands cover 60.95%. To safeguard the interest of farmers, the state government has announced procurement of excess milk in the public and cooperative sector and convert it into SMP. “We have procured 4.80 crore litre milk from farmers during lockdown at the cost of ₹25 for one litre. Our intervention resulted in retention of fair price. We expect the rate of SMP to increase in next few weeks,” said Naresh Gite, managing director, Maharashtra state cooperative dairy federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-lakh-litres-of-milk-unsold-daily-in-state/story-ZrFt2QHwPV9qp3GvaE2ljP.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||UP Police takes custody of slain gangster’s aides||Uttar Pradesh Police took transit remand of Arvind Ramvilas Trivedi, an associate of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, and Trivedi’s driver Sushilkumar Suresh Tiwari from Thane court on Monday. Inspector Gyan Singh of Kanpur police, who is an investigating officer in the killing of eight policemen by Dubey and his associates, reached Mumbai on Sunday night, along with other police constables. On Monday, after Trivedi and his driver were produced in the Thane court around 2.45pm in connection with the cop killing case, the police were given transit remand till July 16. The two accused, who are not yet named in the first information report in the case, have been remanded in judicial custody till July 21.Defence lawyer Anil Jadhav said, “It is not safe to travel by road due to heavy rain as well the Covid-19 situation. Railway services are also not there for long distance travel, so the accused are afraid of traveling in a vehicle from Mumbai to Kanpur. They urge that they be taken to Uttar Pradesh by flight.” The court has allowed the same.Both the accused were tested for Covid-19 on Saturday and have tested negative, said Jadhav. Trivedi and Tiwari fled from UP soon Dubey and his associates killed eight policemen at Bikru village near Kanpur in the intervening night of July 2 and July 3. Both the accused came to Madhya Pradesh where, the police believe, they met Dubey. After that they went to Pune while hiding in a truck, and then took another truck to come to Thane. They were staying in Kolshet, said an officer from the anti-terrorism squad (ATS). Juhu unit of the Maharashtra ATS arrested Trivedi and Tiwari on Saturday morning following tip-off, following which the Uttar Pradesh Police was informed. UP state government had announced a reward of ₹50,000 in exchange for information on Trivedi’s whereabouts.Trivedi is suspected of being involved in the murder of UP minister Santosh Shukla, who was killed inside the Shivli police station in Kanpur in 2001. Dubey was the main accused in the case which saw 25 policemen, brought in as eyewitnesses, turn hostile in court. Dubey, a history-sheeter with around 60 criminal cases against him, was arrested in Ujjain on July 9. He was killed in an encounter on July 10 while being brought back to Kanpur by UP Police.Following Trivedi’s arrest, UP Police issued a press statement confirming that Trivedi was an associate of Dubey. “Following the arrest made by Maharashtra ATS, it has come to light that Arvind Trivedi is an old member of Vikas Dubey’s gang. Investigations are being conducted to ascertain if he was involved in the incident at Bikru village. Arvind has not been named in the FIR,” said UP Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/up-police-takes-custody-of-slain-gangster-s-aides/story-V51HvNMNckdaNfkM0l2V0L.html
14-07-2020||City||2,089 vehicles seized since July 2 in Thane||Since complete lockdown was imposed on July 2, Thane traffic police seized 2,089 vehicles from across the Thane commissionarate area and issued 20,694 e-challans amounting up to ₹95,38,800. The police has increased Bandobast at every corner and entrance of Thane city and is taking action against people for flouting lockdown norms.Thane traffic police has deployed strict nakabandi at all points in Thane commissionerate and are making announcements. A majority of the violators were from Thane city area, followed by Bhiwandi, Kalyan-Dombivli and Ulhasnagar. Amit Kale, deputy commissioner, traffic police, said, “We are keeping strict watch at every entry point and are seizing vehicles. As people are not following lockdown rules, we are taking action against them through issuing e-challans.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-089-vehicles-seized-since-july-2-in-thane/story-7gXZqz2OXpqP7qci2DBOiN.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||12 connectors from Metros to railway stations||To ensure smoother connectivity once all the Metro corridors are operational, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) is looking at establishing a dozen connectors between Metro stations and suburban railway stations. MMRDA recently invited bids for preparing detailed designs of interchanges proposed in the city.According to the tender, the authority is looking to connect Mankhurd railway station on harbour line to the upcoming Mankhurd station on Metro 2B (DN Nagar-Mandale), ILFS station on Metro 2B with the upcoming high-speed rail corridor, and Chembur station on Metro 2B with VNP and RC Marg Monorail station.It is also looking at easing commuter movement between Metro stations through the proposed interchange between Gandhi Nagar station of Metro 4 (Wadala-Kasarwadavali) to Kanjurmarg station of Metro 6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli), and Adarsh Nagar station of Metro 6 to Shastri Nagar station of Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar).RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said, “MMRDA is looking at providing seamless connectivity to Mumbaiites. Establishing connectivity between all lines of Metro and other modes of transportation is a major step in the direction. The proposed interchanges will make journeys more comfortable for all.”To further last-mile connectivity in the city, MMRDA is also looking at multi-modal integration in all the upcoming Metro stations. For Metro 2A and 7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E), the authority is looking at spending ₹356.86 crore to make provision for bus-bays, cycle tracks, widened footpaths with street furniture and street-lights in all 30 stations. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is expected to bear 50% of the cost, and take over maintenance once operational.In its recent meeting, MMRDA also gave a nod to its policy of direct access to Metro stations. According to the policy, private developers, who are interested in direct connection to the nearest Metro station, can submit detailed technical proposals to MMRDA.Direct access is a worldwide concept that will enable first and last mile connectivity to Metro stations, an official from MMRDA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-connectors-from-metros-to-railway-stations/story-ymGzktEI1fXogVmmN4kh0O.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Coastal Road project: Will get nod under wildlife law before reclamation, says BMC||badri.chatterjee@hindustantimes.comThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on March 12, 2020, told the Supreme Court (SC) that they would obtain clearances under the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972 prior to commencing reclamation for the Coastal Road project that would potentially disturb coral habitat. The affidavit was received by the environmental groups, objecting to the project construction, on Saturday.The affidavit was in response to an interim application (IA) filed by Conservation Action Trust (CAT), activist Shweta Wagh, and others in February this year that sought a stay on ‘rapid’ reclamation activity that could ‘permanently destroy the city’s coastline. On June 8, the Bombay high court (HC) had dismissed another petition filed by 20 south Mumbai residents (Save Our Coast) that challenged reclamation during the Covid-19 lockdown. The Supreme Court will now hear the matter on July 16.BMC’s affidavit, submitted by the project’s chief engineer Vijay Nighot, rubbished claims made in the IA that corals had been destroyed while highlighting their presence was ‘miniscule’. BMC said pertinent sections of WPA do not apply to them in this case since the intertidal area was never declared a national park or a sanctuary. BMC, however, accepted to transplant the corals.“In any event, the petitioner (BMC) undertakes to obtain a WPA clearance prior to carrying out any reclamation activities that potentially disturb the corals present,” the submission read.Corals are marine invertebrates that attach themselves to rocky intertidal regions. They garner the same protection status as that of a tiger or an elephant (schedule 1) under WPA. Any clearance under the Act is issued by the state chief wildlife warden. The Maharashtra forest department said no proposal had been submitted by BMC so far for wildlife clearances. “BMC has been directed to take precautions during reclamation to ensure no corals are harmed,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove cell).“None of the areas with coral presence have been touched so far. Wildlife clearance will be taken after basic reclamation is complete. The corals will be transplanted, and then those areas will be reclaimed. The MBMP is being carefully implemented,” Nighot said.However, Wagh alleged that BMC had already violated WPA as they were applying for clearance after basic reclamation was done. “Nobody knows the extent of damage already on site,” she said.For the past five months, over 40 of 90 hectare (ha) has been reclaimed for the 9.9-km current phase of the project, which is to be an eight-lane highway connecting Marine Drive to the southern tip of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link, BMC said.BMC also submitted a September 2019 report by the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Goa, that found the presence of six coral species along the south Mumbai coast, presence of dolphins, 17 bird species, and rich benthic marine life while developing the marine biodiversity conservation and monitoring plan (MBMP) for the project. NIO suggested a ₹2.9 crore budgetary plan for the MBMP including translocation of corals. However, BMC said the funds had not been allocated yet and it was the responsibility of project contractors.NIO has identified two species of corals of the Rhizangiidae family (Oulangia and one unidentified species) with 18 colonies across 0.251 square metres (almost 3-feet) in the Worli region of the project site. At Haji Ali, another species under the Dendrophylliidae family along with Rhizangiidae were identified across 1.1foot area. Remaining species of corals were identified 1.8 km away from the project site in Marine Drive. “Destruction of corals should be avoided: transplantation and restoration of corals inside proposed project site at suitable places is one of possible ways to conserve them while regular monitoring during project execution is necessary,” the NIO report said.Environmentalist Debi Goenka said the NIO study should have been done before environment clearance was granted and WPA needed to be obtained before construction began. “This was conveniently ignored by the Central and state committees that issued clearances to the project,” he said.On December 17, 2019, the SC had put on hold previous orders by the HC (from July 2019) that quashed coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearances to the civic body, and allowed reclamation of land but restricted BMC from carrying out any other development work. The HC’s order from July 16, 2019 while staying the project had said, “Notwithstanding the fact that corals presence is minuscule, the same shows that the ecosystem in the area (project zone) is conducive to corals. It establishes that the area is ecologically sensitive...we hold that BMC could not have commenced work without obtaining WPA permission.”THREAT TO MARINE LIFE: NIO REPORTNIO also said the presence of dolphins within a 10 km radius of the project site was threatened by increased turbidity and noise levels with vessel movement as a potential threat. Destruction of habitat and noise may affect foraging behaviour of 17 migratory and resident birds, and may move away from the project area. Disturbance in marine environments could lead to recurring cases of harmful algal and jellyfish blooms.MARINE BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, MONITORING PLAN FOR COASTAL ROAD· Destruction of corals should be avoided: Transplantation and restoration of corals inside proposed project site at suitable places is one of the possible ways to conserve them while regular monitoring during project execution is necessary· Regular observational monitoring, solid waste and oil pollution management, contingency plan for any incidences, participatory approach for sustainable resource utilisation and stakeholder management· On-site marine mammal observer has to be deployed to monitor the movement of important species· Vessel movement has to be regulated. It has to be halted at the sighting of any marine mammals in the active working zone· Management of plastic, marine litter, garbage· Several bivalve species of commercial importance in study area: Necessary to protect them by blocking certain areas as no harvest zone to protect, especially clams, oysters and shellfish(Source: National Institute of Oceanography, Goa Study)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coastal-road-project-will-get-nod-under-wildlife-law-before-reclamation-says-bmc/story-UJHjogZr31f69tfuhJJEUM.html
14-07-2020||City||Navi Mumbai police head constable succumbs to Covid-19||A 47-year-old head constable of Navi Mumbai police succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday. He was undergoing treatment at Fortis Hospital in Vashi since June 18.A Rabale resident, who was attacked with the coastal security branch at the police commissioner’s office in CBD Belapur, is survived by his mother, wife and two children.“He had a dry cough, following which he got himself tested. His mother and wife also had symptoms and were admitted at DY Patil Hospital in Nerul, and have recovered since,” said an officer from the commissioner’s office.City police commissioner Sanjay Kumar posted a condolence message on Twitter. “He was fighting bravely with virus till date. Navi Mumbai police is pained by this irreparable loss. Heartfelt condolences to family and acquaintances,” Kumar wrote. This is the first Covid death in the Navi Mumbai police force. Earlier, a police constable’s wife had succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-police-head-constable-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-9PQIfEM2E3plyYCUBCUuIM.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Consumers’ body directs hospital to pay ₹7.5L to diamond broker for negligence in treatment||The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) directed a city hospital to pay a compensation of ₹7.5 lakh to a 74-year-old diamond broker for medical negligence, which led to the loss of two fingers of his left hand.“A detailed review of the entire record reveals that it is a case of gross medical negligence, involving loss of body parts, business and mental agony to the complainant who is a senior citizen aged 74, during the course of treatment given in the respondent hospital,” said an NCDRC bench, comprising presiding member Prem Narain and member C Vishwanath, while holding Breach Candy Hospital liable to compensate Peddar Road resident Murlidhar Chhabria.On September 18, 2005, Chhabria was admitted to Breach Candy Hospital for coronary artery bypass graft, and two days later he underwent the surgery. A month later, he was required to get a re-suturing done after blood was found to be oozing from his chest.After the surgery, Chhabria was shifted to an intensive care unit (ICU), where his wife noticed that his left palm and fingers were burnt. The burn injuries were treated after he was discharged from the hospital, and on November 21, 2005, he was operated upon for the burns. To his shock, Chhabria found that his middle and little fingers had been amputated owing to development of gangrene.Following the incident, in 2006 he filed a complaint before the Maharashtra Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, alleging medical negligence on part of the hospital, which resulted in burning of his left hand and amputation of two fingers. He prayed for compensation worth ₹50 lakh on the grounds that being a diamond broker and an expert in the assortment of diamonds, the absence of fingers was not only a loss of body parts but also of earning capacity.The hospital denied the allegations and maintained that as no heaters were used in its operation theatres or ICUs, there was no question of the patient getting his hand burnt by accidentally touching one.The hospital claimed that the patient was also having a history of long-standing diabetes, which led to Tropical Diabetic Hand Syndrome (TDHS) and the symptoms of heater burn and TDHS are similar. It also filed an expert opinion to show that TDHS results in burning of hand and lead to gangrene.Accepting the stand of the hospital, on March 28, 2012, the state commission dismissed the complaint, observing that the treating doctors exercised due care and caution in operating and treating the diamond broker. Chhabria then moved NCDRC to appeal against the state commission’s decision.The national commission, however, refused to accept the hospital’s stand and said, “When there were no chances of any burn caused due to heaters in the OT [operation theatre]/ICU or of any cautery burns as alleged by the complainant, one does not understand as to why blisters on the hand were not taken seriously but only treated normally as burns over a long period of time.”It noted all along, the burn injury was mentioned in the hospital record as “burn injuries in the OT during bypass surgery.”“All through it was being treated as a case of burns having sensation in the hand and not a case of TDHS. Never the case was treated as TDHS,” said NCDRC, adding that the theory was introduced two years after treating the 74-year-old, and the “wisdom” about TDHS appeared for the first time in the affidavit in reply to the consumer’s complaint at the state commission.“Theory of TDHS has been floated only as a cover up to their medical negligence, resulting in permanent injury to the patient,” the bench observed, adding that the doctors who treated the diamond broker ought to have consulted a diabetologist and a dermatologist at the earliest and if proper diagnosis and treatment would have started earlier, the complainant could perhaps have been saved from permanent injury and damage.The bench further said that the amputation of finger ends involves loss of bone, a very serious consequence for the complainant, but no effort was made to properly diagnose the problem (the abnormal condition of the hand in time), ultimately leading to the amputation of finger ends.“This is certainly a case of gross medical negligence on the part of the respondent hospital and the complainant is to be compensated for loss of body parts, trauma, agony and source of livelihood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/consumers-body-directs-hospital-to-pay-7-5l-to-diamond-broker-for-negligence-in-treatment/story-LU11g0pNwpnDFiMA0PvrGI.html
14-07-2020||City||38-year-old cop dies of Covid in Palghar||A 38-year-old police naik attached with Waliv police station died due to Covid-19 on early on Monday while undergoing treatment at Riddhi Vinayak Hospital in Nallasopara, said sub-inspector Sachin Navadkar, Palghar Police. The naik was admitted to the hospital on June 20. He is survived by his wife and a son. This is the second Covid fatality in Palghar Police force. Earlier, on June 9, a 40-year-old cop succumbed to the disease. So far, 135 police personnel in the district tested positive, of whom, 30 are currently undergoing treatment, said Navadkar.According to official data, 9,733 people have tested positive for Covid-19 and 181 have died in Palghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/38-year-old-cop-dies-of-covid-in-palghar/story-BnnWN5pS6vGIQNRFrWHuGO.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank case: ED files second charge sheet against Kapil, Dheeraj Wadhawan||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday filed a second charge sheet in the money laundering case at Yes Bank. The charge sheet is against 19 persons and entities and was filed before a special court under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), in Mumbai. An ED official confirmed the development and said the charge sheet was primarily against promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL), Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, and firms floated by the accused to carry out money laundering. The charge sheet also names co-founder and former managing director of Yes Bank, Rana Kapoor, and members of his family, as well as chartered accountants Dularesh K Jain & Associates. The second charge sheet was filed after ED examined a number of witnesses including Yes Bank and DHFL employees. ED officials said that in addition to money laundering and receiving kickbacks from the Wadhawans, Kapoor had overruled Yes Bank’s advisory team, which had not approved a loan to Belief Realtors (a DHFL company) and the loan was disbursed on the same day it was sanctioned. Loans of Rs 300 crore, Rs 100 crore and Rs 232 crore were disbursed to companies indirectly controlled by Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan. Dularesh K Jain & Associates had given the end-user certificate but could not provide any explanation or documentation to justify the end use. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had registered a case in connection with suspicious loans granted by Yes Bank on March 7. Following this, ED arrested Kapoor on March 8, charging him with money laundering and alleging Yes Bank had bought debentures of DHFL worth Rs 3,700 crore, but without redeeming them till date. DHFL had paid a kickback of Rs 600 crore to Kapoor in the form of a loan to a company registered to Kapoor’s daughters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-case-ed-files-second-charge-sheet-against-kapil-dheeraj-wadhawan/story-myrb7YTQatXVo6w0EDve0L.html
14-07-2020||City||KDMC to start operating 10 war rooms from Wednesday||In a bid to reach out to all Covid-19 patients across wards and curb the spread of the virus, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has set up 10 war rooms in each of its 10 wards. According to KDMC, the war rooms will start functioning from Wednesday and will have a dedicated helpline each. On Monday, the city recorded 427 new positive cases and nine deaths, taking the total number of cases to 13,240 and death toll to 198. “War rooms are ready and we have recruited people to operate them. It will start functioning from Wednesday,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.The war rooms, under the supervision of ward officers, will have one medical officer, one staff nurse and a clerk and will function round the clock. These will also be equipped with three ambulances and one bus.“War rooms will look after updates of positive patients, high-risk and low-risk cases as well as sanitisation and sealing of residential or commercial areas where positive cases are reported,” said a KDMC official, who did not wish to be named.Every morning the civic health officer will provide a list of positive cases in that particular ward to the medical officer at the war room in the morning. Then officials at the war room will contact the patients to check on their status and decide whether to isolate the patient at home or at quarantine centre.In cases of home quarantine, war rooms will send the details to primary healthcare centres asking them to follow up on the patients over phone. For symptomatic patients, they will be referred to hospitals based on their health and war room officials will also check bed availability and reserve them for the said patients.Meanwhile, the civic body has also begun the Dharavi model — chase the virus in its limits. On Monday, a team of 30 Shiv Sena party workers under the leadership of corporator Rajendra Devlekar initiated a survey. A team of two people surveyed 50 to 60 houses on Monday covering around 500 residents.“Every day we will survey 600-1,000 residents so that we can curb the spread. The civic body has already started with the Dharavi model wherein corporators will lead the survey on residents. We are also doing free fever test and antigen test on Tuesday at Yogidham,” said Devlekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-to-start-operating-10-war-rooms-from-wednesday/story-xjD1y5ZKlvlW7cMT0rWeoO.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||Persons with disabilities could be promoted to Group A, B posts, state to frame policy soon||Maharashtra government will soon frame a policy for extending benefit of reservation in promotion to persons with disabilities (PwD) in Group A and Group B posts, an official informed the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Friday.Additional government pleader AM Deshpande informed the bench of justice Sunil Shukre and justice SM Modak that as of now no policy is in place to provide for reservation in promotion to PwD in Group A and Group B posts, but soon an appropriate decision will be taken for providing reservation in the promotion to PwD category in consultation with the Central government.He was responding to a petition filed by Ravindra Ukey, who is serving on a Group C post, as an extension officer in Nagpur zilla parishad. He had moved HC seeking orders to the state government to promote him to a Group B post, on the basis of a minimum of 3% reservation prescribed for persons with disabilities under section 33 of the Persons with Disabilities (equal opportunities, protection of rights and full participation) Act, 1995.He claimed that in 2016, Supreme Court had recognised the right of PwD to reservation in promotion, and therefore, he was entitled to promotion to a Group B post.HC, however, noticed that the Supreme Court itself has held that before the reservation under section 33 to an extent of a minimum 3% comes into operation, the government must complete the exercise for identification of the posts suitable for appointment of PwD.“So, it is clear that unless the identification exercise as prescribed under section 32 of the Act, 1995 is over, the mandate of section 33 providing for reservation of not less than 3% in various posts for persons with disabilities cannot come into operation,” said HC.HC dismissed Ukey’s petition saying no relief can be granted to the 50-year-old extension officer, as the promotional posts for PwD category have not been identified in Maharashtra as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/persons-with-disabilities-could-be-promoted-to-group-a-b-posts-state-to-frame-policy-soon/story-QlGlFmwEJ6wqOI7FNGreYM.html
14-07-2020||City||Two senior citizens fall for ATM, online fraud||Two senior citizens from Navi Mumbai were cheated in separate incidents of ATM fraud and phishing, on Saturday. In one incident, a man stole ₹40,000 from a senior citizen’s account after helping him withdraw money from the ATM. While in another case, the victim was duped of ₹75,850 by a man posing as a bank official.Around 10am, Radheshyam Basak, 76, a resident of Ulwe, had gone to an ATM kiosk to withdraw money. As Basak was facing difficulty in inserting the card in the machine, he asked a man, present inside the kiosk, for help.“Basak typed the pin in front of the accused and withdrew ₹10,000. The accused then stole the card, without the senior citizen realising it. Later, he withdrew ₹40,000 from the account,” said an officer from NRI police station.In the second incident, Yashpal Singhla, 68, was at his Seawoods residence when he received a call from an unknown number around 5pm on Saturday. The caller falsely identified himself as a bank official.The conman told Singhla that he is calling to verify his credit card details. Trusting him, the senior citizen gave his card number, with the card validation digits (CVD). Using the information, the phishing conman withdrew ₹75,850 in two transactions.The NRI Coastal police have registered cases of cheating in both the incidents against unknown persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-senior-citizens-fall-for-atm-online-fraud/story-MljLd6B16lJyluFIglUpgP.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||More restrictions in Chandigarh, weekend curfew on cards; final decision on tomorrow||For containing the recent spike in Covid-19 cases, the UT administration is actively considering imposing fresh curbs on people’s movement and gatherings in the city.In addition to a weekend curfew, restrictions on wedding ceremonies, cremations, public dealings in government offices and percentage of employees permitted in offices are on the cards.Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore in the war room review meeting held here on Monday sought the views of doctors on the matter. A final decision will be taken on Wednesday.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “As per Centre’s instructions, all social, religious, cultural and other functions are banned, except for marriages and cremation. Otherwise, gatherings are not allowed. The administration is now considering imposing further restrictions like decreasing the number of people allowed in marriage ceremonies and imposing weekend curfew.”On Monday, the Punjab government reduced the number of people allowed in a wedding ceremony from 50 to 30. UT is likely to follow suit. Parida said gatherings without the permission of the deputy commissioner (DC) have not been authorised.RWAs ROPED IN TO MONITOR CASESJoint teams of sub-divisional magistrates (SDM), station house officers (SHO) and resident welfare associations (RWA) have been constituted to monitor asymptomatic cases and report symptomatic cases, if any, for early detection and treatment.According to DC Mandip Singh Brar, 500 challans were issued over the weekend to the persons not wearing masks. Police will soon start a special awareness campaign in the city under which audio announcements through PCR vans will be made, said Sanjay Beniwal, director general of police (DGP).VENDORS, POLICE TO BE SCREENED, TESTEDBadnore directed that all vendors and police personnel working in the field be specially screened and checked for symptoms and accordingly tested. Doctors and health officials were also directd to enhance contact tracing and house-to-house screening.Since cases being detected are scattered, the UT health department is carrying out necessary mapping for focused attention. Dr G Dewan, director health services, said that on Monday a special screening drive was started in Manimajra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/more-restrictions-in-chandigarh-weekend-curfew-on-cards-final-decision-on-tomorrow/story-WmBREYwbpM1iu8ckszFxWI.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Trials end successfully, but PGIMER to continue taking plasma donations||The convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) being conducted for Covid-19 patients at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has borne promising results, the doctors have said.Professor Pankaj Malhotra from the department of internal medicine said that five patients who were administered plasma have shown no side effects and there have been no associated complications during the treatment. “The results of the trial have been positive and encouraging”, he said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had selected PGIMER as one of the centres for a national-level trial of the CPT.However, ICMR asked the institute to stop the trial after PGIMER successfully enrolled nine patients, of whom five received the treatment and the remaining were on the control arm.The institute in earlier communications had said that in some cases it had been observed that when out on CPT, the patient would be taken off oxygen in just three days and gradually their condition would improve with the help of supportive care.RESULTS TO BE ANNOUNCED SOONThe trial took place across 50 sites in India with the sample size of 425 patients, and the results are likely to be announced soon.Meanwhile, PGIMER has decided to go ahead with taking plasma donations with the consent of the donors. “We will continue taking plasma from eligible donors as the Drug Control Agency has allowed us off-label use of the convalescent plasma. If any patient falls in the category where plasma can be given to stop the worsening of conditions, we may administer it with their consent,” said professor Ratti Ram Sharma, head of the department of transfusion medicine, PGIMER.The plasma is taken from patients who have recovered from Covid. The therapy works when the plasma containing antibodies is administered into critically ill patients. The donor should have had a prior diagnosis of Covid-19 with symptoms like fever and cough, and should have completely recovered with no symptoms for at least 28 days prior to donation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/trials-end-successfully-but-pgimer-to-continue-taking-plasma-donations/story-WoEaab9g5fh8eWQFBHygFJ.html
14-07-2020||City||Wanted gangster, aides open fire at Ludhiana realtor||Wanted by the police in an attempt to murder case, gangster Ajay Pandit along with his accomplices opened fire outside the house of a realtor in Guru Arjun Dev Nagar on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday.The accused challenged the victim to come out of the house, and when he came on the roof, opened fire targeting him. However, the realtor escaped unhurt in the incident.The accused had attempted a murder bid on the realtor on April 23 as well. Upon initiating an investigation, the police recovered a bullet shell from the spot.Victim Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal, 30, said that the accused, Ajay Pandit, lived in the same locality. He said that at around 12.30am, he woke up to the doorbell and heard someone calling his name and challenging him.SECOND MURDER BID ON RELATOR“I sensed something was wrong. Instead of opening the door, I went up the roof. Ajay Pandit was at the main door along with an accomplice. He was holding a gun and opened fire at me. But I managed to escape unhurt,” Dhaliwal said.Dhaliwal further told the police that on April 23, Pandit, his brother Rajan Pandit and their accomplice had attempted to murder him. He alleged that Pandit was forcing him to withdraw the complaint which is why he had opened fire at him.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, East) Davinder Chaudhary said that Pandit was wanted by Division Number 7 police in an attempt to murder case. He is also wanted by Salem Tabri police in another case of attempt to murder.A case was lodged against the accused and a manhunt was launched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wanted-gangster-aides-open-fire-at-ludhiana-realtor/story-w1EKQuKGsbVVxAXSVkvOZP.html
14-07-2020||Noida||Two nabbed in connection with the murder of a businessman||Two men in their twenties were nabbed by the Kasna police on Monday in connection with the murder of a 22-year-old businessman, who had gone missing since July 5 from the Site 5 area. The victim, Aditya Soni, owned a polishing business in the Site 5 industrial area and had left his workplace on July 5. He had earlier mentioned about visiting the family of a deceased relative in Delhi. The victim’s family had last contact with him around midnight on July 5. After he failed to return home, his mother, Neelu Soni, had filed a missing person’s complaint on July 6 at the Kasna police station.“The victim’s mother filed a complaint, alleging that her son had last been seen with three of his friends and they might be behind his disappearance or death. Based on complaint, a case of murder and robbery, under sections 302, 201 and 394 of the IPC, was registered at the Kasna police station,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Zone 3, Rajesh Kumar Singh.Two of the suspects were identified as brothers, Dev and Pankaj Bhati. The victim’s car, jewellery and phone were recovered from them. The third suspect is absconding at the moment and teams have been formed for his arrest, said the police.“A body was found from an area under the jurisdiction of Mathura Police a day before yesterday. The family has now identified it as the victim. The suspects lived in the same society as the victim and were friends. On the night of the incident, they were all drinking together after which an argument broke out that turned violent. The victim was first hit with a stick and then he was strangled to death. The suspects used their Brezza car to dump his body in a canal near Jamalpur. The car has also been recovered,” said the DCP.Police officials said that a food delivery executive had first identified seeing the victim with the suspects on the night of his disappearance. Following this information, the suspects were interrogated. They later confessed to the whole incident. They will be produced before a magistrate on Tuesday while a search is on for the third suspect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-nabbed-in-connection-with-the-murder-of-a-businessman/story-9TYNE6A733ouAu7eSOZSOP.html
14-07-2020||Dehradun||Man accused of raping minor, fleeing police custody, found dead in Uttarakhand forest||A 21-year-old man, accused of raping a minor girl, was found hanging in a jungle about a week after escaping from police custody on Monday morning in Tallital area of Nainital district. The man, identified as Bhavesh Kumar, had escaped from a police vehicle while he was being taken to jail from a local court on July 7. He had escaped from the vehicle when it slowed at a turn on the hilly road.Kumar was accused of raping a minor girl of his village and was an under-trial inmate in the Nainital jail. Police was searching for him since his escape. Vijay Mehta, station house officer, Tallital police station said, police got the information about Kumar’s body in jungle on Monday. “Soon a team of local police after efforts of several hours in going down inside the jungle in a gorge of about 1 km deep, reached the spot where he was found hanging from a tree. The body was in a decomposed state which suggested that he hanged self a few days ago,” said Mehta. The police officer said Kumar was wearing the same clothes on the day of his escape and was having the ‘handcuffs on his one hand.’“As the spot is very deep near the road, efforts are on to bring the body up after which it would be sent for post-mortem examination. Once its report comes, the cause of death would be ascertained. A probe in on in the case,” said Mehta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/man-accused-of-raping-minor-fleeing-police-custody-found-dead-in-uttarakhand-forest/story-w1uDg5yjL12ekBFxB3YYjM.html
14-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A flower man and his new business||There’s a new guy in florist Muhammed Sadiq’s shop. He is without a face, and he’s without clothes. This morning, Mr Sadiq is dressing him up in front of his pavement stall, in full public view.“I got him for Rs 900,” says the youthful flower seller, who at 29 is a father of two kids, but looks like a teenager.The torso-length figure is a mannequin, and it is the symbol of the flower man’s determination to sail through the tough times caused by the coronavirus pandemic.“The flower business has come down by half,” he says, and surprisingly, the depressing news is conveyed with an infectious smile. The cheery faced Mr Sadiq doesn’t really sell bouquets, but threads the flowers all day long into garlands and gajras, here on this central Delhi pavement. A big part of his earnings come from weaving roses with currency notes—the kind of garlands chiefly used in weddings. In the BC (Before Corona) era, he would get steady assignments because “weddings happen all the time, even if they skyrocket only during the winter months”. But he theatrically shakes his head, and complains that “the frequency of weddings has gone down because of corona.”Whatever, Mr Sadiq isn’t the type of man who sits, complains and does nothing. Instead, he recently drove his scooty to nearby Karol Bagh market “to get ideas on what other additions I can make to my business.... and to find out how other people are managing to survive in these bad times.” Strolling about the market—“it didn’t have even half of its former energy”—he carefully observed the goings-on of the little shops and stalls lining the pathways. And suddenly, the penny dropped. “I decided to sell lowers in my stall.” And so he invested some of his hard-earned cash in buying a white plastic mannequin from Karol Bagh, along with the so-called lowers, or track pants, and excitedly returned to his stall. It now is a flower plus lowers shop, the only business in the area with such a unique combination.Still new into the world of clothing, it is taking Mr Sadiq some good amount of time and struggle to pull up these pants around the faceless figure’s legs.The morning is still young and nobody is around at the moment. The flower stall is tucked between a chai shop and a tailor’s establishment. It primarily consists of a wooden cot, already littered with flowers and threads, and a chipped Godrej cash box. This cot is a popular point for locals to gather. Within a few minutes, two elderly men come up with newspapers, sit on the edge of the cot, and start chatting about, what else, but coronavirus.Meanwhile, Mr Sadiq says that he will deck up his stall with the lowers only later in the morning. He leisurely settles down on the wooden cot, sits cross-legged and empties plastic packets filled with fresh flowers. He gets them daily from a supplier. A contended smile is glowing about his face, as if there could be nothing more satisfying in the world than to fiddle about with flowers.“I may or may not continue with lowers after coronavirus is gone, for it is only a side-business, but I will always be working with flowers,” he says, tucking a rose between his lips as he picks up a spool of thread.Meanwhile, the mannequin is standing on a corner of the cot, its body language as solemn as one of those ancient life-like sculptures in the National Museum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-flower-man-and-his-new-business/story-NFT8AdZAG7UZspFsrxyiuK.html
14-07-2020||City||Six masked men assault shopkeeper with sharp weapons in Ludhiana||Six assailants on Monday attacked a confectionary shop owner with sharp-edged weapons at Jawahar Nagar Camp and fled.The victim suffered injuries on his arms, hands and chest. The miscreants remained in the shop for 20 seconds. On being informed, the Kochar Market police have initiated investigation and will be scanning CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the accused.The victim, Rajesh Kumar, 42, said that he was in his shop when six masked men riding on two motorcycles turned up. Three of the accused remained outside, while three of them barged into the shop. Before Kumar could understand what was happening, the accused opened an attack with sharp-edged weapons.Kumar said when he raised an alarm, the miscreants fled.Sub-inspector Tarlochan Singh said the assailants remained in the shop for only 20 seconds. Since no attempt had been made at robbing the shop, it was suspected that the accused had come with the sole intention of hurting the shopkeeper. It could be a matter of old rivalry, he added.The police will lodge an FIR against the accused after recording the statement of the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-masked-men-assault-shopkeeper-with-sharp-weapons-in-ludhiana/story-WePwr6UqzRmyMTTL65ooQM.html
14-07-2020||Mumbai||At 2.60L Covid cases, Maha crosses Iran||Maharashtra on Monday surpassed Iran in the total number of Covid-19 cases as it recorded 6,497 new infections, taking its tally to 260,924. This means that if Maharashtra were a country, it would be ranked 11th in the world for number of confirmed coronavirus cases, as per worldometer — a website that monitors number of cases globally.Iran, according to worldometer data, has 259,652 cases. The state also recorded 193 new fatalities, taking the state’s toll to 10,482, with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 4.02%. Active cases in the state now stand at 105,637.Meanwhile, Mumbai recorded 1,158 new cases on Monday, which took the city’s count to 94,146. The capital of Maharashtra also recorded 47 new deaths, which pushed the toll to 5,335. The active cases in the city were 22,900 on Monday. Since the Maharashtra government announced relaxations in lockdown in June, including in red zone areas, where cases were on the rise, the state has recorded nearly 75% of the cases. From June 1 to July 13, the state has recorded a whopping 193,269 cases, which 74.07% of the tally.The Maharashtra government announced gradual relaxations from June 3 as part of its Mission Begin Again. It provided relaxations for outdoor physical activities, including running, jogging, cycling, among others, from June 3. Subsequently, it opened up market areas, shops except for malls and shopping centres from June 5. It also allowed private offices to open for 10% of its staff from June 8.Maharashtra recorded its first case on March 9 and went on to record 302 cases in the month. In April, the state saw 10,198 cases, while in May, 57,157 cases were recorded. In June alone, the state saw 107,106 cases, which was 61.29% of the tally in the state till that period. In the first 13 days of July, the state has seen 86,163 cases.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) continued to record a chunk of the cases as Kalyan-Dombivli recorded 494 cases, 353 in Thane city, 309 in Thane district, 289 in Vasai-Virar, 230 in Raigad district and 176 in Panvel city and 234 in Ulhasnagar. With the rising number of cases in Thane city, which now has 15,110 cases, the municipal corporation has taken up ‘Mission Zero’ on the lines of Mumbai city to contain the spread and bring down the numbers.State urban development department minister and Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde said, “If we have to win this fight against coronavirus, we will have to chase the virus to break this chain of transmission.” Shinde was speaking while launching the programme, which entails involving citizen groups, NGOs, etc. Nine mobile dispensaries and nine zones have been created to check for suspected cases.After a spike in number of cases, Raigad district will now go into a complete lockdown from July 15. Guardian minister of the district, Aditi Tatkare, held a meeting with the district’s elected representatives and officials and announced the 10-day lockdown till July 24. The district had 8,865 cases and recorded 164 fatalities. Of the cases, 4,525 are active cases in the district. The growing number of Covid-19 cases has led most of the civic bodies in Maharashtra to enforce stricter lockdown restrictions that have been extended until July 19. Besides the municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Aurangabad, and Solapur have also extended the lockdown restrictions.Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Navi Mumbai — part of the densely populated MMR — have imposed a new round of lockdown restrictions until July 19. Similar steps have been taken by Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad Solapur, and Aurangabad municipal corporations. Latur district administration has also announced a 15-day lockdown from July 15. Looking at the rising cases, the state government has pushed back its plan to provide further relaxation, including opening up more private offices, easing public transport restrictions. Officials said that the municipal bodies in the MMR opposed the move to provide further relaxation. “The outbreak now is more in urban centres, especially in areas around Mumbai. If further relaxations are provided, movement of people would go up. Movement of people in and out of Mumbai would also increase, leading to the cases in Mumbai, which are stabilising now, to go up and create another cycle of outbreak. Therefore, it was put on hold earlier this month. Now, the focus is on containing the spread locally,” a senior bureaucrat said, requesting anonymity.Pune, on Monday, recorded 564 fresh cases, taking the city’s tally to 29,612. It also recorded 20 fatalities on Monday as its toll rose to 897. Pune’s adjoining Pimpri-Chinchwad recorded 367 new cases. Nashik city recorded 148 cases, Solapur city recorded 237, while Jalgaon district recorded 179 new infections, 124 cases were reported in Pune district, 110 in Aurangabad city, 105 in Aurangabad district and 100 new cases in Jalna district.Meanwhile, the count of recovered patients is nearing 1.50 lakh as 4,182 patients were discharged on Monday, taking the tally to 144,507. The state has so far tested 13,42,792 samples with a positivity rate of 19.43% till Monday. Currently, 6,87,353 people are in home quarantine and 41,660 people are in institutional quarantine, the state health department data stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-2-60l-covid-cases-maha-crosses-iran/story-VPsxV5Ny0XKZxXf8FjZhlL.html
14-07-2020||City||Industrial areas in Greater Noida under UPSIDA to get better amenities||After receiving complaints by several factory workers, industrial unit owners, shopping mall management over poor civic amenities in the industrial zone governed by the Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA), the authority on Monday said it will provide better facilities and other support services industrial areas in the region.“All the parks, which are developed in industrial areas, are in a dilapidated condition. Almost all of them have been encroached by vendors because many local officials do not pay heed to our complaints. Drainage, sewage, roads, and footpath all are in a bad condition here,” said Pankaj Singh president, Greater Noida industries association.“Our businesses are getting affected for the last many years because our complaints are not being addressed. We have written many letters about our issues but nothing has happened,” Dilip Kumar, member, Greater Noida industries association.Chief executive officer of UPSIDA Mayur Maheshwari, who met a delegation of factory owners at site 5 office in Greater Noida’s Kasna area, assured them that he will immediately address the prevailing issues.“We will address all the grievances of those, who have plots in the areas developed by the UPSIDA. We will do what is needed to do in all of the areas. Our staff will address all complaints related to encroachment and basic amenities. We will redevelop roads, parks, footpaths, and waste management methodology at earliest,” said Maheshwari, who also conducted an inspection in the industrial areas in Greater Noida on Monday.In Greater Noida, the UPSIDA has industrial plots spread over 2,500 acres apart from few other category plots meant for shopping malls and five-star hotels. The UPSIDA is the biggest industrial body that has 154 industrial hubs spread in 51 districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industrial-areas-in-greater-noida-under-upsida-to-get-better-amenities/story-1Zl58OlgMR2uJroM7iEisL.html
14-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram Police joins in efforts to trace contacts of Covid-19 positive patients||The Gurugram Police, on Monday, said that it has started tracing the contacts of the Covid-19 positive patients in the city and has traced nearly 126 people since last Wednesday. The police said they received a list of positive patients from the district health department last week, following which they started contact tracing on their own. The initiative was started on July 8 by the district police to ensure that all members in the families, friends’ circles and workplaces of confirmed Covid-19 positive patients are also tested and their contract tracing is completed within three days of confirmation. Earlier, contact tracing was conducted by officials of the district health department. Yashwant Yadav, in-charge, Covid Cell, said that they are contacting at least 20 people in each case after the status of the primary Covid-19 patient is confirmed. “We are trying to get details of the maximum number of people possible and their samples are collected to ensure they are not infecting others. This initiative will stop the spread of community transmission in the city,” he said.As a part of the process, the police are sending all the details to the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), which has been given the charge of maintaining the data provided by all the agencies involved in Covid-19 management in the city.The police said from the last two weeks, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has also started helping the officials of the district health department in contact tracing, in addition to supporting the rapid response team and the public health centres (PHCs) in urban areas. Police commissioner KK Rao said that they are conducting the investigation in each case. “In some cases, we are accessing CCTV footage to figure if the patient was hiding any information from the officials. With nearly 100 cases emerging daily, it is becoming challenging for officials to trace all the close contacts within the stipulated time,” he said.The Covid Cell of the Gurugram Police is also maintaining a record of geo-fencing, patients who cannot be traced, and all the close contacts of the positive patients.Rao said, presently, the focus is on extensive contact tracing, isolating confirmed cases, and testing of the all close contacts, all of which will reduce the chances of community spread. “Our teams are also home isolating close contacts of positive cases until their results come out,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-joins-in-efforts-to-trace-contacts-of-covid-positive-patients/story-MtlICPgUHhQuJXAyoG4obL.html
14-07-2020||Dehradun||Ten-year-old girl grazing goats raped by relative in Uttarakhand||A 10-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a distant relative living in the same village on Sunday evening in Bageshwar district. The incident however came to light after a case was registered on Monday. Rachita Juyal, superintendent of police (SP) Bageshwar said, “The incident happened on Sunday evening at around 5 when the girl had gone out near the hills to cut grass and graze goats.”“During that time, the accused who is her distant relative and known to her, raped her on finding her alone. He then fled from the scene before the girl reached home crying and narrated her ordeal to her family members,” said Juyal. The girl also named the accused when she informed her family, the police official said. The SP informed that the police received the information about the incident from a person who had called the 112 emergency number. “Following the information, police reached the village and enquired about the incident which turned out to be true. We then asked the girl’s family members to lodge a complaint. Her uncle then lodged a complaint,” said Juyal. A case was registered for rape under the relevant section of IPC and POCSO act based on the complaint by the minor’s family. “Police know who the accused is and would soon arrest him who is into hiding at present,” said Juyal. The incident has happened after about three days of another incident involving rape and murder of a 17-year-old pregnant girl in Bageshwar. The girl’s father was later arrested for murdering her while the accused of raping her is yet to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/relative-rapes-ten-year-old-girl-grazing-goats-in-uttarakhand/story-obbLIcrUR2DG9bgob228dK.html
14-07-2020||Gurugram||Increased testing, bringing down fatality focus areas for NCR states||Haryana government officials on Monday said they have been following national capital Delhi’s example in trying to contain the Covid-19 pandemic and have majorly ramped up overall testing of cases while bringing down the fatality rate in Covid affected cities, like Gurugram.The announcement comes two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciated Delhi’s efforts in containing the Covid-19 outbreak and directed the National Capital Region (NCR) to adopt similar strategies.“We are following Delhi’s example here. We are testing more than Noida and Ghaziabad. The second round of serological survey is in progress. Antigen tests are being extensively done in large outbreak areas to break the chain of transmission,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Delhi has adopted a series of measures like increased testing, strict enforcement of rules in containment zones and serological surveys to analyse the prevalence of infection. Earlier this month, Union home minister Amit Shah held a series of meetings with officials of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh giving a mandate to consider Delhi -NCR as one unit to cope with the Covid-19 public health emergency. In Gurugram too, since June 24, testing has been ramped up manifold. From conducting 1,000 tests on an average, the health department is now conducting 2,500-3000 tests daily. Till date, 55,714 tests have been conducted in the city. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, on July 4 had said that Gurugram was conducting the highest number of tests among all the cities falling under the NCR. “A vigorous campaign is being run to identify persons infected with coronavirus. And we are testing higher than any other city in the NCR,” said Khatri, while addressing the press meet.In June, the test positivity rate of Gurugram was more than 40%. It had come down to 11% in July. On Monday 106 new cases were detected, taking the total tally of cases to 6,966. Out of this, at least 1,051 are active cases, while 5,808 have recovered. With two new deaths, the Covid-19 toll has reached 107, under which 70 deaths were due to co-morbid conditions. A senior Haryana government official, privy to the matter, said, “The state is sending daily updates of Covid-19 affected districts adjoining national capital – Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat – to the Central government for review. Daily occupancy of hospital beds, number of tests, deaths and positivity rate is being provided to the central team on a regular basis.” According to the official, Haryana has been doing well in controlling the Covid-19 numbers in Gurugram and Faridabad. “There is increased testing and intensified contact tracing. The focus is on conducting strict and better death audit to identify the cause of death and prevent fatality rate. We have been successfully doing that,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/increased-testing-bringing-down-fatality-focus-areas-for-ncr-states/story-qyQuvoi0CMAjotLzO6kjxK.html
14-07-2020||Gurugram||29-year-old woman found dead under suspicious circumstances in DLF Phase-3||A 29-year-old woman was found dead under suspicious circumstances at her rented accommodation in DLF Phase-3 on Saturday night. The police have booked her partner on charges of murder after the woman’s sister filed a police complaint on Sunday alleging foul play. The police said a preliminary probe suggests that the woman was strangled to death and the suspect tried to paint it as a suicide case. The suspect is yet to be arrested and raid are being conducted to nab him, said the police on Monday.According to the police, the woman, a native of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh, was a former senior sales manager at a private company on Golf Course Extension Road and was staying with a room-mate in the city for the past one year. The police said the woman’s sister informed the police control room around 9pm on Saturday after her repeated phone calls to her went unanswered. A police team reached the spot and found the main gate of the house locked from outside. Police officials called the landlord to unlock the gate and found that the door to her room on the fourth floor was ajar.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The woman’s body was found on the floor. One end of a saree was tied to the ceiling fan while the other end was hanging. She was rushed to Civil Hospital, where doctors declared her dead on arrival. A note has been recovered from the spot that mentions the relationship of the woman with her partner. We are verifying the contents of the note. Her mobile phone is also missing.”The police said that the woman’s sister stated in the FIR that the handwriting on the note was not her sister’s. In the police complaint, the woman’s sister said that she had spoken to the victim in a video call at 8.48pm on Saturday. “During the conversation, she was crying and begging me to save her life. Suddenly, the call got disconnected. I tried calling her several times but her phone was switched off. Her partner had earlier harassed and physically tortured her. She was planning to move to Aligarh as she was stressed by their repeated fights and had also started packing her belongings. In the evening, she had spoken to my son and mentioned that her partner had been abusing her and that she felt threatened,” said the woman’s sister, adding that the victim had been in a relationship with her partner for over two years after her divorce. “The crime scene suggests that some evidence was tampered with. We are conducting raids to trace the woman’s partner to question him,” said the police official quoted above. A post-mortem examination was conducted by a medical board on Sunday and viscera samples have been sent to a forensic laboratory for examination. A case was registered against the suspect under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at DLF Phase-3 police station on Sunday, said the police on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/29-year-old-woman-found-dead-under-suspicious-circumstances-in-dlf-phase-3/story-s7ONwUDkxG8CH5Yfo4eXrJ.html
14-07-2020||City||Noida begins drive to clean vacant plots||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Monday started a drive to clean all the vacant plots, which are filled with garbage and can turned into mosquito breeding sources during the ongoing rainy season. Residents have been complaining about such open spaces which have become an eyesore. The authority conducted a cleaning drive to in sectors 33, 37, 50, 51, 70, 71 and 88, among others, on Monday, officials said. The authority chief executive officer directed the staff to carry out cleaning drive in all sectors across the city, the officials said. Besides, the sanitation staff will also clean the waste lying on undesignated spaces in the city. The UP government has directed the authority to carry out an intensive cleaning drive so that the water-borne diseases can be contained during the ongoing rainy season, at a time when the rising number of Covid-19 cases has become a worry for the officials in the Gautam Budh Nagar district.According to the officials, most of the vacant plots which are right in the middle of developed sectors remain unclean because either they are yet to be allotted or their owners have failed to use them.Residents say they have complained about such open spaces several times. “We regularly keep complaining to the Noida authority that it should clean the vacant plots, which are full of waste and a centre for mosquito breeding. The authority should impose heavy penalty against the owners of such plots. And it should penalize its officials for not cleaning the plot owned by the authority. This issue of unclean vacant plots crops up every year during rainy season,” said PS Jain, president, Confederation of NCR residents’ welfare association (CONRWA), an umbrella body of RWAs.The authority’s health department has directed the engineers to ensure that all of their areas, including vacant plots, are cleaned properly so that they do not become hub of mosquito breeding and filth.“We are busy in a cleaning drive across the city. We are desilting drains, cleaning roads, all other public spaces, and particularly vacant plots to make sure the city remains clean,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer of Noida authority who heads the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-begins-drive-to-clean-vacant-plots/story-llzJtNCQ31FbSFXx5XKlHL.html
14-07-2020||City||Noida: District hospital sees 88% drop in out-patient footfalls due to Covid-19 crisis||NOIDA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the number of patients coming to the out-patient department (OPD) of district hospital in Sector 30 has dropped by 88% during April-June as compared to the figures of corresponding period last year. According to hospital authorities, while the average number of patients visiting OPD was around 3,500 between April and June last year, it was around 400 during the past three months.Dr VB Dhaka, chief medical superintendent (CMS) of district hospital, said that despite many departments in operation, the number of OPD patients has gone down drastically since the first phase of lockdown was announced. The hospital administration has mainly attributed the sharp drop in OPD patients to mass exodus of migrants and Covid-19 fear among the people. “At present, many departments like gynaecology, fever clinic, dental, ophthalmology, and paediatric are open in the hospital for patients. While the number of OPD patients recorded in June this year was 438, it was 385 and 409 in March and April, respectively,” Dhaka said.Dhaka further said that patients are refraining to come to the hospital as they fear of getting infection from the quarantine ward here. “The district hospital was supposed to be a ‘green zone’ hospital, meant for non-Covid patients. Since the 400-bed Covid-dedicated hospital has not yet started in Sector 39, we are unable to shift our quarantined patients there,” he said.The quarantine ward in the hospital has 50 beds, of which 42 are currently occupied, the authorities said.The chief medical superintendent also said that the mass exodus of workers from the district has resulted in the sharp decline in out-patient footfalls. “Most of the people who visit the district hospital are from lower economic strata. As many workers have returned to their native places during the Covid-19 crisis, the number of patients has gone down,” he said.When contacted, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the 400-bed Covid-dedicated hospital in Sector 39 will be operational in 10-15 days. “The additional principal secretary (health) will visit the hospital premises in a day or two. Once this hospital becomes operational, the district hospital will act as a complete non-Covid hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-district-hospital-sees-88-drop-in-out-patient-footfalls-due-to-covid-19-crisis/story-vyVKkOqIoMPYlJSWJc2QMM.html
14-07-2020||Noida||After Covid-19 case emerges at Noida mall, confusion over closure leaves shop owners miffed||Following confusion over the sealing of Smart Bharat Mall on Monday morning, a few shopkeepers gathered outside the Sector 25 establishment to protest the mall’s “unannounced” closure.The shopkeepers said they were not allowed to enter the mall in the morning, and the mall was shut without any prior communication. However, police officers rushed to the spot and told the agitated shopkeepers that the mall was temporarily closed for sanitisation purpose as someone from the mall had tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “The security guards told us that the mall had been closed and that we were not allowed to go in. We were enraged as no one from the mall’s management had bothered telling us about the closure in advance. All of our merchandise was inside the mall, and it was only after an hour that we were told that it was a temporary closed as someone had tested positive for Covid-19, a shop owner, who did not wish to be identified, said.The mall’s management did not answer calls on Monday despite several attempts.According to the police, which had rushed to the mall along with officials from the district administration in light of the gathering, one of the maintenance staff personnel had tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. “According to the guidelines, any public establishment from where a positive case is reported has to be shut down for 48 hours for sanitisation purposes. That is why the mall has been temporarily closed as someone from the mall’s management tested positive for coronavirus. However, there was some confusion about the closure of the mall in the morning which was later clarified,” assistant commissioner of police, Rajneesh Verma, said.According to the police, the mall has been closed for two days so that it can be completely sanitised, and will open again on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-covid-19-case-emerges-at-noida-mall-confusion-over-closure-leaves-shop-owners-miffed/story-prrMNviGRBWG9FN5URl6iJ.html
14-07-2020||Gurugram||Health department to hire a private firm for second round of serological survey||The district health department on Monday said it is in the process of hiring a private health company to conduct the second round of serological survey with 2,000 antibody kits for studying the prevalence of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection in the city. Health officials said that they need additional manpower to conduct the survey. As such, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) is likely to be signed between the district health department and Hindustan Wellness — a health consultant company — to conduct the coronavirus antibody test. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said that with the expansion of the serological survey to 2,000 people in the second round, the plan is to get assistance in terms of manpower and machinery. “Members of the health department staff are already deployed to conduct designated duties, such as conducting the Reverse Transcription – Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests, the antigen tests and contact tracing. Currently, more than 60 lab technicians are involved in taking samples and conducting tests. To conduct a serological survey, an MoU will be signed with a private company after approval from the district administration.” According to Yadav, the plan is to conduct more than 400 people for the survey in a month. “To cover 2,000 people, the survey will take nearly four to five months to be completed,” said Yadav.A serological survey is a tool used by epidemiologists to study the prevalence of an infection within a community. The district health department conducted the first round of serological survey on June 24 at the CMO office in the old Civil Hospital. In the first round of the survey, 460 people were supposed to be covered. However, the health department has managed to draw 361 blood samples till now.Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, said, “In the first round, 361 blood samples have been tested for coronavirus antibody, of which 49 samples have tested positive for the virus. The remaining 99 tests of the first round will be conducted from Tuesday onwards.” Officials of the health department said the second round of serological survey will cover people from different backgrounds as per the guidelines of the Indian Council Medical Research (ICMR). The ICMR guidelines recommend people from 20 categories to be included in a serological survey. These include immunocompromised patients, healthcare workers, industrial workers, aviation staff, taxi and auto drivers, prisoners, staff members of urban local bodies (ULBs) and persons working with banks, post offices, courier agencies and telecom companies. A few vulnerable sections of the population, such as preoperative patients, pregnant women and elderly people are also included in the survey.Based on the guidelines, the population strata that need to be covered for the survey will be identified by the health department. Yadav said, “The plan regarding the population groups to be covered and the places where the testing camps are to be organised is being prepared by the health department. Even, consumables such as personal protective kits (PPEs) and antibody kits will be provided by us.” He added that the plan will be shared as soon as the MoU is signed after necessary permissions are obtained. The survey will involve the use of an improved enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Elisa)-based antibody kit. For the test, five millilitres of blood will be collected, which will then be separated into blood and plasma. The plasma will be used to detect the antibodies developed against the SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The IgG Elisa test has been approved by the ICMR because of its high sensitivity and specificity. Al least 50% of the kits will be used on patients, who have been tested positive within the last two weeks. The remaining kits will be used on those who have no history of contracting the Covid-19 infection. Studies show that the IgG (immunoglobulin G) antibodies typically start appearing after two weeks of the onset of infection. Even if patients have recovered, the antibodies can last for several months, thereby enabling health workers to detect the number of unreported cases. A representative from Hindustan Wellness said he will not be able to comment on the matter yet as the MoU is yet to be signed and is awaiting a nod from the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-to-hire-a-private-firm-for-second-round-of-serological-survey/story-UX6TBChdLdVlxiwAMRWEOL.html
14-07-2020||Gurugram||Post-lockdown, more visits to supermarkets and pharmacies, less to workspaces||Mobility data published by Google shows a gradual increase in public movement following easing of lockdown restrictions in Haryana starting in May .In Haryana, a majority of this increase was from people making more trips to the supermarkets and pharmacies, followed by recreational locations (including restaurants, cafés, and shopping centres) and transport hubs, data obtained from Google shows. Between April 26 and July 7, for example, visits to supermarkets and pharmacies (within Haryana) recorded a 45% increase, as per Google’s Community Mobility Reports. Trips to recreational locations rose 38 percent during the same period, while travel to transport hubs (such as bus stations) increased by 23 percent. Launched in April to depict changing mobility trends in a post-Covid world, Google reports calculate the increase (or decrease) in public mobility by comparing recent trends with those observed between January 3 and February 6 (which has been taken as the baseline period). The data only captures smartphone users who have allowed Google to track their location history.The latest mobility report, based on data up to July 7, shows that workplaces in Haryana have remained largely closed, with only a seven percent increase in trips to offices (since April 26). Visits to parks during this period were up by 16 percent, while visits to residential areas have reduced by 10 percent. However, visits to residential locations are still 12 percent higher than the median value (recorded during January 3 and February 6) indicating that at least a portion of the population is continuing to stay indoors. The same applies to Google’s other location categories as well -- while there has been an increase in public movement to recreational spaces in Haryana, for example, the average number of trips to restaurants, cafes and similar locations continues to be 48 percent less than in a pre-Covid world. Compared to pre-Covid data, visits to workspaces remain 35 percent lower, while visits to parks and public spaces remains 75 percent less than in January and February. Visits to key locations for public transport are still 43 percent less than they were before the outbreak. However, visits to supermarkets and pharmacies are just one percent lower than their median value, indicating that these activities have remained the same. Nationwide, Google’s data shows an 30 percent increase in trips to recreational destinations, 49 percent increase in trips to grocery stores and pharmacies, 20 percent to parks, 27 percent to transit stations and 6 percent to workplaces, along with a 7 percent increase in trips to residential areas (between April 26 and July 7).“We have heard from public health officials that this same type of aggregated, anonymised data could be helpful as they make critical decisions to combat Covid-19,” Google had said in a statement at the time of launching it’s mobility data in early April. “This dataset is intended to help remediate the impact of Covid-19. It shouldn’t be used for medical diagnostic, prognostic, or treatment purposes. It also isn’t intended to be used for guidance on personal travel plans,” the report for India states.Experts said that while the data can be valuable for policy makers, it must also be viewed with certain caveats. Divij Joshi, lawyer and policy expert at an international not-for-profit technology company, said, “Such kind of data could be used by authorities to see how and where people are moving. This could help them understand where social distancing measures need to be enforced more strictly. But the actual utility of the data is still to be seen. Also, Google has captured only those individuals who own smartphones and have allowed Google to track their location history.”Citizens using feature phones without internet connectivity have been left out of the purview of the data. “There is a large section of the population whose mobility patterns, if changing, has not been recorded. Smartphone penetration in India is only between 30 to 40 percent, so Google’s data set covers only a certain section of the population, with most smartphone users living in urban areas,” Joshi added. Google’s latest report (up to July 7), also clarifies this, stating, “The data represents a sample of our users. As with all samples, this may or may not represent the exact behaviour of a wider population.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/post-lockdown-more-visits-to-supermarkets-and-pharmacies-less-to-workspaces/story-UV7klSqkbNtvHk7XXD5RWI.html
14-07-2020||City||Noida police to have virtual interactions with complainants||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar police on Monday started a virtual meeting system for complainants to reduce human interactions in the wake of Covid-19 crisis.“The system will work through a software. When anyone goes to a police station to file their complaint, they can get in touch with senior officials through the virtual system. This will keep them from unnecessarily travelling to another office and reduce exposure,” said Akhilesh Kumar, joint commissioner of police (law and order).The idea has been implemented at eight of the 22 police stations, including Phase 3 and Rabupura stations, across the district and the software will be shared with the other police stations within a week, police officials said. The officials said that the preference has first been given to the rural belt because people there have to travel the most.“If there are any complaints or documents that have to be shared with senior officials, it can also be done through scanners. Normally, we meet the public between 11am and 12 noon. For now, we are using the time frame for virtual meetings also. In case the need arises, we can extend it in the future,” said Kumar.Kumar also said that the software would also be helpful for interdepartmental issues and meetings, and will benefit both police personnel and public.The basic complaint filing system will, however, continue the way it has been working, the officials said.Since the Covid-induced lockdown, senior police officials have been conducting meetings with other officials through video or telephonic conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-police-to-have-virtual-interactions-with-complainants/story-n6jmE6De8yK8V8GDFGSabM.html
14-07-2020||City||With spike in Covid-19 cases, number of category-2 containment zones reaches 173||With the number of cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rising in the last few weeks, the number of category-2 containment zones in Ghaziabad district has also increased manifold.According to the latest records of the district health department, with the addition of nearly 138 more category-2 containment zones in less than a month, Ghaziabad had a total of 173 such zones till July 10, while the number of category-1 containment zones stood at 189.According to the previous list issued by the district administration on June 18, the district had 244 category-1 zones and only 35 zones under category-2. Health officials said that over the last few weeks, with the high movement of people many category-1 zones have also been converted into category-2 containment zones.“The rise in the number of category-2 containment zones is due to the high movement of people after the restrictions on mobility were slowly lifted (especially after Unlock 1.0 kicked in on July 1). Given this scenario, we have more instances of people from the same family, friend circle, or locality contracting the deadly virus. Hence, more than one case is being reported from the same residential pockets including high-rises,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.According to Uttar Pradesh government guidelines, category-1 containment zones are created in pockets with only one Covid-19 case, and the sealed areas are spread over a radius of 250 metres. On the other hand, the category-2 zones are created where more than one case is reported from a pocket, and an area spread over a 500-metre radius is sealed with a buffer area going up to a 250-metre radius.As per the daily health bulletin released by the state control room, as on July 13, the district has a total of 3,257 cases, including 120 reported in the last 24 hours. Till May 31, the district had only 305 cases, and nearly 2,971 cases were added to the district’s Covid-19 tally since June 1 alone. According to the health department data, Ghaziabad has witnessed an average of about 127 new Covid cases every day since June 12.So far, the state has 1,248 active cases, the second-highest figure in Uttar Pradesh after state capital Lucknow (which had a total of 1,460 active cases till Monday). As many as 1,966 patients have been cured of the infection discharged from various hospitals in the district, while 62 people have succumbed to the disease.“To contain the spread of the virus, our prime focus is on the containment zones where we have increased testing with rapid antigen kits. We also conducting surveillance drives in containment zones for early detection of influenza-like-illnesses (ILI) and and SARI cases. We have just finished with the 10-day long special surveillance drive on July 12. We are now going to rope in health workers for another round of surveillance in containment zones to check the rise in cases,” the CMO said.According to officials, between March 5 (when the first Covid-19 case surfaced in the district) and July 12, as many as 50, 000 samples have been tested in Ghaziabad. Of these, 19,000 samples were tested through rapid antigen testing that started here on June 26.The Ghaziabad administration on July 9 roped in police officers along with health department workers, administrative officers in order to intensify contact tracing in the district. The teams will get information about positive patients from the health department and will initiate contact tracing with the help of 18 nodal police officers appointed for areas under every police station in Ghaziabad.According to the latest list, localities such as Indirapuram, Vaishali, and Vasundhara, under the jurisdiction of Indirapuram police station, have about 223 overall active cases (till July 10), while localities like Arthala, Mohan Nagar, Karhera, Pasonda, Shalimar Garden etc, under the jurisdiction of Sahibabad police station, have about 184 active cases (till July 10).The locality of Khoda which was put under the administration’s ‘sector scheme’ has over 36 cases.In localities such as Vijay Nagar, Pratap Vihar, under the jurisdiction of Vijay Nagar police station, the overall cases are about 105. In localities like Raj Nagar, Kavi Nagar, Sanjay Nagar, Shashtri Nagar, etc under the jurisdiction of Kavi Nagar police station, the overall active cases are about 100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-spike-in-covid-19-cases-number-of-category-2-containment-zones-reaches-173/story-XGvpv9wmNfb5PhvzyrS7YK.html
14-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad traders confused as admin does not issue fresh orders allowing all markets to open on weekdays||A day after the Uttar Pradesh announced that all markets in the state will be allowed to remain open on weekdays (from 9am to 9 pm), traders in Ghaziabad on Monday found themselves in a lurch as the district administration did not issue any directions in line with the state government’s announcement.Despite the UP government’s order on Sunday, the traders in the district were forced to open markets alternatively and shut shops by 7:30 pm keeping in accordance with the previous orders issued by the district magistrate. “Since Sunday evening, we have been waiting for a written order from the district magistrate about the opening of the markets and their closing/opening timings. The district administration has, however, issued no order despite the directions given by the UP government on Sunday. Our markets opened on an alternate day basis, and shop owners who were hoping that all markets will open on Monday were a dejected lot,” said Rajneesh Bansal, chairman, Turab Nagar Vyapar Mandal (a group of shopkeepers in the city).“The trader community is miffed with indecisiveness shown by the district administration. At least, there should have been some guidelines or directions given to us by the district administration, in case the state government has still not issued any official order for opening markets on all five days. All traders were eagerly waiting to open their shops, but many of them could not,” he added.Some traders even took to the streets in Sahibabad and raised slogans against the district officials as their shops were not allowed to open.Following the state government’s announcement on Sunday that allowed all markets to be open from 9am to 9pm except for on Saturday and Sunday, district magistrate (DM) Ajay Shankar Pandey did not roll out any directive on the opening of markets in Ghaziabad till Monday evening.When contacted, the DM said, “The previous orders will continue till the time we receive orders from the state government. The state chief secretary has told us that the order is in the process of getting prepared. So, we expect that it will get it by Monday night. The closing timing for all shops, in the meantime, will be 7.30pm ,” he added.On May 22, the Ghaziabad administration had issued orders for alternate opening of 34 major markets in different areas from 10am to 5pm. In subsequent orders on June 8, shops were allowed to open from 9am to 9pm. On July 2, the administration further revised timings for the shops (from 9am to 7.30pm), after the UP chief secretary on June 30 imposed night curfew from 8pm to 6am in six districts of Meerut division, which includes Ghaziabad. However, the extended night curfew restriction (8pm to 6am) in Meerut division were applicable only till July 10.“The deadline of 8pm to 6am curfew in Meerut division has ended now, but still traders have to shutdown shops at 7.30pm. Markets in Indirapuram and Vaishali did not open on Monday as their turn for opening falls on Tuesday. So, many traders lost one-day earnings despite the new directions issued by the state government. We tried to contact district officials as well, but no one responded to our calls,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti, Indirapuram.According to the May 22 directions, major markets in Indirapuram, Vaishali, Sahibabad, Bjaria, Gandhi Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Mohan Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Turab Nagar among others are allowed to be open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.The markets which are allowed to open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday are Vasundhara, Kaushambi, Raj Nagar District Centre, Kavi Nagar, Rajendra Nagar, Shyam Park, Raj Nagar Extension, Navyug Market, Ambedkar Road and those in Delta Colonies of Ramprastha, Brij Vihar, Surya Nagar, and Chander Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-traders-confused-as-admin-does-not-issue-fresh-orders-allowing-all-markets-to-open-on-weekdays/story-d9ddSS0OfMPhNOdHHSx3QI.html
14-07-2020||Gurugram||Over 39,000 houses surveyed in Gurugram to check mosquito breeding||To prevent the emergence of vector-borne diseases amid the coronavirus disease outbreak, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has surveyed nearly 39,000 houses across the district since June 1, and issued notices to nearly 90 people for violations, a press release issued by the civic body on Monday stated.As per the MCG release, 171 officials of the civic body and the district health department, have been conducting door-to-door surveys in four teams to check for water stagnation in coolers, tanks, tyres, and pots among other things. During the door-to-door survey, which started early last month, the teams also sensitised residents about the possibility of larvae breeding in still water, and have issued notices to over 90 residents for not destroying potential mosquito breeding sources.In addition, these officials have also been provided with 49 fogging machines for conducting fumigation operations across the city.“The teams have surveyed 39,000 houses in the district so far. Chief medical officer of Gurugram Dr Virendra Yadav, and Dr Ashish Singla, medical officer of the MCG, have instructed all the team members to work actively for preventing the spread of vector-borne diseases such as dengue and malaria. They said that with the joint efforts of the MCG and health department, the city only reported 22 cases of dengue and 15 cases of malaria last year, which were much lower than in previous years. All efforts are ongoing to report similar results or even lower numbers this year as well,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG. While only one case of plasmodium malaria has been reported so far, no cases of dengue have surfaced in Gurugram till now.In 2018, the city recorded 93 cases of dengue, 66 in 2017, 86 in 2016, and 451 in 2015. Similarly, the city had recorded 30 cases of malaria in 2018, 48 in 2017, 36 in 2016, and 44 in 2015.As per MCG officials, all mosquito hot spots will also be monitored through the MCG’s Geographical Information Survey (GIS) laboratory in Sector 34. They further said that while sensitising the residents, the survey teams also have told them to observe a “dry-day” on every Sunday and refrain from using water unless necessary to contain the spread of vector-borne diseases.The MCG has also once again put a cap of ₹600 on private hospitals for dengue testing. “ Like previous years, the MCG has issued directions to all private hospitals in the district that they cannot charge more than ₹ 600 for dengue tests, and if we receive a complaint in this regarding, strict action will be taken the violators,” said Rohilla.MCG officials also said that one gambusia fish hatchery has been set up in Wazirabad, and another one is being set up in Pataudi. “Gambusia fish feeds on mosquito larvae and hence, they are being bred on a large scale for anti-vector-borne operations, “ said Rohilla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/over-39-000-houses-surveyed-in-gurugram-to-check-mosquito-breeding/story-M9dCBovXs6wDNDyIZe4C7L.html
14-07-2020||City||No merit list this time, girls outshine boys in CBSE class 12 exams in Noida region||At a time when most of the students in her age group are glued to social media, Vidhi Batra adroitly managed to make an equilibrium between her studies and recreational activities on her journey to secure 98.8% marks in commerce stream, becoming one of the highest scorers in the CBSE Class 12 examinations in Gautam Budh Nagar district, results of which were announced on Monday.For the first time this year, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) did not release any merit list.Vidhi is among the 93,107 students who appeared for the Class 12 examinations this year in the Noida region where girls have outshined boys, as per the information given by CBSE. Of 93,107 students, 56,672 were boys and 36,435 girls. The pass percentage of girls (89.34%) is much better than the boys (82%) in the region. In terms of pass percentage, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan has the highest rate of 98.95%, followed by government-aided schools (98.05%), Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (97.54%), government schools (85.88) and private schools (85.42%). The Noida region includes three districts -- Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad and Bulandshahr.A student of Amity International School, Noida, Vidhi gives credit of her success to her consistent preparation. “I always ensured to clock at least six to seven hours for my studies on a regular basis. I personally feel that the moment you give up the process of doing and redoing in your studies, you will lag behind,” she said. Aiming to become an economist, Vidhi wants to pursue graduation in economics. “I think that in a country like India, good economic policies are the need of the hour and my dream is to make a better economic policy for India, to league it among the developed nations,” she said.She scored 100 out of 100 marks in both economics and English. While her score in business studies was 99, she got 98 and 95 in sculpture and accountancy, respectively.From Apeejay School in Noida Sector 16, Falguni Dhingra scored 98.8% marks in commerce stream, while Geeti Kabra scored 98.6% in science stream. The other highest scorers from the district include Gaurangi Batish (98.6% in Arts stream, Amity International School), Stuti Lohani (98.4% in Science stream, Amity International School), Ishita Agarwal and Ishita Pundir (both 98.4% in science stream, DPS Noida) and Ananya Meghani (98.4% in commerce stream). Meghani, who scored 99.75% in best of four subjects, said, “The key to my success lies in the unwavering support and pressure-free environment around me. As long as you embrace the root, which are your basic concepts, you are bound to reach greater heights.”Reacting about the success of the students, Amita Chauhan, chairperson of Amity International School, said that it is a very proud moment for the school that Vidhi and other students have performed really well. “We believe in nurturing talent and our students always make us proud with their success. The efforts of our teachers are also appreciable as they have brought out the best in our students with their hard work and constant efforts,” she said.Kamini Bhasin, principal of DPS Noida, said that her school has achieved an average aggregate of 90.4%, with the highest ever increase of 0.8% over last year’s aggregate. “The highest school aggregate is 98.6% with 100% students securing a first division. A phenomenal result of English saw 14 students securing a perfect score of 100 and 24 students with 99. Psychology and mathematics also saw nine and five students respectively securing a 100%. Such a high average aggregate is a vindication of the sustained effort and commitment of my students, teachers and parents who worked as a strong team,” she said.In Ghaziabad, Sanya Gandhi, student of Uttam School for Girls, made the city proud yet again when her result was out on Monday and she secured 98.8% in Class 12 examination. She had been a joint national topper in CBSE’s class 10 exam declared two years ago under the category of children with special needs.“The girl is very clear in her thought process. In class 10, she was aiming for civil services and she maintains the same focus as her career plans. She has scored better this time, even though she appeared for exams as a normal student. We are confident that the girl will go a long way to pursue her dreams,” said Sharmila Raheja, Sanya’s school principal.Sanya secured 100 marks each in psychology, political science, and economics, besides 99 in music and 95 in English.The girl is the only child of her parents and suffers damaged optic nerves since birth. Her disadvantage turned into fortune as she says it prevented her from getting attracted to the social media.“I am still focussed to compete for civil services. After class 12, I wish to join Hindu College, Delhi University. My friends and teachers have been very helpful and appreciative of my achievement,” she said.She is a motivational speaker and loves singing songs of singer Arijit Singh.Like Sanya, Somya Goel, a resident of Avantika locality in Ghaziabad, scored 99.2% marks in best five subjects and has future plans of becoming a historian. Student of Gurukul The School, NH-9, in Ghaziabad, she scored 99 marks each in English, history, political science, informatics practices and secured 100 marks in fine arts.“I had no fixed plans for study and it was more of quality studies which I took up during the entire year. I have planned to pursue doctorate in history and becoming a historian. I also wish to write book with combing history and international relations,” Somya said, adding that her parents who are into business and her class teachers had been very supportive throughout.“There was no outing or party and my mother has planned a party at home due to Coronavirus outbreak,” she added.Gaurav Bedi, principal of the school, said that the results have been outstanding as all the 122 students who appeared for the exams passed with first division.Riddhima Sharma, a resident of Vasundhra Sector 5 and a student of private school in Sahibabad, secured 99.6% marks in five subjects. She scored 100 marks each in psychology, geography, dance and Hindi, besides 98 in English.“I have a special liking for dance and theatre and have been a student of Bharatnatyam form of dance for about nine years now. I am still figuring out my future career plan but it would be something in field of mass communication where I can interact with people and help them out. Dance is close to my heart so I spent a lot of time during initial months of my semester. Later, I dedicated my time to quality study few months before the examinations were scheduled,” she said.Her father is into business and mother is a homemaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-merit-list-this-time-girls-outshine-boys-in-cbse-class-12-exams-in-noida-region/story-xpWLJbSxUrwGfnxHmMMB1H.html
14-07-2020||Gurugram||Residents of large outbreak regions suffer as Municipal Corporation of Gurugram wrongly pastes home-isolation stickers||In some of the large outbreak regions (LORs) of the city, where rapid antigen testing camps are being organised by the district health department and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), several residents have complained of incorrect home isolation stickers being pasted outside their homes despite them testing negative for Covid-19 or not visiting the camp at all.On June 26, Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, announced that eight municipal wards in the city have been identified as LORs, which have more than 60% of the total case load of the city. Since then, the district administration has severely restricted the movement of residents and vehicles in these areas and has been conducting rapid antigen testing camps to identify the spread of Covid-19. Currently, the LORs in the city include areas such as Dundahera Police Station Road, sectors 14, 15 and 21, Bhim Nagar, Sukhrali, Arjun Nagar, Jyoti Park, Madan Puri, Shiv Puri, Baldev Nagar, Shivaji Nagar, Hari Nagar, Shanti Nagar, Nathupur, among others. Restrictions in these areas will continue till July 14, after which a decision regarding their extension will be taken. Meanwhile, some residents of these areas have complained that the MCG has wrongly put up home-isolation stickers outside their houses, leading to confusion in the neighbourhood. This is not the first time that MCG has been accused of wrongly putting up stickers or making a clerical error on the stickers being put up.Earlier in April, HT reported that several Gurugram residents had complained that the civic body had mistakenly put up home-quarantine stickers despite their names being absent on the list of people who are supposed to be quarantined. Sector 14Last week, two residents of Sector 14, who are neighbours, went to get themselves tested at a local antigen testing camp. While one of them returned home with testing negative and the other tested positive for Covid-19. The next day, however, they alleged that MCG workers arrived at their doorstep and pasted home-isolation stickers outside both of their homes, stating that not just they but even some of their family members have tested positive for Covid-19. They alleged that many of their family members, who were identified as being positive by MCG, have not even visited the camp. The residents said the misleading stickers led to a massive confusion in the neighbourhood. “As a member of the local residents’ welfare association (RWA), I was helping with the arrangement of the camp. As a precautionary measure, I got myself tested. The result came out negative. Despite this, I found that the MCG had pasted a sticker declaring that I, along with six other members of my family, had tested positive for the virus. It created a lot of confusion among the residents of the neighbourhood. It was only after I complained to the district administration, the Gurugram Police, and MCG, that the matter was resolved,” said Sanjeev Aggarwal, a resident of Sector 14.Aggarwal’s neighbour, who wished to remain anonymous, said that although he alone had tested positive for the virus, the MCG declared three other members of his family to be positive as well. “My result came back positive during testing. My wife and two kids, who also got themselves tested at the camp, were found to be negative. The following day, the MCG had pasted a sticker, declaring all four of us to be positive. I only informed the local RWA but did not press the matter beyond a point as I did not want to draw attention to the fact that I have tested positive. None of my relatives are aware of my positive result and, due to the social stigma attached to the disease, I am not pushing the matter further,” said Aggarwal’s neighbour.NathupurIn Nathupur village, a similar incident took place, when a local resident tested positive. The civic body mistakenly pasted a home-isolation sticker outside the home of another person, who shared the same name but had not visited the camp at all. “It was when I received calls from my neighbours asking about my well-being that I realised something was amiss. The MCG had pasted a home-isolation sticker outside my house and declared that I had tested positive for the virus, despite the fact that I had not visited the camp at all. I immediately informed the locals and MCG officials, who were carrying out the tests about the error. They informed me that the sticker was meant for another person bearing the same name and attributed the mistake to a clerical error,” said the Nathupur resident, who wished to remain anonymous. Health department reactsWhen asked about these alleged clerical errors, MCG officials said they get data from the district health department based on which they paste stickers outside the residences of those who test positive for the virus at the rapid antigen testing camps. “We have been receiving some complaints about incorrect stickers being pasted. We have rectified our mistakes after cross-checking with the district health department. We get the data from the district health department and simply paste the stickers outside people’s home. We are only assisting the health department for organising these camps. They (the district health department) have a greater role to play in this initiative,” said an official in MCG’s health branch, who is privy to the matter.“During large-scale testing, a few inaccuracies are bound to occur. Regardless, wherever complaints of incorrect stickers have been made by residents, we have either removed them or put them up at the correct address with the proper details,” said Dr Virendra Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-of-large-outbreak-regions-suffer-as-municipal-corporation-of-gurugram-wrongly-pastes-home-isolation-stickers/story-APdCaD56E0NQRsx1bhblUJ.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Anomaly detected in 15 Karnal mills’ stocks during physical verification||Two days before the deadline of returning rice to the government, officials detected anomaly in the stocks of 15 mills in Karnal during the physical verification conducted on the orders of deputy commissioner (DC). Stock at 41 mills was physically verified by a team led by additional deputy commissioner Ashok Bansal, which found five mills short of 100 to 1,400 quintals of rice. Two mills did not disclose the details, while one was found locked.The development has raised questions on the government’s Custom Milling Policy as these mills were verified thrice since the procurement was done in November last year. ADC Bansal said, “We have provided the report of all 41 rice mills to the DC. While the stock at five rice mills was below the record, stock at 10 mills was found to be surplus.” He did not disclose the gap in the paddy allotted to the mill and their current stock. The officials did not even recommend action against the mills with the gap below 100 quintals.As many as 139 mills were authorised for the procurement and milling of rice for government agencies and 11.47 lakh MT paddy was given to them for the purpose. Officials associated with the investigation said rice worth over Rs 260 crore is yet to be returned by 41 mills to the government’s food and supplies department, deadline of which is July 15. Soon after reports of irregularities in stocks at two rice mills had emerged, Karnal DC ordered physical verification of all such mills in the district. “We have completed the physical verification of 45 rice mills. We have recommended attachment of properties of 16 mills which returned less than 60% rice,” said Karnal district food and supplies controller Nishant Rathi. He did not disclose the figures of the missing rice citing confidentiality, but made it clear that the government had all rights to make recovery from erring mills by attaching the properties of their owners and guarantors. DC Nishant Yadav said, “We have written to the government to attach the properties of eight rice mills and these will be blacklisted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anomaly-detected-in-15-karnal-mills-stocks-during-physical-verification/story-H8UY3a4qrdDbNxN6pclUoM.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Recovery of environmental compensation from polluting units remains a challenge for HPCB||Despite National Green Tribunal’s (NGT’s) clear guidelines, polluting units in Haryana aren’t complying with the environmental standards and making recovery of compensation an uphill task for the state pollution control board.A consolidated report of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) submitted to the NGT mentions the non-compliance of erring units.In its November 2019 orders, the NGT had made it clear that meaningful action has to be taken by the state pollution control boards against the polluting units and the environmental compensation should be recovered as the cost of restoration of the damage to the environment, otherwise there will be no meaningful environmental governance.As per a report of Haryana pollution control board, there are 129 industries in three clusters — 72 in Faridabad, 30 in Gurugram and 27 in Panipat — which have not been complying with the environmental standards for the last five years.The board claimed that 76 units, including 45 in Faridabad, 21 in Gurugram and 10 in Panipat, were facing closure over their non-compliance.As per the report, of Rs 1.53 crore imposed on the erring units in Faridabad, the state pollution control board could recover only Rs 19.53 lakh. In Panipat, Rs 70-lakh fine has been slapped on eight polluting units, of which only Rs 25.47 lakh could be recovered from three units.However, the environmental compensation to be paid by the polluting units in Gurugram was not mentioned in the report.S Narayanan, member secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said, “The recovery of environmental compensation must be in process and I will get it examined again.”“But the erring units will not be allowed to reopen until they clear the dues. A committee in the state headquarters will probe every case individually and impose the penalty as per the CPCB guidelines,” he added.On why the environmental compensation imposed on the erring units in Gurugram was not mentioned, Narayanan said, “It may not be immediately issued, but is usually done in all cases without any exception.”It is pertinent to mention here that in the reports of polluted industrial areas or clusters monitored in 2018 by the CPCB, Gurugram was at the ninth spot, Panipat at 11th and Faridabad at 63rd. As per the scores, Gurugram and Panipat are in the category of critically polluted areas, whereas Faridabad is a severely polluted area.In the November 2019 orders regarding the status of compliance of orders and recovery of environment compensation from the polluting units in red and orange zones, the NGT had sought the consolidated status report from the pollution control board of the state.As per the information, the NGT is likely to hear the matter next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/recovery-of-environmental-compensation-from-polluting-units-remains-a-challenge-for-hpcb/story-dpNgHxdBHE6sLW1H1gztEN.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Over 1,100 farmers apply for construction of water recharge shafts||In Haryana, 1,177 farmers have so far applied for the construction of recharge shafts under the ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme aimed at protecting the depleting groundwater table through crop diversification.A recharge shaft is an artificial structure for recharging the aquifers. These will be used in flood-prone areas and will culminate at the first stage of the sandy soil. Additional chief secretary, agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal, said 182 farmers in Ratia, 76 in Siwan, and 231 in Guhla have so far applied for the construction of recharge shafts. Similarly, 55 farmers have applied in Pipli, 426 in Shahbad, 47 in Babain, 108 in Ismailabad, and 52 in Sirsa.He said the state government had increased the number of shafts to be put up from 300 in three blocks to 1,000 in eight blocks where the groundwater level is below 40 metre. The project would cost around ₹ 32.33 crore. Kaushal said water-stressed and flood-prone Shahbad, Guhla and Ratia blocks have been selected on pilot basis for the construction of 100 recharge shaft structures. He said a farmer would have to pay 10% of the total cost or a maximum of ₹10,000 as contribution for construction of recharge structure at the time of submission of application or he may give his consent to maintain the structure, in which case, the total cost of the structure would be borne by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-over-1-100-farmers-apply-for-construction-of-water-recharge-shafts/story-XoQXavRYwzaIFgFnmm2QTM.html
14-07-2020||Delhi||Baby dies after family bringing her blood meets with accident in Delhi||A six-day-old baby with low haemoglobin died at an east Delhi hospital on Saturday morning, five hours after three members of her family were hit by another car at the traffic junction of Bhagwan Das Road and Tilak Marg in central Delhi, police said.Police said the accident took place when the family was returning after getting blood from Indian Red Cross Society in New Delhi’s Sansad Marg for the baby’s treatment. However, their Wagon R car was hit by a BMW at the intersection around 3.30 am on Saturday, injuring all three. The blood packets were also damaged in the accident. It was not immediately clear if the baby could have been saved if the toddler would have got the blood transfusion since she was already critical. The driver of the errant vehicle, a 27-year-old used car dealer, was caught near the accident spot, Rajender Dubey, the assistant commissioner of police (Barakhamba Road), said.“The driver, Shahzaib Sheikh, told us he was test-driving a used BMW that had recently been sold to his garage,” the ACP said. Sheikh has been arrested and booked for rash driving and causing grievous hurt by an act endangering the lives of others.The baby was born at Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital in East Delhi on July 5. She was her parents’ first child. They family lives in Trilokpuri and her father is a painting contractor.“Soon after her birth, we got to know she had a low haemoglobin level. Doctors advised us to arrange blood to save her,” the baby’s uncle, Shakti Singh, who runs a catering business, said.“When we contacted Indian Red Cross Society, they asked us to collect blood on Friday night. We told them that my wife could donate in return the next day,” Shakti said.Shakti, his wife and his sister left the Indian Red Cross Society with blood packets early Saturday in their Wagon R car and set out for LBS Hospital.“While we were crossing the traffic intersection of Bhagwan Das Road and Tilak Marg, a white car suddenly hit our car from the passenger side. The BMW was being driven dangerously and at a very high speed,” Shakti said.Shakti, in his statement to the police, said the errant driver escaped from the spot but the ACP said that a PCR team stationed nearby soon caught the driver.At the accident spot, an injured Shakti and his sister were stuck inside the car while his wife was thrown on the road. “The packets fell out of the car onto the road and were damaged,” Shakti said.When the police arrived, Shakti said he urged them to let him take the blood to the hospital, but the police rushed him to a hospital given his injuries. “The packets were destroyed,” a police investigator said.While Shakti was discharged the same day, his wife and sister remain hospitalised. “My wife is in a serious condition as she has severe internal bleeding,” Shakti said.The worst news came five hours later, around 8.30am on Saturday. “My niece had passed away,” Shakti said.As for the accused driver, the police said they were yet to ascertain why he was taking a test drive at that hour and what led to the mishap. “While the initial probe has suggested that he wasn’t drunk at the time of the accident, we are awaiting his blood test reports to be sure,” ACP Dubey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/baby-dies-after-family-bringing-her-blood-meets-with-accident/story-lBvcPFNlQH95Y5EZgfB3KP.html
14-07-2020||Education||CBSE Class 12 exams: At 97.8%, Delhi govt schools score best- ever results||The CBSE Class 12 results announced on Monday showed that Delhi government schools improved their performance further, beating private schools fifth year in a row.The pass percentage of government schools improved from 94.2% last year to 97.8% this year. The overall percentage, including both government and private schools, in CBSE’s Class 12 exams has improved by 5.38 percentage points this year compared to 2019. Government school results were 5.9 percentage points higher than private schools’ in Delhi.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the Delhi government schools results and tweeted, “Feeling v proud to announce that the CBSE Class 12 result of Delhi govt schools this year is 98% - highest ever so far. It’s historic. Congratulations to my Team Education, all students, teachers, parents and education officers. Proud of you all.” Sharing the data of Delhi government schools’ performance in CBSE Class 12 exams in the last five years, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said on Twitter, “Over the past 5 years, we at Delhi government schools have been competing with ourselves to break our own record each time. This year is no exception!” The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi has been focusing on school education ever since they came to power in 2015. The pass percentage of the first batch of Class 12 students under the AAP government was 85.9% in 2016. It has improved over the years to 88.2% (2017), 90.6% (2018) and 94.24% (2019).Several principals of Delhi government schools said that their results have also improved this year. A principal of a government co-ed school in Lajpat Nagar who wished to remain anonymous said that the pass percentage of their school was 97%, five percentage points higher than last year. “We prepared throughout the year for the exams. All our visually impaired students have passed the exams with first division,” he said.Another principal of a government school in Rohini who requested anonymity said that their school’s result has significantly improved in the Science stream. “We had requested the Delhi Technical University (DTU), under an outreach programme, to help our science students. For the first time, our Science topper has scored 94.6% this year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-97-8-govt-schools-score-best-ever-results-in-cbse-class-12-exams/story-2seq6TpI0NX3y6nOWKVAPL.html
14-07-2020||Noida||Noida school teen death: Family suspect foul play, write to Haryana CM||The family of a 14-year-old Haryana girl —who was found hanging in her Noida-based boarding school on July 3 — have written to state chief minister alleging foul play in the incident that was dubbed as suicide by hostel authorities. Noida police, however, said they had not received a complaint yet..According to the family members, the incident took place around 5.30am on July 3 when they received a call from their eldest daughter’s boarding school that is under Sector 49 police station’s jurisdiction.“They wouldn’t tell us anything. They simply asked us to come there at the earliest. We immediately rushed to the spot. What we saw there filled us with horror. Our daughter’s body was hanging from a fan. It had turned blue. The hostel management took our phones away and told us that she had taken her own life. They even claimed that she had left a suicide note behind,” said the girl’s mother.The family, however,say that they have strong reasons to believe that their daughter did not kill herself and there is foul play involved. They said she might have been murdered and the school was trying to stage it as a suicide to cover up the matter. They further alleged that the school forced them to sign a non-disclosure and the body was cremated, without the police being informed.The matter came to light after a video of the girl’s mother recounting the entire incident went viral.According to the mother, her daughter was in Class 10 and was studying at the school along with her younger sister and brother. The family had dropped the kids off at school on June 18 for their final exams In the alleged suicide note recovered from the spot, the girl has apparently stated that no one should be blamed for her actions.The Noida schoolon their part, however, denied all allegations of foul play.“Her body was found hanging. She and her siblings had been dropped off by the family here and even after all exams were postponed, they did not take the kids back, saying that they were better off here. She had a fight with her younger sister and was troubled with problems at home. The situation was explained to the family when they came and everything happened with their consent. These allegations are baseless,” said a member of the school management committee.Noida police said they were looking into the matter.“We have contacted the school as well as the family. A suicide note was recovered and all evidence is being examined. We will register a case as soon as the family files a complaint with us. We will also send an assistant commissioner of police ranked officer to speak with them if needed,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-school-teen-death-family-suspect-foul-play-write-to-haryana-cm/story-vKTnS8MsrbUGH9c6mZKoLI.html
14-07-2020||Education||CBSE 12th results 2020: Students scoring 95% plus double this year||Compared to last year, the number of students scoring 95% and above has increased by 118.6% and those getting 90% and above by 67.48% this year in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 results announced on Monday. A total of 38,686 students have scored 95% and above marks in aggregate of all subjects, up by 118.6% from 17,693 in 2019. As many as 1,57,934 students have scored 90% and above, 67.48% higher than last year’s tally of 94,299.CBSE’s controller exam Sanyam Bhardwaj said the change in the exam pattern this year led to an increase in the number of those scoring 90% and 95% marks. “The change in exam pattern helped a lot of students to score better. We introduced 25% objective-type questions in all the subjects and had also given 33% internal choice in the exams. Also, we had released the datesheet earlier than previous years. It also helped the students prepare better,” he said.Read More: Delhi University cutoffs likely to be higher this timeSeveral school principals, however, said the new evaluation policy adopted by the CBSE in view of the Covid-19 pandemic also helped students in scoring more marks. This year, the students were evaluated on the basis of the average of marks in exams they had appeared for before the lockdown was announced to contain the pandemic in March.Manju Sethi, principal of Bluebells School International, said, “Although the changed exam pattern helped students to score more, there is also a high probability that many students have benefited by the changes in the evaluation process. There is a possibility that some students had already appeared in the exams of subjects of their strength before the lockdown was announced and scored better in those subjects. For papers that couldnt be conducted, the students were evaluated on the basis of the average of the exams they appeared for. So, it helped the students.” The board had to cancel the exams of 12 subjects this year including Business Studies, Home Science, Sociology, Computer Science, Hindi and Information Technology, among others. A large section of students in many schools has scored between 90-100 per cent marks. For instance, Delhi Public School (DPS) in Vasant Kunj saw over 22% of Class 12 students scoring more than 95% marks. Of the 466 students who appeared for their Class 12 papers this year, all passed and 242 students (51.93%) scored more than 90%, the school said. For Amity International School in Mayur Vihar, 146 out of the 389 students who appeared for the exams, scored more than 95%. Divya Bhatia, principal of Amity International School in Saket, said, “There is a marginal percentage increase in the number of students scoring above 90% in our school.”Several government schools have also recorded unprecedented scores of 90% and 95% this year. Head of a government school in Dwarka, said, “The average score of our 137 students is 450.5 out of 600 this year. It means the majority of them have scored above 90%.”Head of a Delhi government’s School of Excellence said 60 out of 143 of their students have scored more than 90% marks. “Many students who were supposed to score 88%-89% also crossed the 90% threshold after being evaluated on the basis of average marks of exams they had appeared for,” he said. Under the children with disabilities category, as many as 243 scored 90% and above marks; 42 have scored 95% and more, results data showed. “From CBSE to state boards, students are being given higher marks. Unless DU devises another way of conducting admissions instead of cut-offs, there won’t be any change for the students but ideally, higher education should not be dependent upon these scores,” said Sanghamitra Ghosh, former principal of Mother’s International School, who has been working in the education sector for three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-results-students-scoring-95-plus-double/story-H8uxRyby549blSQi9qV2YK.html
14-07-2020||Delhi||Lok Nayak hospital to house Delhi’s second plasma bank||Delhi’s biggest treatment facility for Covid-19 patients – the 2,000-bed Lok Nayak hospital – will house the city’s second convalescent plasma bank, the government announced on Monday. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate it on Tuesday.The Delhi government had inaugurated the country’s first plasma bank at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj on July 2. The Delhi government-run Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, a dedicated Covid-19 treatment hospital, has also begun work to set up the third plasma bank.Lok Nayak hospital has already set up an apheresis machine, which is used to separate the blood components. The collection of plasma from recovered patients will start this week, the hospital said. The hospital has already discharged over 3,600 Covid-19 patients, many of whom will be eligible to make plasma donations.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“The plasmapheresis machine has already been set up and will start collecting plasma from recovered patients from Monday. Within a week, we will be able to set up a bank as well to store this plasma,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital.Convalescent plasma therapy uses the blood component plasma — rich in virus-fighting antibodies from patients who have recovered from the infection — to aid the immune system of Covid patients. It is still an experimental therapy that has been approved by the health ministry for use in moderate patients, whose need for oxygen increases despite providing oxygen support and steroids.Lok Nayak was the first government hospital in the country to administer convalescent plasma therapy in April as part of the COPLA trial being conducted by the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which houses the first plasma bank of Delhi. Under the trial at Lok Nayak hospital, 14 patients received convalescent plasma and 15 patients received fresh frozen plasma with no therapeutic benefits, to study the efficacy of the therapy for Covid-19.Also read: Coronavirus pandemic is going to get worse and worse and worse, says WHO chiefThe study showed that those who received plasma fared better with their respiratory rate coming down, oxygen saturation improving and their sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA) score reducing, a yardstick that predicts ICU mortality.The duration of ICU stay and hospitalisation also came down in the patients who received convalescent plasma. For the second phase of the trial, 200 patients each from Lok Nayak hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital will receive plasma therapy. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “ILBS was a good start but all hospitals in the city cannot rely on one organisation for the plasma. I think, at least the bigger hospitals -- both government and private -- should start asking their own patients to come back and donate plasma. People will also be more comfortable coming back to the same hospital and have a feeling of social service helping the health hub that helped them recover. Even we have started asking our patients to come back and donate. We started collecting plasma two or three days ago and are using it for our own patients,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor of pulmonary medicine at Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lok-nayak-hospital-to-house-delhi-s-second-plasma-bank/story-RtUVzWhcedVb60iCozvnrO.html
14-07-2020||Delhi||As recovery rate improves in Delhi, 72% Covid beds free||With the recovery rate steadily rising in Delhi, the availability of Covid-19 beds in Delhi’s hospitals for the first time touched 72% in the second week of this month (July 6-12). The bed availability during the second week of June (June 8-14) was only 44%, government data showed on Monday.“The numbers mean that today, more patients are being discharged than admitted in hospitals. As many as 72% of the total beds are now available and vacant in Delhi, as opposed to 65% last week. More beds are being added every week and these are reserved for patients with moderate to severe symptoms,” a media advisor to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday.The number of available beds continues to rise with nearly 200 more getting vacant on Monday. Government reports showed that as on Monday, as many as 11,130 Covid beds in hospitals were vacant against the total of 15,359 beds. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayOn Sunday, 10,938 beds were available, the number on Saturday was 10,751 and 10,631 on Friday. Availability of Covid-19 beds in Delhi had crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time on July 6, when 10,051 beds were vacant.Gauging the favourable conditions and easy availability of beds, the government has put on hold a plan to convert stadiums such as Talkatora and Pragati Maidan and more banquet halls into makeshift hospitals.“Delhi’s recovery rate is 79.98% now, which is better than the national average of 62.93%. Plasma therapy has helped in improving the recovery rate as well as reducing the fatality rate which has declined to 3% now from 3.64% between June 22 and July 5. It is because of these positive indices that we do not immediately requite the creation of more large scale Covid facilities,” said a senior government official.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Apart from attaching at least five hotels with hospitals, the government has attached eight banquet halls with big Covid-19 hospitals for them to be converted into Covid facilities. In addition, there is the 10,000-bed Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and Hospital in the south district and the 500-bed Covid care centre in CWG village in east district. Besides, another 1,000-bed hospital has been built near Dhaula Kuan by DRDO. All of these are currently being largely underutilised due to lack of patients. The Sardar Patel centre in Chhatarpur, for example, has only 180 of its 10,000 beds occupied so far. At least 2,000 beds have been set up and are ready at the centre.On Monday, 1,246 cases were reported, while 1,344 people recovered. There have been a total of 113,740 cases, of which almost 91,312 have recovered. Of the active cases, 11,170 are under home isolation.An analysis of the bed occupancy on a weekly basis shows that in the first week of June around 215 more beds were being occupied by new patients on an average every day. In the second week of June, this came down to 171. A reverse trend began on June 22 when the number of those who recovered exceeded those who were admitted. From July 5 to July 12, as many as 139 beds were vacated by recovered patients on an average every day.The government, however, has no plans to de-escalate the preparations made for Covid-19 treatment. Government officials had told HT that even though the number of the number of hospitalisations has gone down, the numbers may rise again just as it happened in Mumbai and other places across the world. Also read: Coronavirus pandemic is going to get worse and worse and worse, says WHO chiefExperts agreed it would be premature to scale down the number of Covid beds.Assuming the initial trends of the sero-surveillance data to be true, es, Delhi is a long way away from herd immunity. “There were reports that there is a 15% prevalence of the antibodies against Covid-19 in Delhi. This is not enough for herd immunity, which can protect those who are uninfected. Besides, we don’t even know whether the antibodies are enough to prevent a second infection — studies have shown that antibody levels are lower in asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms. Plus, we also don’t know how long the antibodies last in a person. The infection is spreading in the other parts of the country and there is a possibility of resurgence in Delhi,” Dr Arun Gupta, president of the Delhi Medical Council, had told HT last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-recovery-rate-improves-72-covid-beds-free/story-LS49tjYDvg0xKNQTyJJTDK.html
14-07-2020||Delhi||25-year-old man stabbed 28 times by minors in Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar||Three juveniles allegedly stabbed a 25-year-old man 28 times in public view in the chest and neck, after he repeatedly objected to the trio speeding on motorcycles and performing stunts in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar. A video of the murder that was caught on tape was also widely circulated.In the video, the trio is seen stabbing the man as locals and vehicles pass by without intervening. Senior police officers said they have apprehended the three juveniles.According to the police, the incident took place on July 8. They identified the man who died as one Manish Kumar, who worked as a driver and lived in a slum cluster in Raghubir Nagar.The police said that on July 8, they received information from Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Hospital that a man had been admitted with multiple stab wounds. “A police team that reached the hospital found that the man had at least 28 stab wounds, six of them fatal, and had been pronounced dead on arrival. We registered a case of murder and started investigating,” a police officer who did not wish to be named said. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said that during the preliminary probe, they found that the man had been attacked by three boys aged between 15-17 years. “During the investigation, we checked CCTV camera footage from the crime spot and found that the murder had been caught on tape,” he said.Purohit said they circulated still shots of the three suspects from the video in the area and showed them to the locals. “We formed multiple teams. Local enquiries revealed that all the three were juveniles. We found that one of the juveniles had a spat with Manish Kumar after he objected to the boy riding a motorcycle at high speed and asked him to not perform stunts in that area,” the DCP said.He said further enquiry revealed that Kumar had thrashed the juvenile around 15 days ago when he didn’t pay any heed to his objections. “We found that to take revenge, the juvenile spoke to two of his friends, and on July 8, when the trio found Manish Kumar alone in R block of Raghubir Nagar, they attacked him. They stabbed him 28 times in the chest and neck,” the officer said. With the help of locals and informers, the teams identified the three juveniles and apprehended them the same night, the DCP said, adding that they also recovered two knives used in the murder. The police have not found any previous criminal record for the three juvenile and a probe is underway, officers said.One of Manish’s relatives told the police that hours before his murder, he had been called by another of his friends from the area, who is also a driver.“We also suspect his involvement and are verifying his role in the murder. Manish’s family members told us that Manish had been telling these juveniles to not ride motorcycles at high speed as they could hurt someone. He also has three children; the youngest is a one-and-a-half-year-old girsl. He was concerned about them,” a police officer said. Manish’s family members did not respond to HT for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-25-year-old-man-stabbed-28-times-by-minors-in-raghubir-nagar/story-z2IVBc0eone1tJk7MXWmXO.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||91.57% students in UT govt schools clear Class 12 exams, overall pass percentage goes up by 9.81%||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) declared the Class 12 exam results on Monday. A total of 9,601 students appeared in the examination successfully marking a pass percentage of 91.57%.Around 765 students secured above 90% this year. There are 40 Government Senior Secondary Schools in Chandigarh. The pass percentage improved by 9.81% this year in comparison with the performance of government schools in the academic year 2018-19. Of the 11,877 students who appeared in the Class 12 examination, around 802 students failed last year.Also, the overall pass percentage had increased by +8.02 % last year after a drop of 1% in 2018.Moreover, of the total 40 senior secondary schools in Chandigarh, GMSSS-16 secured 100% pass percentage this year. Among the government school students, Muskaan Chugh of GMSSS, Modern Housing Complex, Manimajra, scored 97.4% in the medical stream while Kriti Mahajan of GMSSS-MHC scored 98.4% in the non-medical stream.After GMSSS-16, GMSSS-MHC recorded a pass percentage of 99. 47%, while GMSSS, Sector 19 stood at the third spot among the government schools with 98.51%.Over 25 government schools recorded a pass percentage of more than 90% this year. The pass percentage of Government Senior Secondary School, Mauli Jagran witnessed a dip from 100% last year to 95.56% this year.Chandigarh’s director school education Rubinderjeet Singh Brar, said, “Last year, we have recruited many new teachers in government schools and we have opened five new schools in the city. The teachers have been given a boost to make efforts for the improvement of schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/91-57-students-in-ut-govt-schools-clear-class-12-exams-overall-pass-percentage-goes-up-by-9-81/story-FXwDbJWSC5Gg2j34WHgC5L.html
14-07-2020||Delhi||First patient discharged from Chhatarpur Covid facility||A 39-year-old man was on Monday the first Covid-19 patient to be discharged from the 10,000-bed covid care centre in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur, government officials said.The patient discharged on Monday was among the first batch of 21 patients admitted to the facility – named Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre – on July 5. At present, the centre has 180 patients with mild symptoms, said a senior official in the Delhi government’s revenue department.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan had inspected the facility on Sunday.The patient discharged on Monday was gifted a memento by officials of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), which has provided around 1,000 healthcare workers and security staff at the facility. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The facility set up on the premises of the Radhasoami Satsang Beas has a section reserved (with 10% beds) as Covid health centre, which has necessary infrastructure to handle patients with moderate symptoms. The centre has 75 dedicated ambulances.The patient, who was issued a certificate that said he has recovered from Covid, was dropped at his residence, said the revenue department official, adding “More patients are likely to be discharged later this week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-patient-discharged-from-chhatarpur-covid-facility/story-TYT84s8e1WfTLOj9WvvXcJ.html
14-07-2020||Delhi||NDMC installs anti-smog gun in Connaught Place to reduce pollution||With an aim to reduce the air pollution level, which increased after lockdown norms were relaxed, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Monday installed an ‘anti-smog gun’ in Central Park, Connaught Place. According to NDMC officials, it is a pilot project and more such machines will be installed if this trial is successful. An NDMC official said that this device is designed to reduce air pollution by spraying atomised water into the atmosphere so that dust and pollution particles are cleared from the environment and the concentration of PM10 and PM2.5 is reduced.PM2.5 are ultra-fine particles that can enter the lungs and bloodstream and are the most prominent pollutant in Delhi-NCR as well as in other major cities across the country. PM10 particles are coarser, with a diameter of 10 microns. The Air Quality Index reading of Delhi on Monday was 72, which is in the satisfactory category.“The anti-smog gun is designed to create an ultra-fine fog, comprising very fine water droplets (less than 10-micron in size). These tiny water droplets will be spread over a sizeable area with the help of a high-speed fan, which can absorb even the smallest dust particles in the air,” an NDMC statement read. NDMC chairman Dharmendra inaugurated the machine in the presence of the secretary of NDMC Amit Singla. According to the statement, the anti-smog gun has a ‘throw distance’ of 100 metres with the size of water droplets ranging between 30 microns and 50 microns that could cover an area between 27,000 square metres and 37,000 square metres. The cost of the machine is Rs13 lakh and it will be operated by a wired remote control system.As per a study of the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), the pollution level in Delhi-NCR, which had come down by at least 79% during the initial phase of the lockdown, registered a comeback with the city reopening in the fourth phase of the lockdown May-end. Of the six megacities, where PM2.5 levels were studied during this period, Delhi had seen the steepest rise (4-8 times), as compared to other cities (2-6 times), an analysis by CSE showed.Experts, however, expressed doubts over the success of the anti-smog gun. Shambhavi Shukla, programme officer, air pollution, CSE said that while it might suppress or settle the pollutants for some time, it was not a long-term solution.“Such machines may suppress smaller particles like PM2.5 over a small area for a certain time, but they are not a long-term solution. The only way out is to control the sources of pollution. We also have to see how much water they would consume and how long they would be able to control the smog or smaller particles because their effects wear out quickly,” Shukla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ndmc-installs-anti-smog-gun-in-connaught-place-to-reduce-pollution/story-FDYU5mi1XyFfAFLxXhiJQI.html
14-07-2020||Pune||Builder arrested for ordering murder of youth allegedly in relationship with daughter||Three men were arrested, including a city-based builder, for the brutal murder of a man in Shahu Vasahat, Parvati on Sunday.The deceased was identified as Amit Milind Sarode (21) a resident of Janta Vasahat. He worked as a driver for a local catering company, according to officials of Dattawadi police station.The three men arrested in the case were identified as Adesh Nanaware (24), Bomblya alias Ayush Kale (24), and Yashwant Kamble (50), all residents of Pune. Nanavare and Kale both have a history of body offences against them. While Nanaware has a case against him in 2017, Kale has one in 2017 and one in 2018.The body was discovered by the police in a residential area near Balaji wholesale shop in Shahu Vasahat, Parvati.Kamble is a builder whose 19-year-old daughter was involved in a love affair with the deceased, according to police. He is accused of ordering the murder of Sarode for his involvement with his daughter.“Nanavare used to work as a driver for the builder and used to consider the girl his sister. He was also against the affair,” said senior police inspector Devidas Gheware of Dattawadi police station.While one of them shot Sarode, the two others attacked him with sharp weapons, according to police. The deceased man had one gunshot wound on his body and deep gashes caused by a sharp weapon.The two young men were in the process of fleeing the city while the police were on a lookout for them for hours after the murder came to light.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Saurabh Mohol (21), a friend of the deceased man.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3(25), 4(25) of Arms Act and Section 37(1)(3) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Dattawadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/builder-arrested-for-ordering-murder-of-youth-allegedly-in-relationship-with-daughter/story-G27GdT3bXEZw5kBNOHTgoI.html
14-07-2020||Pune||Pune police return Rs 8 crore to cyber-attack victims||The cybercrime cell of the Pune police has returned Rs 8 crore to as many as 551 victims of cyber-crime during the past six months. The victims who lost their money in different online types of online cybercrimes had approached cybercrime cell after which action was initiated and the money was returned. A total of Rs 5 crore was returned to the Cosmos Cooperative Bank which lost a portion of its cash reserves in a major cyberheist attack on its servers. The cybercrime cell also took efforts to ensure that the funds were returned in the lockdown period as well as earning accolades from the victims.According to cybercrime sleuths, range of citizens and institutions were duped in various types of online frauds in the recent past and cases were lodged directly with the cyber police station and a few with some city police stations.DCP economic offences wing ( EOW) and cybercrime Sambhaji Kadam said, “Once we get a complaint related to cyber fraud where money has been siphoned, we immediately freeze the accounts where the money has been transferred and follow it up with the respective banks with legal paperwork including the First Information Report (FIR). Once the money is refunded to the complainant, a hunt is launched to trace and arrest the accused. We wrote emails to the banks and got accounts frozen so that the cybercriminals could not withdraw the stolen money. Also, we have refunded money to complainants even during the lockdown period,” he said.The cybercrime officials completed all legal formalities with Honk Kong-based Hanseng bank and managed to get the stolen amount from the bank authorities.In one of the biggest cyberattacks in the country, Shivajinagar headquartered Cosmos Cooperative bank was hit by a malware attack where unidentified hackers siphoned off Rs 94.42 crore from bank accounts on August 11 and August 13, 2018. The hackers transferred the money into accounts in India and abroad in a series of ATM transactions. An amount estimated to be Rs 78 crore was withdrawn through 12,000 ATM transactions outside India, while another 2,800 transactions were made in different corners of the country, worth an estimated Rs 2.5 crore.On August 13, Rs 13.5 crore was transferred by the hackers to a Hong Kong-based Hanseng bank, using the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) facility. Timeline of refund by Pune police January 2020 Rs 8.37 lakhFebruary 2020 Rs 5.98 croreMarch 2020 Rs 27.25 lakhApril 2020 Rs 50.52 lakhMay 2020 Rs 20.27 lakhJune 2020 Rs 21 lakhThe refund processCybercrime officials write emails to banks where cybercriminals have account Victims are advised to fill dispute forms at the bank where their accounts are operationalCybercrime sleuths request the bank to freeze accounts of the suspectsSuspects fail to withdraw money Bank refunds money to victims after getting legal documentation like FIR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-return-rs-8-crore-to-cyber-attack-victims/story-ysfegnYsBiu7g7vrBEPL1L.html
14-07-2020||Pune||Girls outshine boys in CBSE class 12 results in Pune||The class 12 results for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) was declared on Monday, with girls outshining boys in the passing percentage by a margin of four per cent.The passing percentage of girls was 92.01 per cent while boys managed 88.74 per cent. The overall percentage of passing students in the city was placed at 90.24 per cent, a few decimal points short of Maharashtra’s 90.39 per cent.In Maharashtra, the total percentage of girls passing was 92.04 per cent while boys secured a passing percentage of 88.99 per cent. This year, the CBSE decided to avoid the term ‘fail’ in the results while replacing it to ‘essential repeat’. Hence, the term ‘fail’ is not mentioned in the documents issued to the candidates and the result hosted on the website.Due to the ongoing Covid pandemic, students will be given a digital mark sheet through the Digi Locker portal. The Digi Locker account credentials have already been sent to students via SMS on their registered mobile numbers with CBSE. The notification about rechecking and revaluation will be notified soon by the board.The DAV public school, Pune secured 100 per cent results with all 214 students who appeared passing with a good percentage.“I am happy that Covid did not have any impact on the results. Last year too we secured 100 per cent results,” said CV Madhavi, principal of DAV public school.“The first phase of the exam was very seamless but after that lot of things occurred due to Covid-19. Staying mentally strong was the only option as all of us were in the same situation. Now, I will prefer a BA honours in political science from Delhi University,” said Shakti Mangesh Tupe from Delhi public school who secured 98.2 per cent in humanities stream.In the specially-abled category, 111 students appeared for the exam among which 95 cleared the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/girls-outshine-boys-in-cbse-class-12-results/story-0XYqXuUAUmmEc54NkEY21H.html
14-07-2020||Pune||Congress targets NCP over former PMC chief’s transfer||The Congress Party’s local unit, on Monday, targeted its state alliance partner, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), over the sudden transfer of Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, “without any valid reason”.Congress city unit president Ramesh Bagwe said, “Gaikwad’s transfer was shocking. As our party is ruling in the state, it is wrong to make any comment; but without any valid reason, the commissioner got transferred. He was working satisfactory and hardly had five-to-six months as municipal commissioner.”Without naming any party or leader, Bagwe added, “We need to fight against Covid-19 and not do politics. There was a good image of the government handling Covid-19 among the citizens, but the commissioner’s transfer has given the wrong message.”Sanjay Balgude, secretary, Maharashtra Pradesh Congress, strongly criticised the NCP over the transfer of Gaikwad.Balgude said, “I personally don’t have any relations or contact with Gaikwad, but overall, there was a good image. He just got transferred to the PMC and within a month, faced the Covid-19 pandemic. He increased the city’s health capacity.”Balgude added, “The lockdown decision is really not satisfactory. If Gaikwad raised any objections, it should have been accepted with an open mind as he was speaking from the citizen’s perspective. Covid-19 is going to live long and we cannot force citizens to stay within their homes every few days. People are committing suicide due to financial crisis.”Balgude further said, “We are living in a democratic process. If the state government claims that Gaikwad has been transferred because the Covid-19 cases increased in the city, the same principle should be applicable in other cities and districts, and all administrative heads, where cases have increased, should be transferred. The government cannot make a different law only for Pune and Mumbai.”Nationalist congress party city unit president Chetan Tupe denied to make any comment on it and said it was administrative issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/congress-targets-ncp-over-former-pmc-chief-s-transfer/story-o311a4FM7895o2btzzMz3K.html
14-07-2020||Pune||Exempted firms can issue e-passes during lockdown in Pune||PUNE The police e-pass is not needed for travelling to the office during the lockdown. IT companies, as well as industries, in Pune city which require employees to travel to the office, will have to issue a letter to each of these employees, said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Pune, who is heading the e-pass initiative.In addition to this, the companies human resource managers are required to provide a list of employees, who are issued with such passes, to the local police station as well as the Pune police commissioner office.“The police e-pass is not needed for travelling to the office during this lockdown. However, we have still received 25,000 applications for travel passes on Monday. On Sunday there were 14,000 applications,” said Singh,As per the order issued by newly appointed Pune municipal commissioner, Vikram Kumar, if a person who is working in these workspaces turns positive, the others in the organisations will have to get themselves tested on their own dime.Meanwhile, people travelling to companies, sites and organisations located in Pimpri-Chinchwad police jurisdiction, the process will be slightly different.There are areas under Pimpri Chinchwad police jurisdiction which fall under Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and there are others that do not.“For the companies located in PCMC limit, there is a set format for travel passes. For the places in the police jurisdiction that do not fall under PCMC, the company HR should draft a letter with the vehicle and employee information on the company letterhead and get it stamped from the local police station,” said Ramnath Pokale, additional commissioner of police, Pimpri-Chinchwad.The company HR needs to submit information including name, mobile number, company name, vehicle number, and vehicle type, to get a stamp from the local police, stated the order issued by Pimpri- Chinchwad police commissioner.Workplace Rules -The orders by PMC Commissioner and the PC police commissioner will come into effect on July 14 and remain in place till July 23-In both the jurisdictions, the IT companies will be allowed to function with 15% staff strength.-All industrial and IT companies must ensure that the employees called to work should not be from containment zones.-Use of mask, hand sanitiser is compulsory||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/companies-can-issue-passes-during-lockdown-in-pune/story-1ryrcoeoSYTDawAlDpuKKM.html
14-07-2020||Pune||100-bed Covid care centre underway at Bibwewadi||A well-equipped 100-bed Covid-19 care centre is being set up at the labour welfare departments office, Bibwewadi by the district administration and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and district collector Naval Kishore Ram visited the hospital facility on Monday and instructed the officials to make it operational soon.After taking the charge as a municipal commissioner this is Kumar’s first visit to the city hospital.Local Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) MLA Madhuri Misal, district health officer Sunil Jagtap were also present during the hospital visit.Ram said, “The hospital will have all the facilities like intensive care unit (ICU), quarantine facility, oxygen supported beds and enough medical staff. District administration will help to get all the necessary medical equipment for the hospital.”Misal said, “I was following up with the administration to turn the premises into a Covid care centre. All the necessary facilities like ventilators, ICU and oxygen supported beds will be made available in the next few days and the hospital will be functional soon.”“District administration and the civic body have promised to extend all the medical support for the hospital,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/well-equipped-100-bed-covid-care-centre-underway-at-bibwewadi/story-N9NLYhxGcn9u1raKyHWC5J.html
14-07-2020||Pune||10-12% of Covid-19 cases reported in district are from rural areas: Collector||After the lockdown orders in both Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad to contain the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, the district administration is now working on war-footing to ensure that the same situation does not arise in rural Pune.The district collector has been meeting village sarpanches and also Covid-19 care facilities created at the rural parts of the district.Naval Kishore Ram, district collector, said, “Almost 10-12 per cent of the cases reported from the district are from the rural areas. We are worried that this ratio might change and that more cases may start coming up from rural areas too.”“We are focusing on contact tracing at least 20 people for every positive person. We have started decentralized swab collection too,” he said.As of July 12, as per the district health office, out of the 38,502 positive cases, 3,593 are from rural areas and out of the 1,075 deaths, 94 are from rural areas.Haveli which is also one of the largest talukas in the district is also one of the most affected areas. Out of the 1,989 cases that have been reported from all the 13 talukas, 803 are from Haveli alone including also 15 deaths. Followed by Khed (252), Mulshi (205) and Junnar (132) which also have some of the major industries.Ayush Prasad, zilla parishad, chief executive officer, said, “All the cases reported in rural areas are of those who are either travelling to the city for providing essential services or live in the bordering areas of the city or along the highway.”“There is a nominal local transmission, it would not be accurate to say that there is a rise in the number of cases as it is in proportion to the rise in the number of cases found across the district. Out of the 1,405-gram panchayats, 290 are affected,” he said.“We are now increasing our testing capacity and contact tracing. The lockdown in both these civic bodies will have a impact on rise in cases in rural Pune. We are treating the entire village as a containment zone even if we find more than five cases,” said Prasad.The collector in his meeting with officials from ZP laid down a multi-level pronged strategy to keep a check on the rising cases. The steps include ramping up testing from eight-nine contacts to 21 contacts. All high-risk contacts who could have possibly come in contact with the positive person in the past ten days are searched for and then tested while all the low-risk contacts are quarantined. Almost 1.55 lakh people are quarantined at the same time right now across the rural areas. A contact tracing team will be placed at each village level which was earlier only at taluka level.Every contact traced is also cross-checked with those recorded as a comorbid patient and then tested accordingly.Taluka haveli which is one of the worst affected will get 12 more hospitals which would be dedicated Covid-19 care centres for those showing moderate symptoms which will add 1700 more beds.For emergency care, the administration has hired 1,389 medical professionals and will be adding 23 more ambulances to the existing 41 ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-12-of-covid-19-cases-reported-in-district-are-from-rural-areas-collector/story-Z906lbyWT4gEiMvFnwOiIM.html
14-07-2020||Pune||NIA claims two arrested from Pune had links with ISIS||The two persons arrested from Pune by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had landed on their radar over suspicion of trying to recruit youth for terrorist organisation ISIS and procuring weapons, according to a statement issued by NIA Delhi.The woman was identified as Sadiya Anwar Sheikh (22), a resident of Phulenagar area of Yerawada; and Nabeel S Khatri (27), a resident of Kondhwa.“It has also come to light that along with Jahanzeb Sami and Abdullah Basith, accused Khatri was also actively involved in the planning to carry out violent terrorist attacks in India by arranging logistic support such as procurement of weapons, fake SIM cards, assembling of improvised explosive devices to further the activities of ISIS in India,” read the statement. The two were found to be in touch with accused from a case that NIA Delhi is investigating. The case is related to the link of two persons from Kashmir with members of Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP). NIA had arrested a Kashmiri couple identified as Jahanzeb Sami Wani and his wife Hina Bashir Beigh from Jamianagar, Okhla Vihar, Delhi in the case in March.The Kashmiri couple had first landed on NIA radar for links with a man identified as Abdullah Basith who is lodged in Tihar jail in another NIA case, according to the statement.While Khatri is a gym trainer in Pune, Sadiya is a second year student of Mass Communication in Baramati, according to the NIA statement.“The investigation has revealed that accused Sadiya Sheikh was continuously in touch with Jahanzeb Sami, Hina Bashir Beigh and Abdullah Basith on various secure messaging applications and deliberating on as to how to propagate the ideology of ISIS and further its activities in India. They were trying to build up a cadre of ISIS in India by recruiting gullible youth for terrorist activities,” read the statement.Sadiya was detained by Jammu and Kashmir police in January 2018 when she was 18 years old. The ATS unit in Pune had also apprehended her in 2015 when she was a minor as she was suspected to have inclination towards joining ISIS through online radicalisation. After her return to Pune in 2018, she was subjected to a “re-radicalisation” process.The two were lodged in Faraskhana police station lock-up on Sunday night and flown to Delhi for further investigation on Monday. They will be produced in NIA special court in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nia-claims-two-arrested-from-pune-had-links-with-isis/story-pxwRTb7HE6BG0RD0vrm6QJ.html
14-07-2020||Pune||Inmate escapes from temporary prison in Yerawada, caught||PUNE: The prisoner who escaped from the temporary jail set up on Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Research and Training Institute (BARTI) campus in Yerawada during the late hours of Sunday was arrested by Shirur police station officials on Monday and handed over to Yerawada police station officials later in the evening.The man was identified as Anil Vitthal Vetal, a resident of Ganeshnagar Digrajwadi area of Koregaon Bhima, Pune.A case under Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of Indian Penal Code was registered against Vetal at Yerawada police station on Monday morning.The inmate was arrested by the Pune rural police on June 26 in a case of voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery.Late on Sunday night, the inmate asked for permission to use the toilet and was led to the common toilet, according to a complaint lodged by a jail guard. Once inside, he broke the latch and escaped from the toilet, according to the complaint.“We are yet to take up investigation as I am on night shift,” said sub-inspector Dinesh Gurjar of Yerawada police station who will be investigating the matter.Upon visiting his office and also calling on phone, senior inspector Yunus Shaikh remained unavailable for comment.Meanwhile, three persons at the facility were found Covid-19 positive on Sunday. They added to the total of two who had tested positive earlier on Saturday, according to the data issued by the Maharashtra prison department. One person had tested Covid-19 positive and died soon after in May.“There is a dedicated Covid care centre on the premise of temporary jail for such cases. All positive cases are undergoing treatment there,” said UT Pawar, superintendent of Yerawada Central Jail.The temporary prison facility has common toilets for inmates. The total tally of positive cases in Maharashtra prisons is 602, as of Monday morning, according to a jail official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inmate-escapes-from-temporary-prison-in-yerawada/story-P8aYzx0okHBPNk8zHEfQ1N.html
14-07-2020||Pune||Demolition of flyover at SPPU chowk during lockdown||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) will demolish the flyover near Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) during the lockdown period between July 13 and July 23. It has made preparations to finish the work within the given time.Maharashtra government and Pune Municipal Corporation have already okayed the demolition of flyover. PMRDA plans to erect a new flyover along the metro line between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar.PMRDA official Vivek Kharwadkar said, “We have received permission to demolish the flyover. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and police officials will visit the site on Monday (Juy 13) evening.”A civic official said that demolition will be carried out during the lockdown period to avoid traffic congestion. PMRDA has already diverted traffic near the flyover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/demolition-of-flyover-at-sppu-chowk-during-lockdown/story-xVUn9DKq2ChA8y0JuCIBWO.html
14-07-2020||Pune||Baba Adhav: Ensure food, employment for low income groups||Social worker Baba Adhav has been working for unorganised sectors for the past many decades. Speaking to Abhay Khairnar, the medical graduate said that the Covid-19 crisis will remain for a long period and the authorities should ensure that employment and basic needs of lower income groups are met before announcing lockdownIs lockdown necessary in Pune?It is true that Covid-19 is a global pandemic, but lockdown should be announced only after planning. Authorities should ensure access to food and employment for people from low income group before lockdown is implemented.Was the decision made by guardian minister Ajit Pawar and Pune district administration is in consultation with experts?It is a one-sided decision made without consulting people who represent the society. Ideally, the government should form a citizen action committee and consult it before taking these decisions. The citizen committee should have representation from all sections of society. I have been told that the lockdown decision was made without even taking elected members into confidence. Formation of a citizen action committee is a must.Senior leader Sharad Pawar is in favour of resuming business activity. Do you think the lockdown decision made by guardian minister is against the sentiment of people? While we are seeing a spike in Covid-19 cases in the city, lockdown always has an adverse impact on people working in unorganised sectors. I had appealed to Sharad Pawar to include autorickshaw drivers, domestic helpers and vegetable vendors in the essential services category like nurses and doctors. The government should support these people as they are working for the common people.Suggestion to handle Covid-19 crisis as per your medical qualification and work in social service sector.During the Second World War, the government made the rationing programme that guaranteed food for all. Likewise, authorities should ensure that citizens get food and employment. As the Covid-19 situation would remain for a long period, instead of taking interim steps, the government must consult experts and frame long-term policy for handling the crisis. At the city and local level, citizen action committees should be formed and their opinions must be considered while taking any major decisions.Your observations on the impact of lockdown on domestic helpers, auto drivers and unorganised sectors.The people belonging to these sectors are finding it difficult to make ends meet due to lockdown. Many domestic helpers are either lost job or their salaries are cut as housing societies have banned their entry. Those running small businesses are also badly affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ensure-food-employment-for-low-income-groups-before-announcing-lockdown/story-MFLHpKEOxcDeAvkkqZLeuJ.html
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Guard beaten to death for preventing crowding at Chandigarh’s Government Medical College and Hospital emergency||A security guard at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh, succumbed to injuries after he was beaten up for preventing crowding at the Emergency as part of the Covid-19 guidelines. Two men, including a contractual sanitation worker at the hospital, have been arrested.Shyam Sundar Pandey, 50, a resident of Raipur Khurd, died while undergoing treatment on Monday morning. His colleague Kamaldeep Singh, 32, had also sustained head injuries after they were manhandled around Sunday midnight.Pandey was on duty at the main gate of the Emergency when a man injured in a brawl was rushed there from Ram Darbar. As only one attendant is allowed to accompany patients in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, security guards stationed at the entrance to the building were trying to enforce the restrictions when those accompanying the injured man started abusing them and attacked them. Pandey tried to intervene when even he was beaten up and collapsed at the spot. He was put on ventilator, but could not survive. Police have arrested two men, identified as Rahul, 26, and Naveen, 23, both residents of Phase 1, Ram Darbar. “CCTV footage showed the duo hitting the security guard,” said Baldev Kumar, station house officer, Sector 34.While Naveen works as a private driver, Rahul is a contractual sweeper at GMCH. Rahul has a criminal past, and was convicted in a kidnapping case registered in Sector 32 in 2015, said police. Police said the preliminary postmortem shows no external injuries. The detailed report is awaited.A case under Sections 147(rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) and 304(i) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) was registered on Kamaldeep’s complaint.Union holds protest, demands job for familyPandey is survived by his wife, 40, and a 10-year-old son, who studies in Class 5. He was the sole breadwinner of the family.The employees’ unions protested at the hospital, demanding government job for his family as well as a policy to protect the staff.“The director has assured us that Pandey’s widow will be given a job on the basis of her educational qualification,” said Sukhbir Singh, president, GMCH joint action committee, adding that Pandey was a Covid warrior and died on duty, for which his family should also be given compensation.Meanwhile, the hospital administration has decided to increase the number of security guards at the Emergency, where at present 10 personnel are deployed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/guard-beaten-up-for-preventing-crowding-at-chandigarh-s-government-medical-college-and-hospital-emergency-dies/story-Du8py3jbvkFbSlv1MeDAHL.html
14-07-2020||World||PM Oli’s remarks not aimed at hurting sentiments of anyone, says Nepal’s foreign ministry||Kathmandu on Tuesday said Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s remarks that the “real” Ayodhya is in Nepal and Lord Ram was Nepalese reflected the many myths about the Hindu god and highlighted the need for further research on the “vast cultural geography” of the Ramayana.The Nepal government outlined its position in a statement issued by the foreign ministry after Oli’s remarks, carried extensively by the Indian media, stoked a controversy. Indian priests called on Oli to keep religion out of regional politics, and groups affiliated to the ruling BJP condemned the remarks.The controversy came against the backdrop of a border row between India and Nepal, which erupted after New Delhi opened a new road to Lipulekh on the Tibet border and Kathmandu published a new map showing Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepalese territory.The Nepal foreign ministry’s statement referred to “various interpretations of the remarks” made by Oli on Monday during a celebration to mark the birth anniversary of Bhanu Bhakta Acharya, the author who translated Valmiki’s Ramayana into Nepali.The statement clarified Oli’s remarks “are not linked to any political subject” and there was “no intention at all to hurt the feeling and sentiment of anyone”.“As there have been several myths and references about Shri Ram and the places associated with him, the Prime Minister was simply highlighting the importance of further studies and research of the vast cultural geography the Ramayana represents to obtain facts about Shri Ram, Ramayana and the various places linked to this rich civilisation,” the statement said.The remarks, it added, weren’t meant to debase the “significance of Ayodhya and the cultural value it bears”.The statement noted there is the annual tradition of celebrating “Bibaha Panchami”, or a symbolic marriage procession going from Ayodhya in India to Janakpur in Nepal to mark the wedding of Lord Ram and Sita. Janakpur is believed to be the birthplace of Sita.The statement added the prime ministers of Nepal and India had launched the Ramayana tourism circuit in May 2018, of which the Janakpur-Ayodhya bus service is an important component. “These facts signify the bond of time honoured cultural affinity between our two countries and peoples,” it said.During Monday’s event, Oli had said Nepal had “become a victim of cultural encroachment” and its history was manipulated. “Although the real Ayodhya lies at Thori in the west of Birgunj, India has claimed the Indian site as the birthplace of Lord Ram,” Oli was quoted as saying by the media.“The place called Thori...is the real Ayodhya, where Lord Ram was born. In India there is a great dispute on Ayodhya. But there is no dispute in our Ayodhya,” he added.As Dasharath was the ruler of Nepal, it was natural that his son Ram was also born in Nepal, Oli contended.The BJP condemned Oli’s remarks, with spokesperson Bizay Sonkar Shastri saying Nepal’s ruling communist party would be rejected by the people in the same way they had been in India since these parties played with people’s faith.“The prime minister of Nepal must keep Lord Ram out of regional politics. His comments are unwarranted. He must know that Lord Ram was a ‘chakravarti’ emperor and Nepal was also a part of his kingdom. Ties between India and Nepal are older than history,” said Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of Sri Ram Jamabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust.The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and priests in Ayodhya also condemned Oli’s remarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-oli-s-remarks-not-aimed-at-hurting-sentiments-of-anyone-says-nepal-s-foreign-ministry/story-GelTQYpAAoqeYGIHjkGOvJ.html
14-07-2020||World||US carries out the first federal execution in nearly 2 decades amid protests||The federal government on Tuesday carried out its first execution in almost two decades, killing by lethal injection a man convicted of murdering an Arkansas family in a 1990s plot to build a whites-only nation in the Pacific Northwest.The execution of Daniel Lewis Lee came over the objection of the victims’ relatives and following days of legal wrangling and delays.Lee, 47, of Yukon, Oklahoma, professed his innocence just before he was executed at the federal prison in Terre Haute, Indiana.“I didn’t do it,” Lee said. “I’ve made a lot of mistakes in my life, but I’m not a murderer.”His final words were: “You’re killing an innocent man.”The decision to move forward with the first execution by the Bureau of Prisons since 2003 -- and two others scheduled later in the week — drew scrutiny from civil rights groups and the relatives of Lee’s victims, who had sued to try to halt it, citing concerns about the coronavirus pandemic. The pandemic has killed more than 135,000 people in the United States and is ravaging prisons nationwide.Critics argued that the government was creating an unnecessary and manufactured urgency for political gain.One of Lee’s lawyers, Ruth Friedman, said it was “shameful that the government saw fit to carry out this execution during a pandemic.”“And it is beyond shameful that the government, in the end, carried out this execution in haste,” Friedman said in a statement.The developments are likely to add a new front to the national conversation about criminal justice reform in the lead-up to the 2020 elections.The execution of Lee, who died at 8:07 a.m. EDT, went off after a series of legal volleys that ended when the Supreme Court stepped in early Tuesday in a 5-4 ruling and allowed it to move forward.Attorney General William Barr has said the Justice Department has a duty to carry out the sentences imposed by the courts, including the death penalty, and to bring a sense of closure to the victims and those in the communities where the killings happened.But relatives of those killed by Lee in 1996 strongly opposed that idea and long argued that Lee deserved a sentence of life in prison. They wanted to be present to counter any contention that the execution was being done on their behalf.“For us it is a matter of being there and saying, ‘This is not being done in our name; we do not want this,’” relative Monica Veillette said.They noted that Lee’s co-defendant and the reputed ringleader, Chevie Kehoe, received a life sentence.Kehoe, of Colville, Washington, recruited Lee in 1995 to join his white supremacist orgaization, known as the Aryan Peoples’ Republic. Two years later, they were arrested for the killings of gun dealer William Mueller, his wife, Nancy, and her 8-year-old daughter, Sarah Powell, in Tilly, Arkansas, about 75 miles (120 kilometers) northwest of Little Rock.At their 1999 trial, prosecutors said Kehoe and Lee stole guns and $50,000 in cash from the Muellers as part of their plan to establish a whites-only nation.Prosecutors said Lee and Kehoe incapacitated the Muellers and questioned Sarah about where they could find money and ammunition. Then, they used stun guns on the victims, sealed trash bags with duct tape on their heads to suffocate them, taped rocks to their bodies and dumped them in a nearby bayou.A U.S. District Court judge put a hold on Lee’s execution on Monday, over concerns from death row inmates on how executions were to be carried out, and an appeals court upheld it, but the high court overturned it. That delay came after an appeals court on Sunday overturned a hold that had been put in place last week after the victims’ relatives argued they would be put at high risk for the coronavirus if they had to travel to attend the execution.Lee’s execution was then set to happen at 4 a.m. EDT, but a last-minute legal question was raised by his lawyers. The Justice Department said it filed a request with the court to straighten it out but went through with the execution.A U.S. marshal lifted a black telephone inside the execution room -- a small square room inside the prison with green tiles and windows looking at the witness rooms -- and asked if there was anything to impede the execution. He said there was not and the execution could proceed.Lee had a pulse oximeter on a finger of his left hand, to monitor his oxygen level, and his arms, which had tattoos, were in black restraints. The IV tubes were coming through a metal panel in the wall.He breathed heavily before the drug was injected and moved his legs and feet. As the drug was being administered, he raised his head to look around. In a few moments, his chest was no longer moving.Lee was in the execution chamber with two men who the Bureau of Prisons would only identify as “senior BOP officials,” a U.S. marshal and his spiritual adviser, whom a Bureau of Prisons spokesperson described as an “Appalachian pagan minister.” They did not wear masks, and Lee also was not wearing a mask.One of the senior Prison officials in the room declared Lee’s time of death at 8:07 a.m., and the curtain closed.Two other federal executions are scheduled for later this week, though one remains on hold in a separate legal claim.There have been two state executions in the U.S. since the pandemic forced shutdowns nationwide in mid-March — one in Texas and one in Missouri, according to the Death Penalty Information Center. Alabama carried out one in early March.Executions on the federal level have been rare, and the government has put to death only three defendants since restoring the federal death penalty in 1988 — most recently in 2003, when Louis Jones was executed for the 1995 kidnapping, rape and murder of a young female soldier.Though there hadn’t been a federal execution since 2003, the Justice Department has continued to approve death penalty prosecutions and federal courts have sentenced defendants to death.In 2014, following a botched state execution in Oklahoma, President Barack Obama directed the Justice Department to conduct a broad review of capital punishment and issues surrounding lethal injection drugs.The attorney general said last July that the Obama-era review had been completed, clearing the way for executions to resume. He approved a new procedure for lethal injections that replaces the three-drug combination previously used in federal executions with one drug, pentobarbital. This is similar to the procedure used in several states, including Georgia, Missouri and Texas, but not all.Numbers of state executions have fallen steadily since the last federal execution, according to data compiled by the Death Penalty Information Center. States put to death 59 people in 2004 and 22 in 2019, nine of which were in Texas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-carries-out-the-first-federal-execution-in-nearly-2-decades-amid-protests/story-qEDFocAJitNv9NoxT7DtUM.html
14-07-2020||World||China sanctions top US arms company, lashes out at US over South China Sea||China and the US on Tuesday continued to deepen their ongoing multi-front diplomatic tussle with Beijing lashing out at Washington for rejecting Chinese claims over the South China Sea (SCS) as “illegal” and also sanctioning American defence giant Lockheed Martin for selling missiles to the self-ruled democracy, Taiwan.On Monday, reversing a policy of not taking a direct side in the SCS maritime disputes involving China and several other smaller littoral states, the Donald Trump administration rejected Beijing’s expansive claims in the resource-rich seas.“We are making clear: Beijing’s claims to offshore resources across most of the SCS are completely unlawful, as is its campaign of bullying to control them,” Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said in a statement Monday.China is involved in disputes with the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia, Brunei and Taiwan in the SCS maritime region.The change in the US policy comes at a time when two nuclear-powered US navy super aircraft-carriers, USS Nimitz and Ronald Reagan are deployed in the region.The Chinese foreign ministry reacted sharply to Pompeo’s statement, saying the US statement “neglected the history and facts” Beijing’s claims on the SCS and the disputed islands and shoals.“The US, out of its selfish agenda, is doing all it can to stir up trouble in the SCS and drive a wedge between regional countries and China, aiming to disrupt China’s and ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) countries’ efforts to maintain peace and stability,” foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian said at the regular ministry briefing in Beijing on Tuesday.“China does not seek to build a maritime empire in the SCS. We have been treating our neighbouring countries as equals and we have been keeping maximum restraint in safeguarding sovereignty and interests in the South China Sea,” he said.Also read: China denies burial to its soldiers killed in Galwan clashChina and the ASEAN bloc were accelerating discussions on a Code of Conduct to jointly safeguard peace, stability and freedom of navigation in the disputed waters, Zhao said, adding, “We have made progress in our consultations,” he said.At the same press conference, Zhao announced that China will put sanctions on Lockheed Martin for its involvement in the latest US arms sale to Taiwan, Beijing claims as a breakaway region.One of the leading weapon-makers in the world, the US company is the primary contractor for a $620 million upgrade package for Taiwan’s Patriot surface-to-air missiles, which the US government approved last week.When asked to comment on the arms sale, Zhao said the US should stop selling weapons to Taiwan to “avoid further harming Sino-US ties and peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait”.“In order to safeguard the country’s interests, China has decided to take necessary steps, and put sanctions on the main contractor for this sale, Lockheed Martin,” Zhao said. He did not elaborate.Also read: After US sanctions, UK bans Huawei from 5G networksThe impact of the sanctions would be essentially symbolic as Washington has long had an arms embargo on Beijing. Agency reports from Taiwan said the Taiwanese government has welcomed the missile upgrade.It is bolstering its defences for what it sees as increasingly threatening moves by Beijing, such as its regular air force and naval exercises near Taiwan.Taiwan’s Defence Minister Yen Teh-fa, visiting troops during the annual Han Kuang military exercise, was quoted by Reuters as saying that they needed to be strong in the face of “all sorts of threats and provocations” from China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-sanctions-top-us-arms-company-lashes-out-at-us-over-south-china-sea/story-r0jUA91wLVInKEpzlch3jM.html
14-07-2020||World||UK Covid-19 deaths cross 50,000 as masks to be made compulsory||New figures released on Tuesday show that the death toll from coronavirus in England and Wales has crossed 50,000, with the Boris Johnson government after months of mixed messaging is gearing up to make face coverings in shops mandatory from July 24.Failure to wear face covering in will attract a fine of 100 pounds under the new rules. Ministers previously did not encourage masks. Environment secretary George Eustice said: “It is about managing the overall risk. Any type of covering will be sufficient for this purpose.”The Office for National Statistics (ONS), which counts casualties on the basis of condition mentioned in death certificates, said coronavirus figured in 50,548 deaths between December 28 and July 3; of these, England accounted for 48,154 and Wales 2,470.The ONS count differs from that of the Department of Health, which releases figures of deaths and positive cases based on cases in hospitals and care homes. The ONS count includes deaths from the virus in all settings.The figure of 50,548 does not include the dead in Scotland and Northern Ireland. On Tuesday, Scotland reported that there were no deaths for six days in a row as the Scottish National Party government in Edinburgh continues its stricter approach to dealing with the pandemic compared to that in England.A new modelling commissioned by chief scientific adviser Patrick Vallance warned that the UK could see about 120,000 new coronavirus deaths in a second wave of infections this winter, the season when the country experiences a rise in hospital admissions and deaths.Experts who were asked to model a reasonable worst-case scenario suggested a range between 24,500 and 251,000 of virus-related deaths in hospitals alone, peaking in January and February, according to their paper released on Tuesday.Stephen Holgate of the University Hospital Southampton NHS Trust, who chaired the report, said: “This is not a prediction - but it is a possibility. The modelling suggests that deaths could be higher with a new wave of Covid-19 this winter”.“But the risk of this happening could be reduced if we take action immediately,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-covid-19-deaths-cross-50-000-as-masks-to-be-made-compulsory/story-BRQCuJbzbAgLpY8kkeLZrJ.html
14-07-2020||World||Nepal bought 6 Chinese planes that Dhaka rejected. Now it grounds them: Report||Nepal Airlines has decided to ground six Chinese planes bought under a government-to-government pact from July 16, according to a report in The Kathmandu Post. The newspaper, which cited an order by the Nepal Airlines Corporation, said the airline board had cleared the move because it couldn’t afford to fly the 17-seater Y12e and the 56-seater MA60 and wanted to cut its losses.Nepal had been nudging China to gift it planes but came around to buying the six planes after Beijing told the government that it would need to buy aircrafts from them before it could expect the gift. Kathmandu agreed to buy six and got two more as gifts.The first of two Chinese MA60 landed at Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport in 2014 while the first batch of four Y12e arrived in November 2014. As part of the deal, the Post reported, Nepal received one MA60 and Y12e respectively worth Rs 2.94 billion as a gift in 2014.The decision to ground the planes comes six years after the first batch landed in Kathmandu. It was the first acquisition by Nepal Airlines in 28 years.Also read: ‘Lord Ram born in Nepal’ - PM Oli ignites new row with stunning claim on AyodhyaAchyut Pahari, a board member at Nepal Airlines, told the Post that the plane wasn’t fit for Nepal but had been forced upon the airline in a government-to-government deal.The newspaper said when teams from Bangladesh and Nepal travelled to China to inspect the aircraft back in 2011, the team from Bangladesh rejected the aircraft. Kathmandu’s experts, however, recommended it.Pahari called the decision to buy the aircraft, Nepal’s “worst decision” and claimed the decision was prompted “by greed for commissions”.“Nepal Airlines is paying the price now. Flying these planes means throwing good money after bad,” Pahari said, according to the Post.An audit report last year said the Chinese planes had been incurring heavy losses to Nepal ever since they were first purchased.The decision to buy the planes, according to the report, wasn’t the only flawed call by the airline. The airline hasn’t been able to ensure that it has pilots trained to fly the Chinese aircraft.Sanjiv Gautam, former director general of the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal, told the Post blamed the managerial problems for the problem. “In the last six years, it has not produced any captains, and those who were promoted to captain have been transferred to fly Airbus jets in the same company,” he told the Post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-bought-6-chinese-planes-that-dhaka-rejected-now-it-grounds-them-report/story-HgQ9zefAKnESixlEd9F7MJ.html
14-07-2020||World||After US sanctions, UK bans Huawei from 5G networks||The Boris Johnson government on Tuesday announced the removal of existing equipment of Chinese Huawei by 2027 and a ban on buying new equipment from the company from December 31 this year, reflecting an escalation of tensions with Beijing.China has warned the UK of consequences if it were to ban Huawei. The decision follows pressure from the United States government, which has also banned the company as part of its sanction, and a technical review by the UK’s National Cyber Security Centre (NSC) in response to US sanctions.Digital Secretary Oliver Dowden said in a statement to the House of Commons: “By the time of the next election we will have implemented in law an irreversible path for the complete removal of Huawei equipment from our 5G networks”.Officials said the decision was taken on Wednesday in a meeting of the NSC chaired by Johnson, in response to new US sanctions. These were imposed on Huawei in May, after the UK’s initial decision on high risk vendors, and are the first of their kind removing the firm’s access to products which have been built based on US semiconductor technology. Technical experts at the NCSC reviewed the consequences of the sanctions and concluded the company will need to do a major reconfiguration of its supply chain as it will no longer have access to the technology on which it currently relies.They found the new restrictions make it impossible to continue to guarantee the security of Huawei equipment in the future, the officials added. There will be a ban on the purchase of new Huawei kit for 5G from next year and it will be completely removed from 5G networks by the end of 2027. The decision takes into account our specific national circumstances and how the risks from these sanctions are manifested in the UK. The existing restrictions on Huawei in sensitive and critical parts of the network remain in place.The US action also affects Huawei products used in the UK’s full fibre broadband networks. However, officials said the UK has managed Huawei’s presence in the UK’s fixed access networks since 2005, along with the need to avoid a situation where broadband operators are reliant on a single supplier for their equipment.Dowden said: “5G will be transformative for our country, but only if we have confidence in the security and resilience of the infrastructure it is built upon. “Following US sanctions against Huawei and updated technical advice from our cyber experts, the government has decided it is necessary to ban Huawei from our 5G networks”.“No new kit is to be added from January 2021, and UK 5G networks will be Huawei free by the end of 2027. This decisive move provides the industry with the clarity and certainty it needs to get on with delivering 5G across the UK”.The government will now seek to legislate at the earliest opportunity with a new Telecoms Security Bill to put in place the powers necessary to implement this tough new telecoms security framework.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-us-sanctions-uk-bans-huawei-from-5g-networks/story-JjT6nDdia2Drs3PY0Y3jkL.html
14-07-2020||World||UK to exclude Huawei from role in high-speed phone network||Britain’s government on Tuesday backtracked on plans to give Chinese telecommunications company Huawei a limited role in the U.K.’s new high-speed mobile phone network in a decision with broad implications for relations between London and Beijing.Britain imposed the ban after the U.S. threatened to sever an intelligence-sharing arrangement because of concerns Huawei equipment could allow the Chinese government to infiltrate UK networks.Prime Minister Boris Johnson was under pressure from rebels in his own Conservative Party who criticized China’s new Hong Kong security law and its treatment of ethnic Uighurs, as well as Huawei’s links to the Chinese government. Ten Conservative lawmakers sent a letter to Johnson demanding that he remove Huawei from “the UK’s critical national infrastructure.”Johnson in January sought to balance economic and security pressures by agreeing to give Huawei a limited role in Britain’s so-called 5G network, excluding the company from core components of the system and restricting its involvement to 35% of the overall project.But the move set up a diplomatic clash with the Americans, who threatened to cut off security cooperation unless Britain dumped Huawei. Amid continued pressure to remove Huawei from communication networks entirely, the U.S. in May imposed new sanctions that will bar companies around the world from using American-made machinery or software to produce chips for the Chinese company.The British government is reportedly poised to backtrack on plans to give Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei a limited role in the U.K.‘s new high-speed mobile phone network, a decision with broad implications for relations between the two countries.Britain’s decision to re-examine the question, the results of which will be announced Tuesday, came after the U.S. threatened to sever an intelligence-sharing arrangement because of concerns Huawei equipment could allow the Beijing government to infiltrate U.K. networks.Prime Minister Boris Johnson is also under pressure from rebels in his own Conservative Party who criticize China’s new Hong Kong security law and its treatment of ethnic Uighurs, as well as Huawei’s links to the Chinese government. Ten Conservative lawmakers sent a letter to Johnson demanding that he remove Huawei from “the UK’s critical national infrastructure.”“Everybody has advocated engagement for years and years and years, but it’s become apparent that we’ve been mugged by China,” Neil O’Brien, a Conservative member of Parliament and secretary of the party’s China Research Group, told the BBC Monday night. “We’ve tried to be nice and they’ve just become more and more aggressive.”Johnson in January sought to balance economic and security pressures by agreeing to give Huawei a limited role in Britain’s so-called 5G network, excluding the company from core components of the system and restricting its involvement to 35% of the overall project.But the move set up a diplomatic clash with the Americans, who threatened to cut off security cooperation unless Britain dumped Huawei. Amid continued pressure to remove Huawei from communication networks entirely, the U.S. in May imposed new sanctions that will bar companies around the world from using American-made machinery or software to produce chips for the Chinese company.The back and forth has put Huawei at the vortex of tensions between China and Britain.Last fall, the U.K. called on China to give the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights free access to the Xinjiang region, where most of the country’s Uighur people live.More recently, Johnson’s government has criticized China’s decision to impose a sweeping new national security law on Hong Kong. Britain accused the Beijing government of a serious breach of the Sino-British Joint Declaration under which the U.K. returned control of Hong Kong to China in 1997, and announced it would open a special route to citizenship for up to 3 million eligible residents of the city.China’s ambassador to Britain, Liu Xiaoming, last week decried what he described as “gross interference” in Chinese affairs.“Britain can only be great,” he said, when it has an independent foreign policy, adding that it sets a bad precedent to “make your policy in the morning and change it in evening.”“It also sends out a very bad message to the China business community,” Liu said, suggesting Chinese companies might think twice about investing in Britain. “They are all watching how you handle Huawei.”Rana Mitter, an Oxford University history professor specializing in China, said that the security law — combined with broader resentment about the way China handled information about the coronavirus — created increased wariness among Britain’s politicians and the public.But for China, it is the way Britain has handled the Huawei issue that is the major problem. Even if Britain decides that buying Huawei isn’t a good idea, this could have been done more discreetly, Mitter said.“There is a sense, I suspect, in Beijing that the Huawei row has made China lose face,” he said. “And this is one of the things that clearly does not go down well with China, which is, of course, a proud country, the world’s second biggest economy with the capacity to use that economic power when it wants to, and also a country which in general feels on the back foot at the moment because of the COVID pandemic and the world’s reaction to that.”Before the decision, Huawei announced that its U.K. chairman would step down early. John Browne’s term was due to end in March but ex-boss of energy company BP is now expected to depart in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-exclude-huawei-from-role-in-high-speed-phone-network/story-9RPvxb05dXrsqZOPYOspRO.html
14-07-2020||World||Iran executes former defence ministry staffer as alleged CIA spy||Iran has executed a former employee of the defense ministry who was convicted of spying on behalf of the Central Intelligence Agency, the country’s judiciary said Tuesday. It was the second such execution in the past month.The report said Reza Asgari was executed last week. Judiciary spokesman Gholamhossein Esmaili said Asgari had worked in the airspace department of the ministry and retired in 2016.“In the last years of his service, he joined the CIA, he sold information about our missiles ... to the CIA and took money from them,” Esmaili said. “He was identified, tried and sentenced to death.”Occasionally Iran announces arrests and convictions of alleged spies for foreign countries, including the U.S. and Israel.In June, Iran said another alleged spy, Jalal Hajizavar, was hanged in a prison near Tehran. The report said Hajizavar — also a former staffer of the defense ministry — had admitted in court that he was paid to spy for the CIA. The report said authorities had also confiscated espionage equipment from his residence. It said the court sentenced Hajizavar’s wife to 15 years in prison for her role in the espionage.Before that, in 2016, Iran executed a nuclear scientist convicted of spying for the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-executes-former-defence-ministry-staffer-as-alleged-cia-spy/story-lp7Idg1JicSnxWm8ZVZMgI.html
14-07-2020||World||India’s number of undernourished people declines by 60 million to reach 14 %: UN||The number of undernourished people in India has declined by 60 million, from 21.7 per cent in 2004-06 to 14 per cent in 2017-19, according to a UN report. The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World report, released on Monday, said that there were less stunted children but more obese adults in India. The report -- considered the most authoritative global study tracking progress towards ending hunger and malnutrition -- said that the number of undernourished people in India declined from 249.4 million in 2004–06 to 189.2 million in 2017–19. In percentage terms, the prevalence of undernourishment in the total population in India declined from 21.7 per cent in 2004-06 to 14 per cent in 2017-19, it said. The two subregions showing reductions in undernourishment -- eastern and southern Asia -- are dominated by the two largest economies of the continent -- China and India. “Despite very different conditions, histories and rates of progress, the reduction in hunger in both the countries stems from long-term economic growth, reduced inequality, and improved access to basic goods and services,” it said. The report is prepared jointly by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the UN World Food Programme (WFP) and the World Health Organization (WHO). It further said that the prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age in India declined from 47.8 per cent in 2012 to 34.7 per cent in 2019 or from 62 million in 2012 to 40.3 million in 2019. More Indian adults became obese between 2012-16, it said. The number of adults (18 years and older) who are obese grew from 25.2 million in 2012 to 34.3 million in 2016, from 3.1 per cent to 3.9 per cent. The number of women of reproductive age (15–49) affected by anaemia grew from 165.6 million in 2012 to 175.6 million in 2016. The number of infants 0–5 months of age exclusively breastfed grew from 11.2 million in 2012 to 13.9 million in 2019. The report said that almost 690 million people globally were undernourished (or hungry) in 2019, up by 10 million from 2018. The hungry are most numerous in Asia, but expanding fastest in Africa. Across the planet, the report forecasts, that the Covid-19 pandemic could push over 130 million more people into chronic hunger by the end of 2020. In percentage terms, Africa is the hardest hit region and becoming more so, with 19.1 per cent of its people undernourished. At the current trends, by 2030, Africa will be home to more than half of the world’s chronically hungry. The Covid-19 is intensifying the vulnerabilities and inadequacies of global food systems - understood as all the activities and processes affecting the production, distribution and consumption of food. “While it is too soon to assess the full impact of the lockdowns and other containment measures, the report estimates that at a minimum, another 83 million people, and possibly as many as 132 million, may go hungry in 2020 as a result of the economic recession triggered by Covid-19,” it said, adding that the setback throws into further doubt the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goal two, whose target is achieving zero hunger. The latest estimates are that a staggering three billion people or more cannot afford a healthy diet. In sub-Saharan Africa and southern Asia, this is the case for 57 per cent of the population - though no region, including north America and Europe, is spared. In 2019, 191 million children under five were stunted or wasted - too short or too thin. Another 38 million under-fives were overweight. Among adults, meanwhile, obesity has become a global pandemic in its own right. The study calls on the governments to mainstream nutrition in their approaches to agriculture; work to cut cost-escalating factors in the production, storage, transport, distribution and marketing of food - including by reducing inefficiencies and food loss and waste. It also urges them to support local small-scale producers to grow and sell more nutritious foods, and secure their access to markets; prioritise children’s nutrition as the category in greatest need; foster behaviour change through education and communication; and embed nutrition in national social protection systems and investment strategies. The report noted that generally, cash transfer programmes are considered an appropriate instrument to increase dietary diversity in well-connected urban or rural contexts, while in-kind transfers are more appropriate for remote areas, where access to markets is severely limited. “In India, for instance, the country’s Targeted Public Distribution System represents the largest social protection programme in the world, reaching 800 million people with subsidised cereals that can be purchased from more than 500,000 fair price shops across the country.” In India, rural business hubs have facilitated linking smallholder farmers to rapidly growing urban markets. Apart from procuring food products from the farmers, these hubs provide services such as farm inputs and equipment, as well as access to credit. Having food processing, packaging and cooling facilities at the same location allows consumers to benefit from economies of agglomeration and, on the whole, reduce transaction costs throughout the food supply chain. This model in India has given rise to rural supermarkets that provide cheaper staple food, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-s-number-of-undernourished-people-declines-by-60-million-to-reach-14-un/story-HQ4b2oUYss8vPzivLtjZXK.html
14-07-2020||World||Second wave of Covid-19 in UK could lead to 120,000 deaths||A potential new wave of coronavirus infections this winter poses a serious risk to the U.K. and could lead to as many as 120,000 hospital deaths from September to June, according to a report.A second wave of Covid-19 could be more serious than the first as the National Health Service deals with a backlog of patients needing assessment and treatment and a potential outbreak of annual seasonal flu, researchers from the country’s Academy of Medical Sciences said in the report.The UK has already faced one of Europe’s worst outbreaks of SARS-CoV-2, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson falling seriously ill at one point. The country is one of many striving to ease restrictions on social contact while trying to revive failing economies and businesses.Hospitals in the U.K. face an increased burden in winter when other respiratory diseases and common conditions such as heart disease tend to worsen. Covid-19 is also more likely to spread in cold weather as people spend more time indoors where the virus thrives, according to the report.Flu ShotsScientists and academics who wrote the report called for expansion of programs to test, track and trace those who have been exposed and are infected. Control measures and adequate stocks of personal protective equipment also need to be assured for hospitals and nursing homes, they said.Flu vaccinations will also be important to prevent hospitals from becoming overwhelmed, the report said. Seasonal flu is regularly responsible in part for the NHS’s “winter crisis” when some hospitals fill up with sick patients.The average number of people that one infected person transmits the coronavirus to, often called the reproduction rate or R-naught, could rise to 1.7 beginning in September, according to the report. That would lead to a peak of hospital admissions and deaths in January and February which could be worse than the first wave.The current reproduction rate in the U.K. is about 0.7-0.9, which means the epidemic is diminishing overall. Ministers have previously warned the U.K. could go back into lockdown if the R rate rises above one.The report is not a prediction but a “reasonable worst-case scenario,” and calls for intense preparation, the authors said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/second-wave-of-covid-19-in-uk-could-lead-to-120-000-deaths/story-lHuQsaXsNIMVZKrtRu6ZrL.html
14-07-2020||World||UAE postpones Mars mission due to weather at Japan launch site||The United Arab Emirates has postponed to July 17 the launch of its mission to Mars due to weather conditions at the launch site in Japan, the UAE government communications office said on Tuesday. The UAE’s Hope Probe was due to set off from Japan’s Tanegashima Space Center at 12:51am UAE time on Wednesday (2051 GMT Tuesday) for a seven-month journey to the red planet where it was due to orbit and send back data about the atmosphere.“The UAE’s space mission, the Arab world’s first interplanetary mission, will launch on Friday July 17, 2020 at 12:43am UAE time (July 16, 2020 at 8:43pm GMT) from Tanegashima Space Center,” the government communications office tweeted.There are currently eight active missions exploring Mars; some orbit the planet and some land on its surface. China and the United States will send another two this year. The UAE, an oil-exporting nation, first announced plans for the mission in 2014 as part of efforts to diversify away from hydrocarbons and develop a knowledge economy, aiming to reach the planet by 2021.With a population of 9.4 million, most of whom are foreign workers, the UAE lacks the scientific and industrial base of the big space-faring nations. It launched a National Space Programme in 2017 to develop expertise in space science among Emiratis.Hazza al-Mansouri became the first Emirati in space in September 2019 in a flight to the International Space Station. To develop and build the Hope Probe, Emiratis and Dubai’s Mohammed Bin Rashid Space Centre (MBRSC) worked with U.S. educational institutions with space science expertise.The UAE government has announced an ambitious goal of a Mars settlement by 2117.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-postpones-mars-mission-due-to-weather-at-japan-launch-site/story-tZ1ImnYQZTFDCr8RJ4TJCO.html
14-07-2020||World||Global coronavirus vaccine plan may allow rich countries to buy more||Politicians and public health leaders have publicly committed to equitably sharing any coronavirus vaccine that works, but the top global initiative to make that happen may allow rich countries to reinforce their own stockpiles while making fewer doses available for poor ones.Activists warn that without stronger attempts to hold political, pharmaceutical and health leaders accountable, vaccines will be hoarded by rich countries in an unseemly race to inoculate their populations first. After the recent uproar over the United States purchasing a large amount of a new Covid-19 drug, some predict an even more disturbing scenario if a successful vaccine is developed.Dozens of vaccines are being researched, and some countries — including Britain, France, Germany and the US — already have ordered hundreds of millions of doses before the vaccines are even proven to work.While no country can afford to buy doses of every potential vaccine candidate, many poor ones can’t afford to place such speculative bets at all.The key initiative to help them is led by Gavi, a public-private partnership started by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation that buys vaccines for about 60% of the world’s children.In a document sent to potential donors last month, Gavi said those giving money to its new “Covax Facility” would have “the opportunity to benefit from a larger portfolio of Covid-19 vaccines.” Gavi told donor governments that when an effective vaccine is found within its pool of experimental shots, those countries would receive doses for 20% of their population. Those shots could be used as each nation wished.That means rich countries can sign deals on their own with drugmakers and then also get no-strings-attached allocations from Gavi. The donor countries are “encouraged (but not required) to donate vaccines if they have more than they need,” the document says.“By giving rich countries this backup plan, they’re getting their cake and eating it too,” said Anna Marriott of Oxfam International. “They may end up buying up all the supply in advance, which then limits what Gavi can distribute to the rest of the world.”Dr. Seth Berkley, Gavi’s CEO, said such criticisms were unhelpful.Right now there’s no vaccine for anyone, he said, and “we’re trying to solve that problem.”Berkley said Gavi needed to make investing in a global vaccine initiative attractive for rich countries. Gavi would try to persuade those countries that if they ordered vaccines already, they should not attempt to obtain more, he said.But he acknowledged there was no enforcement mechanism.“If, at the end of the day, those legal agreements are broken or countries seize assets or don’t allow the provision of vaccines (to developing countries), that’s a problem,” Berkley said.Gavi asked countries for an expression of intent from those interested in joining its initiative by last Friday. It had expected about four dozen high and middle income countries to sign up, in addition to nearly 90 developing countries.Dr. Richard Hatchett, CEO of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, which is working with Gavi and others, said they would be talking in the coming weeks with countries who had signed deals with drug companies to secure their own supplies.One possibility: They might ask countries to contribute their private vaccine stockpile to the global pool in exchange for access to whichever experimental candidate proves effective.“We’ll have to find a solution because some of these arrangements have been made and I think we have to be pragmatic about it,” he said.After a vaccine meeting last month, the African Union said governments should “remove all obstacles” to equal distribution of any successful vaccine.Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention chief John Nkengasong said Gavi should be “pushing hard” on convincing companies to suspend their intellectual property rights.“We don’t want to find ourselves in the HIV drugs situation,” he said, noting that the life-saving drugs were available in developed countries years before they made it to Africa.Shabhir Mahdi, principal investigator of the Oxford vaccine trial in South Africa, said it was up to African governments to push for more vaccine-sharing initiatives, rather than depending on pharmaceutical companies to make their products more accessible.“If you expect it to be the responsibility of industry, you would never get a vaccine onto the African continent,” Mahdi said.Last month, Gavi and CEPI signed a $750 million deal with AstraZeneca to give developing countries 300 million doses of a shot being developed by Oxford University. But that deal happened after the drug company had already signed contracts with Britain and the US, who are first in line to get vaccine deliveries in the fall.“We are working tirelessly to honor our commitment to ensure broad and equitable access to Oxford’s vaccine across the globe and at no profit,” said AstraZeneca CEO Pascal Soriot. He said its contract with Gavi and CEPI marked “an important step in helping us supply hundreds of millions of people around the world, including to those in countries with the lowest means.”Chinese President Xi Jinping has also vowed to share any Covid-19 vaccine it develops with African countries — but only once immunization has been completed in China.The World Health Organization has previously said it hopes to secure 2 billion doses for people in lower-income countries by the end of 2021, including through initiatives like Gavi’s. About 85% of the world’s 7.8 billion people live in developing countries.Kate Elder, senior vaccines policy adviser at Doctors Without Borders, said Gavi should try to extract more concessions from pharmaceutical companies, including compelling them to suspend patents on the vaccines.“Gavi is in a very delicate position because they’re completely reliant on the goodwill” of drug companies, said Elder. She said the system of how vaccines are provided to developing countries needed to be overhauled so that it wasn’t based on charity, but on public health need.“We’re just having our governments write these blank checks to industry with no conditions attached right now,” she said. “Isn’t now the time to actually hold them to account and demand we as the public, get more for it?”Yannis Natsis, a policy official at the European Public Health Alliance, said the last thing on the minds of officials in rich countries is sharing with poor ones.“Politicians are scared if they don’t throw money at companies, the citizens in the next country over will get the vaccines first and they will look very bad,” Natsis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-coronavirus-vaccine-plan-may-allow-rich-countries-to-buy-more/story-HYMxNIwK5oppLFdKlzW9yN.html
14-07-2020||World||President Macron to host downsized Bastille Day, outline crisis response amid Covid-19 pandemic||President Emmanuel Macron will host Tuesday a Bastille Day ceremony scaled-down because of the coronavirus pandemic and also address the French in a rare television interview as fears grow over a potential second wave of infections.For the first time since 1945, authorities have called off the annual military parade along the Champs-Elysees in Paris that marks the July 14, 1789, storming of the Bastille fortress that launched the French Revolution.Just 2,000 soldiers -- half the usual number -- will gather at the Place de la Concorde.However Macron is renewing another tradition, the July 14 president’s interview, to detail his plans for surmounting the devastating social and economic crisis wrought by the Covid-19 outbreak.SEE PHOTOS: Bastille Day 2020 in Paris, France amid the coronavirus pandemicHe abandoned the ritual after taking office three years ago with a pledge to shake up politics as usual, but his new government is under pressure to prove it will rise to the unprecedented challenges.Prominent doctors urged this week that face masks be mandatory indoors, while authorities have warned the virus appears to spreading faster in several areas as people let down their guard during summer holidays.And despite billions of euros pledged to minimise the economic damage, questions remain over how the government will foster recovery from a recession expected to destroy hundreds of thousands of jobs.Elysee officials said the president, who this month replaced his prime minister with a hands-on technocrat, would address the health crisis as well as several measures to revive economic growth.- De Gaulle and ‘Resilience’ -Macron’s live TV interview at the Elysee Palace will air at around 1:00 pm (1100 GMT), after the military review and his speech to honour the country’s armed forces as well its doctors, nurses and others fighting the coronavirus pandemic.No crowds will be allowed anywhere near the Concorde square to avoid contagion risks, and just 2,500 guests will be spread out on viewing benches, with only a handful of tanks and other military equipment on display.The French air force will still carry out its traditional flyovers of the Arc de Triomphe and the Champs-Elysees, including an A400M transport plane used to evacuate Covid-19 patients from overwhelmed hospitals at the height of the crisis.The flights were part of Operation Resilience that Macron launched in March, which also saw a military field hospital set up in hard-hit eastern regions of the country.Representatives of Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Luxembourg have been invited, to thank the countries for taking in a total of 161 French patients in critical condition.Macron’s aides have said he will also seize the occasion to honour Charles de Gaulle on the 50th anniversary of the general’s death, and the 80th of his famous call of June 18, 1940, to resist the Nazi occupation.The ceremony will close with a rendition of the national anthem La Marseillaise and a flyover of the Patrouille de France acrobatics jets trailing blue, white and red smoke in honour of frontline health workers.Later Tuesday, parks near the Eiffel Tower will be closed to avoid crowds for the Bastille Day fireworks in Paris, and most other cities have called off their shows altogether.- Eye on election -Macron’s critics have accused him of initially underestimating and then mishandling a crisis that has now caused more than 30,000 deaths in France.He has limited himself to a few televised addresses since March, while his previous premier Edouard Philippe enjoyed a popularity boost over his perceived steady hand.New Prime Minister Jean Castex has riled unions by saying he will move quickly to finalise a controversial pensions overhaul suspended by the crisis.Macron pushed ahead on the signature reform despite massive strikes over the winter, which drew in part on the anti-government anger laid bare in the “yellow vest” protests of 2018 and 2019.His interview Tuesday is expected to set his other priorities for the less than two years that remain before he comes up for re-election in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/president-macron-to-host-downsized-bastille-day-outline-crisis-response-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-HW9e1hjOVID8sJyfJTHhKL.html
14-07-2020||World||Alpine melt yields old India headlines: Indira Gandhi is PM||The Mont Blanc glacier in the French Alps yields more and more secrets as it melts -- this time a clutch of newspapers with banner headlines from when Indira Gandhi became India’s first and so far only woman prime minister in 1966.The copies of Indian newspapers the National Herald and The Economic Times were probably aboard an Air India Boeing 707 that crashed on the mountain on January 24, 1966, claiming 177 lives.The trove of around a dozen newspapers was found last week by Timothee Mottin, who runs a cafe-restaurant, La Cabane du Cerro, perched at an altitude of 1,350 metres (4,455 feet) near the Chamonix skiing hub.“They are drying now but they are in very good condition,” Mottin, 33, told AFP. “You can read them.”The modest cafe is around 45 minutes by foot from the Bossons glacier where the plane named after the Himalayan peak of Kangchenjunga mysteriously crashed.Mottin said he was lucky to discover the papers when he did because the ice in which they were encased for nearly six decades “had probably just melted”.Once the papers have dried out, they will join a growing collection of found items from the crash that Mottin has put on display at the Cabane du Cerro.He said he preferred to share his finds with visitors rather than “hide them in an attic waiting to sell them” -- something he said had become a “business” for less scrupulous climbers.Human remains were found in the area in 2017 that could have come from the 1964 crash or that of another Indian plane, the Malabar Princess, that came down in the same area in 1950.The most stunning find occurred in 2013, that of a box of precious stones -- emeralds, sapphires and rubies worth between 130,000 and 246,000 euros ($145,000-$275,000) -- thought to have come from the 1966 crash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alpine-melt-yields-old-india-headlines-indira-gandhi-is-pm/story-9zKYJK2PYI66KwQrjgB2qN.html
14-07-2020||World||Meet Sarah Al-Amiri, woman scientist in charge of leading UAE’s mission to Mars||The United Arab Emirates is planning to send a spacecraft to Mars and the reins of the Arab world’s first interplanetary mission is in the hands of a woman. In an interview with the BBC, scientist Sarah Al-Amiri who is in charge of the mission said that the probe took over six years to build.Amiri, who is UAE’s minister of State for Advanced Technology, expressed her nervousness and said that team has invested more than six years into the mission that primarily aims to find out more about the Red Planet. The mission will try and unearth the reason behind Mars’ barren, dusty atmosphere and environment by closely studying its weather and climate. The Red Planet once contained oceans just like Earth, what turned it into a dry and dusty planet remains a mystery yet to be solved. In the interview, Amiri said the vastness of the universe and complexities of the space has always excited and mesmerised her, thereby igniting her curiosity.Also read: UAE to make history with launch of Mars probeThe Mars mission comes as a huge leap for the UAE, which by far has only launched satellites into the Earth’s orbit. The country’s spacecraft, named Hope or "al-Amal" in Arabic, has been built with the help of US scientists. Hope will be launched on a Japanese rocket and is likely to take around seven months to reach the Red Planet. Once there, it will loop the planet for a whole Martian year -- 687 days. The spacecraft was set to be launched on July 15, 12:51:27 am (UAE time) from Japan’s remote Tanegashima Space Center. The launch has been postponed due to adverse weather conditions.“In my heart of hearts, I’m looking forward to the initial 24 hours after separation, and that’s where we see the results of our work,” said Amiri as reported by news agency AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/meet-sarah-al-amiri-woman-scientist-in-charge-of-leading-uae-s-mission-to-mars/story-l7ytAyxJMSzeHapRkS4MxI.html
14-07-2020||World||US backs ASEAN on South China Sea, challenges China’s predatory world view||By calling China’s claims to off-shore resources in South China Sea (SCS) unlawful and championing a “free and open Indo-Pacific”, the United States has reversed its perceived “isolationist” policy and has reaffirmed its strong commitment to its ASEAN partners and key allies Japan and Australia.The statement on “US Position on Maritime Claims in South China Sea” by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo comes at a time when two US nuclear powered aircraft carriers - Nimitz and Ronald Reagan - with 120 fighters are exercising in South China Sea. The two super carriers are openly challenging the unproven might of PLA Navy by exercising near Paracel Islands off the Vietnam coast and north of Chinese nuclear submarine base at Hainan Islands.Secretary of State Pompeo’s statement is not only a demonstration of enormous political will of US to stand by its allies in Indo-Pacific region but also reinforcement of SCS frontline. “The statement has turned the perception that Trump administration was only inward looking and isolationist on its head. By spelling out its SCS position in black and white, it is a doctrinal recommitment from the American side to this region. It indicates that US is standing firmly with its allies like Philippines and Vietnam and recognising the claims of Indonesia and Malaysia against Chinese bullying in the area,” said a China watcher.Pompeo rejects China’s SCS claimsWorld won’t allow Beijing to treat South China Sea as its maritime empireUS stands with Southeast Asian allies to protect their rightsBeijing’s claims to offshore resources across most of the South China Sea are completely unlawful, as is its campaign of bullying to control themThere are clear cases where China is claiming sovereignty over areas that no country can lawfully claimPompeo’s statement is a shift from previous US policy that asked all sides to resolve disputes peacefullyThe US statement that Xi Jinping’s predatory world view has no place in 21st century comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his July 3 Ladakh speech made it clear that there was no space for expansionist regimes and future only belonged to those who believed in development. The Indian position of free and open South China Sea also synergises with Secretary Pompeo’s statement on Indo-Pacific.India is expected to expand on its view about right to free navigation when Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte visits New Delhi later this year as his March trip had to be postponed due to coronavirus global pandemic.The US statement has revived the Arbitration Tribunal at Hague rejection of China’s SCS claims on July 12, 2016. To remind China of its hubris, Secretary Pompeo has recalled a 2010 statement of then Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi, who told his ASEAN counterparts that it was a fact that China is a big country and others are just small.The US has openly taken sides with Philippines on Scarborough Reef, Spratly Islands, Mischief Reef and second Thomas Shoal and called the Chinese claims unlawful and unilateral. The Chinese PLA has virtually declared the SCS as its backyard by contesting claims with ASEAN countries and exploiting the exclusive economic zone by simply bullying these countries militarily into submission. Beijing has also used its closeness with Laos, Cambodia and Myanmar to ensure nothing adverse comes out against China in the so-called Asian tiger forum.Secretary Pompeo has totally rejected China’s claim over James Shoal near Malaysia and made it clear that the world will not allow Beijing to treat South China Sea as its maritime empire.The US SCS statement has not only challenged China but also given steel injection of support to countries like Japan, Australia and South Korea, who haver decided to look the other way to Beijing’s expansion in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-backs-asean-on-south-china-sea-challenges-china-s-predatory-world-view/story-QhWynYN2lGFvVofSh5aWBN.html
14-07-2020||World||China denies burial to its soldiers killed in Galwan clash: Report||It seems China is not willing to recognise the ultimate sacrifice made by its soldiers for the country as the government is pressuring the families of soldiers who died in Galwan face off to not conduct burials and in-person funeral ceremonies, according to a US intelligence assessment. The bloody brawl between Chinese and Indian troops took place on June 15 in which both sides suffered casualties. India, without any hesitation, accepted that 20 of its soldiers have been martyred in the clash. They are being hailed as heroes.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his monthly radio programme Mann ki Baat on June 28, conveyed condolences to the kin of Army personnel who lost their lives in the Galwan valley clash and said that the sacrifice of these families is “worth worshipping”.Even after the one month of the incident, China has still not disclosed how many of its soldiers were killed in the incident.The grieving Chinese families who have lost their loved ones in the clash are being mistreated by the Chinese government. First, the Chinese government refused to accept the casualties on its side following the incident and now it has denied burial of the fallen soldiers. According to the US intelligence assessment, China is not accepting that its soldiers have been killed in the showdown in order to cover up an episode that Beijing appears to consider a blunder, reported the U.S. News.The violent face-off occurred after China attempted to unilaterally change the status quo during de-escalation in eastern Ladakh. India has said that the situation could have been avoided if the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side. The Chinese government has acknowledged the deaths of only a few officers so far. Indian intercepts have revealed that the Chinese side suffered 43 casualties including the dead and seriously injured.American intelligence believes that 35 of the Chinese soldiers were killed in the showdown.The Chinese Ministry of Civil Affairs has told families of those who died in the Galwan Valley clash that they must forgo traditional burial ceremonies and cremate the soldiers’ remains and that any funeral services should be conducted remotely, not in person, a source familiar with the assessment told U.S. News.Though the government has used the threat posed by the spread of the coronavirus as a pretext, the assessment concludes that the new rules are a part of a deliberate effort by Beijing to undermine public awareness and erase any enduring reminders of the violent clash.This decision of the Chinese Communist Party has upset Chinese families who lost their loved ones in the incident, US-based Breitbart News had reported. According to Breitbart, the Chinese government is struggling to silence the families of soldiers who are using Weibo and other platforms to vent their anger and frustration. China reportedly fears that images of gravestones for its fallen soldiers of the People’s Liberation Army, or PLA, could further stoke those sentiments if spread on Chinese or international social media.“The reality is they don’t want to create martyr soldiers,” says the source, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive material. “So they have banned functions where friends and families can pay their respects for the PLA deceased.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-denies-burial-to-its-soldiers-killed-in-galwan-clash-report/story-XgiGqMsgqB3HMYQholuvsI.html
14-07-2020||World||Australia tightens restrictions on movement amid fresh Covid-19 outbreaks||Australian states on Tuesday tightened restrictions on movement as authorities struggle to contain a fresh outbreak of Covid-19 in the country’s southeast that is starting to spill into other areas.With growing fears of a second coronavirus wave nationally, two states extended border restrictions and Australia’s most populous state imposed limits on the number of people allowed in large pubs.The changes come as scores of new cases were uncovered in Victoria, the country’s Covid-19 hotspot, despite a return to lockdown last week for nearly 5 million people in state capital Melbourne.Active cases in the state rose to nearly 2,000 after another 270 infections were detected in the past 24 hours, authorities said, taking Australia’s total number of cases to about 10,000, with 107 deaths.“We haven’t turned the corner yet. I hope to see that this week, but there are no guarantees,” Brett Sutton, Victoria’s Chief Medical Officer told reporters in Melbourne. Australia avoided the high Covid-19 casualty numbers of other nations with swift and strict measures, but a spike in community-transmitted cases in Victoria and a rise in new cases in New South Wales has worried other states.South Australia cancelled plans to reopen its border to New South Wales on July 20, while Queensland introduced a mandatory two-week quarantine for people who have visited two areas in Sydney’s western suburbs.“Our primary responsibility in South Australia is to the health, safety and welfare of all South Australians,” Premier Steven Marshall told reporters in Adelaide.New South Wales, which has seen several dozen cases linked to the outbreak in Victoria, said pubs will now be limited to no more than 300 people, responding to an outbreak centred at a large hotel in southwestern Sydney.Authorities believe 600 people visited the Crossroads Hotel on July 3, when the outbreak is believed to have begun.“Indoor activity, where people aren’t seated is a huge health risk. It increases the chance of transmission,” state Premier Gladys Berejiklian told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-tightens-restrictions-on-movement-amid-fresh-covid-19-outbreaks/story-BnrYTWWgpOKI6k19g5B01N.html
14-07-2020||World||Japan traces new Covid-19 outbreak linked to theatre in Tokyo||Tokyo health officials appealed on Tuesday for more than 800 theatregoers to get tested for the novel coronavirus after a production starring Japanese boy-band members was found to be the source of at least 20 cases.As the number of virus infections continues to rise in Japan’s capital city, the Tokyo government said it was focussing on a 190-seat theatre in the Shinjuku entertainment district, where infections have also been traced to cabaret clubs.Japan is pushing ahead with opening up parts of the country, with plans to reopen a runway at one of the country’s biggest airports, even as infections persist in major cities, rural areas and US military bases.The latest cluster has been traced to Theatre Moliere, near Tokyo’s red-light district, which staged a play for six days starring mainly up-and-coming boy-band members earlier this month.The Tokyo government said it learned of the first infection among a cast member on July 6, after which testing found 20 related cases by late Monday. It called on all audience members who attended the performance to get tested.The producers of the play, “Werewolf”, released a statement on Monday also asking audience members to seek health advice.“Following a large number of infections seen among our spectators, we have been informed that all 800 spectators who came to see the performance have been identified as high-risk contacts,” Rise Communications said on its website.As Tokyo struggles to contain virus infections, travel routes to and from the city continue to open up. Narita International Airport, one of the two main airports serving the capital, is planning to re-open its second runway ahead of a public holiday next week, public broadcaster NHK reported.Tokyo reported 119 new cases of coronavirus infections on Monday following a four-day run when the daily tally exceeded 200. Overall, Japan has reported around 23,000 infections, and nearly 1,000 related deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-traces-new-covid-19-outbreak-linked-to-theatre-in-tokyo/story-BxOP97TFctAylPe2p5h73L.html
14-07-2020||World||Covid-19: Hong Kong to impose most severe social distancing restrictions||Hong Kong will impose strict new social distancing measures from midnight Tuesday, the most stringent in the Asian financial hub since the coronavirus broke out, as authorities warn the risk of a large-scale outbreak is extremely high. The measures dictate that face masks will be mandatory for people using public transport and restaurants will no longer provide dine in services and only offer takeaway after 6 pm.Both are new rules that were not implemented during the city’s first and second coronavirus waves earlier this year. If a person does not wear a mask on public transport, they face a fine of HK$5,000 ($645).Chief Executive Carrie Lam said on Monday the government would limit group gatherings to four people from 50 - a measure last seen during a second wave in March. Twelve types of establishments including gyms and places of amusement must shut for a week.“The recent emergence of local cases of unknown infection source indicates the existence of sustained silent transmission in the community,” the government said in a statement late on Monday. The Chinese-ruled city recorded 52 new cases of coronavirus on Monday, including 41 that were locally transmitted, health authorities said. Since late January, Hong Kong has reported 1,522 cases and local media reported an eighth death on Monday. The government said it is very concerned about the high number of imported cases and planned to impose further measures on travellers from high-risk places, including securing mandatory negative test results before arrival. Lam said the measures were the result of a three-way tug of war between considerations related to public health, economic impact and social acceptability and that the city may need to co-exist with the virus for a period of time.More than 13.02 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 569,336​ have died, according to a Reuters tally.Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-hong-kong-to-impose-most-severe-social-distancing-restrictions/story-5dk803aHia0shmtIlGlBlN.html
14-07-2020||World||UAE to make history with launch of Mars probe||The United Arab Emirates plans to make history Wednesday with the scheduled launch of the “Hope” mission, which will make it the first Arab nation to send a probe to Mars.A rocket carrying the unmanned spacecraft is due to take off from Japan’s remote Tanegashima Space Center at 5:51 am local time (2051 GMT Tuesday) although poor weather could delay lift-off until later in a launch window that runs until August 13.The Emirati project is one of three racing to Mars, including Tianwen-1 from China and Mars 2020 from the United States, taking advantage of the period when the Earth and Mars are nearest: a mere 55 million kilometres (34 million miles) apart.But unlike the two other ventures, the UAE’s Mars probe will not land on the Red Planet.“Hope” -- or Al-Amal in Arabic -- is expected to reach Mars’s orbit by February 2021, marking the 50th anniversary of the unification of the United Arab Emirates, an alliance of seven sheikhdoms. Once there, it will loop the planet for a whole Martian year -- 687 days.The probe is expected to detach from the launch rocket about an hour after blast-off, which is when the UAE Mars mission’s deputy project manager Sarah al-Amiri said the real excitement will begin.“In my heart of hearts, I’m looking forward to the initial 24 hours after separation, and that’s where we see the results of our work,” said Amiri, who is also Minister of State for Advanced Sciences.“It is when we first get the signal, when we know that every part of the spacecraft is functioning, when the solar panels are deployed, when we hit our trajectory and are headed towards Mars,” she told AFP earlier this month.Keiji Suzuki from Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, which is carrying the Hope probe into space, said that with thunderstorms forecast there was doubt over whether the launch would take place on schedule.“The weather is going downhill,” he said during a briefing Monday. “However, the current forecast is not for severe thunderstorms all the way through, so our current assessment is that there are chances for a launch.”Big ambitions The UAE -- which is better known for its skyscrapers, palm-shaped islands and mega attractions -- has in recent years been pushing to expand its space sector.While the objective of the Mars mission is to provide a comprehensive image of the weather dynamics in the Red Planet’s atmosphere and pave the way for scientific breakthroughs, the probe is a foundation for a much bigger goal -- building a human settlement on Mars within the next 100 years.The UAE also wants the project to serve as a source of inspiration for Arab youth, in a region too often wracked by sectarian conflicts and economic crises.Dubai has hired architects to imagine what a Martian city might look like and recreate it in its desert as “Science City”, at a cost of around 500 million dirhams (135 million dollars).And last September, Hazza al-Mansouri became the first Emirati in space, part of a three-member crew that blasted off on a Soyuz rocket from Kazakhstan, returning home after an eight-day mission in which he became the first Arab to visit the International Space Station.Several dozen probes -- most of them American -- have set off for the Red Planet since the 1960s. Many never made it that far, or failed to land.The drive to explore Mars flagged until the confirmation less than 10 years ago that water once flowed on its surface.“What is unique about this mission is that for the first time the scientific community around the world will have an holistic view of the Martian atmosphere at different times of the day at different seasons,” the mission’s project manager Omran Sharaf told Monday’s briefing.“We have a strategy to contribute to the global effort in developing technologies and science work that will help one day if humanity decides to put a human on Mars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-to-make-history-with-launch-of-mars-probe/story-dvIIttVpZfwgoIoLfawJqL.html
14-07-2020||World||US rejects Chinese claims in South China Sea in new escalation||The United States on Monday categorically rejected all of China’s maritime claims in the South China Sea in a hardening of its position on a long festering regional dispute that reflected worsening of relations between the two countries in recent months.“We are strengthening US policy in a vital, contentious part of that region, the South China Sea,” Secretary of State Michael R Pompeo said in a statement. “We are making clear Beijing’s claims to offshore resources across most of the South China Sea are completely unlawful, as is its campaign of bullying to control them.”The United States was “aligning” itself, Pompeo added, with a 2016 order of the Arbitral Tribunal constituted under the 1982 Law of the Sea Convention that had rejected China’s maritime claims in the South China Sea. China has claimed between 85% and 90% of the South China Sea hemmed in by the so-called “Nine-Dashed Line” - a Chinese cartographic inscription from 1947 and modified to its present form in 1952 - that extends 2,000 km (1,243 miles) from the Chinese mainland, up to a few hundred kilometres from the Philippines, Vietnam and Malaysia. The tribunal rejected its claims in 2016.Washington DC had welcomed the decision then but had not embraced it so forcefully until now, inserting itself into the multi-nation dispute, involving on the other side, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Vietnam.The hardening of the US position came amidst a recent spike in tensions between the two countries triggered by the Covid-19 epidemic, which started in Chia but hit the United States the hardest. The Trump administration has sought to blame China for it in a bid to shift some of the blame for its own mishandling of the outbreak.President Donald Trump said last week the relationship with China has been “severely damaged” by its handling of the coronavirus epidemic. The United States has announced sanctions against Chinese government agencies and officials over the persecution of Uighur Muslims, travel restrictions to Tibet, increasing Beijing role in Hong Kong and curtailed visa duration for some Chinese journalists posted in the US.In the India-China border conflagration that started and worsened in coinciding weeks, the Trump administration, and the US Congress sided unequivocally with New Delhi. Both Trump and Pompeo have blamed Chinese “aggression” for the tensions, as a reflection of the country’s and the ruling communist party’s aggressive intent around the world.Though the Monday statement came around the fourth anniversary of the 2016 decision of the tribunal, the Trump administration had signaled its new aggressive posture in the region deploying two aircraft carriers into the region for exercises for the first time in many years in the South China Sea, at the same time when the Chinese were conducting theirs.“The world will not allow Beijing to treat the South China Sea as its maritime empire,” Pompeo said, adding “America stands with our Southeast Asian allies and partners in protecting their sovereign rights to offshore resources, consistent with their rights and obligations under international law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-rejects-chinese-claims-in-south-china-sea-in-new-escalation/story-UHEqKhyqn59oLLmobmjZEL.html
14-07-2020||World||Protests erupt against police brutality in Pennsylvania||Activists against police brutality expressed outrage and demanded accountability Monday after video emerged over the weekend of an officer placing his knee on a man’s head and neck area outside a Pennsylvania hospital.Allentown police released a much longer surveillance video of the incident that showed the officer putting his knee on the man’s head and neck area twice while he was being restrained a few steps from the emergency room entrance — the first time for eight seconds, the second for 20 seconds.The man appeared to be “suffering from a medical, mental health or drug and alcohol crisis,” police said in a statement late Monday.Police violated their own policy against neck restraints when an officer used his knee to bear down on the man’s head, activists said, while the American Civil Liberties Union of Pennsylvania called it an illegal use of force.Hundreds of people marched in downtown Allentown on Monday night, calling for the officer to be fired and police funds to be reallocated to education, mental health and other social services.“These police officers should not have been restraining him. He needed help,” said Maegan Llerena of Make the Road Pennsylvania, an advocacy group. “Not even two months after George Floyd was murdered in Minneapolis, there was a knee on the neck of a man in front of a hospital. What is that? Can someone explain that to me?”Police launched an internal probe.The videotaped incident occurred nearly seven weeks after a white Minneapolis police officer pressed his knee into the neck of Floyd, a Black man, for nearly eight minutes. Floyd’s death in police custody sparked global protests over police brutality and racial injustice.“I can’t believe this is really happening now, and here,” said Justan Parker, founder of Allentown-based Black Lives Matter to Lehigh Valley.The group issued a list of demands, including the release of any police bodycam video of the incident, the suspension of the officers involved, the name and condition of the man, the establishment of a regional criminal justice review board and a reallocation of police funding.The brief bystander video, shot from a passing vehicle and posted on social media, shows Allentown officers restraining the man on the ground outside the emergency room of the Sacred Heart Campus of St. Luke’s Hospital. An officer had his elbow on the man’s neck before switching to a knee to hold him down while other officers restrained his arms.In the soundless, 9:38 surveillance video, released late Monday, the man can be seen staggering on the street and sidewalk, vomiting several times and stopping in the driveway of the ER.Two of the three officers at the scene approached the man after several minutes and attempted to place him into handcuffs, and the man appeared to resist. One of the officers swept the man’s leg to bring him to the ground. Shortly after, the other officer put his knee on the man’s head and neck.An earlier police statement said the man had begun to yell and spit at officers and hospital staff, adding the man was “noncompliant which required officers to restrain” him. The surveillance video shows a hospital staffer placing what police called a “breathable spit mask” over the man’s head, which is used to protect staff, officers and others from contact with bodily fluids.The man was treated at the hospital and released, police said.The American Civil Liberties Union of Pennsylvania criticized the police explanation.The police department’s “appalling excuse for an officer illegally placing his knee on a man’s neck is that he was in mental distress and being ‘non-compliant,’“ the group tweeted in reaction to the shorter bystander video. “Police should NOT be first responders to those in a mental health crisis.”Attorney Benjamin Crump, who represents Floyd’s family, tweeted the bystander video, writing that the restraint used by the unidentified officer is “exactly what led to #GeorgeFloyd’s death.” Crump demanded the officer’s name.Police have not released the name or race of any individuals seen in the video. Community advocates said they were trying to identify the man in the video to offer support.“During a health crisis, whatever it was, when he should’ve been given support, instead he was criminalized and he received a knee to his neck,” said Hasshan Batts, executive director of Promise Neighborhoods of the Lehigh Valley, an Allentown community group.Police said their internal investigation is moving swiftly. The Lehigh County district attorney’s office assigned two detectives to the internal probe and planned to issue findings later this week.“Our investigation is ongoing, and as we uncover additional information we’re trying to release that as we can,” Assistant Police Chief Bill Lake said.Though Allentown police wear body cameras, Lake declined to say Monday whether police video of the incident exists.A St. Luke’s spokesperson said the hospital has turned its own video over to police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protests-erupt-against-police-brutality-in-pennsylvania/story-hb9EXPzXQ2UsD6sUg7R1zK.html
14-07-2020||World||Canadian PM Justin Trudeau apologises for not recusing himself from contract talks for charity tied to his family||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has apologised for his “mistake” in not recusing himself from a cabinet decision to grant a nearly billion dollar project for administration to a charity which paid his wife, mother and brother fees to speak at its events. The controversy related to the contract given to the WE Charity, later aborted, has already led to the announcement of a series of inquiries. The Opposition has, meanwhile, sought a police investigation into the matter.It has also resulted in Trudeau’s personal image taking a beating, as a new poll showed that his approval numbers had been impacted after having surged, thanks to the perception of effective handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in Canada.During the course of a media interaction, Trudeau said, “I made a mistake in not recusing myself. I am sorry.” The furore over the grant of the contract to the WE organisation started after it was announced in June. Trudeau was known to have been involved with the charity but was never paid himself. However, it later emerged that it had paid his wife Sophie Gregoire Trudeau CA $1,400 in 2012 when it was called Free the Children. Reports in the Canadian media later revealed his mother Margaret had received CA $3,12,000 in speaking fees from a for-profit arm of the organisation, with his brother Alexandre billing CA $40,000.Trudeau addressed these revelations, as he said, “I deeply regret that I have brought my mother into this situation. It’s unfair to her, and I should have been thoughtful enough to recuse myself from this situation.”Trudeau was not the only cabinet minister to have links to the charity. Finance minister Bill Morneau also apologised for not recusing himself from cabinet discussions relating to the issuing of the contract, since his one of his daughters had worked with the WE organisation and another featured as a speaker. The charity also took out full page advertisements in two national dailies as a manner of apology and to “set the record straight.”Canada’s Ethics Commissioner is already looking into the matter as are two parliament committees. The Opposition has also sought an emergency meeting of the House of Commons’ Ethics Committee for a probe into the matter. Trudeau has been under attack continuously since the controversy first broke, with Bloc Quebecois leader Yves-Francois Blanchet dismissing his apology. The outlet CBC News quoted him as reacting, “There comes a time when we do not trust anymore and when being sorry is not something you believe in anymore.”Meanwhile, a new public poll from the Angus Reid Institute or ARI indicates that the issue is already taking a political toll on Trudeau. In a newly-released survey, it said Trudeau’s “approval has dropped five points in the first reading of public opinion since questions arose regarding his government’s - and family’s - ties to the WE group of organisations.” That approval rating has declined from 55 per cent in May to 50 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-pm-justin-trudeau-apologises-for-not-recusing-himself-from-contract-talks-for-charity-tied-to-his-family/story-yQftsPc7wbG5aiyoH0u7EO.html
14-07-2020||World||UK winter could see 120,000 Covid-19 deaths in second wave||Britain faces a potentially more deadly second wave of Covid-19 in the coming winter that could kill up to 120,000 people over nine months in a worst-case scenario, health experts said on Tuesday.With Covid-19 more likely to spread in winter as people spend more time together in enclosed spaces, a second wave of the pandemic “could be more serious than the one we’ve just been through,” said Stephen Holgate, a professor and co-lead author of a report by Britain’s Academy of Medical Sciences (AMS).Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“This is not a prediction, but it is a possibility,” Holgate told an online briefing. “Deaths could be higher with a new wave of Covid-19 this winter, but the risk of this happening could be reduced if we take action immediately.”The United Kingdom’s current death toll from confirmed cases of Covid-19 is around 45,000, the highest in Europe. Including suspected cases, more than 55,000 people have died, according to a Reuters tally of official data sources.The AMS said there is a “high degree of uncertainty” about how the UK’s Covid-19 epidemic will evolve, but outlined a “reasonable worst-case scenario” where the reproduction number -- or R value -- rises to 1.7 from September 2020 onwards.The R value -- the average number of people an infected person will pass a disease on to -- is currently between 0.7 and 0.9 in the UK and daily case and death numbers are falling. An R value above 1 can lead to exponential growth.“The modelling estimates 119,900 hospital deaths between September 2020 and June 2021,” the AMS report said, more than double the number that occurred during the first wave.AMS vice president Anne Johnson said a bad winter flu season, combined with large backlog of patients suffering other diseases and chronic conditions, would add to huge pressure on health services -- underlining a need to prepare now.“Covid-19 has not gone away,” she said. “We need to do everything we can to stay healthy this winter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-winter-could-see-120-000-covid-19-deaths-in-second-wave/story-xDtI3MkS87f3s5yZXc6z5H.html
14-07-2020||World||Brazil reassigns deforestation data manager, raising question of political influence||Brazil is restructuring the space agency team responsible for monitoring deforestation including reassigning a key manager, a move that enviromentalists said raised concerns of political interference as destruction soars in the Amazon rainforest.The federal government initially announced on Monday morning in the official gazette that coordinator Lubia Vinhas had been dismissed from her position as head of the earth observation team at space agency Inpe, without offering an explanation.The announcement came after Inpe data on Friday showed that deforestation had increased for the 14th consecutive month and was up 25% in the first six months of the year, compared to the same period a year ago.On Monday evening, Inpe released a statement on its website saying Vinhas had been reassigned as part of an existing larger restructuring to improve the agency’s operations. She will lead a special project to launch a “georeferencing” database, and her department will be merged with meterological and other departments, it said.Vinhas did not respond to emailed requests for comment.The timing of the firing raises questions about whether it was politically motivated, said Marcio Astrini, head of the Brazilian non-governmental organization Climate Observatory.“At a minimum, it’s very strange that a manager at Inpe that handles the deforestation data would be dismissed on the next (working) day after the release of deforestation data,” said Astrini.Astrini cited last year’s high-profile firing of the top official at Inpe, director Ricardo Galvao, by President Jair Bolsonaro, shortly after the release of data showing worsening deforestation that angered the right-wing leader.“At the least, it creates distrust in the government’s intentions,” Astrini saidInpe said it has been forced to restructure due to staff shortages caused by budget cuts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-reassigns-deforestation-data-manager-raising-question-of-political-influence/story-FbQk68Oogjuk0vQzXa7iUO.html
14-07-2020||World||Trump congratulates Polish President Duda’s ‘historic’ re-election||US President Donald Trump on Monday congratulated Andrzej Duda on his “historic” re-election as president of Poland.“Congratulations to my friend President @AndrzejDuda of Poland on his historic re-election! Looking forward to continuing our important work together across many issues, including defense, trade, energy, and telecommunications security!” Trump wrote in a Twitter post.Duda won five more years in power on a socially conservative, religious platform in a closely fought election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-congratulates-polish-president-duda-s-historic-re-election/story-fKb7LSZDUFhfb3wnpHyOEL.html
14-07-2020||World||Covid-19: California shuts bars, indoor dining and most gyms, churches||Bars and inside restaurant dining are banned throughout California, while indoor religious services, gyms and hair and nail salons are again off-limits in most of the state, Gov. Gavin Newsom said Monday in issuing a sweeping set of closures to head off surging coronavirus cases and hospitalizations.The order is part of the state’s new strategy to control the spread of the virus by focusing on limiting indoor activities to reflect public health officials’ evolving understanding of how the virus spreads.Earlier in the pandemic California closed beaches, campgrounds and state parks as it sought to limit interactions of people from different households. But as data showed the virus was most likely to be transmitted indoors, the Newsom administration began modifying public health orders, including ordering people to wear face coverings and leaving outdoor activities alone.Newsom has repeatedly implored people to refrain from social gatherings and he expressed frustration that many aren’t following the guidance.“Covid-19 is not going away anytime soon, until there is a vaccine and or an effective therapy,” Newsom said. “Limit your mixing with people outside of your household. It’s just common sense, but the data suggests not everyone is practicing common sense.”The city of Los Angeles immediately implemented the mandated shutdowns and Mayor Eric Garcetti said he wouldn’t hesitate to go further.Earlier this month the city created a color-coded system to designate the threat level from the virus and corresponding shutdowns. Rising numbers of cases and hospitalizations now have it at orange — the second-highest designation, when people are to minimize all contact with anyone outside their household.“Red is when everything shuts down again -- everything, to our strictest level. And I do want to warn people that we’re close to that,” Garcetti said.Newsom’s move faced immediate resistance from religious groups and business organizations. Fred Jones, attorney for the Professional Beauty Federation of California, suggested many hair salons may not comply with the order.He said there is “no evidence that a single contagion has been spread in a salon since we’ve been allowed to reopen.”“He should be partnering with his state licensed-professionals, not shutting us down,” Jones said.Robbert Tyler, the attorney for California-based Advocates for Faith and Freedom, said he believes Newsom’s order on religious services is unconstitutional. While Newsom says churches can meet outdoors, Tyler said many don’t have the facilities for that.“We have not only an economic crisis but we have a spiritual and mental health crisis that requires as much attention as Covid-19,” said Tyler, whose nonprofit organization represents churches on religious liberty issues. “To tell churches they can no longer meet indoors is just a further restriction upon the incredible services provided by churches across the state that are desperately needed.”California was the first state in the country to issue a mandatory, statewide stay-at-home order aimed at slowing the spread of the coronavirus. Most businesses and churches voluntarily complied, scrambling to let employees work from home and moving worship services online.Public health officials praised Newsom, crediting the March 19 order with limiting the virus’ impact in the nation’s most populous state, which has about 40 million residents. But the order devastated the economy, causing more than 7.5 million people to file for unemployment benefits.Newsom moved quickly to reopen the economy in May but by mid-June there were signs that the virus was resurgent and when July arrived Newsom took action. For counties on the state’s watch for rising virus cases, he ordered bars to close and indoor operations halted at restaurants, wineries, tasting rooms, zoos, museums and family entertainment centers like bowling alleys and miniature golf courses. On Monday, Newsom extended that order statewide.In the last two weeks, the number of counties on the watch list has swelled from 19 to 30, covering roughly 80% of the state’s population. During that period coronavirus-related hospitalizations have risen 28%, including a 20% increase in patients requiring intensive care. The state’s death toll now is above 7,000.Also Monday, Newsom imposed new restrictions for counties on the state’s watch list, ordering them to halt indoor operations for gyms, nail salons, tattoo parlors, hair salons and barbershops, shopping malls and offices for nonessential sectors. The affected counties include Los Angeles and virtually all of Southern California.Francesca Schuler, advisory board member for the California Fitness Alliance, said her group appreciates the challenge Newsom is facing but is disappointed by the closures. She said fitness centers worked with the state to develop high standards and strict guidelines, including having people wear masks when they work out.“We’re all in on supporting doing the right thing to flatten the curve, but we do believe physical and mental health is the second crisis that’s emerging right now,” she said. “Fitness is key to that, particularly to mental health.”In Los Angeles County, where 10 million people live, Public Health Director Barbara Ferrer said she would update the county’s public health order to reflect Newsom’s new directives. She said data shows “everything is pointing toward an alarming trend,” noting that “every day thousands of people in our community are being infected.”“I know this step back in our recovery journey is disheartening but we must do everything in our power to stop the virus from spreading, from making the people we love sick and from causing untimely deaths,” Ferrer said.Other county leaders were frustrated. Butte County Supervisor Bill Connelly said he has not changed his behavior during the pandemic, except when he was forced to wear a mask while attending church on Sunday. He blamed Newsom for making the “cure worse than the disease.”“He’s putting these small businesses under extreme strain, they are going to go under,” said Connelly, whose county is not on the state’s watch list. “We should have more discretion as to what to do in our communities.”For most people, the new coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough that clear up in two to three weeks. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia and death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-california-shuts-bars-indoor-dining-and-most-gyms-churches/story-5DbgruYuM5FIH4xmeoSRjP.html
14-07-2020||World||Anthony Fauci blames Covid-19 surge on US not shutting down completely||Top infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci on Monday ascribed the surge in US coronavirus cases to the country’s failure to shut down completely, then a rush to reopen too soon, and urged a commitment to guidelines to snuff out the disease.He stressed basic protections including physical distancing, wearing masks, avoiding crowds and washing hands. “Those things, as simple as they are, can turn it around. I think we can do that and that’s what we’ve got to do,” he said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayFauci, who has issued firm warnings during the coronavirus surge, encouraged states to follow specific guidelines put forth by White House coronavirus health experts laying out distinct phases for easing restrictions.“We did not shut down entirely and that’s the reason why when we went up,” Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said in an interview with Stanford Medicine.“We started to come down and then we plateaued at a level that was really quite high - about 20,000 infections a day. Then as we started to reopen, we’re seeing the surges that we’re seeing today as we speak in California, your own state, in Arizona, in Texas, in Florida and several other states.”Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Many US states began reopening their economies without meeting the criteria in the guidelines.“Unfortunately, it did not work very well for us,” Fauci said, citing well publicized incidents of people crowding into bars or not wearing masks at close quarters.Fauci said he was confident the United States would get a handle on the virus “if we step back, you don’t necessarily need to shut down again, but pull back a bit, and then proceed in a very prudent way of observing the guidelines, of going from step to step.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anthony-fauci-blames-covid-19-surge-on-us-not-shutting-down-completely/story-vkUBmklIDhBMhI1btatn5K.html
14-07-2020||World||US defends ban on student visas for online-only classes||The Trump administration defended new rules barring visas for foreign students taking only-online classes at US colleges.US Immigration and Customs Enforcement filed a brief Monday opposing a lawsuit by Harvard University and MIT against a government policy requiring international students to take at least one in-person class, despite the risks of the coronavirus pandemic.The colleges, supported by dozens of states and cities and some of the country’s largest tech corporations, argue the policy violates the Administrative Procedure Act by failing to adequately consider the ways its enactment could harm students.The government wrote in its brief that “if ICE had not considered the schools impacted by its decision, or the vast differences among them regarding plans for reopening in the fall, perhaps the agency would have completely rescinded its March 9, 2020 broadcast message” that students could take all their classes online during the pandemic.Instead, ICE now requires at least one in-person class for schools under a hybrid model but permits more online classes than it normally would.The new directive was announced last Monday, after Harvard announced a reopening plan involving almost exclusively online classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-defends-ban-on-student-visas-for-online-only-classes/story-eWhsVFXVaJL5VZvqwfwdBI.html
14-07-2020||World||US Navy battles for 2nd day to save burning warship in San Diego||Hundreds of firefighters battled through a second day from the air, land and water on Monday to save a US war vessel swept by flames while moored at a San Diego shipyard, as the number of sailors and civilians injured in the blaze rose to nearly 60.The USS Bonhomme Richard, an amphibious assault ship whose size ranks second in the US Navy fleet to that of an aircraft carrier, remained largely shrouded in thick, acrid smoke on Monday as the vessel began listing to its starboard side.The fire, accompanied by at least one large explosion, erupted Sunday morning in the lower cargo hold of the 844-foot-long (257 meter) ship, docked for routine maintenance at its home port at US Naval Base San Diego.Since then, flames have spread upward throughout much of the ship and into the tower and other structures on the top of the vessel, Rear Admiral Philip Sobeck told a late-morning news conference.Because it was undergoing repairs at the time, only about 160 of the ship’s usual contingent of 1,000 crew members were aboard at the time, and all major munitions had already been removed from the vessel as a standard safety practice, Navy officials said. Helicopters dropped water over the ship throughout Monday while fire boats on the perimeter streamed water on the hull to cool it from the outside. San Diego fire crews discontinued blasting water into the ship from shore, apparently out of concern for destabilizing the vessel’s buoyancy.Asked whether the ship might be burned beyond repair, Sobeck said he was “hopeful” it could be spared. “Once we get the fire out, which is our priority, then we’ll make that assessment.”The fire’s cause was unknown, but a Navy spokesman told Reuters there was no evidence of foul play. The Navy said 36 sailors and 23 civilians had been treated for minor injuries, including heat exhaustion and smoke inhalation, and no personnel remained hospitalized.The Bonhomme Richard, commissioned in 1998, is designed to carry US Marine Corps attack helicopters and ground troops into battle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-navy-battles-for-2nd-day-to-save-burning-warship-in-san-diego/story-NhhaZUSOlPcSfBSgg5KolI.html
14-07-2020||World||US debates school reopening amid Covid-19 pandemic, WHO warns ‘no return to normal’||The resurgence of the coronavirus in the United States ignited fierce debate Monday about whether to reopen schools, as global health officials warned that the pandemic will intensify unless more countries adopt comprehensive plans to combat it.“If the basics aren’t followed, there is only one way this pandemic is going to go,”said the director of the World Health Organization, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. “It’s going to get worse and worse and worse.”Debate over the risks the virus poses, and how best to fight it, were spotlighted in Florida after it shattered the record among US states for the largest single-day increase, with more than 15,000 newly confirmed cases.Officials and health experts in hard-hit Miami pushed back against pressure, both from Gov. Ron DeSantis and President Donald Trump, to bring students back to classrooms next month.“We just absolutely cannot risk the health of children, their well-being and safety, or any of our colleagues,” said Karla Hernandez-Mats, president of the United Teachers of Dade union and a middle school teacher herself. “We’re probably going to have to go to a full shutdown mode. I can’t see the schools reopening except with the 100% virtual model.”Parents have until Wednesday to notify the Miami-Dade school district of their decision whether they will send their kids to school this fall or have them study online from home.“Children can get the virus in their bodies and get contaminated just like anybody else,” said Florida International University epidemiologist Dr. Aileen Marty, who has been advising the Miami school district on its reopening plans.DeSantis has argued that children have not proven to be vectors for the disease and that if retailers like Walmart can be reopened safely, then schools should be able to as well. But he made those arguments with a notable caveat, saying that each county should make its own decision on reopening in consultation with local health officials.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage WHO officials cautioned that decisions on reopening schools should be made without political considerations, as part of a comprehensive strategy for battling Covid-19.“We can’t turn schools into yet another political football in this game. It’s not fair on our children,” Dr. Michael Ryan, the organization’s emergencies chief, said Monday.The debate is hardly limited to Florida.In Detroit, where summer school classes for hundreds of students opened Monday, protesters blocked a school bus yard with tree branches.“When I visited schools this morning I knew we were doing the right thing for children,” schools Superintendent Nikolai Vitti said, in a post on Twitter.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“COVID is not going away. Many of our children need face-to-face, direct engagement,” he said.But lawyer Shanta Driver said she planned to file a lawsuit to stop the in-person instruction.“I’m not going back until this pandemic is defeated. There is not a safe way to return to school while this virus is spreading uncontained,” said teacher Benjamin Royal.Officials in California’s two largest school districts, Los Angeles and San Diego, announced Monday that students will stick to online learning from home when school resumes next month, rather than return to classrooms.The districts cited research about school safety experiences from around the world, along with state and local health guidance.“One fact is clear: Those countries that have managed to safely reopen schools have done so with declining infection rates and on-demand testing available. California has neither,” the districts said in a joint statement. Los Angeles, the second largest school district in the U.S., has about 730,000 students and San Diego serves about 135,000 students.Shortly after the districts made their announcement, California Gov. Gavin Newsom expanded closure of bars and indoor dining statewide and ordered gyms, churches and hair salons closed in most places.In New York, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said schools will be allowed to reopen in parts of the state where infection rates average 5% or less for two weeks. Students and teachers will be screened for illness, must wear face masks and keep 6 feet apart when possible.“Common sense and intelligence can still determine what we do even in this crazy environment,” Cuomo said. “We’re not going to use our children as guinea pigs.”In North Carolina, which reported its highest one-day number of cases and hospitalizations, Gov. Roy Cooper has asked school districts to prepare three re-opening plans that include options for in-person and fully remote learning. His decision is expected later this week.But teacher Becky Maxam, whose husband is considered high-risk for the virus because of a genetic heart condition, said she doesn’t plan to return if her Charlotte middle school reopens.“I’m not going back if we’re opening up. I can’t risk my family,” Maxam said. “I think we should be virtual until we find a vaccine or cases go down much more than what they are.”The debate over what to do about schools came as a pair of WHO experts were in China for a mission to trace the origin of the pandemic. The virus was first detected in central China’s city of Wuhan late last year. Beijing had been reluctant to allow a probe but relented after scores of countries called on the WHO to conduct a thorough investigation.China has argued that the virus might have originated outside of China and has angrily denied allegations that it covered up the scale of the outbreak as infections first began to spread.Trump has harshly criticized the WHO over its response to the coronavirus pandemic and accused it of bowing to Chinese influence. The Trump administration formally notified the UN last week of its withdrawal from WHO, although the pullout won’t take effect until July 6, 2021.Also Monday, the United Nations warned that the pandemic could cause 130 million more people worldwide to go hungry this year.UN officials estimate there were about 690 million people in 2019 who went hungry worldwide, with the majority in Asia and Africa.“While it is too soon to assess the full impact of the lockdowns and other containment measures,” the agency said that, at a minimum, another 83 million would go hungry as a result of the pandemic.The WHO’s Tedros said noted Monday that the most recent surge in cases had come in the Americas. The United States and Brazil alone account for more than a third of all global deaths from the disease.In Japan, more than 30 Marines tested positive at the Futenma U.S. air station on Okinawa, where infections among American service members have rapidly risen to more than 90 since last week. Okinawa is home to more than half of about 50,000 American troops based in Japan.In other parts of the world, the number of infections has been rising dramatically in India, South Africa and Brazil, whose virus-denying president has tested positive.India, which has the most confirmed virus cases after the United States and Brazil, on Monday reported a record daily surge of 28,701 new cases reported in the past 24 hours. Authorities in several cities are reinstating strict lockdowns after attempting to loosen things up to revive an ailing economy.In South Africa, which accounts for over 40% of all the reported coronavirus cases in Africa, President Cyril Ramaphosa reimposed a ban on alcohol sales and a nighttime curfew to reduce the number of people needing emergency treatment so hospitals have more beds to treat Covid-19 patients.“There is no way that we can avoid the coronavirus storm. But we can limit the damage that it can cause to our lives,” Ramaphosa said in a letter to the nation Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-debates-school-reopening-who-warns-no-return-to-normal/story-yILZmtd00urN1BRXsbkjiN.html
14-07-2020||World||US budget deficit hits all-time high of $864 billion in June||The federal government in the US incurred the biggest monthly budget deficit in history in June as spending on programmes to combat the coronavirus recession exploded while millions of job losses cut into tax revenues.The Treasury Department reported on Monday that the deficit hit $864 billion last month, an amount of red ink that surpasses most annual deficits in the nation’s history and is above the previous monthly deficit record of $738 billion in April. That amount was also tied to the trillions of dollars Congress has provided to cushion the impact of the widespread shutdowns that occurred in an effort to limit the spread of the viral pandemic.For the first nine months of this budget year, which began on October 1, the deficit totals $2.74 trillion, also a record for that period. That puts the country well on the way to hitting the $3.7 trillion deficit for the whole year that has been forecast by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO).That total would surpass the previous annual record of $1.4 trillion set in 2009, when the government was spending heavily to lift the country out of the recession caused by the 2008 financial crisis.The June deficit was driven higher by spending on various government relief programmes such as an extra $600 per week in expanded unemployment benefits and a Paycheck Protection Program that provided support to businesses to keep workers on their payrolls.The report showed that the cost of the Paycheck Protection Program in June was $511 billion. That reflected a charge to the government for all the bank loans made under the programme even though the government will not actually have to pay out funds until the banks determine whether the businesses met the criteria for having the loans forgiven. Those requirements include spending at least 60% of the loan amount on worker pay with the other 40 per cent going to overhead costs such as rent and utilities.Another reason for the surge in the June deficit was the government’s decision to delay tax payments this year until July 15. That decision means that quarterly payments made by individual taxpayers and corporations will not be due until July 15 this year rather than June.So far this budget year, revenues total $2.26 trillion, down 13.4% from the same period last year, while spending totals $5 trillion, up 49.1 per cent from a year ago.The CBO estimate of a $ 3.7 trillion deficit for this year could go higher, depending on the course of the economy.The country fell into a deep recession in February, ending a record long expansion of nearly 11 years. The Trump administration is predicting that the economy will come roaring back in the second half of this year, but many private forecasters are concerned that a resurgence of virus cases could make consumers too fearful to resume spending, which drives 70 per cent of the economy.Congress, which has already approved more than $3 trillion in a series of rescue packages, is scheduled to debate another support effort when it returns from recess on July 20. Democrats are pushing for an extension of the expanded unemployment benefits, which will soon run out.Nancy Vanden Houten, senior economist at Oxford Economics, said she was expecting that lawmakers would end up compromising on a new economic support package that would fall somewhere between a $3.5 trillion measure passed by the House but not taken up by the Senate and what is shaping up to be an opening offer by Senate Republicans for a package of about $1.5 trillion.“The risk is that the deficit will be larger due to additional stimulus but, given the congressional timetable, the impact of the next package will likely be skewed to fiscal 2021, which starts on October 1,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-budget-deficit-hits-all-time-high-of-864-billion-in-june/story-k5nrxgdmnbia7Go2BWwXNL.html
14-07-2020||World||10 million children may never return to school after Covid-19 pandemic: Charity||The Covid-19 pandemic has caused an “unprecedented education emergency” with up to 9.7 million children affected by school closures at risk of never going back to class, Save the Children warned on Monday as global cases hit a new grim milestone of 13mn.The British charity said 1.6 billion young people, or about 90% of the world’s student population, were shut out of school and university due to measures to contain Covid-19 in April. “For the first time in human history, an entire generation of children globally have had their education disrupted,” it said in the report, Save our Education.Te economic fallout of the crisis could force an extra 90 to 117 mn children into poverty, with a knock-on effect on school admissions. With many young people required to work, or girls forced into early marriage to support their families, this could see between seven and 9.7mn children dropping out of school permanently. The charity warned the crisis could leave a shortfall of $77bn in education budgets in low and middle income countries by the end of 2021.The United Nations, meanwhile, said in a report on Monday that the world’s hungry grew by 10mn last year and warned that the pandemic could push as many as 130mn more people into chronic hunger this year. The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World report noted the pandemic may add up to 132mn people to the ranks of the undernourished in 2020.The head of the World Health Organization warned the pandemic is worsening globally and things won’t return to “the old normal” for some time. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told reporters on Monday that “there will be no return to the old normal for the foreseeable future.” Tedros also chastised political leaders for mixed messages about outbreaks that damage trust, without referring to any politicians by name.His grim assessment came after WHO reported a new record increase in global coronavirus cases on Sunday, with the total going up by 230,370 in 24 hours. The biggest increases were from the US, Brazil, India and South Africa. The previous WHO record for new cases was 228,102 on July 10. Deaths remained steady at about 5,000 a day.On Monday, infections across the world crossed 13 million, according to the Worldometer tracker.Confirmed Covid-19 deaths in Mexico passed 35,000, making it the fourth highest in fatalities. A count by Johns Hopkins University has only the US, Brazil and Britain with more confirmed deaths from the new coronavirus. Sunday’s rise to 35,006 confirmed deaths moved Mexico, a country of 130mn people, past Italy.Various regions across the world continued to grapple with the pandemic on Monday. Hong Kong reimposed social distancing measures to combat a sudden spike in infections, banning more than four people from gathering in public and requiring passengers to wear face masks on public transport or risk a US$650 fine.Some businesses will also be closed and restaurants restricted over when they can serve diners.South Africa reinstated a night curfew to reduce traffic accidents and has made it mandatory for all residents to wear face masks in public. Argentina has registered more than 100,000 cases on Sunday, despite the Buenos Aires area - the country’s coronavirus hot spot -- being under extended shutdown. The country now has recorded 1,845 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/10-million-children-may-never-return-to-school-after-covid-19-pandemic-charity/story-wlsC2NEERXWD9s5MBuXw7N.html
14-07-2020||World||US denounces China’s claims to South China Sea as ‘completely unlawful’||The Trump administration rejected China’s expansive claims in the South China Sea, reversing a previous policy of not taking sides in territorial disputes in the region and escalating tensions with Beijing on yet another front.“We are making clear: Beijing’s claims to offshore resources across most of the South China Sea are completely unlawful, as is its campaign of bullying to control them,” Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said in a statement Monday.In the past, the US has called for protecting “freedom of navigation” in the contested waterway while stopping short of taking a position on specific territorial claims.Intensification of the long-simmering maritime dispute adds to conflicts over issues from trade and technology to cybersecurity and President Donald Trump’s efforts to blame China for the coronavirus pandemic that began there.Most recently, the US had raised concerns over China’s decision to conduct military exercises in the contested waters around the Paracel Islands in the South China Sea. The Defense Department last week called the actions “unlawful.”In 2016, a United Nations tribunal sided with the Philippines in its argument that China’s claims of historic rights to the South China Sea -- as part of its so-called Nine Dash Line -- don’t comply with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. China’s assertions are based on a 1947 map showing vague dashes that cover about 80% of the waterway. Vietnam, the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Taiwan claim parts of the same maritime area.Stretching from China in the north to Indonesia in the south, the South China Sea encompasses 1.4 million square miles (3.6 million square kilometers).Beijing has rejected claims that it’s doing anything out of the ordinary in the South China Sea and has indirectly accused the U.S. of trying to sow discord between China and Southeast Asian nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-denounces-china-s-claims-to-south-china-sea-as-completely-unlawful/story-Gw21fSSX3yJBreRZmAMJAN.html
14-07-2020||World||Coronavirus pandemic is going to get worse and worse and worse: WHO chief||The United States was grappling with the worst coronavirus outbreak in the world on Monday, as Florida shattered the national record for a state’s largest single-day increase in new confirmed cases and the World Health Organization warned that the pandemic is worsening globally and that “there will be no return to the old normal for the foreseeable future.”The WHO director-general said that while numerous countries have now brought their previously explosive outbreaks under control, namely those in Europe and Asia, “too many countries are headed in the wrong direction.”Without naming specific politicians, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus also chastised political leaders for their “mixed messages” amid the coronavirus outbreaks, saying that they are “undermining the most critical ingredient of any response: trust.”Watch | Coronavirus pandemic is ‘going to get worse and worse and worse’: WHO chief “If the basics aren’t followed, there is only one way this pandemic is going to go,” Tedros said. “It’s going to get worse and worse and worse.”Meanwhile, two WHO experts were in China for a mission to trace the origin of the pandemic. The virus was first detected in central China’s city of Wuhan late last year. Beijing had been reluctant to allow a probe but relented after scores of countries called on the WHO to conduct a thorough investigation.Deaths from the virus have been rising in the U.S., especially in the South and West, though they are still well below the numbers reached in April, according to a recent Associated Press analysis of data from Johns Hopkins University.“I really do think we could control this, and it’s the human element that is so critical. It should be an effort of our country. We should be pulling together when we’re in a crisis, and we’re definitely not doing it,” said University of Florida epidemiologist Cindy Prins.Adm. Brett Giroir, a member of the White House coronavirus task force, called mask-wearing in public, which has been met with resistance in some U.S. states, “absolutely essential.”Giroir, the assistant secretary at the Health and Human Services Department, told ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday that “if we don’t have that, we will not get control of the virus.’’President Donald Trump wore a mask in public for the first time Saturday, something Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Sunday showed he has “crossed a bridge.”Pelosi told CNN’s “State of the Union” that she hopes it means the president “will change his attitude, which will be helpful in stopping the spread of the coronavirus.”In Florida, where parts of Walt Disney World reopened Saturday, 15,299 people tested positive, for a total of 269,811 cases, and 45 deaths were recorded, according to state Department of Health statistics reported Sunday.California had the previous record of daily positive cases — 11,694, set on Wednesday.The numbers come at the end of a record-breaking week as Florida reported 514 fatalities — an average of 73 per day. Three weeks ago, the state was averaging 30 deaths per day.Researchers expect deaths to rise in the U.S. for at least some weeks, but some think the count probably will not go up as dramatically as it did in the spring because of several factors, including increased testing.Regarding the WHO experts in China, the country’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson, Hua Chunying, said they would work with Chinese scientists and medical experts on “scientific cooperation on the new coronavirus tracing issue.”China has argued that the virus might have originated outside of China and has angrily denied allegations that it covered up the scale of the outbreak as infections first began to spread.U.S. President Donald Trump has harshly criticized WHO over its response to the coronavirus pandemic and accused it of bowing to Chinese influence. The Trump administration formally notified the U.N. last week of its withdrawal from WHO, although the pullout won’t take effect until July 6, 2021.“We have a basic consensus with the WHO that virus tracing is a scientific issue, and that requires international scientific research and cooperation of scientists across the world,” ministry spokesperson Hua said at a daily briefing. “WHO also believes that the virus tracing is an issue in progress, which may involve multiple countries and regions, and WHO will also conduct similar inspections in other countries and regions as needed.”The WHO has confirmed the visit by an epidemiologist and an animal diseases specialist but has not given out information on their agendas while in China. The virus causing the deadly illness COVID-19 is believed to have originated in bats and then jumped to humans via an intermediary species, possibly the anteater-like pangolin that is prized in China for its scales used in Chinese medicine as well as its meat.In Japan, more than 30 Marines tested positive at the Futenma U.S. air station on Okinawa, where infections among American service members have rapidly risen to more than 90 since last week. Okinawa is home to more than half of about 50,000 American troops based in Japan.Confirmed cases also have been found at three other Okinawa bases: 22 at Camp Hansen, one at Camp Kinser and another one at Camp McTureous. Officials said the movements of people at Futenma and Camp Hansen have since been restricted and large-scale virus testing is being conducted.In other parts of the world, the number of infections has been rising dramatically in India, South Africa and Brazil, whose virus-denying president has tested positive.India, which has the most confirmed virus cases after the United States and Brazil, on Monday reported a record daily surge of 28,701 new cases reported in the past 24 hours. Authorities in several cities are reinstating strict lockdowns after attempting to loosen things up to revive an ailing economy.In South Africa, which accounts for over 40% of all the reported coronavirus cases in Africa, President Cyril Ramaphosa said Sunday that the country would reimpose a ban on alcohol sales to reduce the volume of people needing emergency so hospitals have more beds to treat COVID-19 patients.South Africa is also reinstating a nighttime curfew to reduce traffic accidents and has made it mandatory for all residents to wear face masks in public.“We are taking these measures fully aware that they impose unwelcome restrictions on people’s lives. They are, however, necessary to see us through the peak of the disease,” Ramaphosa said in a letter to the nation on Monday. “There is no way that we can avoid the coronavirus storm. But we can limit the damage that it can cause to our lives.”In France, the government was considering requiring the use of masks in all indoor public spaces amid a small rise in virus infections and a big drop in public vigilance. Greece was seeking a ban on church and village fairs and tighter tourism-related checks following a recent increase in confirmed coronavirus cases.___Pablo Gorondi reported from Budapest, Hungary. Associated Press writers around the world contributed to this report.___Follow all of AP’s pandemic coverage at https://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak and https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-pandemic-is-going-to-get-worse-and-worse-and-worse-who-chief/story-YleSpGTMiOX59hxcDJRCBM.html
14-07-2020||India||Full scale marriages and functions are ruining Odisha’s war on Covid-19||Even as Odisha’s total Covid-19 cases surged past 14,000 with cases and deaths galloping in July, Odisha government has been at its wit’s end trying to stop mass congregations including marriage ceremonies and religious gatherings.On Tuesday, police in Puri district seized huge cauldrons of variety of food items from a village in Pipili block where a man had thrown a community feast to celebrate his son’s marriage. Ganesh Patra of Nijagadakurukhi Patrasahi village had invited over 500 people for lunch near his home in stark violation of the Covid-19 guidelines on marriage functions. Police and local administration seized the cooked food and distributed it among poor people in the area.“The man not only violated the Covid guideline of having not more than 50 guests in a marriage function, but also didn’t observe any social distancing. Very few people wore masks,” said Pipili tehsildar Sapan Nanda.Though the state government has been emphasising on social distancing and wearing masks as measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19, there have been at least a dozen such violations this month. In just 13 days, the state has reported around 7,000 Covid positive cases of which 30.9 % were spread through local contacts.In Kendrapara district, police on Tuesday arrested seven persons for organising a congregation of over 500 people for the marriage of a local contractor, while in Pattamundai block of the district, local police lodged a case against seven persons including the husband of the sarpanch over a religious congregation for installing a new image of the local deity after the existing one was broken.In Ganjam district, where doctors are worried about community transmissions, police on Saturday arrested the Naib Sarpanch Krushna Chandra Jena of Dengapadar gram panchayat in Polasara block of Ganjam district for doing a yagna in gross violation of Covid-19 regulations.Jena had allegedly organized a religious congregation of over 500 people for the installation ceremony of a Hanuman temple at Mardarajpur village on July 6 in violation of Covid-19 guidelines and regulations. A local youth who had objected to the holding of such large gatherings was thrashed by the organisers.In a separate case, police sealed an upscale hotel in Gopalpur town of Ganjam district that allowed a marriage at its premises without adhering to the social distancing norms and wearing of masks. Police arrested the groom, his father, two brothers and an uncle for violating Covid-19 guidelines and levied a fine of Rs 50,000 on hotel Mayfair and sealed it for seven days. The Regional Transport Office also impounded the vehicle in which the groom was going to the hotel.On Sunday, a case was registered against a man in Gajapati district whose wedding was reportedly attended by around 1,000 guests.“We have been running awareness campaigns on the necessity of avoiding any congregations that would lead to more infections. People need to understand that we are in a dangerous phase and any lapse would worsen the situation further,” said Ganjam district collector Vijay S Kulange.Meanwhile, a legislator from Balasore district on Tuesday tested positive for Covid-19 while a 63-year-old journalist passed away after testing positive for the virus. Earlier, a BJP and BJD MLA had been infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-scale-marriages-and-functions-are-ruining-odisha-s-war-on-covid-19/story-fa3lv8Z3b63MLWznUzggoI.html
14-07-2020||India||Rlys issues fresh tender for thermal cameras after row over specs favouring Chinese firm||Indian railways’ telecom arm RailTel has issued a fresh tender for thermal CCTV cameras meant for ‘Covid surveillance’ changing the specifications following allegations by Indian firms that the earlier tender favoured one Chinese company. It has also made it mandatory for firms to list the country of manufacturing of the equipment.Railways had scrapped the tender for thermal cameras meant for ‘Covid surveillance’ after Indian firms alleged that artificial intelligence technology - DeepInMind - which is specified in the tender is a proprietary feature of Chinese firm Hikvision, a company partly owned by the Chinese government, Hindustan Times reported on July 1. In a letter written to RailTel, one of the vendors had said the pre-qualification criteria laid down for the OEM and bidder had some anomalies and ambiguities.Under the specifications mentioned in the tender for temperature screening with facial recognition and mask detection, RailTel mentioned “Special interface in DeepinMind NVR.”According to Hikvision’s technology, Network Video Recorder (NVR) has a “mind” of its own and can analyse and classify human and vehicle targets from video streams.The fresh tender issued on Monday has removed this technical specification as a requirement and has asked vendors to name the country manufacturing the equipment that they supply.“Bidder shall mention country of manufacturing against each item in SOR (schedule of requirement). In case country of manufacturing is not mentioned by the bidder, RailTel Reserves the right to reject his offer. Moreover, GoI’s Present as well as Future Guideline regarding foreign country material will be applicable,” the new tender document said. The PSU has retained one significant specification of the blackbody temperature -- the ability of the cameras to accurately measure temperatures emitted by a person to say whether a person has fever or not.It has also listed features of the cameras to include software with simultaneous temperature screening for multiple persons with alarm (indoor), contact-free mask detection, alarms on people without masks, identity verification and stranger alarm, that is confirming identity, even with a mask.This comes at a time when India and China are involved in a tense border stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. A brutal brawl in Galwan Valley on June 15 led to 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers being killed. India has also decided to ban 59 mobile phone apps, mostly having Chinese links.The apex traders’ body Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) last week also objected to the bid placed by a Chinese joint venture company for a global tender by the railways for manufacturing Vande Bharat trains. The traders body has written to railway minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday urging him to not allow the bid placed by the Chinese joint venture company CRRC Pioneer Electric (India) Private Limited which is one of the six bidders for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlys-issues-fresh-tender-for-thermal-cameras-after-row-over-specs-favouring-chinese-firm/story-ncY8ItS1a0rZnRa1MXMaBJ.html
14-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot welcome to join, say BJP leaders as party weighs its options||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders held out invites to Sachin Pilot, offering to welcome the Congress leader into the saffron fold after he was stripped off his status as chief of the party unit in Rajasthan and the deputy chief minister earlier in the day.“If anybody with a mass base joins the BJP or any political party, everybody welcomes him. Expressing trust in our ideology, if anybody joins us we will welcome him with open arms. This is a normal procedure,” Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said, according to news agency PTI soon after Pilot was dropped from the Ashok Gehlot cabinet on Tuesday afternoon.Former union minister of state PP Chaudhary said he expected more people from the Congress to join Pilot.“So many people joining Sachin is a big thing, and I believe more will join him. BJP’s doors are open for everybody if he believes in our ideology. If Sachin Pilot joins us, I don’t think there will be any problem. Our national leadership, though, will take the final call,” PTI quoted Chaudhary as saying.Chaudhary, however, added that the national leadership will ultimately decide if such a union was possible.A leader aware of developments said the senior BJP leaders including former chief minister Vasundhara Raje will hold discussions over the current political situation in the state tomorrow after the virtual split in the Congress legislature party following Pilot’s removal.The BJP has indicated that it is adopting a hands-off approach and keenly watching the unfolding of political situation in Rajasthan. The party believes that it is time for the Gehlot government to go after the rebellion led by Sachin Pilot who appears to have the support of nearly 16 MLAs.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has blamed the BJP for ensnaring Pilot to destabilise the government, a charge that the BJP has rejected. The BJP says the entire episode is a “film” that had been in planning for the last 6 months and was “directed, produced, and acted in” by Ashok Gehlot himself, who, it claimed, had “successfully plotted” Sachin Pilot’s “ouster” from the party.Earlier a BJP leader in Delhi, who spoke on condition of anonymity, had said that the party will not seek a floor test unless it is confident that both Gehlot and Pilot factions are falling short of numbers.BJP leaders have also claimed the party has neither formally contacted Pilot nor had been approached by him.Another BJP leader Baijayant Jay Panda tweeted about “every experienced pilot” being aware of an “alternate air strip to land” in the event of technical problems, triggering a fresh round of speculations.While it has been reported that Sachin has ruled out joining the BJP and could instead be considering floating a regional outfit, he has not made any formal announcement of his plans yet. Pilot is expected to address a Press conference tomorrow morning at 11 when he may outline his next steps.While the Congress currently appears to have enough numbers to save the government, the difference between winning and losing could be wafer thin. In a 200-member house, Congress has 107 MLAs and the BJP 72, with Gehlot claiming support of several independent and other parties’ MLAs as well. However, Pilot’s camp has claimed that he enjoys support of around 30 MLAs and that if true, could prove to be a decisive factor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-welcome-to-join-say-bjp-leaders-as-party-weighs-its-options/story-hbfDIWuUq71i17cUw4badO.html
14-07-2020||India||Tripura announces 7-day lockdown in areas bordering Bangladesh||With rise of Covid-19 cases in the areas falling on the Indo-Bangla border Tripura government on Tuesday announced week-long “ total lockdown” within one km of border in rural areas and 0.5 km in municipal areas on the border with Bangaldesh. The lockdown will begin from July 17.“ It has come to the notice of the State Government that there is some spread of Covid-19 in border areas of the state which has posed as a major threat to public health, hygiene and safety of the people. In the capacity of the chairman of the State Executive Committee of Tripura State Disaster Management Authority, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 22 ( 2) (h) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 direct enforcement of “ Total Lockdown” within 1 km of border in rural areas and 0.5 km in municipal areas from international Bangladesh border of the State of Tripura for 7 days w.e.f. 7 AM of 17th July, 2020,” as stated in a government notification released by chief secretary Manoj Kumar this late evening.During the lockdown, all kinds of individual movements would be prohibited except emergency services. All autonomous/subordinate offices and private offices, business establishments, shops, trades, educational institutions, worship places would remain closed. All political and social activities would be suspended. At least 50 persons in wedding ceremony and 20 persons in the funeral ceremony could be present. Later, Law minister Ratan Lal Nath told the mediapersons, “ We will see the Covid-19 rate in the bordering areas in the weeklong lockdown. Later, we will consider whether lockdown should be extended in the entire state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-announces-7-day-lockdown-in-areas-bordering-bangladesh/story-1J5DEJGJtuTG7SE0YrLjlI.html
14-07-2020||India||Top Indian, Chinese generals hold crucial talks at Chushul to reduce tension at LAC||Complicated negotiations on kicking off the next stage of disengagement between the Indian and Chinese armies in eastern Ladakh saw senior military commanders from both sides hold an hours-long meeting at Chushul on Tuesday to discuss the road map for further reducing tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with the developments said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. The talks that began at 11.30 am were in progress when this report was filed.The focus of the current round of military talks is to hammer out a consensus on easing tensions in the Finger Area near Pangong Tso and Depsang plains as well as pulling back weapons and equipment from friction points in other sectors, said one of the officials cited above.“Tricky issues are on the table. Addressing them will take time,” he said.This was the fourth meeting between the corps commander-ranked officers who made previous attempts to reduce tensions along the contested border on June 6, June 22 and June 30.The previous two meetings went on for up to 11 hours while the first one was the shortest at 7 hours.Negotiations are expected to be far harder this time as the continued presence of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the Finger Area and the Depsang sector could be the sticking point of the talks, as reported by Hindustan Times on Tuesday.In Tuesday’s talks, the agenda included the step-wise withdrawal of weapons and equipment to mutually agreed distances from all friction areas along the LAC and thinning the military buildup in the region, a second official said.The military dialogue will be followed by another meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs. The military commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process.The July 14 talks follow a series of steps taken by the two armies at friction points in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra to implement a complex disengagement plan worked out during the June 30 meeting between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region.The current disengagement process began after the June 30 military dialogue and a subsequent conversation on July 5 between national security adviser Ajit Doval and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi. At the June 30 meeting, the Indian side reiterated its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from friction points along the LAC and sought the restoration of status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April) in the Finger Area, Galwan Valley, Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang plains, apart from emphasising the need for thinning the military buildup in the region.The disengagement effort involves rival troops pulling back a specified distance from face-off sites, with further retreat taking place in phases as the plan progresses on a verifiable basis on the ground every 72 hours by both sides.The military build-up in Indian and Chinese depth areas hasn’t thinned, with both sides keeping their guard up. The deployment of thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns, missile systems and air defence weapons continues in the region.The PLA pulled back 2 km from Patrolling Point 14 (Galwan Valley), PP-15 (Hot Springs) and PP-17 (Gogra) last week, with the Indian Army also withdrawing proportionately in these areas.The army observed some thinning of PLA troops, vehicles and removal of structures from a key spur in the Finger Area over the last week but the army doesn’t view it as disengagement, said a third official.The Finger Area, which refers to a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong lake, remains the biggest test and hardest part of the disengagement process.The army is keeping a strict vigil along the contested border in the Depsang sector where the PLA’s forward presence is a matter of serious concern and where a 2013 Chinese intrusion blocked the access of Indian soldiers to several patrolling routes, including the ones leading to PPs-10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-indian-chinese-generals-hold-crucial-talks-at-chushul-to-reduce-tension-at-lac/story-Sq0hUak5ECixLN4F8sTKWP.html
14-07-2020||India||BTP MLAs in Rajasthan put decision to support Congress on hold||The two MLAs of Bharatiya Tribal Party in Rajasthan who were supporting Congress till Monday, have now have put their decision on hold.BTP MLA Rajkumar Roat alleged that police chased them, stopped their vehicles and took away their car keys on Tuesday.BTP has two MLAs in Rajasthan – Rajkumar Roat and Ramprasad Dhindor.“We had supported Congress government in Rajya Sabha elections, and had assured the CM support in this political crisis but we refused to stay at the hotel,” said Roat.He said, “We were on way to Dungarpur and police misbehaved with us. There is resentment due to today’s incident. The decision to continue our support will be taken in the state level meeting tomorrow.”Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had shepherded loyalist MLAs into a resort on Monday amid a tug of war with his former deputy Sachin Pilot. The development happened a day after, the BTP national leadership’s direction to not support any political group in the ongoing political crisis. BTP National chief Mahesh C Vasava in a letter to the MLAs directed them to support neither the BJP nor the Congress and neither Ashok Gehlot nor Sachin Pilot in the floor test.However, despite the party’s direction, Roat on Monday had spoken about supporting the Congress.On Tuesday, the Congress dropped Pilot and two other ministers from the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/btp-mlas-in-rajasthan-put-decision-to-support-congress-on-hold/story-BZmxHWeEdViaWfO6E0DKQJ.html
14-07-2020||India||Sanjay Jha who faulted Congress for turmoil in Rajasthan suspended from party||Congress leader Sanjay Jha who was removed as the party spokesperson last month for a newspaper article was suspended from the Congress late on Tuesday. A two-line note issued by the Maharashtra unit said Jha was being suspended with immediate effect for what it described as “anti-party activities and breach of discipline”.The Congress statement did not outline the charge against Sanjay Jha. It is not clear if his suspension is linked to the barrage of tweets and statements over the ongoing Ashok Gehlot vs Sachin Pilot playing out in Rajasthan.Jha backed Pilot who had been removed as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and the party’s state unit president just hours earlier. In tweets and his statements to television channels, Sanjay Jha was critical of how the Congress is being run and spoken of disillusionment within the party.But Sanjay Jha had been tweeting in support of Pilot for a few days, crediting him with rebuilding the party from 2014 when he was inducted as the Rajasthan Congress chief. Jha, a familiar face of the Congress on television debates, was sacked as the party spokesperson’s post after he wrote an article that was severely critical of the party leadership. In this, he has contradicted the party’s claim that the Congress has an internal platform for frank exchange of ideas and counter-ideas to get the party back on track.He has worn the party’s decision to remove him as spokesperson as a badge of honour on his Twitter profile but insisted that he did not intend to jump ship and stay with the Congress. Later, he even tweeted that he would throw his hat in the ring as a candidate for the Congress Working Committee - the highest decision-making body in the grand old party – “as and when there are elections”.To be sure, Sachin Pilot and the two ministers dropped from Ashok Gehlot’s cabinet earlier on Tuesday also continue to remain in the party. The Congress hasn’t suspended or expelled them. But it is clear that their continuation in the party is going to be untenable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-suspends-ex-spokesperson-sanjay-jha-for-anti-party-activities/story-i4jFf4eyCF4jHhg0hjFisO.html
14-07-2020||India||Regulate Covid treatment costs at private hospitals, orders Supreme Court||Concerned at high costs of treatment deterring Covid-19 patients from getting admitted at private hospitals across the country, the Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre to use its vast powers under the Disaster Management Act (DMA) to direct States to regulate this cost.The court’s direction cane while hearing a PIL filed by a lawyer Sachin Jain who flagged the exorbitant costs charged for treatment of Covid-19 at private hospitals.He stated that in such a situation where the country was battling a pandemic, even the private hospitals are duty-bound to provide treatment at subsidized rates.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde which heard the PIL said, “These are matters having far-reaching implications. To what extent cost becomes a prohibiting factor for access to medical care is an issue we are concerned about.”The CJI-led bench directed the Union Health Ministry officials to meet representatives of hospital federations along with the petitioner Sachin Jain on July 16. The bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and AS Bopanna said, “At the meeting, the Union government may consider what directions are necessary to be passed to States using its power under the DMA. An appropriate decision shall be taken within a week and be placed before this Court for approval.”The issue of subsidized treatment for Covid-19 patients at private hospitals has been engaging the attention of the top court for over two months. Initially, the Court had asked the Centre if private hospitals that got land at cheap rates should be made liable to treat Covid-19 patients for free. The Centre informed the Court that such a direction from the top court is being implemented by reserving beds for economically weak patients in out-patient and in-patient wards. The Court even suggested if private hospitals could charge the same fees from Covid-19 patients as prescribed by the Government under Ayushman Bharat scheme.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for Centre explained that health is a state subject and states can ask private hospitals to regulate cost based on local conditions and availability of resources. As of now, nobody knows how long the pandemic will last and whether hospitals can maintain enough resources till then, Mehta said. Senior advocate Harish Salve representing Healthcare Federation of India said, “It’s not that hospitals are making great money. People are scared to visit hospitals so footfall has dropped. We have signed agreements with state governments for reserving beds for Covid-19 treatment. In Maharashtra 80 per cent beds are taken by the Government. In addition there are several central government health schemes under which private hospitals are providing free or subsidized treatment. Hospital system is reeling under tremendous financial burden.”The petitioner pointed out that some private hospitals charged Rs 30-40 lakh for treating the pandemic which is excessive. Salve said that people who can afford should not mind as insurance companies will foot their bills. The Court asked Salve, “Are you assuming that most people in the country have health insurance policy?”The Court was convinced that a blanket order cannot serve the intended purpose. It was then that the Court felt that a solution should be devised by the Centre after taking a look at the prevailing models of treatment in every state. The bench is expected to take up the matter for hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-tasks-centre-to-regulate-covid-19-treatment-costs-at-private-hospitals/story-NnK1Xty49R4s3CTAVvqXoL.html
14-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey ordered firing at police team in Bikru village: Arrested aide||Following his arrest on Tuesday, Vikas Dubey’s alleged aide Shashikant alias Sonu Pandey denied killing DSP Devendra Mishra and said the slain gangster had ordered the firing at the police team that raided his house on the night intervening July 2 and 3. Pandey made the claims to a TV news channel while being taken away by the police after his arrest. On being asked who killed DSP Mishra, he told the new channel that he did not kill him.“They (policemen) were killed very brutally (badi berahami se maara gayaa),” Pandey told the channel in a very feeble voice.When asked why did he flee from his house and why did he get his head tonsured, he said, “My mother told me to run away (Maa ne bhagaa diyaa thaa). I got my head tonsured because my father (Prem Kumar Pandey) is no more.” Prem Kumar Pandey was killed in the encounter with the police in Bikru village.Two of Vikas Dubey’s alleged accomplices, Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey, were killed by the police in a shootout in Kanpur.When asked how the firing was started from the rooftop of Dubey’s house, Shashikant said, “It was immediately ordered (on the raid by the police team). Vikas Dubey gave the orders.” In response to a question by the reporter, Pandey said, “He (Dubey) did not spare anyone.” On being asked if “he (Dubey) also used to target girls”, Pandey replied in positive. Pandey was arrested and two rifles of the Uttar Pradesh police, looted during the Kanpur ambush earlier this month, were also recovered, police said on Tuesday. With this, all weapons looted during the ambush have been recovered, they said. Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said Dubey’s aide Shashikant alias Sonu Pandey was carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest.  “Shashikant Pandey was an accused in the killing of the eight policemen (in the Kanpur ambush). He was arrested from Chaubeypur around 2.50 am,” the police officer told reporters in Kanpur. “During interrogation, he admitted to his involvement in the encounter at Bikru village in Kanpur dehat. It was revealed that the looted AK-47 of police was hidden in Dubey’s house while the INSAS rifle was at Shashikant’s house,” the ADG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-ordered-firing-at-police-team-in-bikru-village-arrested-aide/story-buMIG6qHDftzsgb45xKtwM.html
14-07-2020||India||Kerala reports highest single-day spike of 608 Covid-19 cases; tally at 8,930||Kerala on Tuesday reported its highest single-day spike of 608 virus cases taking the infection tally to 8930 as the death count climbed to 35 with two more fatalities. What is worrying for the state is the number of locally-transmitted cases are going up alarmingly. Out of 608 cases, 398 are locally-transmitted ones.As cases rise steadily the worried government has appointed special IAS officers to each of the 14 districts to find more beds and co-ordninate measures against the pandemic. “It is a real concern as cases are going up steadily. We have to gear up our efforts to check a possible community transmission,” said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan.First to report a coronavirus case in the country in January the state was on the verge of flattening the curve in May first week but cases increased after expatriates and people from other states flooded it transmitting many. Still its recovery and mortality rates are lowest in the country. Out of 8930 cases, live are 4454 and recovered 4414, said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-608-covid-19-cases-tally-at-8-930/story-VLKtlqTgijH5hqInJIxuKL.html
14-07-2020||India||Customs question Kerala CM’s former secretary in gold smuggling case||The Customs Department on Tuesday questioned Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former principal secretary M Sivasankar in the gold smuggling case while a minister of state was forced to defend himself after his phone number figured in the call list of key accused Swapna Suresh.Phone call lists of first accused Sarith Kumar and second accused Swapna Suresh were leaked to the media. In Swapna’s list there were many calls to Sivasankar and higher education minister K T Jaleel.On July 5 the Customs had seized 30 kg of gold from an air cargo consignment from the UAE to the country’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Four people have been arrested so far including Swapna Suresh, a former consultant with the state IT department. The CM’s powerful secretary Sivasankar, a senior IAS official, was later removed from the post after reports surfaced that he was allegedly close to Suresh. The case was later handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA).After phone call details surfaced, the minister hurriedly convened a press conference and explained that he called Suresh as directed by the UAE consular office in connection with the distribution of Ramzan food kits on May 27.“I contacted her as the executive secretary of the consular office. It was part of my official duty. It is not the duty of a minister to find out details of any employee of the consulate office,” said Jaleel. He also said that he was not aware of her history.His private secretary’s number also figured in the call list of Sarith Kumar, another accused who has been arrested. When asked about this he said the NIA can investigate all such details and he was not worried. Later the CM also defended his minister.Earlier in the day Customs officials reached the residence of senior IAS officer Sivasankar and issued summons to him. Within half an hour he reached the Customs office in Thiruvananthpuram for questioning. He was still being questioned in the evening.The CM said it was part of the investigation and there was no need to suspend him now. He said the government was not worried as the NIA investigation was going in the right direction.The Customs department detained three more persons on Tuesday. Their details were not disclosed. Meanwhile, the NIA court in Kochi issued an arrest warrant against key suspect Faisal Fareed who is reported to be in the UAE.The NIA will soon move the Interpol for the arrest and extradition of Fareed from the UAE, people familiar with the high-profile probe team said. The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Intelligence Bureau, Enforcement Directorate and other agencies are also helping in the probe. In its custody application for those arrested, the NIA said a good amount of money generated through smuggling was pumped in to fund terror activities. It also said 150 kg of gold were smuggled through Thiruvananthapuram airport in last six months in similar fashion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-question-kerala-cm-s-former-secretary-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-59kgo4vxHckT04Ln3xKvCP.html
14-07-2020||India||India, EU sign civil nuclear cooperation agreement on eve of Summit||India and the European Union (EU) on Tuesday signed a civil nuclear cooperation agreement on the eve of a virtual summit, while Europol and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) are negotiating a working arrangement to combat organised crime and terrorism.The agreement between the European Atomic Energy Community or Euratom and Indian authorities will focus on cooperation between EU’s research programmes on new ways of using nuclear energy and similar activities on the Indian side, EU officials said during a briefing for journalists.“The agreement is on research and development cooperation for peaceful uses of nuclear energy, which was negotiated for 13 years and finally can be cemented by the summit,” said one of the EU officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity.The India-EU Summit, to be co-chaired on Wednesday by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, is expected to focus on strengthening multilateralism and global institutions in the face of the rise of an increasingly assertive China.The leadership of both sides are expected to reiterate their strong commitment to combat terrorism in all forms during the summit, the EU officials said. The European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation or Europol and CBI are negotiating a working arrangement that will support law enforcement authorities of EU member states and India to prevent and combat organised crime and terror, they said.Asked specifically about the India-China border standoff, the EU officials described the recent incidents on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as a matter of considerable concern.“We are pleased to see that since these very deadly clashes took place on the LAC, both sides have committed to show restraint, to engage in military de-escalation and to engage in dialogue,” one of the officials said.Reports showed there has been a withdrawal of troops by both sides in key areas, and diplomatic and military efforts are having a “de-escalatory effect and we trust that both sides will continue dialogue to find a peaceful solution to their differences”, the official added.However, the EU officials said two sides are “quite far apart” on the issue of a Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA), negotiations for which were suspended in 2017. They were also critical of what they described as “protectionist” measures adopted by India and the termination of bilateral investment treaties with 25 EU member states.The trade relationship was far below the potential, with India accounting for less than 3% of EU’s total trade, they said. They added EU wants an ambitious and comprehensive trade agreement that brings in strong rules, removes barriers to trade in goods and services and investments and opens up human markets.“India maintains a quite protectionist stance when it comes to negotiations on tariffs and on opening up its services sector, it goes backward in many areas, [such as] reducing access to the Indian procurement market for European companies,” one of the EU officials said. “At the moment, we are quite far apart in agreeing on joint operations we want to see in such an exercise.”EU is looking forward to the launch of a high-level trade dialogue between the EU trade commissioner and India’s comer minister to address these issues, they said.Besides the trade dialogue and a cooperation roadmap for the period till 2025, other deliverables expected from the summit are a joint declaration on circular economy and resource efficiency, the renewal of a science and technology cooperation agreement, the launch of a new maritime security dialogue, and the development of security and defence consultations and military contacts, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eu-sign-civil-nuclear-cooperation-agreement-on-eve-of-summit/story-EpPnbxaN92LTkYCIiFqnTM.html
14-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: On PM Oli’s bizarre Ayodhya claim, Congress and BJP leaders on same page and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Oli roasted in Nepal and India for shocking ‘real Ayodhya’ claimFrom seers in Ayodhya to politicians in Lucknow and New Delhi, Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli was roasted on Tuesday for his claim that the “real” Ayodhya lies in Nepal, not in India and that Lord Ram was born in Thori in southern Nepal. PM Oli’s controversial comment came at a time he has been under intense pressure from party leaders to quit the top post in Kathmandu. Read moreAssam flood situation worsens; 33 lakh people in 28 districts affectedThe flood situation in Assam worsened further on Tuesday with nearly 33 lakh people in the 28 of the state’s 33 districts affected. Read moreClinical study of Covid-19 vaccine on human volunteers now in IndiaA clinical study involving human volunteers in India for a vaccine for Covid-19 is currently underway in India, Balram Bhargava, Director General of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said Tuesday. Read more‘Won’t get a better player than him’: Kaif backs youngster for India’s No. 4 spotFormer India batsman Mohammad Kaif has thrown his weight behind Shreyas Iyer and believes the youngster’s hunger to score runs makes him an asset for the Indian cricket team. Read moreAirtel Bluejeans vs Reliance JioMeet: New video conferencing platforms comparedBharti Airtel announced a partnership with Verizon today. As a part of the partnership, the Indian telecom giant is bringing Verizon’s video-conferencing platform to India as BlueJeans. Read moreHas the pandemic made you insecure about your relationship?Among the many damages the pandemic has done, it has also sowed the seed of insecurity among couples who live far away from each other and can’t meet often. So, if you are worried about what your partner would be doing in your absence or if he or she is romantically involved with someone else, here are things that you should do to let go of the doubt that can ruin your relationship. Read moreGlass or cake? Video asks pressing question in the ‘everything is cake’ eraIf you’ve been around the Internet recently, you may have seen a new wave of memes taking over your feed. The trend called ‘everything is cake’ has netizens sharing videos of everyday things which when sliced, turn out to be cake. If you’re feeling baffled after reading that statement, worry not. Here is a video that perfectly encapsulates what this trend is all about. Read more‘China lied, people died’: Tibetans ask WHO to recall Covid probe teamTibetans held a protest against China outside the World Health Organisation office in Delhi. They opposed China’s attitude regarding the scientific team visiting China to investigate the source of the virus which causes the Covid-19 disease. The Tibetans wore apparel with slogans like ‘China lied, people died’ and ‘Free Tibet’. They demanded that the team be recalled by WHO since its aim was being misrepresented by the Chinese state. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-on-pm-oli-s-bizarre-ayodhya-claim-congress-and-bjp-leaders-on-same-page-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5hOGPfyT08dIgoYxxnfoXM.html
14-07-2020||India||BJP MLA’s death a suicide case says Bengal police, BJP demands CBI probe||The West Bengal government on Tuesday claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Devendra Nath Roy--whose death has triggered a massive political row in West Bengal with the saffron party alleging he was murdered--had died by suicide. “The police suspect that it was a case of suicide. We will take the investigation to its logical end. There would be no interference,” said Alapan Bandyopadhyay, state home secretary.In Delhi, a delegation comprising top leaders of the BJP, including Kailash Vijayvargiya, Babul Supriyo and Arvind Menon among others, met President Ram Nath Kovind and union home minister Amit Shah and briefed them about the incident and alleged “lawlessness” in the state.The BJP leaders demanded a CBI investigation and alleged that 105 BJP workers have been murdered in the last three years in Bengal by “ruling party goons”. A senior police officer from the district said the preliminary post-mortem report of Roy suggests that he died by suicide. A detailed chemical report is awaited. “The post mortem report suggests that the death was due to the effects of hanging which was ante-mortem in nature. There were no other external injury marks,” said the officer, adding that this negates the allegations levelled by the family and party leaders that Roy was murdered and then hanged.BJP observes 12-hour bandh in North Bengal over death of party MLASenior leaders of the BJP, however, said that they have no faith in the post mortem report as the state is trying to pass off the murder as a suicide. “We have no faith on the report and the CID investigation which has been ordered. The chief minister should order a CBI enquiry or a judicial enquiry by a sitting judge of the High Court. The Trinamool Congress, like before, is trying to cover up a murder case and pass it off as a suicide,” said Rahul Sinha, BJP national secretary.Meanwhile, police claimed that Roy was suffering from depression as he had accumulated a huge debt since he was duped while trying to start a business. “During the left regime, Roy was the manager of a local cooperative bank. He had invested around 1.5 crore to start a business with two other partners. There was a complaint lodged against Roy that he had siphoned off Rs 1.3 crore from the cooperative bank, which had not undergone any auditing for many years. He had also mortgaged his house to get a loan of Rs 25 lakhs and even collected money from locals to start the business. But he was allegedly duped and the business never took off,” said a police officer. He added that one person had been detained for questioning.or Coronavirus Live UpdatesRoy had won the assembly elections from Hemtabad in Uttar Dinajpir district with a CPI(M) ticket in 2016 but had later joined BJP in 2019.“He has named the two persons in his suicide note. There were some financial transactions. Investigation is on. We have handed over the investigation to the state criminal investigation department (CID),” said Sumit Kumar, superintendent of police of Uttar Dinajpur.His family members, including his wife Chadima Roy, said that Roy had been suffering from depression over the past few days. Police also claimed to have found that one of the persons named in the suicide note had called on Chadima’s mobile at least three times on Sunday and spoken to the victim. Roy had lost his own mobile a few days ago. The last call was made around 9:30 pm on Sunday. Meanwhile several BJP supporters were arrested when they allegedly damaged at least three buses and tried to forcibly shut down shops in various districts of north Bengal. Protests were also staged in Kolkata. The party also alleged that some of their workers were attacked by TMC.TMC leaders reacted to the barrage of tweets BJP’s state and national leaders posted since Monday.“BJP’s national president himself is also spreading fake news. He is competing with his IT troll ring leaders. Jumping to conclusions without facts in desperation to score political points. Instead, he would do well to stand by the deceased’s family. Every death is a tragedy. Sad,” tweeted TMC Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien in response to a tweet by BJP president J P Nadda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-s-death-a-suicide-case-says-bengal-police-bjp-demands-cbi-probe/story-RPb0n3poRtMsP8ZsyjTvGP.html
14-07-2020||India||CBDT allows taxpayers to regularise past I-T returns||The government has given an opportunity to taxpayers to regularise their old income-tax returns that they had filed electronically but could not get them validated by sending a duly signed physical copy by post to the Centralized Processing Centre (CPC) in Bengaluru by September 30, 2020.This one-time relaxation is available to those taxpayers who could not get their tax returns validated from the assessment year 2015-16 to 2019-20, a finance ministry official said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Monday issued a circular to this effect allowing validation of past returns either through online methods or by sending their signed copies to the CPC by post till September 30.The circular said a large number of electronically filed income-tax returns (ITRs) are still incomplete pending their validation, without which they could be declared “non-est” (does not exist) in law.“However, this relaxation shall not apply in those cases, where during the intervening period, Income-tax Department has already taken recourse to any other measure as specified in the Act for ensuring filing of tax return by the taxpayer concerned after declaring the return as non-est,” the circular said.Rahul Garg, senior tax partner at consultancy firm PwC India, said this is an opportunity for the taxpayers to regularise their tax returns filed for various past years which had the risk of being considered as non-est for want of verification (signed Form ITR-V). “Once the returns are regularised it would save the taxpayer from penalty and prosecution that arises from non filing of the tax return,” he said.According to Deloitte India partner Sudhakar Sethuraman, instances where taxpayer has missed this step of verification, the return filed is treated as invalid. He said, “Returns pending e-verification (from AY 2015-16 to 2019-2020) can be e-verified by the taxpayers by logging on the e-filing portal. Under the “My Account” tab they can select “e-verify return” and complete the process of e-verification. Alternatively, they can download the ITR-V’s sign the same with blue ink and send the hard copies to CPC Bangalore on or before 30.09.2020,” he said. Pranjal Kamra, the CEO of legal and financial service firm Finology said ITR verification is an important step while filing income tax returns. “Therefore, CBDT’s one time relaxation is an opportunity for those individuals who have by any chance missed the verification previously,” he said.The ITRs can also be verified through the e-verification modes such as using Aadhaar and one time password (OTP), net banking or bank ATM, he added.“Taxpayers who could not verify their returns timely now have a sufficient window to do so. They must use this opportunity to make sure all past returns are duly verified, so they can be processed. If such compliance is not completed by 30th September, a notice may be sent to taxpayers for non-filing,” Archit Gupta, founder and CEO of ClearTax said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbdt-allows-taxpayers-to-regularise-past-i-t-returns/story-ekaxr3wMNM4GtYbmTe6VpN.html
14-07-2020||India||Nagaland Speaker dismisses disqualification proceedings against 7 NPF MLAs||Nagaland assembly Speaker Sharingain Longkumer on Tuesday dismissed a disqualification petition against seven legislators of the opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF).Two NPF MLAs, Imkong L Imchen and Chotisuh Sazo, had filed the petition against the 7 MLAs-EE Pangteang, Eshak Konyak, Kejong Chang, BS Nganglang Phom, Toyang Chang, NT Konyak and CL John.The seven MLAs had been suspended from the party’s membership in April last year for defying the NPF’s decision to support the Congress candidate KL Chisi in the Lok Sabha polls and instead voting for the ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) candidate Tokheho Yepthomi.“”It is established beyond any reasonable doubt that there is no sufficient ground for presuming that respondents had voluntarily given up membership of the original political party (NPF). Hence, I decide the respondents are not liable to be disqualified,” Longkumer said in an order dismissing the petition.Despite being the largest party in the 60-member state assembly with 26 MLAs, NPF had not fielded any candidate during last year’s Lok Sabha polls and instead supported the Congress candidate.NDPP, which had secured 18 seats in the 2018 assembly polls, had formed government with support from 12 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs and other smaller parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-speaker-dismisses-disqualification-proceedings-against-7-npf-mlas/story-Ereadr6JZx2toL91IWRIQJ.html
14-07-2020||India||SC to examine Centre’s decision to auction coal blocks in Jharkhand||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre on a plea by Jharkhand government challenging its decision to auction coal blocks in the state to private players for commercial mining.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde sought the Centre’s response in the plea which alleged that the Union government had unilaterally decided to auctions coal resources in Jharkhand without consulting the state government.“We are inclined to issue notice and hear on the injunction (to stay the auction)”, CJI Bobde said.Senior counsel Fali S Nariman, who represented the Jharkhand government along with senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singh, pointed out that the auction will take place on August 18 and the matter should be heard before that.CJI Bobde said that the Centre can extend the auction date and the Attorney General KK Venugopal, who was representing the Centre, should look into it.The matter is likely to be heard next on August 17.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, on June 18, launched virtual auction process of 41 coal blocks for commercial mining. These coal blocks are situated in the states of Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Maharashtra. Nine of the 41 coal blocks are in Jharkhand.The decision was part of the series of announcements made by the Government of India, under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan aimed at making India a self-reliant country. The Prime Minister said that after the reforms, the coal sector in India will become completely self-reliant and will also make eastern and central India, with substantial tribal population, pillars of development.The Jharkhand government then moved the Supreme Court in June, first by filing a writ petition and then by way of a suit under Article 131 of the Constitution, challenging the centre’s decision. Article 131 empowers the Supreme Court to hear disputes between central government and states.Jharkhand submitted that the decision was made unilaterally by the Centre without consulting with the state and it was highly inappropriate.“The state is the owner of the mines and minerals situated within the territory of the plaintiff (Jharkhand). The defendant (Centre) has announced the auction unilaterally without consultation with the plaintiff (Jharkhand),” the suit said.Though there were consultations regarding the same between the Centre and states in February, Jharkhand has contended that fresh consultations should have been held in view of the changed situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to combat the same.“The meetings of February 2020 are meaningless as they do not take into account the materially changed circumstance arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. Renewed consultation with the plaintiff state was indeed required due to Covid-19 pandemic which has brought the nation and the entire globe to a standstill, in a manner never seen before,” the plea stated.It also took objection to the fact that centre resorted to such a move during time of Covid-19 pandemic.“The impugned action impinges the rights of the indigenous people of the plaintiff state and will lead to large scale displacement and consequential rehabilitation and re-settlement issues,” the plea added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-examine-centre-s-decision-to-auction-coal-blocks-in-jharkhand/story-veJDzhXECAGs4l8XplpHnL.html
14-07-2020||India||Andhra deputy CM, wife and daughter are Covid-19 +ve; 99 deaths in 3 days||The Covid-19 pandemic situation is getting grimmer in Andhra Pradesh with a record number of 99 deaths and 5784 positive cases being reported in a span of last three days.State deputy chief minister Amzath Basha Sheik from Kadapa, his wife and daughter have tested positive for Covid-19. After initial treatment at Sri Venkateshwara Institute of Medical Sciences at Tirupati, he and his family members were shifted to Hyderabad on Sunday for better treatment.While 19 deaths and 1933 Covid-19 cases were registered on Sunday, there were 37 deaths and 1935 cases on Monday. In the last 24 hours, a huge number of 43 deaths and 1916 cases were reported in the state, an official bulletin from the state medical and health department said on Tuesday.On Monday, YSR Congress Party MLA from Sullurpeta in Nellore district Kiliveti Sanjeevaiah also tested positive. He was rushed to a corporate hospital in Chennai.Out of the 43 deaths that were reported in the state on Tuesday, as many as 10 deaths were from Anantapur followed by nine from West Godavari, five each from Chittoor, East Godavari and Kadapa, three each from Kurnool and Prakasam, two from Visakhapatnam and one from Vizianagaram.With 1916 positive cases for Covid-19 being reported in the state in the last 24 hours, the cumulative number of positive cases rose to 33019. Kurnool continues to top the list with 3,823 cases, followed by 3651 in Anantapur, 3356 in Guntur, 3115 in East Godavari, 3074 in Chittoor, 2744 in Krishna and 2026 in West Godavari.Except Vizianagaram, which has 832 cases, all the other districts have already crossed the 1,000-mark. As of now, 15144 patients are still in hospitals, whereas 17467 patients have been discharged after being cured.Meanwhile, the state health department issued fresh guidelines with regard to quarantining people coming from other states and also abroad, in the wake of a sharp spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state.“Stringent restrictions have been imposed on people coming from Telangana and Karnataka states, which have been included in the high-risk states,” state nodal officer for Covid-19 Arja Sreekanth said on Tuesday.He said as per the guidelines issued by the Centre, all the foreign returnees would have to undergo institutional quarantine for a period of seven days. Earlier, those coming from the Gulf countries were asked to be in institutional quarantine for 14 days. Now, they, too, have to follow quarantine only for seven days.“On the fifth or seventh day, they would have to undergo a test for Covid-19 and depending on the result, they would be either set free or shifted to hospitals,” he said.For domestic passengers, the authorities would conduct Covid-19 tests randomly for 10 per cent of the passengers, who would be picked up on the basis of their seat numbers. “Those passengers above 60 years and below 10 years would have to give samples for testing in the airport itself. Later, they would have to be in home quarantine for 14 days,” Sreekanth said.Similar random testing would be done for 10 per cent of the train passengers also outside the railway station where they get down. All the others would have to follow self-quarantine for 14-days. For the people travelling by road, random testing would be done at the inter-state borders.“All those coming to Andhra Pradesh, whether it is by road or air, would have to register their names in Spandana portal of the state government and get the electronic pass. They would be allowed to enter the state only after scanning the QR code on their e-pass,” the nodal officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-deputy-cm-wife-and-daughter-are-covid-19-ve-99-deaths-in-3-days/story-gJOEEFu2ppelHmm71vAayK.html
14-07-2020||India||India on fast-track mode to develop Covid-19 vaccine: ICMR||India is considered as the “pharmacy of the world”, about 60 per cent of the drugs uitilised in the United States of America are of Indian origin. So, these are generic drugs produced in India where the country has established itself over the years. This is possibly well known to many people in the world, said (Prof) Dr Balram Bhargava, Director General of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Highlighting an important fact that is not known about Indian vaccines and drugs, Dr Bhargava said --i.e. 60 per cent of the vaccines (like Rubella, measles, polio) supplied in the world, whether it be Africa, Europe, South East Asia or anywhere are of Indian origin.So, India is perceived as an important player in vaccines for supply for the world, he said.“Any vaccine candidate which is being produced or developed in any part of the world will ultimately have to be scaled up by India or by China. Because these two countries are major producers of vaccines in the world and India supplies 60 per cent of vaccines to the world that all developed nations are aware of it. And therefore, they are in communication with India for the vaccine distribution ultimately, if it is developed to the whole world,” Bhargava said.As far as coronavirus pandemic is concerned, the top scientist of the apex medical research body said that in India’s perspective, the country have two indigenous candidate vaccines which scientists are trying their best to fast-track it as their morale duty so that there should not be a delay of a single day for regulatory clearances for these vaccines to break the transmission of the virus as soon as possible.“There are two indigenous candidate vaccines and they have gone successful toxicity studies in rats, mice and rabbits. These data were submitted to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) following which both these candidate vaccines got clearance to start the early phase of human trials,” informed ICMR Director-General.Recently, ANI reported that DCGI has given its permission to pharma giant Zydus Cadila and Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL), who has partnered with ICMR to conduct phase I/II clinical trials on humans for Covid -19 vaccine.“Now, they have got their sites ready and they are doing the clinical study approximately on 1,000 volunteers each at different sites. They are trying to do early clinical testing for these two candidate vaccines. There are pre-clinical experiments as well for other vaccines being done at National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. Experts are working day and night to do these experiments and it is their moral duty to develop vaccines as fast as possible as more than half a million people have succumbed to Covid-19 across the world. So “fast-tracking” the development of Covid vaccines is more important,” said Dr Bhargava.“Recently, Russia has fast-tracked a vaccine which has been successful and it is in early phases and they have fast-tracked its development. And the world has applauded it and congratulated them. China has fast-tracked its vaccine programme. Meanwhile, the US and UK are looking for ways to fast track its vaccine development for human use,” added Bhargava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pharmacy-of-the-world-on-fast-track-mode-to-develop-covid-19-vaccine-icmr/story-by8hH2KeA0Qn8bnLcosJUI.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Not debasing Ayodhya’: Nepal in damage control after Oli’s Ramayana fiasco||Kathmandu has issued a clarification over Nepal prime minister KP Sharma Oli’s controversial claim that Hindu deity Ram was born in the Himalayan country and the real Ayodhya, believed to be his birthplace, was not located in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh but was in Nepal. His claims have been widely condemned both in Nepal and India.A statement from Nepal’s foreign ministry said Oli’s remarks were not political and not meant to disrespect Ayodhya and its significance.“Remarks made by the prime minister are not linked to any political subject and have no intention to hurt the feelings and sentiments of anyone,” the Nepal foreign ministry’s statement said and added that “the remarks were not meant to debasing the significance of Ayodhya and the cultural value it bears”. Relations between New Delhi and Kathmandu have recently worsened due to a territorial claim pressed by Oli, which he got endorsed by the country’s parliament through a constitutional amendment. India has rejected Nepal’s claim as untenable and as without any historical evidence or basis.While Oli’s unexpected territorial claim followed by allegations that India was behind moves to have him dethroned have been rejected by New Delhi, some have looked at it with suspicion even in Nepal, accusing Oli of playing the India card to hide his own government’s alleged failures.Oli’s recent claim about Lord Rama, too, has drawn sharp reactions from both inside India and Nepal.Former Nepal PM Baburam Bhattarai had tweeted yesterday to suggest that Oli’s claim was outlandish. “Let’s listen to the new Ramayana of the half-poet Olikrit Kali Yugin! Let’s travel directly to Baikunthadham!” he had said questioning Oli’s credentials on the subject.He was also slammed by Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who on Tuesday, said that such a statement shows Oli’s “mental bankruptcy”.“Oli Ji should know that Nepal has also been a part of Aryavarta (India) in the past,” he added.Also Read: Angry saints in Ayodhya tell Nepal PM to keep Lord Ram out of politicsCongress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi said Oli was “parroting” lines scripted by the “desperate” Chinese. He was referring to Oli’s strong backing by China.The Nepal foreign ministry’s clarification further tried to contain the damage by claiming that Oli was simply trying to highlight the importance of further studies and research to understand the vastness of Ramayana.“As there have been several myths and references about Shri Ram and the places associated with him, the PM was simply highlighting the importance of further studies and research of the vast cultural geography the Ramayana represents, to obtain facts about Shri Ram, Ramayana and the various places linked to this rich civilization,” it said.Oli had not only questioned the geographical references in Ramayana but had also blamed India of alleged cultural encroachment by “creating a fake Ayodhya.”“Although real Ayodhya lies at Thori, a city in the west of Birgunj, India has claimed that Lord Rama was born there. Due to these continuous claims even we have believed that deity Sita got married to Prince Rama of India. However, in reality, Ayodhya is a village lying west of Birgunj,” Oli had said.Going further, he wanted to know if it was even possible for Lord Rama to travel to Janakpur to marry Sita when there were “no means” of communication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-debasing-ayodhya-nepal-in-damage-control-after-oli-s-ramayana-fiasco/story-ZxyCEjd7CiciSZj6IMqElK.html
14-07-2020||India||Assam flood situation worsens; 33 lakh people in 28 districts affected||The flood situation in Assam worsened further on Tuesday with nearly 33 lakh people in the 28 of the state’s 33 districts affected.According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 3371 villages in 92 revenue circles of the state were affected by floods. Barpeta, Dhubri and Morigaon were the worst affected among all districts.Nine deaths due to drowning were reported during the day taking the number of fatalities this season to 59. Over 44,000 uprooted by flooding are taking shelter in 517 relief camps in the affected districts.Flood waters have submerged 1.28 lakh hectares of crop area in the affected districts. During the day, 7,733 people stranded due to floods were rescued by boats and evacuated to safer locations.On Tuesday, flood waters damaged a total of 160 houses across the state. Besides humans, nearly 33 lakh domestic animals and poultry have also been affected by flooding.Several roads in the affected districts were submerged under water affecting movement of vehicles. Many incidents of damage to embankments, roads and bridges and erosion were also reported from the all over the state.According to a report by Central Water Commission (CWC), most rivers in the state were in spate with Brahmaputra, Burhidihing, Dhansiri, Jia Bharali, Kopili, Beki, Kushiyara and Sankosh flowing over the danger mark at several places.Floods continue to ravage KazirangaNearly 95% of the Kaziranga national park and tiger reserve spread over 430 sq km is still inundated, according to a report by the park authorities. Flood waters have inundated 173 of the 223 forest camps inside the park.A total of 51 wild animals of the park-11 due to drowning and 12 due to vehicle hits-have died during this monsoon.On Tuesday, two tigers strayed out of the park to escape flooding and reached Baghmari village near the park’s periphery. While one was driven towards the higher locations in Karbi Anglong hills another spent few hours near the national highway near the park before moving away.A one-year-old female rhino calf that got separated from its mother due to flooding was rescued by forest personnel on Tuesday from Diphalu Pathar from the park’s Agratoli range.On Monday, a sub-adult tiger had come out of the park’s Agratoli range due to flooding and taken shelter in a goat-shed in a nearby village. Later it moved back to the park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-flood-situation-worsens-33-lakh-people-in-28-districts-affected/story-bUBBgvZIBJGX2ZMP489c4J.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Gratitude’: Sacked Rajasthan dy CM Sachin Pilot thanks those ‘who supported him’||Sacked Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Tuesday evening thanked all those who supported him amid the ongoing crisis in the Congress party in the state.“My heartfelt thanks and gratitude to all those who have come out in my support today,” he posted on Twitter. My heartfelt thanks and gratitude to all those who have come out in my support today. राम राम सा !This was the second tweet posted by the former Rajasthan state Congress president after being sacked by chief minister Ashok Gehlot along with two other ministers from the state cabinet earlier in the day.Pilot changed Twitter bio in the afternoon and posted a tweet in Hindi.“Truth can be rattled, not defeated,” he tweeted in Hindi after his removal from the dual posts.  सत्य को परेशान किया जा सकता है पराजित नहीं।Justifying his decision, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the party was compelled to take the decision because the “BJP was conspiring”. “The high command was compelled to take the decision because since a long time BJP was conspiring and resorting to horse-trading. We knew it was a huge conspiracy; now some of our friends went astray because of it and went to Delhi,” Gehlot said after meeting Governor Kalraj Mishra and dropping Pilot and two other ministers from his cabinet.The CM has accused his former deputy of playing into the hands of the BJP. “ I am very sad that horse trading was going on,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gratitude-sacked-rajasthan-dy-cm-sachin-pilot-thanks-those-who-supported-him/story-Ax4vYQ7EfOjIKmYnn3b5cM.html
14-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot out, Ashok Gehlot convenes his cabinet for late evening meeting||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, having edged out his rebel deputy out of cabinet, drove back from the resort where he was camping with his MLAs to his official residence to preside over a cabinet meet at his residence. After the cabinet meeting, another meeting of the entire council of ministers, including the ministers of state, took place at the chief minister’s residence, reported PTI.The Congress after having sent enough feelers over two days to Sachin Pilot to sit with the party and resolve issues, decided to crack the whip. After the leader skipped the second party meet called today, the party passed a resolution urging action against the rebel leaders. Shortly after that chief Congress spokesperson announced that Sachin Pilot was sacked as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and also removed from state party chief post. The development came three days after Pilot mounted a rebellion against his chief minister and boss Ashok Gehlot.Surjewala said Sachin Pilot enjoyed the affection and blessings of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and was given political power at a young age. Yet, he and other ministers were trying to topple the state government as part of a BJP conspiracy, he added. He also said that the decision was made with a “heavy heart”.Two cabinet ministers -- Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena -- who are supporting Pilot were also sacked for their alleged involvement in a conspiracy to topple the Congress government in the state.Pilot’s next move is not immediately clear. However during the run-up to Tuesday’s Congress legislature party meeting, the second in as many days which he again skipped, his supporters insisted that he had no plans to join the Bharatiya Janata Party. They said their aim was a leadership change in Rajasthan.“Truth can be rattled, not defeated,” Pilot tweeted in Hindi soon after he was sacked. He also changed his profile on Twitter, deleting all references to his positions as deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress chief.Gehlot accused his former deputy of playing into the hands of the BJP. “I am very sad that horse trading was going on,” he said.However, the mood within the party was sombre with most party leaders describing the turn of events as “unfortunate” and “sad”. Tarun Gogoi, a former Assam chief minister, compared Pilot’s situation as one he faced too and urged him to be patient. Former party MP Priya Dutt said she did not believe that being ambitious is “wrong”. Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the development was “disappointing” for the party workers who have reposed faith in the Congress party.The tension between the CM and his deputy, which has been on a slow burner since the 2018 state polls, reached a breaking point when Pilot received a notice from the special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan police to record his statement regarding the alleged attempt to topple the Congress government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-out-ashok-gehlot-convenes-his-cabinet-for-late-evening-meeting/story-KATMdSE0OlKlwaLdSEZ1WO.html
14-07-2020||India||Angry saints in Ayodhya tell Nepal PM to keep Lord Ram out of politics||Reacting sharply to Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s claim that Ayodhya, the birthplace of Lord Ram, is in Nepal and that he was Nepali, members of the saints’ community have urged him to keep religion out of regional politics.“The PM of Nepal must keep Lord Ram out of regional politics. His comments are unwarranted. He must know that Lord Ram was a ‘chakravarti’ emperor and Nepal was also a part of his kingdom. Ties between India and Nepal are even older than history,” said Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of Sri Ram Jamabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust.The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust and saints in Ayodhya have strongly condemned Oli’s statement.“The prime minister of Nepal is making baseless and unwarranted statements at the behest of China. Nothing can be more absurd than this statement. All religious scriptures prove that Lord Ram was born in Ayodhya in India,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson, VHP, who operates from Karsevakpuram, Ayodhya.Raju Das, priest of Hanuman Garhi, said Oli’s statement as a ploy to divert attention from increasing opposition he is facing in Nepal. “At present, the Nepalese PM is under immense pressure from the opposition to resign from his post. With no option left, he has given this absurd statement just to divert attention of people from ongoing political turmoil in the country,” said Das.“In recently concluded Ram Janmabhoomi case in Supreme Court all historical facts were presented before the court and it was proven without doubt that Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya is the birthplace of Lord Ram,” said Das. “Although real Ayodhya lies at Thori city in the west of Birgunj, India has claimed that Lord Ram was born there. Due to these continuous claims even we have believed that deity Sita got married to Prince Ram of India. However, in reality, Ayodhya is a village lying west of Birgunj,” Prime Minister Oli claimed at an event at his residence in Kathmandu.Oli also accused India of cultural encroachment by “creating a fake Ayodhya.”Oli questioned how Lord Ram could come to Janakpur to marry Sita when there were “no means” of communication.He further said that it would have been impossible for Lord Rama to come to Janakpur from present Ayodhya that lies in India.Every year ‘Ram Barat’ (wedding procession of lord Ram) from Ayodhya leaves for Janakpur in Nepal with much fanfare. A large number of saints accompany ‘Ram Barat’.Oli’s contentious claims came amid worsening relations between New Delhi and Kathmandu. Tensions between the two countries rose after Kathmandu issued a new map incorporating some portions of Indian territories in May.New Delhi has said that the updated map is “not based on historical facts and evidence” and termed the claims by Nepal as artificial enlargement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/angry-saints-in-ayodhya-tell-nepal-pm-to-keep-lord-ram-out-of-politics/story-UrQpv9rYbTzCLER5aeIHnL.html
14-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot’s aide responds to sacking, says punished for reminding of forgotten promises||Vishvendra Singh, who was sacked from Rajasthan cabinet along with deputy chief minister Sachin pilot over allegations of being part of an alleged plot to topple Ashok Gehlot led Congress government in the state, has claimed that Pilot and his supporters have been punished for attempting to draw attention to unfulfilled promises made in the election manifesto two years ago.Vishvendra Singh, was the tourism minister in the Gehlot cabinet till this afternoon, before the CM decided to sack him along with Pilot and Ramesh Meena, the state’s food and civil supplies minister, from his team for alleged anti-party activities. Singh suggested he was not satisfied with the explanation.“What anti-party statement did we make? We only wanted to get the (party) high command’s attention to promises in our manifesto as we haven’t been able to deliver them in close to 2 years of being in power. For what fault was action taken?” Vishvendra Singh was reported as asking by ANI.Earlier, Pilot in a terse one line tweet had indicated that he was not going to back out from the stand taken along with his supporters, said to be 16 in number, against the Gehlot government. “Truth can be frustrated, not defeated,” he had tweeted.The developments on Tuesday are being seen in the light of the long-brewing discontent between the two factions after a very public show of disagreement over who should lead the state in the aftermath of a Congress victory in the assembly elections in 2018.Pilot decided it was enough after he was served notice in a case of alleged horse-trading and attempt to topple the state government, by a special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan police that reports to Gehlot.Pilot’s followers said it was a direct affront to their leader and sought action against those responsible for the notice. However, the party high command stood by Gehlot.Following the incident, Sachin moved out of the state with his supporters and refused to attend legislative party meetings called by the CM’s group.The legislative party under Gehlot then passed a resolution seeking tough disciplinary action against Pilot and his followers, before they were formally removed from the cabinet.Gehlot has accused the BJP of ‘ensnaring’ Pilot in its alleged grand design to destabilize the state government; however, the saffron party has not made any move so far, except for taking potshots at the internal rift within the Congress.Party’s Rajasthan unit president Satish Poonia said the Gehlot government should go away in the interest of the people. Another party leader in Delhi added the party would not seek a floor test unless it is confident that both Gehlot and Pilot factions are falling short of numbers. Senior BJP functionaries also declined to comment if Pilot was in touch with the party.BJP leaders have also rejected Gehlot’s charge of having a hand in the rebellion in the state Congress.Following the hectic developments today, Rajasthan Police has beefed up security in the Gurjar-dominated areas, considered to be more sympathetic towards Sachin Pilot, anticipating trouble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-s-aide-responds-to-sacking-says-punished-for-reminding-of-forgotten-promises/story-fWzuyFYkOSgi371qcMrloM.html
14-07-2020||India||Plasma air, foot operated taps in train coaches for post-Covid phase||Plasma air purification, a host of hands-free amenities, like foot-operated soap dispensers, titanium di-oxide coating in railways coaches to kill viruses are among some of the new measures that the ministry plans to bring about as it prepares for travel in the post-Covid phase. The first such prototype has been built by the national carrier’s production unit, Rail Coach Factory in Kapurthala. The railways also plans to retrofit all its existing coaches with these amenities, officials aware of the development said.“Post Covid-Coach will have hands-free amenities like foot operated water tap and soap dispenser, foot operated lavatory door (outside), foot operated flush valve, foot operated latches in lavatory door, outside wash basin with foot operated water tap and soap dispenser and forearm operated handle on compartment door,” the railway ministry said in its design note for the coaches.The coaches will also be equipped with copper-coated handrails and latches. “Copper degrades the virus that lands on it within a few hours. Copper has anti-microbial properties. When the virus lands on copper, the ion blasts the pathogen and destroys the DNA and RNA inside the virus,” the ministry said.The first two coaches that rolled out from the unit also have fixtures coated with titanium dioxide and the provision for plasma air equipment in AC ducts to sterilise interiors using ionised air.“This plasma air equipment will sterilise the air and surfaces inside the AC coach using ionised air to make the coach Covid-19 and particulate matter resistant. This provision will also improve the ion concentration from 100 ions/cm3 to more than 6000 ions/cm,” the ministry said.In addition to this, the coaches will also have a Titanium Di-oxide coating. “Nano structured Titanium Dioxide Coating functions as photoactive material. This is eco-friendly water-based coating that kills viruses, bacteria, mould, and fungal growth and most importantly enhances indoor air quality,” the ministry said.“It is non-toxic and approved by the food testing laboratory of the United States Food & Drug Administration (FDA), CE certified. TiO2 is considered to be a safe substance and is harmless to humans. This Titanium Di-oxide coating applied on washbasins, lavatory, seats & berths, snack table, glass window, floor, virtually every surface that comes in human contact,” it added. The effective life of this coating is expected to last one year. The railways will also manufacture all new coaches with these technical specifications. “All future coach production will have these features. For existing coaches too we will try to retrofit wherever it is technically possible. The same was also done for bio-toilets which were retrofitted in existing coaches,” the official said.This comes at a time when all regular passenger trains, including express and suburban services, have been suspended till August 12. Passenger train services were halted on March 22, three days before the imposition of a nationwide lockdown on March 25 that was aimed at containing the coronavirus.At present the national carrier that would earlier cater to 23 million passengers aboard 14,000 passenger trains per day, is operating 15 pairs of premium Rajdhani trains connecting Delhi with different parts of the country, which began on May 12, and 100 pairs of long-distance trains, which began on June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-air-foot-operated-taps-in-train-coaches-for-post-covid-phase/story-CIzBJakRr8cXDYIRKa3qFL.html
14-07-2020||India||Public hearings on crucial infrastructure projects compromised due to pandemic||A public hearing, which was conducted by Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) authorities via a video-link last week amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, for a sand mining project in the state’s Vidarbha region is among many such hurriedly-done exercises where local representations, who are critical in making interventions for the adverse environmental impact of a venture, are getting short shrift because of the pandemic. Around 14-15 representatives, mainly from the civil society and industry, took part, but there was no representation from the villages that could be adversely impacted because of the project, according to some of the participants in the public hearing.Another MPCB public hearing is slated to be held on Tuesday to discuss a proposal on sand mining in Bhandara.An MPCB official said locals are being represented by gram panchayats via a video-link, but they are also allowed to submit their objections in writing.“In the July 7 meeting, there was a participant from Hyderabad, who had a pro-sand mining stance. He has nothing to with the villages that are likely to be impacted. We are trying to understand how such public hearings are being conducted. If locals are called, at least 2,000-3,000 people would like their voices to be heard,” said Yash Marwah, a Maharashtra-based environmental activist.Public hearings, which give an opportunity to the community to make objections and suggestions on large infrastructure projects, are suffering because of the raging Covid-19 pandemic.Contentious projects with a large environmental footprint usually have a wide participation of over a thousand people during public hearings.The Union Ministry for Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) said respective state pollution control boards could determine the need for public hearings on a case-by-case basis. “Public hearing is decided and conducted by a state pollution control board or a district magistrate (DM). Depending on local conditions and the place of hearing, they may take a call. However, they have to ensure social distancing norms because of the pandemic,” said RP Gupta, secretary, MOEFCC.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) guidelines under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, state that the public must maintain a six-feet distance from each other and large gatherings such as wedding receptions must not exceed 50 guests, and at a funeral, not more than 20 people are allowed to participate.Activists and community members, however, argue that allowing only 50 people to attend a public hearing compromise the rights of villagers to understand the project and make informed submissions.The Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) has issued a notice recently about a public hearing on Nayara Energy Limited’s proposal to expand its refinery and petrochemical complex from 20 million metric tonne per annum (MMTPA) to 46 MMTPA to be held on July 28 at Nayara Energy Limited on the Jamnagar-Okha highway.However, the notice doesn’t put a cap on the number of participants, despite the viral outbreak.“Nayara Energy is committed to strictly complying with all the regulations and directives of the public health authorities and government to combat Covid-19. The health and safety of our employees and communities are paramount for us. The upcoming public hearing is being organized by GPCB in consultation with district collectors (DCs). As directed by DCs/GPCB, we are taking appropriate precautionary measures that will enable compliance with Covid-19 norms,” said a Nayara Energy Limited spokesperson while responding to HT’s query on the public hearing.Karnataka and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Boards have also announced a number of public hearings in July and August. Experts warned against these hurriedly conducted public hearings.“Public hearings are not a one-time event, which needs to be managed by the government. They are central to democratic decision-making, which isembedded in the environmental clearance processes,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.“Making social distancing norms applicable to a maximum of 50 people to gather is a poor replacement for the process, which requires full access to documents and fair, transparent circumstances under which the public can understand an environmental impact. This is the minimum requirement for ensuring maximum participation during public consultations and consent seeking provisions in any law. However, unfortunately, the Covid-19 outbreak and the attendant restrictions have robbed of the due diligence of public consultations,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-hearings-on-crucial-infrastructure-projects-compromised-due-to-pandemic/story-tNFni2lJU3qXk1X1BIznLL.html
14-07-2020||India||PM Oli roasted in Nepal and India for shocking ‘real Ayodhya’ claim||From seers in Ayodhya to politicians in Lucknow and New Delhi, Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli was roasted on Tuesday for his claim that the “real” Ayodhya lies in Nepal, not in India and that Lord Ram was born in Thori in southern Nepal. PM Oli’s controversial comment came at a time he has been under intense pressure from party leaders to quit the top post in Kathmandu.One of the first responses to PM Oli came from Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, who heads the trust set up on the Supreme Court’s orders to build a temple. Mahant Nritya Gopal Das asked PM Oli to keep Lord Ram out of his politics. “PM Oli must know that Lord Ram was a ‘chakravarti’ emperor and Nepal was also a part of his kingdom. Ties between India and Nepal are even older than history,” he said.Sharad Sharma, the spokesperson of Vishwa Hindu Parishad in Ayodhya, suspected that communist China appeared to be prompting PM Oli to make the “absurd” claim. “All religious scriptures prove that Lord Ram was born in Ayodhya in India,” he said.PM Oli’s comment did appear to have achieved the rare feat of bringing two Congress and BJP leaders on the same.Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi tweeted a sharp attack at PM Oli, saying he seems to have “lost his mental balance or is a puppet and parrot-like mouthing lines scripted by #desperate Chinese”.Singhvi underlined that PM Oli had first claimed territories never earlier claimed by Nepal, a reference to the boundary dispute created by PM Oli. “Now he relocates #Ram #Sita #Ayodhya & #RamRajya a few hundred miles from Ayodhya inside Nepal!” he said.BJP leader and Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya appeared to share Singhvi’s assessment.“Statement by Communist Prime Minister of Nepal Shri KP Sharma Oli regarding the birthplace of Maryada Purushottam Lord Shri Ram Ji shows his mental bankruptcy… Oli Ji should know that Nepal has also been a part of Aryavarta (India) in the past,” the UP deputy chief minister added.PM Oli’s comments on Lord Ram are seen as part of his continuing effort to slight New Delhi. PM Oli, who has been criticised back home for muddling up his government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic, had earlier tried to direct the public anger over his inadequate Covid response, telling lawmakers in Parliament that the virus strain that came from India was far more potent and dangerous than the ones that had come from Italy.Back home in Kathmandu, former PM Baburam Bhattarai also took a swipe at PM Oli.“Let’s listen to the new Ramayana of the half-poet Olikrit Kali Yugin! Let’s travel directly to Baikunthadham!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-pm-oli-s-bizarre-ayodhya-claim-congress-and-bjp-leaders-on-same-page/story-xxeZzzBhVjALgMEC8kUKFM.html
14-07-2020||India||Bihar bans public transport, mass gatherings during 16-day lockdown, here’s the list of restrictions and exceptions||Bihar has attributed its decision to clamp a 16-day-long lockdown in the state beginning July 16 to an “alarming surge” in Covid-19 positive cases, The total number of positive cases registered so far in the state are nearing the 20,000-mark with 1,432 new cases on Tuesday taking the toll to 18,853, as per the data released by the state government. The crisis management group of the state government today met to take stock of the situation following which the government said it was convinced that the requirement for a lockdown was “inevitable” and “urgent” to contain the further spread of the pandemic in the state.Covid-19: Complete lockdown in Bihar from July 16-31Here are the restrictions notified in government’s release that will remain in force between July 16 and July 31.1. Offices of the government of India its autonomous/subordinate offices and public corporation shall remain closed. Exceptions – Security forces, public utilities, disaster management, power generation and post offices allowed to function with the minimum number of employees.2. Offices of the state government, its autonomous/subordinate officers and public corporation shall remain closed.Exceptions – Security forces, fire and emergency, disaster management, elections, public utilities, food and civil supplies, agriculture, animal husbandry, municipal bodies, forest officers, offices of social welfare.For Coronavirus Live Updates3. Commercial and private establishments shall be closed down.Exceptions – Shops and services related to food, grocery and agriculture inputs along with banks, IT and related services, print and electronic media, internet, telecommunication, e commerce, petrol pumps, power generation etc are exempted.4. Restaurants allowed to open but to only exercise home delivery option.5. All transport services will be suspended.Exceptions- Air and rail transport, taxis, auto rickshaws, private vehicles for permitted activities, essential service providers, business transportation vehicles. 6. Industrial establishments will be allowed to function with strict implementation of necessary precaution and social distancing measures.7. All educational, training, research and coaching institutions etc shall remain closed.8. All places of worship shall be closed for public participation. No religious congregation will be permitted without exception.9. All social, political, academic, entertainment, sports, cultural and religious gatherings and functions will be prohibited. Stadiums will be allowed to open without spectators.10. The district magistrates have been barred from diluting the restrictions but can enforce additional curbs as per their assessment of the situation locally. 11. All medical and essential services will remain out of the purview of restrictions during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-bans-public-transport-mass-gatherings-during-16-day-lockdown-here-s-the-list-of-restrictions-and-exceptions/story-LGAQ3VU1Mg59oWgwd8zsAI.html
14-07-2020||India||‘May lord grant him sense’: Rajasthan Congress in-charge on Sachin Pilot’s tweet||Shortly after he was sacked as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and the pradesh Congress chief on Tuesday, Sachin Pilot fired a ‘truth’ tweet at the Congress.Two other Rajasthan ministers, Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, were also sacked from the state cabinet after a meeting of the Congress legislature party, its second in the last two days.“The truth can be harassed but not defeated,” Pilot, camping in Delhi, posted on Twitter. Taking note, Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pande turned the meaning on its head, saying that the leader is right and that the people elected by the state have won today. Adding that the lord may grant the rebel leader some “good sense”. “Bilkul sahi keh rahe hai Sachin Pilot, janta ne jinko chuna hai unki jeet hai. Bhagwan unnko sadbudhi de (Sachin Pilot is right. Those elected by the people have won today. May lord grant him some good sense,” Pande was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. As soon as the meeting ended, AICC spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said Pilot enjoyed the blessings of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and was given political power at a young age. Yet, he and other ministers were trying to topple the state government as part of a “BJP conspiracy”.“This cannot be acceptable to any political party. Therefore, the Congress took the decision with a heavy heart,” he said.Chief minister Gehlot too accused his former deputy of playing into the hands of the BJP. “I am very sad that horse trading was going on,” he said.During the run-up to Tuesday’s CLP meeting, Pilot supporters insisted that the leader had no plans to join the Bharatiya Janata Party. A video clip circulated by the Pilot camp last evening appeared to show a group of 16 Congress MLAs. In a statement issued Sunday, Pilot had claimed the support of 30 Congress MLAs and “some independents”.The crisis in Rajasthan unit reached a breaking point when Pilot received a notice from the special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan police to record his statement regarding the alleged attempt to topple the Congress government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-lord-grant-him-sense-rajasthan-congress-in-charge-on-sachin-pilot-s-tweet/story-kJ3HrRWlDehElYUbh29LsJ.html
14-07-2020||India||SC asks UP to file status report on Vikas Dubey encounter by July 16||The Supreme Court on Tuesday posted petitions seeking a court-monitored probe into the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey in Kanpur by the Special Task Force of the Uttar Pradesh Police for July 20.It also asked the UP government to file a status report in the Vikas Dubey case by Thursday. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for UP government volunteered to file a report on the steps they have taken so far.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde said that it is open to form a judicial committee to probe the incident. An order in this regard has not been passed yet.The Court said that this is something which the Court will do reluctantly. However, since there was a precedent of forming a judicial committee to probe a similar encounter killing in Telangana in December 2019, the Court was willing to pass a similar order in this case too.The Court sought suggestions from petitioners on possible names to head the probe committee.In December 2019, CJI Bobde had asked the Telangana government to suggest the name of a retired Supreme Court judge who could take up the task of probing the killing of four men who allegedly raped and murdered a 26-year-old veterinary doctor on the outskirts of Hyderabad.Eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were killed in an ambush in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey on July 3.Dubey was killed in an encounter on the morning of July 10 when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur toppled over in an accident and he tried to escape from the spot after snatching the revolver of a police officer, the police had saidThe opposition has alleged that Dubey was killed to cover up a gangster-police-politician nexus in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-up-to-file-status-report-on-vikas-dubey-encounter-by-july-16/story-j8H38MG3haIqs9pDyTlq6O.html
14-07-2020||India||NIA seeks Interpol’s blue notice for accused in Kerala gold smuggling case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has moved Interpol seeking a “blue notice” against Faisal Fareed, a Dubai-based person named as key accused in Kerala gold smuggling case, officials said. The agency has found that Faisal Fareed had forged the documents - seal and emblem - of the UAE embassy to ensure diplomatic protection for the baggage and the gold was to be used for terror activities. An Interpol “blue notice” is issued to collect additional information about a person’s identity, location or activities in relation to a crime. The blue notice request to Interpol has been sent after procuring a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against Fareed who is one of the four people booked by the NIA. ALSO WATCH | ‘Kerala CM Office involved in gold smuggling case’: BJP president JP Nadda Two other accused, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair are already in NIA custody and are being interrogated. On Monday, a special NIA court in Kochi sent the two of them to the agency’s custody for eight days. Sarith PS was the first accused who was arrested by Customs. The gold smuggling racket which came to light on July 5 after the Customs seized an air consignment for the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, has sparked a political firestorm in Kerala with the opposition accusing the state government of being involved in the smuggling. The haul of 30 kg gold is said to be worth Rs 15 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-seeks-interpol-s-blue-notice-for-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/story-hTbDeDFdBYdRGTVACOhyQO.html
14-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sachin Pilot’s one-line message to Congress after being sacked from Rajasthan cabinet and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Truth can be harassed, but not defeated’: Sachin Pilot after being sacked as Rajasthan deputy CMSachin Pilot on Tuesday changed his profile on Twitter minutes after he was dropped as the chief of Congress’ Rajasthan unit and removed from the state cabinet. “Truth can be harassed, cannot be defeated,” Sachin Pilot also tweeted in Hindi.Read More‘Huge conspiracy’: CM Gehlot after Cong axes Sachin Pilot from cabinetRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for conspiring and resorting to horse-trading in Rajasthan which led to the current crisis. He also said that there is nothing in Sachin Pilot’s hands, it’s the BJP which is running the show.Read MoreWhen Shah Rukh Khan tried to woo Jackie Chan into starring in Ra.One, but failedDid you know that Shah Rukh Khan wanted Jackie Chan to be a part of Ra.One? On Jonathan Ross’ talk show in 2010, while promoting My Name is Khan, the actor spoke about wooing Jackie, but said that he was ‘expensive’. Read More‘Would back Williamson ahead of Kohli’ in tougher batting conditions: Ex-NZ player Glenn TurnerFormer New Zealand captain and batting great Glenn Turner has said that he backs Kiwi captain Williamson over Kohli when it comes to batting on challenging surfaces. Turner explained that Kohli was brought up on pitches that did not seam a lot, while it was the opposite for Williamson.Read MoreAirtel BlueJeans video conferencing app is here, set to take on Reliance’s JioMeet, ZoomAirtel on Tuesday announced a partnership with US-based telecom giant Verizon. As a part of this partnership Verizon is bringing its BlueJeans video-conferencing solution in India.Read MoreLittle girl dances to Ghagra, mum calls her ‘miniature Madhuri Dixit’.One of the latest stories of The Humans of Bombay features a mother-daughter duo who loves dancing. In fact, the post not only details their love for dancing, it also comes with a video of the little girl showcasing her talent.Read MoreHow China persecutes Uighur Muslims & why UN must recognise it as genocideChina’s persecution of Uighur Muslims has been an open secret for many years. Now Uighur activists are urging the United Nations to recognise China’s actions as genocide. Hindustan Times’ senior editor Aditi Prasad spoke to Julie Millsap from Campaign for Uighurs to understand their demands.  Watch the full video for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sachin-pilot-s-one-line-message-to-congress-after-being-sacked-from-rajasthan-cabinet-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NDiW5ln89ozGYsmEpPBCFO.html
14-07-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 growth rate has declined around 28% since March: Govt||The Centre on Tuesday presented a slew of data to highlight the positive aspects of India’s measures to contain the coronavirus pandemic since its outbreak. The government pointed out that the daily rate of growth of the disease was declining in India and that the high infection rate was restricted to a few states in the country.“If you look, the daily growth rate in March was around 31%, it reduced to 9% in May and around 5 % by the end of May and if you look at the figures as on July 12, it has come down to 3,24%. There has been a progressive decline in the daily growth rate of new cases,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, ministry of health.He added that this important statistic often gets missed due to the tendency to focus on the total number of positive cases reported daily.He argued that even in terms of absolute numbers, the difference between the recovered cases and the active cases was increasing with each passing day.Highlighting another important aspect, Bhushan underlined that 86% of all positive cases registered so far in India are limited only to 10 states.“Two of these 10 states—Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu alone account for 50% of the total number of cases reported together by the group. The remaining 36% of cases come from eight states including Karnataka, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, West Bengal, Gujarat and Assam,” he added.Building further on his argument, the official said that the situation in several large states like Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh was relatively much better and this indicated that the spread of the disease in the country was not even.On cases per million, the official cited that the world average of 1,638 cases per million was significantly higher than India’s 657 cases per million, which, when compared with eight worst affected countries, was even more impressive.“Cases per million of the population in Russia and USA are 7 and 14 times respectively more than the corresponding figure in India,” the senior health ministry official said.Similarly, he added that India had recorded 17.2 deaths per million compared to a world average of 73 casualties per million.“Again advanced countries such as the UK, Spain and Russia had fared much worse with 660, 607 and 78 deaths per million respectively,” Bhusan said, adding, “There are some countries that have 35 times more than India’s rate”.India is currently the world’s third worst affected country by numbers of Covid-19 cases registered so far. Its tally on Tuesday crossed the 9 lakh-mark with a total of 906,752 coronavirus patients registered till date since the outbreak. 571,459 of these patients have recovered while 23,727 have succumbed to death. The number of active cases stands at 311,565.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-growth-rate-has-declined-around-28-since-march-govt/story-bGwIYcV2EJVlhJnHqQaLGJ.html
14-07-2020||India||Union minister in quarantine after meeting BJP J-K chief who tested Covid +ve||Union minister of state Dr Jitendra Singh on Tuesday went into self quarantine with “immediate effect” after he got to know that the Jammu and Kashmir BJP chief whom he met on July 12 has tested positive for coronavirus. “Have gone into Self-Quarantine with immediate effect from 4 PM today, after receiving the news about Corona positive test of J&K BJP President Sh Ravinder Raina who had accompanied us from Srinagar to Bandipora on 12th July,” Dr Jitendra Singh said in a Twitter post.Sources confided to HT that Ravinder Raina, the “vociferous” BJP leader, has been hospitalised in Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Super Specialty hospital in Kakryal in Reasi district.“For five days I was in Bandipora where our party leader Sheikh Waseem Bari, his brother and their father were martyred. Covid infection rate is more in Kashmir and this morning I had a mild fever. My first report tested me positive, though I am asymptomatic. I am going for a second test and will follow all the guidelines of the health ministry and the J&K administration,” he told HT.It may be stated here that Raina had been staying back in Bandipora following the killing of Sheikh Waseem Bari, his brother and their father.Raina had met several people during the funeral of the deceased party leader and other members.The administration has now started contact tracing.“All the top BJP leaders, including party general secretary Ram Madhav, union minister Dr Jitendra Singh and vice president Avinash Rai Khanna and workers, will be quarantined and tested as per contact tracing protocol due to contact with party president Ravinder Raina who has tested positive,” said a party leader.On July 12, accompanied by Raina, BJP’s national general secretary Ram Madhav, union minister Dr Jitendra Singh and BJP’s national vice president Avinash Rai Khanna had visited the residence of Bari to express their condolences to the family.The virus has started witnessing a sudden spike in Jammu and Kashmir where the wife and son of an adviser to lieutenant governor and two senior IAS officers have tested positive.Ram Madhav’s personal secretary, who picked up his cellphone, informed that he was busy in a meeting and will get back about his status and whether he will undergo a Covid-19 test.BJP vice president Avinash Rai Khanna said that he has been tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-in-quarantine-after-meeting-bjp-j-k-chief-who-tested-covid-ve/story-9hTdBTSXgPmsjdF3OoHX3N.html
14-07-2020||India||Vasco da Gama city emerges as epicentre of Covid-19 cases in Goa||Vasco da Gama, a city on the Mormugao peninsula in coastal Goa, has emerged as the epicentre for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).On June 2, a man from Mangor Hill, a densely populated Vasco suburb, was the first local case of the viral infection in Goa since Covid-19 was first reported in the country in March.The Mangor Hill resident, a fish truck driver, was rushed to Goa Medical College and Hospital amid difficulty in breathing. Later, he tested Covid-19 positive.Soon, his family members and neighbours found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, and the state healthcare authorities marked Mangor Hill as Goa’s first containment zone. A little over a month later, Vasco and its neighbouring areas have reported 562 Covid-19 positive cases, which work out to around 25% of the total viral load of the state, and 11 of the 18 deaths recorded in Goa.On the contrary, Panaji, which sees maximum movement because it is Goa’s administrative capital, has recorded six Covid-19 positive cases to date.“Mangor Hill is the epicentre of Covid-19 positive cases in Goa, as people from that area is more mobile. Besides, Mangor Hill is linked to several slums in and around Vasco and that’s how many Covid-19 clusters were formed in the area,” said Dr. Utkarsh Betodka, an epidemiologist. He pointed out that in other parts of the state, only isolated Covid-19 positive cases have been reported so far.However, there has been not been any community transmission in Vasco, he added.Vasco is a mercantile town and many of the Covid-19 patients do odd jobs such as private taxi drivers, who hang around at the Goa International Airport in Dabolim or at the cruise ship terminal in Mormugao. There are people from other walks of life such as welders at shipyards, mechanics, etc; for whom maintaining social distancing is a daily struggle because they live cheek-by-jowl.Vasco and its neighbourhood also host the Indian Navy airbase, the Coast Guard headquarters, Goa Shipyard Ltd, a defence public sector undertaking (PSU) company and several other government installations.“It’s a densely populated area, where social distancing is not always possible to be maintained,” said a doctor, requesting anonymity.At present, Vasco has two containment and micro-containment zones, respectively.Mangor Hill and Zuari Nagar are the largest containment zones in the state since June.Dr Jose D’Sa, director, health services, Goa, said that more senior citizens are now susceptible to contract the viral infection than youngsters. “Epidemiologically, viral outbreak cases usually start with a younger generation and when the virus gets into a home, people, who are on the sick bed and are suffering from comorbid conditions, t get infected. This is how the viral load and the virulence go up, as it affects many elderly people,” said Dr D’Sa while explaining Vasco’s Covid-19-related death toll, which is 11 to date.However, he sought to reassure that Goa’s case fatality rate (CFR) is less than 1% and most of the Covid-19 patients have died due to comorbid conditions. “Goa’s CFR is 0.61%. Besides, most Covid-19 victims were suffering from severe comorbid conditions such as uncontrolled diabetes, hypertension, renal ailments, and malignancy (cancer),” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-vasco-da-gama-emerges-as-epicentre-of-covid-19-cases/story-348Z4vBtUgFrO4H9vFY5KN.html
14-07-2020||India||In Uttarakhand, three weddings spark a chain of Covid-19 cases||Three weddings spread across Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar and Tehri Garhwal districts of Uttarakhand that led to a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases in the state have forced authorities to clamp lockdown in three areas of Kumaon division for three days.In Tehri Garhwal district, over 40 people have been quarantined after a driver who was part of a marriage procession tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.“The marriage procession was going to Anjanisain area of the district from Punjab on Monday when our officials at the district border took samples of everyone as a precautionary measure. We are conducting the tests through the True-Nat machine so that results can be declared the same day. After taking the samples, we asked the people to wait till the results are declared, but they said they were getting late for the auspicious time for the wedding and they left,” said Mangesh Ghidiyal, district magistrate of Tehri Garhwal districtLater, the driver tested positive after which all members of the bride and groom’s family were quarantined.“Rigorous contact tracing is still underway in the district. Those who attended the wedding will be monitored closely. As per the latest guidelines, people coming to the state for a wedding or short stay need not be quarantined, but must follow all norms of social distancing. However, the risk always remains because in a wedding, the family members meet a lot of people,” the district magistrate.Over 70 cases have been reported from Udham Singh Nagar district over Sunday and Monday with most cases being traced back to a wedding that took place in Kashipur.Due to the increasing cases, a lockdown has been imposed in three urban local bodies of US Nagar district. After Kashipur, the lockdown was imposed in Rudrapur and Bazpur for the next three days from Monday night. On Tuesday, the lockdown in Kashipur was extended till July 17“Lockdown has been imposed for three days in the urban area of Rudrapur from Monday night. Bazpur urban and rural area both will be under lockdown for next three days,” said Neeraj Khairwal, district magistrate, US Nagar.Earlier, Omaxe colony in Rudrapur was declared a containment zone on Sunday as some persons were tested Covid-19 infected but on Monday evening district administration imposed a complete lockdown in urban areas of Rudrapur. No business or commercial activities apart from essential services are allowed in these areas.Apart from this, a doctor, an employee of the government hospital in Rudrapur and his wife tested positive on Sunday, officials said.Traders in the Bazpur had been demanding a lockdown to curb Covid-19 after some traders also tested positive for the virus.Earlier, additional superintendent of police (ASP) Devendra Pincha inspected barriers set up on route along Uttar Pradesh border and instructed police staff to keep vigil strictly and let not to cross the border who have no valid pass, said an official.In Dehradun, days after a groom tested positive for Covid-19, the bride and 15 other wedding guests tested positive for the virus on Sunday.“After the groom tested positive on July 8, the bride and 15 other people who were wedding guests had been quarantined and tested. They all tested positive on Sunday. We are expecting that more people who attended are likely to test positive as they were close contacts of those infected,” said Dr. Rajiv Dixit, nodal surveillance officer for Covid-19 in Dehradun district. Under the latest guidelines of Unlock 2.0, the state government had said that asymptomatic bride/groom and their relatives traveling from high load Covid-19 infected cities shall be exempted from being quarantined. However, they shall not be permitted to visit any public places, except the banquet hall or community hall concerned.Asymptomatic persons traveling to the state for a maximum period of three-days will be exempted from quarantine.Uttarakhand has so far reported 3, 608 Covid-19 cases out of which with 2,856 people have recovered .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-uttarakhand-three-weddings-spark-a-chain-of-covid-19-cases/story-nIOOlpjdpHRWPecRyEhLbP.html
14-07-2020||India||Fighting locusts: Govt carries out operation covering 3 lakh hectare area across states||In a bid to fight back crop-munching locusts, the government of India has carried out locust control operations across various states on July 11 and 12. As per a press release issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, locust control operations were carried out in around 3 lakh hectares area in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Bihar.During July 12 and 13, the operations were carried out at 26 places in 7 districts of Rajasthan as well as in Sitapur and Gonda districts of Uttar Pradesh, and Mahendragarh and Bhiwani districts of Haryana. The operation is being carried out with the help of 60 control teams with spray vehicles in states like Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.Also read: Locusts devour crops in six Haryana districtsOver 200 central government personnel are engaged in locust control operations across various states. In addition to this, 20 spray equipments have been received and are deployed for locust control. “To strengthen the control capacity, 55 additional vehicles have also been purchased and deployed for locust control,” the release stated.The government is also deploying drones for locust fighting operations. “5 companies with 15 drones are deployed at Barmer, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Nagaur and Phalodi in Rajasthan for effective control of locusts on tall trees and in inaccessible areas through spraying of pesticides”. The Indian Air Force has also conducted trials in anti-locust operation by using a Mi-17 helicopter.Also read: Locust swarm reach central UP, damage crops in Lucknow, SitapurAccording to the government, no significant crop losses have been reported in the Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Haryana. However, some minor crop losses have been reported in some districts of Rajasthan“Swarms of immature pink locusts and adult yellow locusts were active in Barmer, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Jhunjhunu, Sriganganagar, Alwar and Churu districts of Rajasthan; Bhiwani, and Mahendragarh districts of Haryana and Sitapur and Gonda districts of Uttar Pradesh,” the release read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fighting-crop-munching-locusts-govt-carries-out-operations-in-around-3-lakh-hectare-of-land-across-states/story-dxHtoHoAMvY2n0SUnV2wcM.html
14-07-2020||India||Bihar clamps 16-day lockdown amid rising Covid numbers||With Bihar’s coronavirus tally within the touching distance of 20,000-mark, the state government decided on Tuesday to extend lockdown from July 16 to 31 hoping to contain the spread of the disease. The decision was taken in a meeting held by the crisis management group of the state government, officials said.Guidelines governing the 16-day long lockdown period were being prepared, said deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi. The fresh restrictions are likely to include curb on public transport within the state and hosting of mass activities that are conducive to the spread of the disease, reported PTI.Bihar currently has 17,959 Covid positive cases as on Tuesday according to the union health ministry’s data. 1,432 new cases were reported on Tuesday. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesPatna, Bhagalpur and Begusarai are the worst affected districts in the state.Patna is already under increase restrictions, to prevent conditions including crowding that are leading to a spurt in the disease. District authorities have warned of cracking the whip against errant individuals and traders defying social distancing norms.ALSO WATCH | ‘Bihar govt is concerned about elections, not Covid’: Tejashwi Yadav Bihar, with 69.09 percent recovery rate, remains among states with a higher percentage than the national recovery rate of 63.02 as of Tuesday.Bihar floods: Watch school building collapses into Koshi riverIndia’s Covid-19 tally on Tuesday crossed 9 lakh with a total of 906,752 coronavirus patients registered till date since the outbreak. 571,459 of these patients have recovered while 23,727 have succumbed to death. The number of active cases stands at 311,565.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-clamps-16-day-lockdown-amid-rising-covid-numbers-detailed-guidelines-soon/story-HkAIzJjMDKEgZS7VP3Dv1L.html
14-07-2020||India||3 demands that likely got Sachin Pilot axed from Rajasthan cabinet||From Rahul Gandhi’s office declaring on Monday that Sachin Pilot is “always in his heart”, to multiple requests by the party for him to come back and resolve issues, the 42-year-old leader was dropped as Rajasthan deputy chief minister from Ashok Gehlot cabinet on Tuesday. All within 24 hours.Hindustan Times spoke to several key Congress leaders to piece together the events that led to Pilot’s exit also as the Rajasthan Congress unit president.According to a senior leader privy to the decision making process, Pilot placed three conditions before the party leadership that they simply couldn’t fulfil.The first being that Congress should declare a year before the next state polls, to be held in 2022, that Pilot would be the chief ministerial face.ALSO WATCH | Sachin Pilot sacked: Watch Congress’ charge & Pilot’s response l Key details “He wanted a public commitment right away that in the last year, he would be declared the Congress face for the CM post. He wanted us to announce it to all,’’ said a Congress leader on condition of anonymity.The second demand was that all those who had rebelled with Pilot, for instance tourism minister Vishwendra Singh and all other legislators would be accommodated. This didn’t mean that they would all be ministers, but “they should all be rewarded. For instance, made heads of corporations or any other bodies”.The third and final demand put across to the Congress’s mediators was that Avinash Pande, general secretary and Rajasthan Congress in-charge, should also be removed from his post. Pilot believes that Pandey tilts towards chief minister Ashok Gehlot and so felt that the situation could only be normalised if another person was brought in his place.“We really tried to bring him around but we couldn’t accept his conditions as this was blackmail. What if other states started using the same ruse?’’ said the senior leader.While Pilot is yet to comment, a person part of his team told HT, “But the Congress is not in power in other states. So why do they have this fear?’’Congress President Sonia Gandhi’s brief to the mediators was simple - try to keep him back in the party.When asked about Rahul Gandhi’s efforts to reach out to Pilot, Gandhi’s office said: “He’s always in his heart. And they speak often and directly. They have great respect and affection for each other.”“Even till this morning, right before the Congress legislature party meeting began, we kept talking to him. All of us spoke to him - his well wishers within and outside the party, but he wouldn’t listen,’’ said the leader.Hindustan Times has confirmed that while Rahul Gandhi did not speak to him, Priyanka Gandhi did make a call to him. But according to the Pilot’s camp, this wasn’t on behalf of the GandhisWhen the last call was made at around 10:30 am and Pilot still wouldn’t budge, the party went ahead with its meeting and passed a resolution against him.The senior leader said that Pilot had been promised outside BJP support in six months, if he was able to get 30 MLAs to leave the party with him. That’s when Randeep Surjewala announced, “We are sorry that Sachin Pilot and some of his ministers have gotten involved in a BJP conspiracy to bring down a democratically elected government.’’“I have never said or done anything in my life against the Congress party,’’ Sachin Pilot’s aide quoted him as saying soon after the decision was made to drop him.“All I wanted was that the public humiliation that Ashok Gehlot had put me through should also be publicly acknowledged and set right,’’ Pilot’s aide added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-enquiry-into-sachin-pilot-s-exit-from-ashok-gehlot-cabinet/story-41OgcU2xjfB2GHuXfkFVvK.html
14-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot changes his Twitter bio after Congress sacks him, says truth cannot be defeated||Sachin Pilot changed his Twitter bio soon after he was sacked as Rajasthan’s deputy chief minister and the state Congress president on Tuesday.“Truth can be rattled, not defeated,” he tweeted in Hindi after his removal from the dual posts.Now, Pilot’s Twitter bio reads: MLA (member of legislative assembly) Tonk and a former Minister of IT, Telecom & Corporate Affairs, Government of India. He has removed all references to the recently held posts in the party and government in his home state, Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-changes-his-twitter-bio-after-congress-sacks-him-says-truth-cannot-be-defeated/story-ZvPXHLvzUFos5W8aWnkmcN.html
14-07-2020||India||BJP continues to watch Rajasthan Cong crisis, does not push for floor test||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday continued to watch from the sidelines the high-voltage drama unfold in Rajasthan, where deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot was removed from his post, and also refrained from seeking a floor test.State unit president Satish Poonia told news agencies: “At present, we are not demanding anything. It is a corrupt government and it mismanaged the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis. It has become a weak government. This government should go away in the interests of the people.”A BJP leader in Delhi said the party would not seek a floor test unless it is confident that both the CM Ashok Gehlot and Pilot factions are falling short of numbers.ALSO WATCH | ‘Not happy but..’: Ashok Gehlot reacts to Sachin Pilot’s sacking, targets BJPOn Tuesday, Gehlot claimed to have the support of 109 members of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs).The half-way mark in the 200-member assembly is 101. Main opposition BJP has 72 MLAs, and it also enjoys the support of three lawmakers, who belong to Nagaur Member of Parliament’s (MP) Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP).The BJP has maintained that it would keep its option open, should the Gehlot-led government topple in the wake of defections to the Pilot camp.So far, the party has made no overt attempts to initiate an alliance with the Congress rebels.The BJP functionaries aware of the details said leaders, including general secretary Anil Jain and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, have been at the helm of tracking fast-paced developments in the desert state.They, however, declined to comment on whether there was a meeting between BJP leaders and Pilot. The saffron party also dismissed speculation of a meeting between Pilot and BJP chief JP Nadda.When asked about the speculation that the BJP could support Pilot if he floats his own party and stakes a claim to form a government, a second party leader said the BJP would rather watch from the sidelines until the time it would become abundantly clear that the Gehlot faction would fall short of the required number to cling to power.“A clear situation has to emerge for the party to take the next steps. We are watching the Congress collapse because of its vicious infighting. The inability of the Congress leadership in keeping the flock together is evident, and if the government falls, naturally we will explore all options that are open to us,” said the second senior leader in Delhi.On whether Pilot would be welcomed into the party fold as because he has made public comments about not joining the BJP, the leader quoted above said, the party would not offer him an invitation to join, but would consider should he makes a conciliatory move.“If anyone wants to join the BJP, we don’t stop them. However, we have not reached out to anyone yet,” the leader said.Over the past two days, BJP leaders have asserted that they have had no role in engineering defections in the faction-ridden Rajasthan Congress lawmakers, whose allegiance is split between CM Gehlot and his challenger, Pilot.However, the party has continued to target the Congress top brass, especially the Gandhi family for their inability to resolve factionalism within the grand old party amid its dwindling electoral fortunes.Reacting to the Congress’s allegations that the saffron party was trying to engineer defection, Om Mathur, BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP from Rajasthan, tweeted on Tuesday afternoon, “Dear @ashokgehlot51, by shutting the eyes one does not erase the sun … the structure of your house is weak and you are accusing the @BJP4India national leadership for this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-political-crisis-bjp-continues-to-watch-does-not-push-for-floor-test/story-nEQmmCy7Z2M30F7wEgtHZP.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Compelled to take decision, it was a huge conspiracy’: CM Gehlot after Cong axes Sachin Pilot from cabinet||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for conspiring and resorting to horse-trading in Rajasthan which led to the current crisis. He also said that there is nothing in Sachin Pilot’s hands, it’s the BJP which is running the show.“The high command was compelled to take the decision because since a long time BJP was conspiring and resorting to horse-trading. We knew it was a huge conspiracy; now some of our friends went astray because of it and went to Delhi,” Gehlot said after meeting Governor Kalraj Mishra and dropping Pilot and two other ministers from his cabinet.“There is nothing in Sachin Pilot’s hands, it is the BJP which is running the show. BJP has arranged that resort and they are managing everything. The same team which worked in Madhya Pradesh is at work here,” he added.ALSO WATCH | Rajasthan resort race: Hotel videos from Gehlot & Pilot camps to show strength The crisis in Rajasthan came to the fore after the state police’s Special Operations Group (SOG) sent notices to Pilot and other leaders in connection with an alleged plot to topple the Congress government in the state.Pilot’s supporters called the move humiliating and the young Congress leader left the state along with his 16 MLAs. He further claimed that the Gehlot government is in minority and sought a floor test in the Assembly.Gehlot too gathered his supporters and took them to a resort near Jaipur. The Congress deputed two leaders from Delhi to pacify the rebels and keep the flock together.Those leaders urged Pilot and his supporters to come back, but those appeals went unanswered. The Congress party also held two meetings of the legislature party (CLP) in two days and various leaders sent public messages to Pilot to attend. But the 42-year-old skipped both the meetings.At Tuesday’s meeting, party leaders asked for action against the rebels “to send a tough message”. Immediately after the meeting, Pilot was removed as state unit chief.Pilot, meanwhile, changed his profile on Twitter deleting all references to his position as deputy CM and Rajasthan Congress chief. He only described himself as MLA of Tonk and a former Minister of IT, Telecom & Corporate affairs, Government of India.“Truth can be rattled, not defeated,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/compelled-to-take-decision-it-was-a-big-conspiracy-ashok-gehlot-after-congress-axes-sachin-pilot-from-state-cabinet/story-LWIY9sbdX3vtoBqbYabrSP.html
14-07-2020||India||Rajasthan Governor accepts CM Gehlot’s proposal to remove Sachin Pilot as Deputy CM||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Tuesday accepted chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s proposal to remove Sachin Pilot as state deputy chief minister. Governor Mishra also gave a nod to the sacking of two cabinet ministers Vishvender Singh and Ramesh Meena. Sachin Pilot has also been removed as the chief of Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) and has been succeeded by Govind Singh Dotasra who is the state minister of education and tourism.Soon after his removal, Pilot changed his bio on Twitter and posted “truth cannot be defeated”. Also read: ‘Never acted or spoke against party’ - Sachin Pilot camp deplores his sackingसत्य को परेशान किया जा सकता है पराजित नहीं।Pilot skipped the Congress legislature meetings in Jaipur on Monday and on Tuesday that recommended action against him and sought to discuss his political fallout with CM Gehlot. Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday said that the party regrets that Pilot and his supporting camp of lawmakers have fallen to the BJP’s trap of destabilising the Gehlot government. “I regret that Sachin Pilot and some of his associates have been swayed by the BJP’s plot and are now conspiring to topple the Gehlot government elected by 8 crore Rajasthanis. It is unacceptable,” Surjewala said during a press briefing. He said that the party had always promoted Pilot from a very young age. “He became an MP at 26, Union minister in his thirties, a State unit president at 34 and deputy chief minister at 40,” Surjewala said.On Monday, the party tried to pacify the Pilot camp and said its “doors are open” to him or any other party member. Late in the evening, in a show of strength, Pilot’s official WhatsApp group shared a short video clip showing at least 16 MLAs sitting together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-governor-acceps-cm-gehlot-s-proposal-to-remove-sachin-pilot-as-deputy-cm/story-V3ErXsdGlnCEBzT5OS6q7J.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Truth can be harassed, but not defeated’: Sachin Pilot after he was sacked as Rajasthan deputy CM||Sachin Pilot on Tuesday changed his profile on Twitter minutes after he was dropped as the chief of Congress’ Rajasthan unit and removed from the state cabinet.Pilot was the deputy chief minister and also held the portfolios of public works department as well as the panchayati raj ministry.The 42-year-old leader’s profile now describes him as MLA from Tonk and former minister of IT, telecom and corporate affairs in the government of India. “Truth can be harassed, cannot be defeated,” Sachin Pilot also tweeted in Hindi. सत्य को परेशान किया जा सकता है पराजित नहीं।Pilot, Ramesh Meena, the state’s food and civil supplies minister, and tourism minister Vishvendra Singh were dropped after they along with others kept away from the Congress’ Legislature Party (CLP) meeting in Jaipur on Monday as well as Tuesday. Congress’ members of legislative assembly (MLAs) recommended action against him and other members of his camp during both the meetings. ALSO WATCH | Sachin Pilot sacked: Watch Congress’ charge & Pilot’s response l Key details After Tuesday’s CLP meeting, senior party leader Randeep Singh Surjewala announced Rajasthan’s education minister Govind Singh Dotasra will replace Sachin Pilot as chief of the Congress’ Rajasthan unit.“The Congress party has taken some decisions with a heavy heart,” he said.The party also sacked Mukesh Bhakar and Rakesh Pareek as presidents of the party’s frontal organisations--Youth Congress and Sewa Dal. Ganesh Ghoghra, an MLA from Dungarpur, and Hem Singh Shekhawat were given the posts.After Pilot’s removal, the police has increased security in the Gurjar dominated areas of the state.“The removal of Pilot may disturb law and order situation in some parts of the state, especially eastern Rajasthan. Hence, the security has been increased and we are doing strict patrolling in selected areas,” a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truth-can-be-harrassed-but-cannot-be-defeated-sachin-pilot-tweets-after-congress-sacks-him/story-dFB7hwnQh3WSoS2WIbhMTI.html
14-07-2020||India||Rajasthan: After Sachin Pilot’s sacking, police beefs up security in Gurjar-dominated areas||Rajasthan Police has beefed up security in the Gurjar-dominated areas in the desert state after Sachin Pilot was sacked as the state Congress president and deputy Chief Minister on Tuesday following his revolt against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in a wake of protracted differences of opinion.Pilot belongs to the Gurjar caste.Security has been intensified in the following parts of the state: Neem Ka Thana in Sikar district; Bansur town (Alwar). Kotputli and Viratnagar (Jaipur); Udaipurwati (Jhunjhunu); Mahua, Sikandara, Bandikui town (Dausa), and some regions of Karauli, Bharatpur and Sawai Madhopur districts, said a police official.“The removal of Pilot may disturb law and order situation in some parts of the state, especially in eastern Rajasthan. Security has been increased in select areas of the state,” he added.Meanwhile Pilot put out a tell-tale tweet shortly after he was sacked.“Truth can be harassed, not defeated,” he tweeted in an oblique reference to the prevailing political drama surrounding the Gehlot-led government’s fate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-after-sachin-pilot-s-sacking-police-beefs-up-security-in-gurjar-dominated-areas/story-J9uVJ71qtZ2pgpmuuMV2BO.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Never acted or spoke against party’: Sachin Pilot camp deplores his sacking||Moments after Sachin Pilot was sacked as the chief of Congress party in Rajasthan and also as the deputy minister of the state, his camp expressed its disappointment at the development stating that Pilot “has never done anything against the party or spoken against it”.Congress earlier said it had acted against the young leader with a “heavy heart” after he remained unmoved by several invitations to discuss differences within the party forum even as the threat of disciplinary action hung over him.The day has seen hectic political developments including fresh appeals asking Pilot to reconsider his position in the light of the Congress ideology and the values represented by the party and its leaders like Sonia and Rahul Gandhi.  However, with Pilot saying away from the second legislative party meet called in two days, it became clear that his differences with chief minister Ashok Gehlot had reached a point of no return.While, the party announced his sacking from the two key posts alleging he and his supporters had fallen into a trap allegedly laid out by opposition BJP, chief minister Ashok Gehlot met the governor asking him to drop Pilot and two of his supporters from state cabinet.Pilot, too, put out a line adage on his twitter account which said, “while truth can be frustrated, it can’t be defeated’ to signal there was little room left for any possible reconciliation.While the Congress has claimed that Pilot had been sucked into “deep rooted” conspiracy against the Gehlot government, his supporters have maintained that they are fighting to protect their dignity.A WhatsApp message circulated by Pilot’s supporting MLAs, said “their leader is threatened with notices from the Special Operation Group (SOG) under the charges of sedition and criminal conspiracy”.They have alleged that their leader has been humiliated by the Gehlot faction. The party, however, is standing with Gehlot. “We have toiled with sweat and blood for the Congress party. Under the leadership of Shri Sachin Pilot we have made every effort in the past six years to strengthen the party and bring it to power in Rajasthan at a time when it had been reduced to an insignificant number in the state assembly,” the WhatsApp post, signed by Vishvender Singh, Ramesh Meena, and former speaker Deepender Shekhawat said.Pilot has been upset since he was denied the Rajasthan chief minister’s post after the December 2018 assembly elections. His differences with CM Ashok Gehlot reached a tipping point after a probe into alleged horse-trading to topple the Rajasthan government, constituted by the police that reports directly to the CM, saw a notice being sent to Sachin Pilot. A miffed pilot has since made it clear that he and his supporters do not back Gehlot-run government any longer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-acted-or-spoke-against-party-sachin-pilot-camp-deplores-his-sacking/story-3s6zaG7BGxJR23ArImR96H.html
14-07-2020||India||We changed notion that ‘potholed roads meant it’s UP’: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said that his government has changed the perception of the state by developing a robust network of quality roads.“The public works department has been successful in improving 1.20 lakh kilometre potholed roads in the state. Before 2017, it was said that UP meant pothold roads. Today, the place from where good roads start means you’ve entered Uttar Pradesh,” the chief minister said.He inaugurated projects worth Rs 2,250 crore to the people of the state. Adityanath said the money has been given by the World Bank and Asian Development Bank (ADB).Adityanath also said that Uttar Pradesh shares its borders with seven states and Nepal. “The PWD department has started work on widening 54 such roads into four-lane,” the chief minister said.The state is now known for good roads, power supply and law and order situation, said Adityanath.He also said that development work hasn’t stopped in the state even during the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-changed-notion-that-potholed-roads-meant-it-s-up-yogi-adityanath/story-7iwvdUlgRnUfR5rkfVtgUP.html
14-07-2020||India||Five Indians stranded in Pak due to Covid-19 lockdown repatriated: MEA tells NHRC||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has informed the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) that five Indian citizens, who were stranded in Pakistan due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, have returned to India.The MEA’s submission in the NHRC comes on a complaint filed by advocate Vishnu Kumar Gupta seeking repatriation of one Satbir Singh and four others, who were stranded in Pakistan due to coronavirus lockdown.“Subsequent to Pakistan conveying its concurrence for repatriation of the stranded Indian nationals, the five Indians, referred by the complainant, have returned to India on June 27, 2020, through Attari-Wagah border crossing,” the MEA said in its reply filed on Monday.The Ministry said that the High Commission of India in Islamabad was in regular touch with the Indian nationals stranded in the neighbouring, as well as with the concerned authorities in Pakistan, over the repatriation matter.Gupta had filed a complaint in the NHRC, wherein, he requested the urgent intervention of the commission and requested to direct the MEA to take immediate steps for the safe and secure return of Indian nationals stranded in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-indians-stranded-in-pak-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-repatriated-mea-tells-nhrc/story-rmufFta0JiUYF26lZKoZhL.html
14-07-2020||India||Congress sacks Sachin Pilot as Rajasthan Deputy CM, PCC chief||Sachin Pilot has been removed as Deputy Chief Minister and Rajasthan PCC Chief, announced Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday.“Sachin Pilot, Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena have been removed from the posts of Deputy Chief Minister and Ministerial posts respectively. Sachin Pilot has also been removed as the Rajasthan PCC Chief,” said Surjewala. Govind Singh Dotasra has been appointed as the new PCC chief, he added. “Sachin Pilot, few Congress Ministers and MLAs got involved in the conspiracy to topple the Congress government by getting entangled within the trap of BJP,” he added. The decision was taken after a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting at the Fairmont Hotel in Jaipur, Rajasthan earlier today.The Rajasthan Congress is in turmoil over the past few days. While Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has blamed the BJP for attempting to destabilise the State government by poaching MLAs, Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot has been camping in Delhi.A controversy broke out in Rajasthan after Special Operation Group (SOG) sent a notice to Pilot to record his statement in the case registered by SOG in the alleged poaching of Congress MLAs in the State.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-sacks-sachin-pilot-as-rajasthan-deputy-cm-pcc-chief/story-gb5X7e9vjfPW8PMvf5jJ7M.html
14-07-2020||India||Govind Singh Dotasra replaces Sachin Pilot as Rajasthan Congress president||Rajasthan’s education minister Govind Singh Dotasra was on Tuesday named as the new chief of the Congress’ Rajasthan unit in place of Sachin Pilot, senior party leader Randeep Singh Surjewala announced in Jaipur.Sachin Pilot was also sacked as Rajasthan’s deputy chief minister along with two other ministers, amid the face-off with chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Surjewala said.Ramesh Meena, the state’s food and civil supplies minister, and tourism minister Vishvendra Singh have also been sacked.“The Congress party has taken some decisions with a heavy heart,” he said.The senior party leader said it is unfortunate that Sachin Pilot and some MLAs were misguided and became the part of the conspiracy of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to topple the government in Rajasthan.The party also sacked Mukesh Bhakar and Rakesh Pareek as presidents of frontal organisations Youth Congress and Sewa Dal. Ganesh Ghoghra, an MLA from Dungarpur, and Hem Singh Shekhawat were given the posts.The announcements came after the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting in the state capital of Jaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govind-singh-dotasra-appointed-as-rajasthan-congress-president-in-place-of-sachin-pilot/story-EbA7nxS47H6K3k20wRAP2L.html
14-07-2020||India||After Sachin Pilot’s sacking, CM Gehlot meets Governor Kalraj Mishra||Soon after the Congress party announced Sachin Pilot’s removal as deputy chief minister of Rajasthan, chief minister Ashok Gehlot reached Raj Bawan in Jaipur to meet Governor Kalraj Mishra. The Congress on Tuesday also sacked two other state cabinet members after the party passed a resolution at the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meeting in Jaipur to remove Pilot from his currently held positions in Rajasthan. Pilot has also been removed as the chief of Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC). Govind Singh Dotasra, state minister of education and tourism, has been appointed in his place. As per reports, as many as 102 MLAs were present during the Congress legislature meeting and unanimously demanded Sachin Pilot’s removal from the party.“I regret that Sachin Pilot and some of his associates have been swayed by the BJP’s plot and are now conspiring to topple the Gehlot government elected by 8 crore Rajasthanis. It is unacceptable,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said during a press briefing, adding that Vishvender Singh and Ramesh Meena have been removed as state cabinet ministers.Pilot skipped the Congress legislature meeting in Jaipur on Monday that recommended action against him and supporting lawmakers. Tuesday’s meet was party’s second consecutive meeting to discuss the political fallout between Pilot and CM Gehlot. Pilot and his supporting camp of lawmakers skipped both the meetings. The Congress on Monday tried sending out messages for Pilot to stay put in party but all in vain. During a press briefing on Monday, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that Congress’ doors are always to Sachin Pilot and other party members. “If anyone is upset in family, they should find a solution by sitting with members of the family. On behalf of Congress leadership, including Sonia ji and Rahul ji, I convey that doors of Congress party are always open for Sachin ji or any member,” Surjewala said on Monday.“If anyone, be at any post or profile, has any problem, they must come forward and mention the issue on the party forum. We will work to resolve it together and keep our government intact in the state,” he added.As a sign of defiance and show of strength, Pilot-led Rajasthan Congress camp on Monday released a video showing at least 16 MLAs sitting together. The 10-second video was shared late at night on Pilot’s official WhatsApp group. Pilot, however, was not seen in the video clip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-meets-governor-kalraj-mishra/story-RNAXfrVqUeIqhbVrtmDWUK.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Unprecedented’: Sachin Pilot’s supporters demand action against those who ‘humiliated our leader’||The ongoing political battle between Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot intensified on Tuesday.While the party is standing with Gehlot and even passed a resolution seeking action against the rebels, Pilot’s supporters have said they are fighting to protect their dignity.In a message circulated by the Pilot camp on WhatsApp, his supporters said “their leader is threatened with notices from the SOG under the charges of sedition and criminal conspiracy”.Calling it unprecedented in Indian democracy and the Congress party, the supporters further demanded that people who humiliated Pilot should be held responsible.“We have toiled with sweat and blood for the Congress party. Under the leadership of Shri Sachin Pilot we have made every effort in the past sixyears to strengthen the party and bring it to power in Rajasthan at a time when it had been reduced to an insignificant number in the state assembly,” the WhatsApp post said. It has been signed by cabinet ministers Vishvender Singh and Ramesh Meena, and former speaker Deepender Shekhawat.Gehlot, meanwhile, removed Pilot, Meena and Singh from the cabinet, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala announced after the meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP).While Pilot held PWD and Panchayat Raj portfolios, Meena was the food and civil supplies minister and Singh the tourism minister. Pilot has also been removed as the chief of Congress’ Rajasthan unit.The second CLP meeting was held on Tuesday, and Pilot skipped it again. A resolution was passed in the CLP meeting to take action against Pilot and other rebel legislators who did not attend the meeting.The Congress leaders reasoned that if the party does not act against the rebels, it would send a wrong signal and demoralise loyal party workers.The face-off between Pilot and Gehlot came to the fore after Rajasthan Police’s Special Operations Group (SOG) sent notices to the former and other leaders in connection with alleged attempts to topple Congress government in the state.The notices stated that the SOG had urged the leaders to provide a suitable date and time for recording their respective statements.Pilot then left the state along with his 16 MLAs. He has claimed that the Gehlot government is in minority as 30 lawmakers are with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unprecedented-sachin-pilot-s-supporters-demand-action-against-those-who-humiliated-our-leader/story-feV5mwm9l4iScggz2m7b5K.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Decision taken with a heavy heart’: Congress after Sachin Pilot gets the sack||In a move to stamp out the rebellion in its Rajasthan unit, the Congress on Tuesday sacked Sachin Pilot and two more ministers from the Ashok Gehlot cabinet, underlining that the party does not revolve around people but is based on policy and principles.Chief Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, sent as Central observer to the state, said the party had to make some decisions today with a “heavy heart”, referring to the dropping of Sachin Pilot as deputy chief minister and also as the party’s Rajasthan unit president. Govind Singh Dotasra was appointed Rajasthan Congress chief in place of Pilot, announced Surjewala. “I regret that Sachin Pilot and some of his associates have been swayed by BJP’s plot and are now conspiring to topple the Congress government elected by eight crore Rajasthanis. It is unacceptable,” RS Surjewala told journalists. “Truth can be disturbed, not defeated,” tweeted Pilot, who has been camping in Delhi, as news travelled that the Congress has stripped him of his portfolios and even removed him from the post of Rajasthan Congress chief. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot drove down to Raj Bhavan to make a formal request to the governor to drop Pilot and the two ministers from his cabinet. The Congress legislature party, that met today for the second straight day, passed a resolution seeking action against the rebel leaders to send a “strong message” and prevent any such future trouble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-3-ministers-sacked-from-ashok-gehlot-cabinet-says-cong/story-htOGomSagyEdU632pxA7WL.html
14-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political turmoil: Congress sacks Sachin Pilot, 2 ministers from Gehlot cabinet||Sachin Pilot, the Rajasthan deputy chief minister and two ministers in his camp have been dropped from the Ashok Gehlot cabinet, the Congress announced on Tuesday afternoon after the 42-year-old leader credited with leading the party’s successful campaign in the last elections refused to stand down.Pilot had stayed away from the Congress legislature meeting in Jaipur on Monday that recommended action against him and other lawmakers of his camp. They had argued that if the party didn’t act against the rebels, it would send a wrong message.Also read: ‘Unprecedented’ - Pilot supporters’ sharp message on Rajasthan developmentChief Minister Ashok Gehlot drove down to Raj Bhavan to make a formal request to the governor to drop Pilot and two ministers from his cabinet as soon as the meeting of lawmakers was over. Governor Kalraj Mishra accepted Gehlot’s recommendation. The two ministers who have been sacked are Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena.Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala stayed back to make the announcement. The Congress party regrets that deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and some of his supporting MLAs fell into the opposition BJP’s trap to destabilise the Gehlot government, he told the news conference before announcing Pilot’s sacking.ALSO WATCH | Sachin Pilot sacked: Watch Congress’ charge & Pilot’s response l Key details Pilot has also been sacked as Rajasthan Congress chief. He has been replaced by Govind Singh Dotasara, the minister of education and tourism in Gehlot’s cabinet.Congress lawmaker Ganesh Ghogra has been appointed to head the state’s youth Congress unit, replacing Mukesh Bhakar.It is unfortunate that Sachin Pilot and some MLAs supporting him were misguided and became part of the conspiracy of the BJP to topple the Gehlot government. The Congress leader also listed the many posts that Pilot had been appointed to by the Congress, a reference to suggestions that he wanted the party to edge out Ashok Gehlot and appoint him as Rajasthan chief minister.“The party always promoted Pilot from a very young age. He became an MP at 26, Union minister at 30-32, a State unit president at 34 and deputy chief minister at 40,” Surjewala said.The Congress said Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and other senior party leaders had tried to touch base with Sachin Pilot but in vain.Sachin Pilot responded to news of his sacking delivered via the media with a one-line tweet. “The truth can be rattled, not defeated,” he said.Minutes before the Congress legislators started their meeting, the two ministers who lost their cabinet posts for standing with Pilot put out a statement to counter the perception that they were fighting for a plum posts.“We are taking a stand to protect our dignity and self respect at a time when our leader is threatened with notices from the SOG (Special Operations Group) under the charges of sedition and criminal conspiracy,” said a joint statement circulated by Vishvender Singh and Ramesh Meena.A notice to the deputy chief minister was “unprecedented in India democracy and the Congress party”“Public humiliation of our leader Mr. Pilot is something that is totally unacceptable to us, and those responsible for meeting out this treatment need to be made accountable. We are seeking to restore our self respect and are not clamouring for any posts,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilot-removed-from-deputy-cm/story-tHAc7l9myrIHbumG47fYXI.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Delhi’s education model has made history’: Kejriwal lauds govt schools’ performance in Class 12 CBSE exams||Delhi chief minister expressed happiness over government schools’ performance in Class 12 CBSE exams and said that the education model in the national capital has scripted history today. Kejriwal’s comments came after 98 percent of students (97.92 percent) across Delhi government schools passed the Class 12 CBSE exams.“Amid the pandemic, I have good news for you. Delhi’s kids have done a wonderful job by achieving 98 percent pass percent in CBSE Class 12 exams,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister said he believes this is an unprecedented feat. “I don’t think the combined CBSE Class 12 result of states across India could have ever matched this figure in our history,” he stated. The chief minister said that of total 916 government schools in Delhi, over 300 schools have reported 100 percent pass results in CBSE Class 12 exams this year. Also read: Delhi’s second plasma bank inaugurated at LNJP hospital“Ever since the Aam Admi Party has formed the government in the national capital, the results have been improving constantly,” Kejriwal said.The chief minister described the results as a proud moment for Delhi government and said that the students studying in Delhi’s government schools have shown that they are no less intelligent than anyone. “These changes were not just the outcome of work done on our part but also by the teachers, students and their parents. We changed the environment and provided facilities for kids to learn and teachers to teach,” he added.Also read: CBSE Board to announce 10th result tomorrow Kejriwal said that students from Delhi’s government schools have entered India’s mainstream and are doing exceptionally well across various fields. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday declared the results for Class 12 examinations 2020. As per the CBSE, with 88.78 per cent pass percentage this year for Class 12, the pass percentage has jumped by 5.38 percent as opposed to last year’s 83.40 percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-education-model-has-made-history-kejriwal-lauds-govt-schools-performance-in-class-12-cbse-exams/story-nGDpzqynb1Q4zoFfnqeedL.html
14-07-2020||India||Kerala nun rape accused Franco Mulakkal tests positive for coronavirus||Former Jalandhar bishop Franco Mulakkal, against whom a court issued a non-bailable warrant yesterday in connection with the alleged rape of a Kerala nun, has tested positive for Covid-19, confirmed an officer. Mulakkal’s PRO Father Peter said the health of the bishop is not so good.On Monday, Mulakkal’s counsel informed the Kerala court that his client could not appear as he had been in self quarantine due to his primary contact with a Covid-19 infected person.During the previous hearing on July 1 also he had failed to appear before the Court.His counsel had then submitted that the priest could not appear as he was stuck in a Covid-19 containment zone at Jalandhar in Punjab.However, the prosecution on Monday refuted the claim by the accused saying, the place where he lived in Jalandhar was not a containment zone on July 1.The Court cancelled his bail, considering the prosecution argument that the accused was trying to delay the trial, and posted the case to August 13.The Kerala High Court on July 7 had dismissed a petition seeking to discharge Mulakkal from the sexual assault case filed against him by the nun.It had directed the deposed Bishop of Jalandhar diocese to stand for trial in the rape case, which was registered on a complaint filed by the nun of same diocese in Kerala.The court dismissed the plea by the bishop, admitting the prosecution argument that there was prima facie evidence against Mulakkal in the rape case.The senior priest of the Roman Catholic Church had filed the revision petition following the dismissal of his discharge plea by the trial court in Kottayam in March this year.The rape case against the Bishop was registered by police in Kottayam district.In her complaint to the police in June 2018, the nun had alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by the Bishop between 2014 and 2016.Arrested by the Special Investigation team, the bishop has been charged with wrongful confinement, rape, unnatural sex and criminal intimidation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-nun-rape-accused-franco-mulakkal-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-IPvKzaYdtGMw8fF8BcMvxI.html
14-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Have not made any requests for extension, will vacate Lutyens’ bungalow on time, says Priyanka Gandhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra denies seeking more time to vacate Lutyens’ bungalowCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra on Tuesday said that she would vacate her government bungalow at 35 Lodhi Estate in Lutyens’ Delhi within the stipulated one-month deadline and rubbished claims that she requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for an extension of the tenure beyond August 1. Read moreKejriwal launches Delhi’s second plasma bank for Covid-19 patients at LNJP HospitalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday inaugurated the national capital’s second plasma bank for Covid-19 patients at government-run Lok Nayak Hospital. “After huge success of our first plasma bank, we are launching Delhi’s 2nd plasma bank today at LNJP Hospital,” Kejriwal tweeted. Read moreComing to Punjab for less than 72 hours? No quarantine, only undertaking neededThose coming to Punjab for less than 72 hours are now exempt from the mandatory home quarantine, and only need to submit a formal undertaking at the border check post. Read moreRajasthan crisis: Sachin Pilot ignores appeals, skips key Congress meetingThe Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting began in Rajasthan capital Jaipur shortly before noon on Tuesday. This is the second CLP meeting in two days to discuss the crisis in the state as the political face-off between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot intensified. Read moreGlobal coronavirus vaccine plan may allow rich countries to buy morePoliticians and public health leaders have publicly committed to equitably sharing any coronavirus vaccine that works, but the top global initiative to make that happen may allow rich countries to reinforce their own stockpiles while making fewer doses available for poor ones. Read moreLa Liga: Barcelona strong enough to cope without Antoine Griezmann in final two games, says Luis GarciaReal Madrid have cemented themselves as the favourites to win the La Liga title this year. With a 2-1 win over Granada on Monday, the Zinedine Zidane led team has gone one step further in winning the tournament and need just one more win to do so. Read moreDeer family crosses IAS officer’s road to work, leaves netizens mesmerized. WatchFor most of us, the road to office is riddled with crowded streets, sweaty people and a lot of traffic jams. But the scenario is completely different for some. A video shared by IAS officer Supriya Sahu shows her route to work which may make you miss the sight of a lush, green forest. Read moreFree Britney 2020: Here’s why Britney Spears’ fans are petitioning to end her conservatorshipSinger, musician and performer Britney Spears left her 24.9 million Instagram followers confused and concerned with her posts, many worried that the Toxic singer seemed out of sorts. Several wrote that she wasn’t behaving ‘normally’ and that someone should do a wellness check on her. Read moreWatch| Covid-19: BCG vaccine can prevent deaths, severe infections||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-priyanka-gandhi-rubbishes-claims-seeking-more-time-to-vacate-lutyens-bungalow-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qwTgXQsSwXScP5uM38FETM.html
14-07-2020||India||Priyanka calls out ‘fake news’ on bungalow request, minister tweets his rebuttal||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra on Tuesday said that she would vacate her government bungalow at 35 Lodhi Estate in Lutyens’ Delhi within the stipulated one-month deadline and rubbished claims that she requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for an extension of the tenure beyond August 1.On July 1, the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs had cancelled the government accommodation allocated to Gandhi on the ground that she is ineligible for the entitlement, as she no longer enjoys the security cover of the Special Protection Group (SPG).On Tuesday, she reacted to reports claiming she had requested PM Modi seeking to stay on at her official accommodation beyond August 1.“This is FAKE NEWS. I have not made any such request to the government. As per the eviction letter handed to me on July 1, I will be vacating the government accommodation at 35 Lodhi Estate by August 1,” she tweeted. Gandhi’s husband Robert Vadra also reiterated that the family had not asked for an extension and would vacate the bungalow a week before the deadline expires amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“This is completely incorrect!! We have not asked for any extension of stay. We were sent a notice on July 1 to leave in 30 days. We at a time of Covid-19 have packed our entire household, and will leave a week before time,” he tweeted.However, Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri has punctured holes in Gandhi’s claims a while after she tweeted to set the record straight.Puri referred to “facts” such as a powerful Congress leader’s move to let her stay on at 35 Lodhi Estate on July 4, three days after the eviction notice was served on her.“Facts speak for themselves! A powerful Congress leader with much clout in the party called me on July 4 at 12.05pm to request that 35, Lodhi Estate be allotted to another Congress MP so that Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra can stay on. Let’s not sensationalise everything please,” Puri tweeted shortly after Gandhi took to social media to clarify her stand.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra promptly responded, distancing herself from the request. “If someone called you Mr Puri, I thank them for their concern, and thank you for your consideration as well but it still does not change the facts: I have made no such request, and I am making no such request,” she said.The ministry has already allotted her bungalow to Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rajya Sabha member and party spokesperson, Anil Baluni.Officials familiar with the development told HT that the ministry has allotted the type 6B bungalow to Baluni.The allotment of central government bungalows is done through the General Pool Residential Accommodation (GPRA) Rules, 2017, of the directorate of estates.She was allotted the Lodhi Estate bungalow on February 21, 1997, as an SPG protectee.Hours after the notice was served to her on July 1, she paid off all her pending dues, amounting to 3,46,677, until June 30, the ministry had said.She is planning to move to the house of late Sheila Kaul, her grand-mother Indira Gandhi’s maternal aunt, in Lucknow. The Congress said that the house was renovated a few months ago. Gandhi’s relocation to Lucknow is being seen as a bid to enthuse party workers ahead of the Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly polls slated to be held in 2022 amid the party’s dwindling electoral fortunes in the country’s most populous state for over three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-denies-seeking-more-time-to-vacate-lutyens-bungalow/story-fI6vlWNkrMoFdezH3YCcfO.html
14-07-2020||India||Kejriwal launches Delhi’s second plasma bank for Covid-19 patients at LNJP Hospital||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday inaugurated the national capital’s second plasma bank for Covid-19 patients at government-run Lok Nayak Hospital. “After huge success of our first plasma bank, we are launching Delhi’s 2nd plasma bank today at LNJP Hospital,” Kejriwal tweeted. The chief minister was accompanied by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia among other officials on the occasion. The Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) was the first centre in the national capital to start the facility for Covid-19. The hospital has hired three expert counsellors who will encourage Covid-19 patients to donate plasma and tell them it is a safe process, an official told news agency PTI, adding that these counsellors will call up patients who have recovered from coronavirus and explain them about the therapy.  Also read: India’s recovery-to-death ratio for Covid-19 at 96:4, says governmentAfter India's first Plasma bank by Delhi Govt Hon'ble CM shri @Arvindkejriwal with Hon'ble Dy CM shri @msisodia visited LNJP hospital to inaugurate the second plasma bank of Delhi. pic.twitter.com/VJBeHIXc2r“We already have a database of patients in our hospital and these counsellors will be calling them. However, patients who have recovered after treatment from other hospitals can also come and donate plasma to the bank,” he said. The national capital on Monday recorded 1,246 fresh coronavirus cases, authorities said, the lowest in the last 35 days. The Covid-19 tally in the national capital stands at 113,740.  After huge success of our first plasma bank, we launched Delhi's 2nd plasma bank today at LNJP Hospital#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/vmHuCZv7iZAccording to state health department figures, Delhi’s Covid-19 recovery rate stands at over 80 percent. So far, 91,312 patients across Delhi have recovered from the infection. The death toll stands at 3,411 while the active number cases is slightly over 19,000.Of 15,253 beds in hospitals, 10,944 are vacant; of 9,217 beds at dedicated Covid care centre, 7,069 beds are vacant for Covid-19 patients. The number of containment zones in the national capital stands at 658.From July 1-13, Delhi recorded 26,380 cases, while 32,984 people recovered. Barring July 1 and July 6, Delhi reported more Covid-19 recoveries than fresh cases this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-launches-delhi-s-second-plasma-bank-for-covid-19-patients-at-lnjp-hospital/story-PA4uZiMToAAYWWsx0P7LEP.html
14-07-2020||India||Female elephant found dead in Betla National Park in Latehar district||Latehar: A wild elephant was found dead in Betla National Park in Jharkhand’s Latehar district on Tuesday morning.The park is located in the tourist zone of the Palamu Tiger Reserve (PTR), the only natural habitat for big cats in the state.Forest department employees, who were out on patrol duty, found the elephant’s carcass in Betla-2 compartment of the national park, which is adjacent to Betla-Mahuadand road that passes through the reserve forest.The forest officials have been informed about the pachyderm’s death and they are expected to arrive at the spot soon.The reason for the animal’s death has not been ascertained yet, and a team of veterinarians has been directed to conduct an autopsy.“A female elephant, aged between 20 and 25 years, was found dead between Betla and Buxa More on Tuesday morning. The reasons for the death could be ascertained after the autopsy is done,” said YK Das, PTR.“Mahouts suspect that the elephant died of snake bite. We need to wait for the post-mortem examination report,” he added.Forest employees have fenced the spot, where the elephant was found dead, and maintaining a strict vigil.The park was in the news recently after a tigress and three bison were found dead within four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/female-elephant-found-dead-in-betla-national-park-in-latehar-district/story-5RkT4GnRBbqLLjjTvFF00K.html
14-07-2020||India||Rajasthan crisis: Sachin Pilot ignores appeals, skips key Congress meeting||The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting began in Rajasthan capital Jaipur shortly before noon on Tuesday. This is the second CLP meeting in two days to discuss the crisis in the state as the political face-off between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot intensified.Pilot, who has been leading rebellion against Gehlot, did not attend the meeting ignoring calls from various leaders.Pilot and 16 other MLAs had skipped the first CLP meeting on Monday too.Tuesday’s meeting is being held at a resort where Gehlot and other MLAs are camping since Monday. Congress leader Randeep Surjewala had announced the second CLP meeting as the top leadership expressed the desire to woo back dissidents led by Pilot, who is also the state unit chief.“I appeal to @SachinPilot and all his fellow MLAs to join today’s Legislature Party meeting. While expressing your faith in the ideology and values ​​of the Congress, please make your presence felt and strengthen the hands of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi,” party general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Avinash Pande had tweeted just before the meeting began.Monday’s meeting, held at Gehlot’s official residence, saw the presence of 102 MLAs, according to multiple Congress leaders present there. These included 88 Congress MLAs, 10 independents, two Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs, and one legislator each of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal. The national leadership of BTP, based in Gujarat, later asked its legislators not to take sides in the battle - but the MLAs have said they will stick to the government. The legislators were then taken to a private resort, Fairmont Jaipur.The Congress has 107 MLAs in the house, out of whom 105 could attend Monday’s meeting in principle (barring the speaker and an ailing minister). This meant that 17 legislators from the party, including Pilot, did not attend the meeting. Three other independents were reported to have joined the legislators who pledged their support to the government, on the way to the hotel. This, along with an additional CPI(M) legislator’s support, appeared to take Gehlot’s count to 106 on Monday. Pilot’s camp, however, dismissed the numbers.The majority mark in the 200-member assembly in Rajasthan is 101.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-crisis-sachin-pilot-ignores-appeals-skips-key-congress-meeting/story-t1XE9ymWcliTJUy4UHOYQL.html
14-07-2020||India||Ahead of party meet, Congress puts out yet another appeal to Sachin Pilot||The Congress on Tuesday issued yet another appeal to Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his supporters to attend the meeting of party legislators in Jaipur amid the turf war between the young leader and chief minister Ashok Gehlot.This time as well, the Congress invoked its president Sonia Gandhi, senior leader Rahul Gandhi and the “ideology and values” of the party to placate Sachin Pilot.Avinash Pande, the state in-charge of Rajasthan, tweeted his request to Sachin Pilot and the members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) who have sided with him in the political crisis.“I appeal to @SachinPilot and to all his fellow MLAs to attend today’s meeting of the legislature party. Please make your presence known and strengthen the position of Mrs Sonia Gandhi and Mr Rahul Gandhi expressing your faith in the ideology and values of the Congress,” Pande posted in Hindi. Before this, senior Congress leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala and Ajay Maken had called on Pilot to come back and attend the second legislative party meeting on Tuesday multiple times throughout the day on Monday. Pilot, who is also the Rajasthan unit chief, turned down the invitation for the meeting at a resort late on Monday night.Both sides have claimed they have the numbers. There were 102 MLAs—88 Congress MLAs, 10 independents, two Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs, and one legislator each of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal—present at the legislative party meeting held at the CM’s official residence.The majority mark in the 200-member assembly in Rajasthan is 101.However, the BTP later asked its legislators not to take sides in the battle but the MLAs have said they will stick to the government.On their part, Pilot-led Rajasthan Congress camp released a video showing at least 16 MLAs sitting together late on Monday. The 10-second video was shared late at night on Pilot’s official WhatsApp group in what is being seen a show of strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-party-meet-congress-puts-out-yet-another-appeal-to-sachin-pilot/story-tFZbysZr1y03QASC3gpjKK.html
14-07-2020||India||Elghar Parishad case: Telugu poet P Varavara Rao admitted to JJ Hospital||The family members of Dr. P Varavara Rao (81), a Telugu writer and poet, who is lodged at Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Jail in connection with the 2018 Elgar Parishad case, has expressed concern about his worsening health condition and the authorities’ bid to scuttle his bail plea again.They are apprehensive that JJ Hospital, where he was taken for a battery of medical tests owing to his advanced age on Monday afternoon, might hurriedly release him before his bail plea comes up for hearing on Friday to reinforce that his health condition is not as worse as it made out to be.They released a statement on Tuesday morning, pleading to the hospital authorities to ensure that he is not released until he recovers and no attempt should be made to discharge him hurriedly.“Dr. Rao was shifted to JJ Hospital from Taloja Jail on Monday afternoon. He was undergoing various tests until midnight. Hospital officials reportedly said that he was brought in for an evaluation and did not confirm whether he was going to be admitted. He may be kept in the hospital until the results are made available in a couple of days,” the statement read.Dr. Rao’s family members have alleged that the authorities did not provide any information to them about his health condition, including when he was taken to the hospital on Monday afternoon.“Though it was mandatory to inform the family about these developments, neither government nor jail, police, hospital authorities provided any information to us,” the statement added.On May 28, Dr. Rao was taken to the hospital after he had lost consciousness. Later, he was discharged on June 1.At that time, the family members had alleged that he was hurriedly discharged in a bid to obstruct his bail plea before the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court, which was rejected on June 26.The NIA, which had taken over the Elgar Parishad case from Pune Police in February, had opposed the bail plea, as Dr. Rao was charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, where there is no provision to grant him temporary bail.NIA had submitted that the jail authorities could be directed to ensure that Dr. Rao was provided proper medical attention, whenever required.Earlier, on January 1, 2018, violence erupted between Dalits and Marathas near the village of Bhima Koregaon in Pune district, where thousands of Dalits had gathered to mark the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Koregaon.In that battle, the British Army’s Dalit Mahar soldiers had defeated the Brahmin Peshwa rulers of the Maratha empire.The commemoration took place a day after an event in Pune called the Elgar Parishad was held.The Pune Police conducted a preliminary probe and claimed that the violence in Bhima Koregaon was the result of speeches made at the Elgar Parishad event.They alleged that banned Maoist groups organised the event, and a first information report (FIR) was also filed.In June 2018, the Pune Police arrested five activists and lawyers from Pune, Nagpur, and Delhi – Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, and Shoma Sen – for their alleged links to the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist), and also for organising the Elgar Parishad event.In August 2018, the police arrested four more activists – Sudha Bharadwaj, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, and Dr. Rao.While Gautam Navlakha and Dr. Anand Teltumbde were arrested on April 14 this year, taking the total number of the accused in the case to 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elghar-parishad-case-telugu-poet-p-varavara-rao-admitted-to-jj-hospital/story-Dq8muC9NtitQ87FVKoJhVM.html
14-07-2020||India||India’s recovery-to-death ratio for Covid-19 at 96:4, says government||India has been witnessing a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, but the rate of recovery has also been improving rapidly in the country, the government has said.On Tuesday, when India recorded over 28,000 new cases, the government said that the recovery-to-death ratio stands at 96 to nearly four per cent.“The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients has increased to 63.02 per cent. The recoveries/deaths ratio is 96.01% and 3.99% now,” the government said after the Union health ministry released the daily figure of Covid-19 infection.The country’s Covid-19 case tally crosses nine lakh-mark with 28,498 new cases and 553 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the health ministry data showed. The number of active cases stand at 3,11,565, while 5,71,460 patients have been cured/discharged, according to the health ministry. The number of Covid-19 fatalities stand at 23,727 deaths, it further said.As per the ministry, Maharashtra - the worst-affected state from the infection - has a total of 2,60,924 Covid-19 cases and 10,482 fatalities. Tamil Nadu, the second worst-affected state, has recorded 1,42,798 cases and 2,032 deaths due to Covid-19.Delhi has reported a total of 1,13,740 cases and 3,411 deaths due to Covid-19.As per the information provided by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) 1,20,92,503 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till July 13, of these 2,86,247 samples were tested on Monday.India’s fatality rate has declined this month despite a huge surge in positive cases reported daily, which has taken the country to third spot globally with a high concentration of coronavirus patients.States that have a fatality rate lower than the national average are the north-eastern states of Manipur, Nagaland and the Union Territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-recovery-to-death-ratio-for-covid-19-at-96-4-says-government/story-OsYeGSDzs1mDoEnGnxXZyL.html
14-07-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh crosses 30,000-mark, over 40,000 cases in Karnataka: Covid-19 state tally||Coronavirus cases in South Indian states are witnessing a surge with Karnataka, the fifth worst-affected state, reporting over 40,000 total cases and Andhra Pradesh crossing the 31,000-mark. Tamil Nadu stands second on the national Covid-19 tally with over 1.4 lakh Covid-19 cases. Telangana also sees its coronavirus cases rising with state tally jumping beyond 36,000. Kerala is the only state with considerable low numbers of coronavirus cases. So far, the state has reported over 8,000 Covid-19 cases. India’s Covid-19 tally on Tuesday crossed 9 lakh. As per the data shared by the Ministry of Health, India has reported a total of 906,752 coronavirus patients till date of which 571,459 patients have recovered while 23,727 have succumbed to death. India’s active coronavirus cases stand at 311,565.  Here’s taking a look at the statewise situation of Covid-19 infections across the country. MaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 260,924 on Tuesday. Over 144,507 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 10482 have died.Tamil NaduWith 142,798 coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu is the state with second-highest coronavirus cases in the country and has witnessed 2,032 coronavirus fatalities. The number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the state stands at 92,567.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally at 9.06 lakh with more than 23,700 deathsDelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 113,740 on Tuesday. As many as 91,312 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the national capital while 3,411 have succumbed to the infection.GujaratGujarat has seen Covid-19 cases reach 42,722 on Tuesday. The state has seen 29,770 people recover from coronavirus while 2,055 people have died.Karnataka The South Indian state has witnessed 41,581 coronavirus cases till date. While 757 have lost their lives to the deadly contagion in the state. Nearly 16,248 patients have recovered from the disease in Karnataka. Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 38,130 while the number of recoveries has touched 24,203. The state’s death toll stands at 955.TelanganaThe state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 36,221 coronavirus cases. While 23,679 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 365 in the state.West BengalAs many as 31,448 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 19213 recover from coronavirus while 956 people have been killed.Andhra Pradesh The state has reported 31,103 Covid-19 patients till date. While 16,464 people have recovered from the virus across the state, the death toll stands at 365.RajasthanThe state has reported 24,936 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 525 while 18,630 patients have recovered.Other statesThe coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 21,894. Some 18,207 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar has stands at 17,959, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir has crossed 10,000. In Odisha, cases have crossed 13,000 while Assam has reported over 16,000 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 8,178, and the number of cases in Kerala stands at 8,322. Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand is over 3,600 cases. In Jharkhand, coronavirus cases inch toward 4,000-mark. Chandigarh, Tripura, Nagaland, Ladakh, Manipur, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases.Meghalaya, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have reported 500 Covid-19 cases or less.  Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-crosses-30-000-mark-over-40-000-cases-in-karnataka-covid-19-state-tally/story-pRS8Oo11bvWrgb9YtJbbBI.html
14-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey earned Rs 1 crore a month, ED probes how it was spent: Report||Gangster Vikas Dubey, who was killed in an encounter on July 10, earned Rs 1 crore a month, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan reported quoting Enforcement Directorate officials.Dubey, however, led a simple life - he was a teetotaller and didn’t like splurging on a lavish lifestyle. So, it is becoming difficult for the ED to trace Dubey’s money, Hindustan reported.The slain gangster wore simple clothes and his bank accounts also do not have huge sums, according to Hindustan.The ED is now investigating the bank accounts of Dubey’s close aides and some other transactions.According to sources in the ED, Dubey earned somewhere between Rs 90 lakh and Rs 1.20 crore. But he never splurged money on trips abroad, or bought expensive goods.It is also trying to find out “silent investors”, who used to manage Dubey’s funds. A list is being prepared of those people - including businessmen - who were close to the gangster, said sources.Dubey was the main accused in a case in which eight policemen were gunned down in Bikru village in Kanpur on July 3. These cops were part of a team which had gone to arrest Dubey after a kidnap and attempt to murder complaint.The gangster had fled the village immediately after the shootout, and kept evading the police for five days. He was finally captured in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain on July 9.Dubey was handed over to Uttar Pradesh Police who started by road from Ujjain towards Kanpur. On the morning of July 10, as the police team was close to Kanpur, one of the vehicles in the convoy overturned due to rain.The police said that Dubey used the opportunity to escape after snatching a policeman’s gun. A warning was issued, but the gangster fired at the police team and was killed in retaliatory fire.On July 3 - the day eight policemen were killed - two of Dubey’s associates, Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey, were killed by the police in an encounter in Kanpur. On July 8, the police killed another aide, Amar Dubey, who carried a reward of Rs 50,000, in Maudaha village in Hamirpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-earned-rs-1-crore-a-month-ed-probes-how-it-was-spent-report/story-IjH5VrNVM2aWj0wRl6TgrK.html
14-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally at 9.06 lakh with more than 23,700 deaths||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) stands at 906,752 and the death toll at 23,727 on Tuesday, nearly six months after the first case was reported late in January in Kerala, according to Union health ministry.The health ministry’s dashboard showed there were 28,498 fresh cases and 553 fatalities in the last 24 hours as the country’s recorded more than 3.21 lakh infections in a fortnight.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia’s recovery rate was 63.02% as the number of recoveries exceeded the active cases by more than 259,894. In the last 24 hours, 17,989 people have been cured of the viral disease, taking the number of recovered patients to 571,459. There are 311,565 actives cases of the coronavirus disease in the country, data showed.The Centre said on Monday 19 states across the country have logged a recovery rate higher than that of the national average.Among the 19 states, which have registered a recovery rate significantly higher than the national average, are Ladakh with 85.45%, closely followed by Delhi at a healthy 79.98% with Uttarakhand in the third spot with a recovery rate of 78.77%.The country’s fatality rate has also declined to 2.64% this month despite a huge surge in positive cases reported daily, which has taken the country to third spot globally with a high concentration of coronavirus patients.States that have a fatality rate lower than the national average are the north-eastern states of Manipur, Nagaland and the Union Territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.Last week, the Union health ministry had also indicated that the country’s Covid-19 cases and deaths per million population still remain among the lowest in the world, despite India being a country with 1.3 billion people.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have been adding to the country’s infection tally consistently. The number of Covid-19 cases has also shot up in states like Assam and Bihar promoting the state governments to clamp new rules amid a renewed phase of lockdown in several areas.Globally, the coronavirus infections rose above 13 million on Monday, climbing by one million in just five days in a pandemic that has killed more than half a million people. The United States and Brazil have reported more cases than India.World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said there would be no return to the old normal for the foreseeable future, with too many countries headed in the wrong direction.“The virus remains public enemy number one,” he said during a virtual briefing from WHO headquarters in Geneva.“If basics are not followed, the only way this pandemic is going to go, it is going to get worse and worse and worse. But it does not have to be this way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-at-9-06-lakh-with-more-than-23-700-deaths/story-5twmor0P5aoM0GjFHJ910K.html
14-07-2020||India||Centre gives in-principle approval for tunnel under the Brahmaputra amid tension with China: Report||The Centre has given in-principle approval to construct a strategic tunnel under the Brahmaputra river, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan reported. The four-lane tunnel will link Gohpur and Numaligarh towns in Assam.This is the first time that India will be constructing an under-river tunnel, Hindustan reported and it will close to the Chinese border. It will be longer than the under water tunnel being built by China below the Taihu Lake in Jiangsu province, it further reported.The proposed tunnel in India is going to be very important strategically as it will provide year-long connectivity between Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. It will also help in transporting military supplies and ammunition as vehicles will be able to zoom past the tunnel at 80 kmph, Hindustan reported.The National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHAIDCL) has roped in America’s Louis Berger company; in fact, the central government had approved its detailed project report in March, reported Hindustan.It quoted a senior official of NHAIDCL to say that the construction of the 14.85 km long tunnel will begin in December. It will be built in three phases, Hindustan further reported.The official further told Hindustan that the tunnel in China’s Jiangsu province will be 10.79 km long. He also said that various strong safety measures have been put in place in the design to stop water from entering the tunnel.It will also have ventilation system, fire-fighting mechanism, footpath, drainage system, emergency exit etc, according to Hindustan. It will also be equipped with crash barriers.The Army had asked the government to consider building tunnels akin to the English Channel under the Brahmaputra because bridges can be targeted by enemy forces.This comes amid the tension between India and China along with Line of Actual Control (LAC) after a face-off between the soldiers of the two countries in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. India had lost 20 soldiers in the skirmish; China officially did not announce the number of casualties.Efforts have been on by both the countries since the June 15 clash to ease tensions. A fourth round of meeting between the Lieutenant Generals of the two countries is scheduled to take place today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-gives-in-principle-approval-for-tunnel-under-the-brahmaputra-amid-tension-with-china-report/story-aA9pwE331qA5SUjVcmUOJN.html
14-07-2020||India||A notice, series of meetings and snubs: How Rajasthan crisis has come out in the open||The Congress government in Rajasthan is facing a crisis after the long-standing differences between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot have tumbled out.Sachin Pilot has also been miffed over a police notice to him over a probe concerning an alleged attempt to topple the Ashok Gehlot government.Pilot, who is also the chief of the Congress’ state unit, has been camping in Delhi and has met senior leaders of the party over the weekend.The 42-year-old leader along with his supporters did not attend the meeting of Congress legislators on Monday in Jaipur. He has also turned down his party’s invitation to attend the next meeting on Tuesday.Here is how the crisis in Rajasthan has boiled over:* It started with a July 10 notice of the special operations group (SOG) of the state police’s anti-terror squad to Sachin Pilot and others. It asked them to appear for questioning in connection with the case registered by the ATS that there was a plot to bring down the Ashok Gehlot government started the current crisis.* The SOG had said on Saturday that it has arrested BJP members Bharat Malani and Ashok Singh for allegedly trying to topple the government by offering Rs 20-25 crore bribe each to unspecified legislators - a charge levelled by Gehlot. A First Information Report (FIR) was filed against the two under Indian Penal Code’s sections related to sedition and criminal conspiracy on Friday.* Gehlot had on Saturday accused the BJP of trying to “buy legislators like goats” and later said at a virtual press conference that the BJP’s “brazen attempt” was thwarted by the Congress. The charge has been vehemently denied by the BJP.* Pilot came to Delhi on Saturday and met senior leader Ahmed Patel to discuss the issue. He told the senior leader known to be a close aide of party president, Sonia Gandhi, during the special one-on-one meeting that his differences with Ashok Gehlot had gone too far. Along with him were at least 19 Congress legislators who were lodged in various resorts, including an ITC Grand Bharat in Gurugram. * On Sunday, several legislators and ministers met Ashok Gehlot at his residence to convey that they were with the chief minister in the hour of crisis.* Late on Sunday, the Congress party rushed two central observers – Randeep Singh Surjewala and Ajay Maken – to Jaipur in a bid to iron out differences between Pilot and Ashok Gehlot, who have sparred on a number of issues since the formation of the party’s government in 2018.* After a meeting which went late into the night, state in-charge Avinash Pandey said that 109 MLAs have signed their letters of support related to Ashok Gehlot.* Ashok Gehlot then called a meeting of Congress legislators on Monday morning and the party issued a whip to mandate the presence of all the its MLAs.* Pilot’s camp also said in a late-night statement released on WhatsApp that the deputy chief minister has the backing of about 30 legislators in the 200-member assembly, saying Gehlot government is in minority.* Ahead of the the Congress Legislature Party meeting, Randeep Singh Surjewala extended a public appeal by party leaders to talk things out with an “open mind”. Pilot turned that down too. * Ashok Gehlot showed off a number of legislators supporting his government, smiled for the cameras and even flashed the victory sign. The MLAs were then herded off to a resort on Delhi-Jaipur highway.* Sachin Pilot’s side too released a video late on Monday of his supporters at a hotel on the outskirts of Delhi.* He has also snubbed the Congress party’s request to attend the second meeting of the legislature party on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-notice-series-of-meetings-and-snubs-how-rajasthan-crisis-has-come-out-in-the-open/story-r2sSD669QMW2qQwl6DtdDP.html
14-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bengaluru readies for a week-long lockdown starting at 8pm tonight and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bengaluru braces for week-long lockdown, Deve Gowda wants state shutEven as urban and rural Bengaluru readied itself for a week-long lockdown starting Tuesday 8pm, former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda demanded that the Karnataka government announce a statewide lockdown as the number of Covid-19 cases continues to spiral. Read moreTTD wants Centre to monetise Rs 51 crore worth of old currency notes offered by devoteesThe Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the country’s richest temple of Lord Venkateshwara in Andhra Pradesh’s Tirumala, wants an exchange of old currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 worth nearly Rs 51 crore more than three-and-a-half years after the Centre had demonetised them. Read moreCovid-19 test, confirmed tickets mandatory as J-K opens for tourists from todayTravellers planning to visit Jammu and Kashmir will have to follow a set of guidelines after the administration opened the Union Territory for tourism in a phased manner from Tuesday. The outbreak of disease and the subsequent measures put further burden on Kashmir’s tourism industry, the backbone of J-K’s economy, which had been witnessing a downturn since August last year. Read moreMassive explosion in chemical plant in Visakhapatnam pharma city; 4 injuredAt least four people were injured, one of them seriously, when a fire broke out in a chemical plant in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam leading to a massive explosion of one of its reactors late on Monday, in the third such accident in the district in two months, the police said. Read moreProtests erupt against police brutality in PennsylvaniaActivists against police brutality expressed outrage and demanded accountability Monday after video emerged over the weekend of an officer placing his knee on a man’s head and neck area outside a Pennsylvania hospital. Read more‘MS Dhoni didn’t give enough quality players to Virat Kohli, like Sourav Ganguly gave to India’: Gautam GambhirMahendra Singh Dhoni is arguably one of the greatest captains in the history of Indian cricket. He is the only skipper to win the World T20, Champions Trophy and the 50-over World Cup in world cricket. Dhoni also took Team India to the top of the ICC Test rankings in 2013. Read moreSara Ali Khan’s driver tests positive for Covid-19, actor informs her family and other staff have tested negativeSara Ali Khan has said she and her family members have tested negative for Covid-19 after her driver tested positive for it. The actor shared a note to inform her followers on Instagram. In her Instagram post, she said that Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was promptly alerted about it and the driver has been moved to the quarantine centre. Read more5 effective fat burning exercises you can do at homeHome workouts have become are the new normal. While most of us have got gym equipments home and working out with the help of these equipments. You don’t really need to burn a hole in your pocket by investing in those expensive treadmill and weightlifting machines. Read moreBaby elephant blows bubbles in water with trunk, clip is too cute to miss. WatchIt won’t be wrong if we say that baby elephants hold one of the top positions in the animal kingdom when it comes to being goofy or derpy. Taking a cue from the numerous videos the Internet has to provide, one might also find some similarities between a human child and a baby jumbo. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bengaluru-readies-for-a-week-long-lockdown-starting-at-8pm-tonight-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VRvGb5E0gX8X4Vdmsf13tN.html
14-07-2020||India||Covid-19 test, confirmed tickets must as J-K opens for tourists from today||Travellers planning to visit Jammu and Kashmir will have to follow a set of guidelines after the administration opened the Union Territory for tourism in a phased manner from Tuesday.The outbreak of disease and the subsequent measures put further burden on Kashmir’s tourism industry, the backbone of J-K’s economy, which had been witnessing a downturn since August last year.Authorities had banned the entry of foreign tourists into the region as a precautionary measure in view of the outbreak of coronavirus disease around the world.Here are things you need to keep in mind if you plan to visit J-K:* Only those coming by air would be permitted to enter J-K in the first phase, according to guidelines and Standard Operating Procedure (SOP).* All tourists will have to install the Aarogya Setu mobile application and make regular updates regarding their health. * Tourists above the age of 65 should avoid coming to J-K, the guidelines say.* It will be mandatory for tourists to pre-book their accommodation online in hotels, houseboats or guesthouses etc. “The proof of the same shall be checked on arrival,” according to the guidelines. * They must have confirmed hotel bookings for the duration of their stay as well as confirmed return tickets to any place outside J-K, either to their departure point or any other destination. * The hotel administration or travel agents will have to provide the travellers with a pick-up facility from the airport and also drop them on their departure.* Taxis or transport facility have to be pre-booked through hotel or travel agency for which procedure will be put in place by the tourism department. * A Real-Time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction or RTPCR test to detect Sars-Cov-2 or coronavirus will be compulsory for visitors when they arrive.* “Till the test result shows a negative result of Covid-19, a tourist will remain in the hotel where the booking has been made and shall not be permitted to move out. A form in this regard shall have to be signed at the airport,” the guidelines said. * “Test results will normally arrive within 24 hours except in special circumstances. The hotel management shall be required to ensure compliance with the protocol,” the guidelines said. * Visitors with Covid-19 negative reports from their departure points would not be required to remain isolated in hotels, the guidelines said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-test-confirmed-tickets-mandatory-as-j-k-opens-for-tourists-from-today/story-raK2WujyUEBW6Zq2S0v04L.html
14-07-2020||India||As Covid-19 cases spike in Odisha’s Ganjam, experts say community transmission has started, govt maintains no such signs||Weeks after the influx of migrant workers stopped, Odisha’s Covid-19 epicentre Ganjam district continues to be a hotspot, accounting for 30 per cent of the total cases. Ganjam has reported 64 per cent of the total 4,147 cases in the month of July, forcing the local administration to resort to unprecedented shutdowns and sealing of its border.Yet, the district continues to post high Covid-19 numbers for the last 15 days in a row. The government’s own statistics now reveal that community transmission may have begun in Ganjam due to the incoming migrant workers. Of the 2,674 cases reported in the district in the last 12 days, at least 98 per cent of the cases were local infection caused by incoming migrant workers.Listed under the headline of “active contact positive cases” in the government’s Covid-19 records, the statistics show the actual number of people who were infected by the 2.2 lakh migrant workers who stayed in over 3,000 quarantine centres of the district. While in the month of May and early June, most of the positive cases were being reported from quarantine centres, in late June and July, majority of the positive cases were reported from outside the quarantine centres.“Had it not been community transmission in Ganjam, the numbers would not have been so high. It shows that the so-called quarantine model of the government has failed. The numbers would continue to rise for quite some time,” said a senior government doctor working in MKCG medical college and hospital in Ganjam district. Renowned epidemiologist Jayprakash Muliyil, former principal of Christian Medical College, Vellore too said that community transmission has happened in Ganjam and the rest of Odisha too. “It has happened in almost all the states though the ICMR may not admit it. The quarantine centre model may delay the onset of transmission, but it can’t contain the virus. If any state government thought of collecting a gold medal by containing the virus, it is ridiculous,” said Mulyil.Mulyil also came down heavily on the state government’s frequent lockdowns and decision by district administrations to seal the border to contain the pandemic. “The virus would get transmitted. The lockdown would have no effect on it,” he said, referring to the weekend shutdown in 23 of the 30 districts of Odisha this month.Many in Ganjam said community transmission was inevitable due to the way migrant workers jumped quarantine periods and mingled with their family and neighbourhood. During the first few days, more than 150 people jumped quarantine in Beguniapada block while in other centres, people milled around handing mobile phone chargers, eatables, tobacco and other items to the inmates violating social distance norms. In a few centres there were reports of migrant workers sneaking into their homes at night and coming back to the quarantine centre in the morning.Ganjam district collector Vijay Kulange, however, said that community transmission may not have happened. “Had we not built the quarantine centres, by now Ganjam would have recorded five lakh cases. As of now, 81 per cent of rural Ganjam is free from coronavirus and the cases that we are seeing are mostly in urban Ganjam. It’s true that some of the migrant workers violated the quarantine conditions and mingled with their family and that’s why we are seeing higher numbers. But with shutdowns we would be able to reach a plateau soon and the number will decline thereafter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-spike-in-odisha-s-ganjam-experts-say-community-transmission-has-started-govt-maintains-no-such-signs/story-CaK2EOJMcsWsBfHRgdE6bM.html
14-07-2020||India||FIR against Jabalpur official for organising wedding, violating Covid guidelines||An FIR has been registered against the Additional Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation for organising a wedding function at a city based hotel on June 30, the district magistrate said.Bharat Yadav, Jabalpur District Magistrate said, “Strict action will be taken against anyone who violates the norms of social distancing, and Covid-19 guidelines, whosoever be it. Acting against people who violate these guidelines, an FIR has been registered against the officer for organising wedding function at hotel Gulzar here on June 30.”The Jabalpur DM further said that the administration has reduced the number of attendees of wedding function from 50 to 40.“For wedding functions, the number of attendees have been reduced to 40, twenty each from the groom’s and bride’s side. Action will be taken against those who flout the guidelines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-jabalpur-official-for-organising-wedding-violating-covid-guidelines/story-5lAeBG17o18SMhLU5YE2gJ.html
14-07-2020||India||Odisha: Doctors, paramedics engaged in Covid duty to get daily diet allowance||The Odisha government on Monday approved daily diet allowance of Rs 240 for doctors and paramedics engaged in government-run Covid-19 hospitals, Covid Health Centres and Covid Care Centres.Collector and controlling authorities have been directed to ensure the implementation of the diet allowance, which will be met out of Chief Minister Relief Fund (CMRF).“After careful consideration have decided to allow daily diet allowance for the doctors and paramedical staffs engaged in the government-run Covid Care Centres, Covid Health Centres and Covid Hospitals at Rs 240 per doctor and paramedical staff per day. The above diet cost will be met out of CMRF,” the health department said in a letter.“The daily diet allowance for doctors and paramedical staffs shall be implemented immediately with prospective effect. The controlling Authorities will ensure to provide quality diet to the doctors and paramedical staffs engaged in the above three institutions,” it further read.The said allowance will be extended in the form of food and no financial incentives in this regard will be claimed/provided, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-doctors-paramedics-engaged-in-covid-duty-to-get-daily-diet-allowance/story-NrsPUlupkqlPaBuncGLjPN.html
14-07-2020||India||PM Modi takes stock of financial sector, reviews progress of Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took stock of the financial sector which has been hit hard by the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. He also reviewed the progress of a host of measures announced under the Rs 20-lakh crore Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package to stimulate the economy and help the MSME sector and poor sections of society. According to sources, the Prime Minister has been taking review meetings on various aspects of the economy. As part of this exercise, sources said, he had a meeting on the financial sector of the economy which is an important pillar in reviving growth and demand.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today All the secretaries, including the Finance Secretary, were part of the meeting and more such meetings will take place during the week, sources said. Banks and other financial institutions are implementing the bulk of the measures announced under the Rs 20-lakh crore package. To deal with the Covid-19 crisis, the government announced one of the world’s biggest stimulus packages with a focus on the survival of the business and setting a roadmap for the revival of the economy. The five-part stimulus package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman beginning May 13 comprised Rs 5.94 lakh crore in the first tranche that provided credit line to small businesses and support to shadow banks and electricity distribution companies. The second tranche included free foodgrain to stranded migrant workers for two months and credit to farmers, totalling Rs 3.10 lakh crore. Spending on agri infrastructure and other measures for agriculture and allied sectors in the third tranche totalled to Rs 1.5 lakh crore. The fourth and fifth tranches that dealt mostly with structural reforms including relaxation of foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in defence, privatisation of six more airports, and fully opening up coal mining to the private sector. As a result of all these measures, green shoots are visible in the economy which is expected to contract by 4.5 per cent during the current fiscal. Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that the economy is showing “green shoots” as the country emerges from the coronavirus lockdown and underscored the importance of being focussed on both life and livelihood. While addressing chief ministers and Lt Governors of 21 states and union territories, Modi had said the danger of the virus is not over yet, and there was a need to remain vigilant while opening up the economy.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  Although a pickup in economic activity has been seen, full recovery remains a major challenge as industries are functioning with lower capacities. Fresh lockdown measures announced by some states due to spurt in COVID cases have thrown up new challenges. The government has already rationalised its expenditure for the first two-quarters of this fiscal, compressing all non-essential expenditures of ministries and asking departments and ministries not to initiate any new scheme in the current financial year stating that there is a need to use resources prudently in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis. The revenue collections have also been lower, with GST collections for the April-June quarter declining by 41 per cent compared to the previous year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-takes-stock-of-financial-sector-reviews-progress-of-rs-20-lakh-crore-stimulus-package/story-NhJmj1b65Nc8Bih2mXFLwN.html
14-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||My current obsession, in tracking the spread of the coronavirus disease pandemic around the world, is curves and waves — and readers of this column will likely encounter both this week, as well as some hypotheses about them.Several experts including Dr Anthony Fauci, the US immunologist who is the head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, believe that countries such as the US are not seeing a second wave of infections, just a continuation of the first. They are right — at the country level.At the regional level, I have a different opinion. I believe that the first wave is over in at least some US states (New York is one, for sure), just as it is in continental Europe. As the infection has picked up in other US states, the plateauing and dip in the curve of daily new infections at an aggregate level — very evident in the middle of June — has been offset to an extent that it is no longer visible. But New York, for instance, is showing a curve that has flattened. It peaked in mid-April, and is now perfectly flat (the seven-day average for new cases, on July 11, according to the NYT, was 634, way off its peaks of nearly 10,000 in mid-April). If the state sees a consistent increase in cases — one hopes it doesn’t — it will definitely be a second wave of infections. The state has clearly fought off the first.Also read: Coronavirus pandemic is going to get worse and worse and worse, says WHO chiefA similar curve, mapping daily new cases and the weekly average of new cases for the three Indian states that have seen the most cases — and which, on Sunday evening, accounted for 58% of all Covid-19 cases and 67% of all deaths in the country — throws up some interesting conclusions.  Delhi has definitely flattened the curve, although the peak is a little too narrow for my liking (in general, the peaks of many distributions, including infections, are more rounded and gradual).Tamil Nadu appears to be in the very early stages of flattening the curve.And Maharashtra is still seeing an increase in cases — although HT’s reporting has shown that Mumbai itself may have flattened the curve a bit.Also read| 10 million children may never return to school after Covid-19 pandemic: CharityAt an aggregate level, starting the last week of June, the curve of infections (new cases) in these three states is beginning to plateau. Sure, this may be just an aberration — but if it is, we will know soon enough. The reason it finds mention here is because it is in keeping with the trend of how the infection has waxed and waned globally. For a little over two months, Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have driven India’s Covid-19 numbers. That may be changing.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage For the first time since early May, on July 10, the total number of new cases in the rest of the country exceeded the aggregate number of new cases in the three states. This, too, fits in with what we know of how the pandemic spreads through a population. Much like the US — this column has pointed out that the US can be compared to India because both countries are large in terms of geographical area (the US is much larger) and population (India has a much higher population) — India is beginning to see a significant proportion of the new cases coming from states outside Delhi, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu.Purely in numerical terms, this could mean an increase in the number of new cases, perhaps to hitherto unseen levels. The good news from Delhi and, perhaps, Tamil Nadu, has to be tempered by the bad news from the rest of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-sngFTflmPSeT1oCPKbbKcL.html
14-07-2020||India||Centre asks PTI to pay dues of over Rs84 crore for its office||The union ministry of housing and urban affairs has sent a notice to news agency Press Trust of India seeking payment of dues worth Rs 84.48 crore for its headquarter at Parliament Street in New Delhi.The notice sent on July 7 by the Land and Development Office, which comes under the ministry, stated that the news agency has to clear its dues within a month.“Further action to execute the lease deed shall be subject to complete payment and putting the premises to use as per permissible under the master plan,” the notice said. The notice added that if PTI did not comply with its terms, the concession of limiting the penalty will be withdrawn.The notice comes two weeks after national broadcaster Prasar Bharati threatened to cancel its subscription to the news agency for its coverage.The state broadcaster, under the ministry of information and broadcasting, had last month written a letter to the news agency over its coverage pertaining to an interview with the Chinese ambassador amid a tense border stand-off with the country along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-pti-to-pay-dues-of-over-84-cr-for-its-office/story-I9QRqnPFfwkOCkHFzE82MI.html
14-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political crisis: Sachin Pilot-led Congress camp releases video showing 16 MLAs sitting together||In a show of strength, Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot-led Rajasthan Congress camp on Monday released a video showing at least 16 MLAs sitting together.This comes hours after the Congress held a legislature party meeting. Party leaders said 106 of 122 MLAs attended, a claim contested by the Pilot camp.The 10-second video was shared late at night on Pilot’s official WhatsApp group. Haryana: Rajasthan Congress MLAs Inder Raj Gurjar, PR Meena, GR Khatana, and Harish Meena among others, at a hotel in Manesar. (Video released from Sachin Pilot's office of MLAs supporting him) pic.twitter.com/IHToT5tkiRIn the video, at least 16 MLAs are seen sitting together in a close circle. Pilot is not seen in the video.Six other people can be seen in the video but they could not be identified.Also read: Sachin Pilot hardens stand after setback in Jaipur, preps for Round 2Some of the MLAs seen in the video are Indraraj Gurjar, Mukesh Bhakar, Harish Meena.Tourism Minister Vishvendra Singh tweeted the video with the caption “Family”.Ladnun MLA Mukesh Bhakar tweeted, “...Loyalty in Congress means Ashok Gehlot’s slavery. That is not acceptable to us.” Pilot has been upset since he was denied the Rajasthan chief minister’s post after the December 2018 assembly elections.On Sunday, he claimed to have the backing of 30 Congress MLAs and “some independents”.Those close to him disputed Gehlot’s claim that his government had a majority, and said this is proven in the assembly and not at the CM’s house.Also read: Sachin Pilot always in Rahul Gandhi’s heart, says Congress leader’s officeSources close to him have also ruled out the possibility of Pilot joining the BJP.In the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs and the BJP 72. In the past, the ruling party has claimed the support of 13 independents, two MLAs each from the CPM and the Bharatiya Tribal Party, and one from the Rashtriya Lok Dal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-political-crisis-sachin-pilot-led-congress-camp-releases-video-showing-16-mlas-sitting-together/story-WIcmIqCv8MzbaEyoiVN8nM.html
14-07-2020||India||Fire breaks out at pharmaceutical unit near Visakhapatnam||A major fire broke out following an explosion at a pharmaceutical unit near Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh on Monday night, police sources said. The incident triggered panic among the residents in the Paravada area as it came just a couple of months after styrene vapour leak in the LG Polymers plant in the region. An explosion was first heard at the Pharma City, following which there was a huge fire, according to sources. No casualties have been reported so far, and the fire and emergency services personnel could not immediately reach the spot as the blaze has engulfed the area, police sources said. The explosion is said to have occurred in the unit of Ramky Solvents and the cause of the incident is not yet known, according to sources. Further details are awaited. Last month, a gas leak incident in one of the companies in Pharma City left two workers dead and four injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-pharmaceutical-unit-near-visakhapatnam/story-6YXKD4RMNtZbsbXj7P1cDK.html
14-07-2020||India||Supreme Court upholds royals’ rights on Sri Padmanabhaswamy temple||The Supreme Court on Monday ruled that the Travancore royal family has rights to maintain and manage the Sri Padmanabhaswamy temple in Kerala, allowing the appeal filed by the Maharajah of the royal family challenging a 2011 Kerala high court judgment that had given these rights to the Kerala government.A two-judge bench of justices UU Lalit and Indu Malhotra held that the royal family’s Shebaitship — the right to maintain and manage the temple and the deity — does not come to an end with the death of the ruler, who signed the instrument of accession with the Indian government in 1949 by which the erstwhile princely state of Travancore merged with the Indian union.“We hold that the death of Sree Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma, who had signed the covenant, would not in any way affect the Shebaitship of the temple held by the royal family of Travancore,” the court ruled. Also read: Little impact on other religion cases, say experts after Kerala temple verdictThe court also accepted the suggestion made by the royal family on the constitution of a five-member administrative committee which shall administer the temple from now on. The administrative committee will consist of the district judge of Thiruvananthapuram, one nominee of the Maharajah of the royal family, one nominee of the Kerala government, one member nominated by the ministry of culture (Government of India), and the chief thantri (priest) of the temple. All the members of the committee will be Hindus. The Kerala high court held in January 2011 that after Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma, the ruler who signed agreement of the accession with the Indian government, died in 1991, the temple stood vested with the Kerala government. The agreement of accession provided that the administration of the Padmanabhaswamy temple shall be conducted, subject to the control and supervision of the ruler of Travancore, by an executive officer appointed by the ruler.The high court, in its order, held that “ruler” is not a status that can be achieved through succession.But the Supreme Court’s ruling on Monday means that the 1949 agreement between the ruler of the princely state and the Government of India on the Shebait rights of the temple would be enforceable, though payments and other privileges accorded by the Government of India to royal families of erstwhile princely states for joining the Indian union at the time of Independence were abolished in 1971.The court arrived at this conclusion based on the existence of another law, the Travancore-Cochin Hindu Religious Institutions Act (TC Act), which was enacted in 1950 by the state government to make a provision for the administration, supervision and control of Hindu Religious Endowments. Section 18 of the TC Act provides that the Sri Padmanabhaswamy temple stands vested in the ruler of Travancore. As long as the TC Act exists, the Shebait rights of the royal family will continue and abolition of the rights and privileges of the royal family by the 26th amendment of the Constitution will not impact the same, the court held. “Broadly the court has said that as long as the TC Act is valid, under Section 18(2), the rights of a ruler in Kerala are preserved despite the 26th constitutional amendment, which had abolished privy purse in India,” said Supreme Court advocate Vipin Nair.“It is the victory of devotees and people, not the victory of royals,” said Aditya Varma, scion of Travancore royal family. “The Kerala government welcomes the verdict...We [have] always followed apex court verdict in letter and spirit,” said state Devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran.In the new arrangement, as prescribed by the court, on all policy matters related to the temple, the trustee (the Maharajah) will be guided by a three-member advisory committee headed by a retired judge of the Kerala high court. This committee will have an eminent person nominated by the Maharaja and a reputed chartered accountant as its members. The two committees should ensure that all treasures and properties endowed to Padmanabhaswamy and those belonging to the temple are preserved, the court said. They should also ensure that all rituals and religious practices are performed in accordance with the instructions and guidance of the chief thantri of the temple and according to custom and traditions. The court said that the income accruing to the temple, as well as the offerings made by the worshippers, should be expended to improve the facilities for the worshippers and or such religious and charitable purposes as the advisory committee may consider appropriate. It also asked for an audit of the temple for the last 25 years.The temple, located in the state capital of Thiruvananthapuram, came under media glare in 2011 when a vast treasure was discovered in its vaults, known as “Kallara” in Malayalam. The vaults were opened pursuant to a May 2011 order of the apex court.It was estimated that the intrinsic value of the treasure in five of the six vaults which were opened amounted to more than ~90,000 crore. One of the vaults, Kallara B, was not opened on various grounds, including a superstition that there was a curse on it. During the hearing of the case before the Supreme Court, the Travancore royal family opposed the opening of Kallara B stating that it is a “secret and sacred” place and its sanctity needs to be preserved. The opening was later kept in abeyance by the apex court.The court on Monday directed that the administrative and advisory committees shall decide whether Kallara B should be opened to make an inventory. The original construction date of the temple is disputed but most historians agree that it was reconstructed and a new idol installed by Anizham Thirunal Marthandavarma, who established the modern Travancore state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-upholds-royals-rights-on-sri-padmanabhaswamy-temple/story-wJeARrUuJazpfAmgsEiJxI.html
14-07-2020||India||6 more dead as floods worsen across Assam||Six more people died in rain-related incidents in Assam on Monday even as the flooding submerged 95% of the Kaziranga national park and tiger reserve, an official bulletin said. Flooding has, so far, killed nearly 50 people in the state.According to the daily flood report of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), the worsening the flood situation has so far affected over 2.1 million people in 27 of the state’s 33 districts. Over 60,000 people uprooted by floods are taking shelter in 480 relief camps, the bulletin added.On Monday morning, a sub-adult male tiger came out of the Kaziranga park’s Agratoli range and took shelter in a goat shed in Kandolimari village located in the periphery of the world’s largest habitat for one-horned rhinos.“Due to rise of water and to find a safe escape, a sub-adult tiger has entered inside a goat shed in Kandolimari village, Agratoli. Utmost care is being taken to ensure safety of both people and tiger,” P Sivakumar, director of the national park, informed.Meanwhile, floods continue to wreak havoc in North Bihar districts as most of the rivers originating from Himalayan regions of Nepal have been maintaining rising trends. After Bagmati, crossing the highest flood level (HFL) at Belsund in Sheohar, Kosi is also threatening to overtop the extreme water level at Baltara in Khagaria.WRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said round the clock vigil was being maintaining by engineers and supporting staff of the department to keep the embankments safe. “All officials and engineers have been put on high alert in view of likely rains in Nepal region,” said the minister.Officials said that Bagmati, which had wreaked havoc in Sitamarhi and Sheohar districts by snapping vehicular traffic on the connecting highway, is rising menacingly at Benibad in Muzaffarpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-more-dead-as-floods-worsen-across-assam/story-1HeAX4GovO8jWdDFOINn7L.html
14-07-2020||India||Rajasthan turmoil continues as Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot dig in heels||The political face-off between Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot persisted on Monday — with the CM mobilising legislators to claim he has a majority, the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) seeking “action” against the rebels, and Pilot and his loyalists dismissing the projected numbers while asking for a change in leadership. Observers sent by the party’s central leadership to Jaipur, while contending that the Rajasthan government was stable, made a public appeal to Pilot, who is also the state unit chief, to return to the fold and attend a second CLP meeting on Tuesday. The invitation was turned down by Pilot late on Monday night. Monday witnessed dramatic political developments in both Jaipur and Delhi as the situation remained fluid due to three factors -- the shifting arithmetic in the assembly; the lack of clarity about steps Congress would take against Pilot and the nature his next move; and uncertainty about the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) plan of action.One key area of contestation on Monday was the arithmetic. In Jaipur, the Congress general secretary in-charge of the state, Avinash Pande, first claimed that the government had the support of 109 legislators in the assembly of 200 (the majority mark is 101). Also read: Sachin Pilot hardens stand after setback in Jaipur, preps for Round 2But a meeting of the legislative party, held at the CM’s official residence, saw the presence of 102 MLAs, according to multiple Congress leaders present there. These included 88 Congress MLAs, 10 independents, two Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs, and one legislator each of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal. The national leadership of BTP, based in Gujarat, later asked its legislators not to take sides in the battle — but the MLAs have said they will stick to the government. The legislators were then taken to a private resort, Fairmont Jaipur. The Congress has 107 MLAs in the house, out of whom 105 could have attended the meeting in principle (barring the speaker and an ailing minister). This meant that 17 legislators from the party, including Pilot, did not attend the meeting. Out of these 17, three were reported to have joined the legislators who pledged their support to the government, on the way to the hotel. This, along with an additional CPI(M) legislator’s support, appeared to take Gehlot’s count to 106 on Monday. Pilot’s camp, however, dismissed the numbers. Also read: Sachin Pilot-led Congress camp releases video showing 16 MLAs sitting togetherPilot loyalist and Ladnun MLA, Mukesh Bhakar, claimed that over 30 legislators were still with them. He said their only demand was to replace Gehlot with Pilot, who was instrumental in the party’s victory in the 2018 assembly elections. “We will not budge from that demand,” Bhakar said. He added that the CM’s garden isn’t the place to prove the majority.A second leader close to Pilot said: “If they have the numbers, then why are they after Pilot? Why were these legislators not taken to the governor’s house? If they have 109 MLAs, why are only 84 rooms booked in the hotel? And if you have counted them, why are you holding them back? Let them go back to their constituencies. This is false bravado.”A Congress leader, backing Gehlot, said the option of proving legislative majority in other ways was being considered. Political experts, however, saw this as a thin majority in a volatile situation. “It is not over, till it is over,” said Jaipur-based political commentator Prakash Bhandari. “Many of the legislators present in the meeting today have the reputation of jumping ship. So one should not be sure of the numbers until the last word on the crisis is written.” The second area of contestation was the Congress’s mixed approach to Pilot and his defiant stance. The party’s legislative wing in Rajasthan, in a strong resolution, while supporting the Gehlot-led government, recommended strong disciplinary action against any Congress MLA and office-bearer who conspires against the government.“This meeting urges that strict disciplinary action be taken against any office bearer or member of the legislature party who indulge in activities against the Congress government, party or gets involved in any conspiracy,” read the resolution. While the resolution did not mention Pilot, it is being seen as a reference and warning to him. The resolution also blamed the BJP for perpetuating the “political crisis” in the state. The central Congress functionary said the strongly worded resolution is an indication that Gehlot wants tough action against Pilot and his supporters. At the same time, the party also sent out reconciliatory signals. When asked if former party president Rahul Gandhi had been in touch with Pilot, Gandhi’s office responded, “He (Sachin Pilot) is always in his heart. And they speak often and directly. They have great respect and affection for each other.” Other reports suggested that party general secretary, Priyanka Gandhi, too had reached out to Pilot.But a legislator close to the deputy CM insisted that no one spoke to him. “There has been no conversation between Pilot and the Congress high command,” he said.Both on Monday morning and late at night, Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala and leader Ajay Maken reached out to Pilot. In the morning, ahead of the meeting, Surjewala said: “On behalf of Congress leadership, including Sonia ji and Rahul ji, I convey that doors of Congress party are always open for Sachin ji or any member.”At night, Surjewala said that another CLP meeting was scheduled for Tuesday morning at 10am, and invited all legislators, including Pilot, to attend it. “We in writing have urged deputy CM Sachin Pilot and others to come and discuss the political status-quo and how to strengthen Rajasthan. I am hopeful that all MLAs, CM, deputy CM and ministers will participate.” He added that if there were “some differences with someone”, then they could say that with an open mind. “Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are ready to listen to everyone and find a solution.”But Pilot, a person associated with the deputy CM and familiar with his decision said, rejected the invite and will not attend the meeting unless issues raised by him are addressed.He also refuted reports suggesting that a compromise formula is being worked out to iron out the differences, maintaining that they will not agree on anything less than change of guard in the state. He also ruled out the possibility of Pilot joining the BJP. “That is not in his DNA. He cannot join the BJP,” added the legislator quoted above.However, the central Congress functionary cited above insisted that the CLP meeting has been called to give Pilot and his supporters another chance to explain their position.Asked if the party will take any action if he and his supporters again do not attend the CLP meeting, the functionary said, “We will take that call tomorrow. Pilot will then not be in a position to say that he had not been given a chance to be heard.”The third variable in the equation remains the BJP. The party has officially kept a distance from developments in the state. Talking to the media, party leader and Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament (MP), Om Mathur, dubbed the fallout between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy, Sachin Pilot, as an “internal issue” of the Congress. He added that the discomfort between the two was evident from the day of the government taking oath. A second BJP functionary said that this caution was driven by the uncertainty over whether Pilot had the numbers, and the party would prefer to wait and see a clean break in the Congress first.But on Monday, there were Income-Tax raids on three groups assumed to be close to the CM -- this, the Congress alleged, was a part of the BJP “conspiracy” to destabilise the government. The IT department said, in a statement, that it carried search and survey operations and found “incriminating evidence”. The BJP declined that action was connected to the turmoil in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-turmoil-continues-as-gehlot-pilot-dig-in-heels/story-TeOah2xIWISRPfBsFHkJLL.html
14-07-2020||India||Rift internal issue of Congress, tracking developments: BJP||Even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) maintained that it was only watching the Rajasthan developments and had no role in the intra-Congress crisis, it used the opportunity to criticise the Congress leadership, particularly the Gandhi family.Talking to the media, party leader and Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament (MP), Om Mathur, distanced the BJP from the rumblings in the state and dubbed the fallout between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy, Sachin Pilot, as an “internal issue” of the Congress. He added that the discomfort between the two was evident from the day of the government taking oath. Also read: Rajasthan turmoil continues as Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot dig in heelsThe BJP has refrained from making any statements to imply its keenness in staking claim to forming government in the state for two reasons, according to a person familiar with the development. For one, the party does not have the required numbers to do so. In the 200-member assembly, it only has 72 MLAs and needs 101 to reach the half-way mark, and is not sure if Sachin Pilot has the numbers — and whether he will indeed make a switch or is negotiating for more space within the Congress. “We are tracking the developments, but there are no plans underway to stake claim to form the government, unless there is a clean break in the Congress unit in the state and the CM falls short of majority,” said a senior party functionary.Also read: Sachin Pilot hardens stand after setback in Jaipur, preps for Round 2Second, it is treading cautiously to avoid a repeat of how things unfurled in Uttarakhand in 2016 and in Maharashtra late last year.In 2016, the BJP’s attempts to form a government in Uttarakhand after dislodging the Congress government came undone, when the then Congress CM Harish Rawat not only won the floor test but the courts set aside President’s Rule.In Maharashtra, the BJP failed to sustain its government, formed with the support of Nationalist Congress Party leader Ajit Pawar, when the faction of NCP rebels pulled back at the last minute, and Pawar returned to his home party.This caution, however, did not preclude the party from criticising the Congress and placing the onus on the party to resolve the crisis. Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat took a dig at Rahul Gandhi, the former Congress president, and tweeted, “Those who offered knowledge to the Prime Minister on the India-China stand-off have failed to resolve their dispute today!”Amit Malviya, the IT cell head of the BJP, tweeted that Gehlot should call for a floor test to prove his majority, even though senior party leaders said it was his individual comment and not the party’s position. “..Ashok Gehlot must immediately call for a floor test, prove his majority, save Rajasthan the drama and get on with the business of governance. But if he is herding his MLAs to a resort, then clearly he doesn’t have the numbers and is merely delaying the inevitable,” Malviya had tweeted. Party spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain put out a short video blaming the Congress leadership. He said the fallout was an internal matter of the Congress, but also a direct result of keeping the interest of one family over the interests of the party. “All grassroot youth leaders who are seen as a threat to Rahul Gandhi are being ignored and insulted regularly,” he said in the video.Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said the BJP needed to introspect about its own behaviour rather than critique the Congress. “The BJP leaders rather than passing remarks at Congress internal affairs should first understand the meaning of “ignoring & insulting’ from LK Advani, MM Joshi, Vasundhara Raje, Keshubhai Patel and then, give lecture on grassroot leaders. The Congress is standing on the basis of strength of all its workers and BJP is standing on basis of strength of investigating agencies. Rather than working on ‘congressisation of BJP’, the top leadership of BJP should give importance to their own flock who feel neglected and ignored due to the BJP’s obsession with poaching the Congress talent pool.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rift-internal-issue-of-cong-tracking-developments-bjp/story-TQVDYzGXuKChG5Oa2pO6WK.html
14-07-2020||India||ITC Grand Bharat hotel becomes a playground for political parleys||Tucked away in the foothills of Aravallis, the ITC Grand Bharat is a relatively new hotel that came up next to the company’s iconic golf course designed by American golfing great Jack Nicklaus. It is in Haryana, a few hours from Rajasthan’s capital by road, less than an hour from Delhi, and just aboutd 40 minutes from the international airport in the capital. It is quiet, private, secluded, and the approach is through one road off NH8 (the Delhi-Jaipur expressway) -- all features that have endeared it in recent years to politicians and political parties wanting to safeguard their legislators from others who want to poach them -- or, housing and protecting legislators they have poached from other parties. The area is sparsely populated, and the hotel is surrounded mostly by wasteland or farmland. The local population in this area of Mewat, in villages such as Bar Gujjar, Hassanpur, Naurangpur and Mohammadpur (all in the Tauru block) like to keep to themselves. Also read: Sachin Pilot hardens stand after setback in Jaipur, preps for Round 2The hotel is also a popular weekend getaway and corporate off-site destination , but it has largely made the news for political reasons. Haryana is governed by a Bharatiya Janata Party government and Jitender Bhardwaj, a spokesperson for Congress in Haryana and also a local politician from adjoining Sohna claimed that “MLAs from Karnataka, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh” have been housed at the hotel and in other hotels in Gurugram. “Local police and administrative machinery is actively used to protect the rebel MLAs from other parties.” In both Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, the BJP came to power after some Congress legislators resigned from their party , bringing down the coalition government in Karnataka in July 2019 and the Congress one in Madhya Pradesh in March.Over the weekend, around 11-12 Congress MLAs from Rajasthan were housed in the hotel as their leader Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot, worked out his political future. Also read: Rajasthan turmoil continues as Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot dig in heelsA large posse of Haryana police was stationed outside the hotel to prevent the media or anyone else from entering the hotel , although the BJP has said it has nothing to do with the goings-on in Rajasthan. A large group of bouncers was also deployed outside the hotel to discourage reporters from getting close to the property. “This resort is difficult to access for normal people. Outsiders can be spotted immediately as this area has a very thin population,” said Manish Khatana, a youth Congress leader, who forcefully entered the hotel when Congress MLAs from Madhya Pradesh were lodged in the hotel between March 7 to 11. “There was a three-tier security at the main gate so we crossed fields, jumped over the gate and entered the hotel,” he recollects. Also read: Rift internal issue of Cong, tracking developments, says BJPResponding to allegations leveled by Congress leaders regarding use of government machinery to achieve political ends, Raman Malik, BJP spokesperson, Haryana, said that the party was not into resort politics and if the Congress MLAs had come to the city, it was on their own accord. HT tried to reach out and get a response from ITC Hotels through email to senior executive, company website and social media but could not elicit a reply on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itc-grand-bharat-hotel-becomes-a-playground-for-political-parleys/story-KcPhIEEfuTG6eM8bbYCsfI.html
14-07-2020||India||I-T raids trigger fresh political storm in Rajasthan||As the political drama in Rajasthan played out on Monday, following deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s revolt against chief minister Ashok Gehlot, the Union government seemed to deal itself a hand in the game with the Income Tax (IT) department and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) conducting raids on several companies and individuals linked to Gehlot and his associates or the Congress itself.While the finance ministry denied that the raids were politically motivated, people familiar with the matter said everyone raided has links with the CM. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has said it is not involved in the drama playing out in Rajasthan.The I-T department carried out “search and survey operations on three groups” at 20 premises in Jaipur, six in Kota, eight in Delhi and nine in Mumbai, according to the government.One of the groups is involved in business activities such as hotel, hydro power projects, metal and auto sectors. “It is suspected to have invested unaccounted income generated from these activities into real estate,” a government statement said.It added that the second group is engaged in the business of trading of silver/gold jewellery and antique silver articles, and has associate enterprises in other countries. The third group is involved in hotel business, it said.Among those raided were Rajiv Arora of Amrapali Jewels, who is also the vice president of the Congress in the state; the Om Kothari Group, which has interests in engineering, construction, real estate, automotive dealerships, and manufacturing; and Mayank Sharma Enterprises.A tax official said on condition of anonymity that the “department received information of tax evasion worth crores of rupees. At present, a team of 100 officials are carrying out searches at more than 22 locations linked to Dharmendera Singh Rathore and Rajiv Arora.” “Rathore is All India Congress Committee Member and former chairman of Rajasthan Seeds Corporation,” said a Congress functionary who spoke on condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, ED raided Jaipur’s Fairmont Hotel in the afternoon; Gehlot has housed around 100 MLAs loyal to him at the hotel. “The raids were initiated after it received information about violations of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, rules. It is alleged that Ravikant Sharma received foreign funding worth Rs 96.7 crores from Mauritius,” said an ED official who asked not to be named. People familiar with the matter said the Mumbai-based Mayank Sharma Enterprises owns the hotel and alleged that one of its main investors, Sharma, is associated with Vaibhav Gehlot, son of Ashok Gehlot. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya claimed in 2013 that a Mauritius-based company purchased the shares, having a value of Rs 100, of Trion Hotels and Resorts of Sharma, at an absurd amount of Rs 40,000 each while seeking a probe into the involvement of Vaibhav Gehlot in the affair.The probe, IT officials said, pertains to tax evasion and some benami (proxy) transactions; raids were conducted after examining several documents over a period of time, they added.A finance ministry official said: “Raids are being conducted by the income-tax department’s field formations based on inputs related to tax evasion. Such raids take place only after prolonged investigations and after finding discrepancies in the company or individuals tax returns. So, allegations of politically motivated raids hold no ground. In fact, those indulging in tax evasion often term such raids as motivated to cover up their illegal activities.”The Congress questioned the timing of the raids. “The frontal departments of the BJP – IT and ED -- have come out in the field. When will CBI come?” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted.Om Kothari group’s flagship, Om Metals Infraprojects Ltd, the IT officials added, was raided in connection with transactions related to a contract given to it to build a dam in Rajasthan.Interestingly, Om Metals’ joint managing director Sunil Kothari was raided by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in November 2017 in connection with the AgustaWestland case.When contacted, a representative at Om Metals’ main office in Pushp Vihar, Saket, said: “IT officials are still here” and added that he isn’t authorised to talk to the media.State BJP president Satish Poonia said it was “mere coincidence that the IT raids took place today. These agencies are independent and an extensive exercise is done before. These things (raids) don’t happen on a whim.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-t-raids-trigger-fresh-political-storm-in-raj/story-pHFKvk3F7QCATNcnA4d0JJ.html
14-07-2020||India||Of 107 Rajasthan Congress MLAs, 88 turn up for key meet amid crisis||Despite claiming majority, the Ashok Gehlot led Congress government in Rajasthan is walking on a tight rope with only 102 legislators, including 14 independents and legislators from smaller parties, attending the meeting at Gehlot’s official residence on Monday, party leaders said.Of the 107 Congress legislators in the 200 member Rajasthan assembly, only 105 could have attended the meeting as minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal is in the hospital and Speaker CP Joshi cannot attend such meetings to maintain neutrality of the position he holds. Also read: Sachin Pilot hardens stand after setback in Jaipur, preps for Round 2Several Congress leaders said on condition of anonymity that of the 105, 17 Congress legislators including deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot skipped the meeting. Three independent legislators, who did not attend the meeting, later joined the other legislators at a hotel in Jaipur, taking the number of lawmakers supporting the government to 105.  “It is not over, till it is over,” said Jaipur based political commentator, Prakash Bhandari. “Many of the legislators present in the meeting today have the reputation of jumping ship. So one should not be sure of the numbers until the last word on the crisis is written.” The Congress leaders said that of the 17 legislators who did not attend the meeting, seven are in Delhi and the other 10 are in Rajasthan. Many of them have pledged support to Pilot. When all the action was happening at the CM’s residence in Civil Lines, some overenthusiastic supporters of the Congress pulled down posters of Sachin Pilot from the party office on Sansar Chand Road. However, the posters were later re-installed even as Congress leaders sought to pacify Pilot.Congress leaders who conducted a headcount at the legislators’ meeting, said there were 88 Congress MLAs, including CM Ashok Gehlot. Apart from them, there were 10 Independent MLAs, two Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) legislators, and one MLA each from the CPM and RLD. The total, 102, was seven short of the 109 MLAs whose support Congress general secretary in charge of Rajasthan, Avinash Pande, claimed in press conference in the early hours of Monday. The number was also reiterated by functionaries at Gehlot’s office during the legislators meeting.Also read: Focus back on young-old divide in CongressIn a related development, the national leadership of BTP based in Gujarat asked its two MLAs to stay neutral in this ongoing political crisis. However, the two legislators later told reporters that they were with the Congress and would speak to party leadership about their stand.The thing going for Gehlot, political experts said, was the fact that tthere weren’t too many MLAs in Delhi with Pilot and all of them were first timers. But, the negative thing was that some of the heavyweights – such as former Speaker Dipendra Singh Shekhawat, former minister Hemaram Choudhary and Ramnarain Meena – were also conspicuous by their absence in the CLP. People close to them said they were not in touch with Pilot.Before the Rajya Sabha elections too, Gehlot housed his legislators in a hotel fearing they could be poached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/of-107-cong-mlas-88-turn-up-for-key-meet-amid-crisis/story-lraHBqrc2OyeUqBsHUzFOL.html
14-07-2020||India||Odisha Corona Warrior’s body cremated after 3 hrs as neighbours object||The body of a woman working in a Covid-19 quarantine centre could not be cremated for almost three hours in Odisha’s Ganjam district, as the neighbours shunned it over fears of Covid-19 infection, her husband has claimed. K Asanta Patra, a 55-year-old anganwadi supervisor who worked in a quarantine centre in Kankarada village of Sanakhemundi block, had come home on June 28 after she developed symptoms of Covid-19 and was advised home quarantine. On Saturday afternoon, she complained of breathing problems after which her husband Dukhishyam Patra rushed her to a government hospital in Berhampur town. However, she died in on the way to the hospital. Failing to get a hearse van or ambulance to take the body back to the village, Patra brought the body back in an autorickshaw.However, his neighbours put up a stiff resistance asking him to take back the body. “Many of them verbally abused me saying my wife must have died of Corona while others threatened to beat me up for bringing my wife’s body to my home. Seeing the anger of my neighbours, I ran away with the body,” he said. Dukhishyam and his mentally-challenged sister took the body to the cremation ground in the autorickshaw. He left his sister there to arrange for wood and other material needed for cremation. A team of officials soon arrived on the spot and took swab samples from the body after which they were sent to another place for cremation.Though the deceased woman’s test report is yet to come, two of her sisters have tested positive for Covid-19. Her husband, sister-in-law, mother-in-law’s reports are yet to come but they have been admitted in a Covid hospital in Ganjam as precaution.Patra, who runs a grocery shop in Shriramnagar area of Berhampur town, said he was shocked at the way the neighbours behaved. “It’s all very well to hail the Corona warriors like my wife. But in reality, Corona warriors get no dignity,” he said.Refuting the claims of the dead woman’s husband, Ganjam district collector Vijay Kulange later tweeted that the woman’s body was cremated with dignity.In May, lakhs of Odias in and outside the state had sung ‘Bande Utkala Janani’, Odisha’s state song to show gratitude to ‘Covid warriors’ like doctors, nurses and other frontline workers. On Sunday too, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had appreciated them for their work. In Ganjam district, at least 600 Covid Warriors have been infected with the virus of whom about half a dozen have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-corona-warrior-s-body-cremated-after-3-hrs-as-neighbours-object/story-rWcMko0ZCFLKjnrcL2ngDK.html
14-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political crisis: Focus back on young-old divide in Congress||Not so long ago, one of the back rows of the Lok Sabha used tobe occupied by young and enthusiastic Congress leaders —men like Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sachin Pilot, Milind Deora, Jitin Prasada, Sandeep Dikshit and of course, Rahul Gandhi.It was a new-age Congress that brandished youth power alongside its veterans. Cut to 2020: Scindia, 49, has joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) along with his followers in Madhya Pradesh, Pilot, 42, is feeling sidelined and restive. Deora, 43, stepped down as Mumbai Congress chief, and some other young leaders are missing the political limelight., and some other young leaders are missing the political limelight.Also read: Sachin Pilot hardens stand after setback in Jaipur, preps for Round 2In Madhya Pradesh, Scindia was credited with scripting the victory of the Congress in the 2018 state polls, but for two years, he was not made state president. In March, he ended his association with the party. In Rajasthan, Pilot was credited with the party’s assembly poll victory only for his rivals to start lobbying with some central leaders for a new state Congress chief.On Monday, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot called a meeting of MLAs at his house which Pilot skipped. The Congress also rushed two senior leaders in the desert state.In the recent Rajya Sabha elections, a young leader—who did a creditable job as a spokesperson and chaired a key cell of the Congress—was overlooked to accommodate a veteran. In April 2019, Priyanka Chaturvedi, 40, quit the party, upset with the Congress leadership for bringing back leaders who once misbehaved with her. Chaturvedi has joined the Shiv Sena. In Assam, Himanta Biswa Sharma quit the Congress over his differences with Cong veteran Tarun Gogoi.Also read: Rajasthan turmoil continues as Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot dig in heels“There are several instances of veterans not treating young leaders with due respect,” said a party strategist. “In the run-up to the 2014 election, a powerful general secretary—considered close to Rahul Gandhi—earned a reputation of not behaving well with young leaders,” said a party insider who asked not to be named.But a section of the Congress also pointed out how some young leaders have failed to boost the party’s prospects. “Ashok Tanwar was in charge of Haryana; under him, the Congress failed to win any major elections. Similarly, Milind Deora was the Mumbai Congress president but the party lost all seats in the city,” a party functionary said on condition of anonymity. A senior functionary maintained, “Party has promoted young leaders. Pilot became an MP when he was 26, union minister at 34, PCC president at 35 and deputy CM when he was 40 years old.”In the past too, the Congress has seen an exodus of prominent young leaders who were sidelined. Mamata Banerjee left the Congress in 1998 due to a tussle with the party’s old guard and went on to become chief minister of West Bengal. Similarly, YS Jagan Mohan Reddy left the Congress and formed his own party after being sidelined in the Andhra Pradesh Congress following his father YS Rajasekhara Reddy’s death in a helicopter crash in 2009.Also read: Rift internal issue of Cong, tracking developments, says BJPTo be sure, there are members of the old guard who are open to young leaders and workers, who acknowledge their role. “When the Congress organized the first major rally in Delhi in 2015 against the proposed amendments to the UPA {United Progressive Alliance}-era land acquisition act, many young leaders were in the forefront of the show, but it was three-four veterans who provided the resources and manpower to make the show successful,” said a young Congress leader who handles legal affairs for the party ans who asked not to be named. Many party leaders believe that the uncertainty in the central leadership, especially in the aftermath of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, has led to factional feuds in the Congress. With Rahul Gandhi resigning as party chief after the Lok Sabha poll debacle, regional leaders tried to enlarge their own political space at the expense of young rivals, maintained two Delhi-based party functionaries, requesting anonymity.“It’s not just a matter of old vs young problem. It’s inability of leaders on what they want. Jyotiraditya was not the first one, and Sachin is not the last one to have issues with senior leadership. I also think that after UPA-2, the party has not been managed well. It looks like they have lost heart for politics,” said political analyst Nilanjan Mukherjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-back-on-young-old-divide-in-congress/story-beEIApVMtJfSo5mn5X9poJ.html
14-07-2020||India||Inflation rises, food prices ease: Data||India’s benchmark inflation measure Consumer Price Index (CPI) grew at 6.1% in the month of June. The June inflation numbers are slightly higher than 5.8% figure for March 2020. The National Statistical Office (NSO) has released full inflation statistics after a gap of two months. Because there is no headline CPI number for the months of April and May, it is difficult to infer whether the lockdown and subsequent unlocking of the economy has led to a rise or crash in prices. To be sure, imputed inflation numbers released for the months of April and May yesterday show that inflation has been declining from May.Yesterday’s data does show some signs of disruption in non-food supply chains due to the lockdown. Core inflation, which is the non-food non-fuel component of CPI, grew at 5% in June, 2020 compared to 3.8% in March 2020.Retail inflation data released by the government after a two-month gap showed prices in June surged to 6.09%, just above the Reserve Bank’s “tolerance limit” of 4% (+/-2%), while food inflation eased to a nine-month low of 7.87%. The most important take away from the June numbers is a continuous deceleration in food prices. Food inflation growth in June was 7.9%, a nine month low. To be sure, different components of the food inflation basket show divergent trends. Perishables show a weakness in prices. Fruit prices went down by 0.7% on a year on year basis. Vegetable price inflation grew at 1.9%, the lowest in fifteen months according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy database.See Chart 1: Food inflation for different groupsThe government’s inflation surveys were disrupted by April and May because of the nationwide lockdown. During the lockdown, officials tasked with monitoring prices collected price data through telephonic surveys at designated markets. This was supplemented by information from personal purchases of field staff, the CSO said in a statement.On Monday, the statistics office also released “imputed” or inferred inflation data for April and May using a methodology recommended in the “Business Continuity Guidelines” of the Inter-Secretariat Working Group on Price Statistics, a global norm. Based on this, consumer prices rose 7.22% in April. They eased to 6.27% in May, according to the imputed index compiled by CSO.“As the various pandemic related restrictions were gradually lifted and non-essential activities started resuming operations, NSO (National Statistics Office) collected prices from 1030 urban markets and 998 villages for commodities that were available and transacted during the month of June, 2020. The data collected, however, did not meet the adequacy criteria for generating robust estimates of CPIs at the State-level,” the Central Statistics Office said in its statement.“Expect inflation to remain elevated in the next months due to excess rains impacting supply of fresh vegetables and fiscal pressure pulling up prices of fuel and intoxicants and higher gold prices,” said Prithviraj Srinivas, chief economist of the Mumbai-based Axis Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inflation-rises-food-prices-ease-data/story-WylCNO1NazRUS2ZlIV1ArJ.html
14-07-2020||India||Lt Col moves Delhi high court against apps ban||A Lieutenant Colonel of the Indian Army on Monday approached the Delhi high court to challenge a move that bans armed forces officials from using social networking platforms such as Facebook and Instagram.The petition, which is likely to be heard on Tuesday, sought the court’s direction to the Director General of Military Intelligence to withdraw the June 6 policy which ordered all members of the army to delete their accounts from Facebook, Instagram and 87 other applications.Lieutenant Colonel PK Choudhary, who is currently posted in Jammu and Kashmir, said in the plea that he is an active user of Facebook and uses the platform to connect with his friends and family, as most of them are settled abroad, including his daughter.In the petition, filed through advocates Shivank Pratap Singh and Sanandika Pratap Singh, the officer sought a direction to the central government through the defence ministry to withdraw its June 6 policy to “ensure that the fundamental rights of armed forces personnel are not abrogated amended or modified by arbitrary executive action which is not backed by the mandate of law, offends the provisions of the Army Act and Rules made thereunder and is unconstitutional”.The plea said Choudhary found out through a July 9 news report about the army’s order requiring him and other personnel to delete Facebook, Instagram and 87 other applications by July 15.On July 10, he received a letter titled “Policy On Use Of Social Media Platforms And Mobile Phones In IA” issued by the Director General of Military Intelligence, banning the use of 89 applications and websites and directed deletion the accounts, the plea said, adding that as the policy is classified as restricted, he was not reproducing any part of it in the plea.Other than social networking websites, the banned services included dating apps such as Tinder, OkCupid and Couch Surfing. The social media apps that are a no-go area for soldiers include messaging platforms, video-hosting sites, gaming and dating apps, and also some e-commerce options.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lt-col-moves-hc-against-apps-ban/story-oHxx1fO9sc9fVvko0HKRrL.html
14-07-2020||India||Little impact on other religion cases: Experts after Kerala temple verdict||The impact of the Supreme Court judgment in the Padmanabhaswamy temple case on other cases relating to Shebait or religious rights may be limited because the ruling is based on the existence of a 1950 law enacted by the state of Travancore-Cochin, which was the precursor to the Kerala state, legal experts told HT.The Travancore-Cochin Hindu Religious Institutions Act (TC Act), more specifically Section 18 (2) of the act, provides that the administration of the Padmanabhaswamy temple and all other properties and funds of the temple be vested with the ruler of Travancore.“The right under Section 18 (2) of the Travancore-Cochin Hindu Religious Institutions Act, 1950, is specific to the covenants entered in this particular case. The question was whether it extended to the ‘ruler’ alone or his successors as well, for which the high court answered in the negative while the Supreme Court in the affirmative. No proposition of law in rem (applicable in general) was laid down in either of the judgments,” Supreme Court advocate Sriram Parakkat said.“The impact of this judgment would be limited to such cases where there are specific laws providing for religious/ shebait rights,” he added.The repeal of that law from the statute book by the state legislature, however, can lead to the termination of Shebait rights of the royal family. The rights will be operative “as long as appropriate steps are not taken by the concerned legislature”, the court made it clear in paragraph 90 of its judgment.Besides this law, agreement of accession or the covenant signed between the ruler of Travancore and Government of India in 1949 by which Travancore became a part of the Indian union, also provided that the administration of the temple will be vested with the ruler of Travancore.Article 362 of the Constitution stipulated that such covenants and agreements should be given due consideration by the central and state legislatures while making laws. However, Article 362 was repealed in 1971 by Parliament through the 26th Amendment, putting a question mark on whether the rights of the ruler under the covenant would still be valid.The court held that since there is a law, TC Act, specifically backing the Shebait rights, the Shebait rights would continue with the royal family even though Article 362 was repealed.This is because the source for enjoyment of personal rights, privileges and dignities referred to in Article 362 would be in the statutory provisions enacted in terms of the obligation spelt out in Article 362 – in this case the TC Act -- the court said.“The court has held that vested rights under a succession treaty remains preserved if protected under a state law, notwithstanding the 26th Amendment,” Supreme Court advocate Vipin Nair who represented a few devotees before the Supreme Court said.However, advocate V Shyamohan, who represented the royal family, argued that the judgment recognises the centuries-old rights of “Padmanabha Dasa” as the hereditary trustee of the temple and protects the faith and beliefs of millions of devotees.“Every ruler of Travancore is engaged in the service of Sri Padmanabhaswamy, and are known as Padmanabha Dasas. Under Hindu Law, the property stands vested in the idol and not shebait. Shebaitship is inherent in the founder and unless a contrary custom exists, it is a heritable right,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/little-impact-on-other-religion-cases-experts/story-2efgFKaCZdWbHQRuHOUlEO.html
14-07-2020||India||Royal family welcomes Kerala temple verdict||The erstwhile royal family of Travancore, whose rights on the administration of the ancient Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple in Thiruvananthapuram were upheld by the Supreme Court on Monday, welcomed the verdict, thanking those who stood by them during the nine-year legal battle.The Kerala government made it clear that it has no plan to go in for a review or appeal and it will respect the verdict of the apex court. Devotees of the deity celebrated the ruling by distributing sweets. Because a lockdown is in place in the state capital, they took care to avoid big gatherings outside the temple.“It is not the victory of royal family. It is the victory of people and devotees. Finally, the will of the Lord Padmanabhaswamy prevailed. We dedicate this to the presiding deity,” said Aswathi Tirunal Lakshmi Bayi, a member of the royal family.“It is a landmark judgment which upholds devotees’ rights. Under Article 25 &26, devotees enjoy every right to manage their places of worship. But in some communities, the government holds this power. Let it be a pluralistic and uniform status,” said Rahul Iswar, an activist belonging to the tantri (head priest) family of Sabarimala hill temple. He said the verdict will have its bearing on similar cases relating to faith, including Sabarimala.In 2018, a five-member bench of the Supreme Court had allowed women of all ages to worship at the hill temple which led to a series of violent protests-- women of child-bearing age were barred from entering Sabarimala on grounds that the presiding deity, Lord Ayyappa, was celibate.The Supreme Court had decided on a relook at the verdict and referred it to a larger bench.“The temple and its huge wealth existed because of the royal family. Had it been in the hands of politicians it should have been looted long back,” said a devotee, Saradha M Thampi. “It is a welcome verdict. With this, uncertainty over the custody of the shrine will be over,” said historian M G Sasibushan.Like in Sabarimala, the Congress-led United Democratic Front favoured status quo on the Padmanabhaswamiy temple, but the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI)-led government of Kerala wanted a government-controlled body to manage the temple affairs on the lines of Guruvayur and Travancore Devasom boards where chairmen are appointed by the government, always politicians. Former chief minister V S Achuthanandan had once said that scions of the royal family were in a race to loot the Padmanabhaswamy temple, inviting enough criticism from many quarters. The opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also lauded the verdict.“It is another slap on face of the government. It should apologize to devotees for trampling on their rights,” said BJP state president K Surendran. “With his verdict we hope the government will respect age-old beliefs and customs of people,” said former chief minister Oommen Chandy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/royal-family-welcomes-kerala-temple-verdict/story-ZLX4pdiZvaFZb2T89qPpZI.html
14-07-2020||India||Complainant against Vikas Dubey goes missing||The man, whose FIR against gangster Vikas Dubey prompted the police to conduct a raid at Bikru village early on July 3, is missing, according to his family members and the police. The raid led to an ambush in which Dubey and his men killed eight police personnel, including deputy superintendent of police Devendra Mishra.Rahul Tiwari, besides being a complainant, is a key witness to the case related to events that led to the ambush, the police said.Kanpur’s senior superintendent of police, Dinesh Kumar P, said he also faced a grave threat to his life. A team led by deputy SP (LIU) Sookshm Prakash is searching for him.Also read: UP Police takes custody of slain gangster’s aidesHis mother Suman Devi said Tiwari last spoke to her on the night of July 2. “He sounded scared over the phone; then he disappeared with his wife, children and his sister-in-law. I haven’t heard from him since,” she said.According to the police investigation, Tiwari, who lives in Jadepur Nivada village adjoining Bikru, wanted to dispose of the land belonging to his in-laws at Monica Nivada village, which is also located in the vicinity. His sisters-in-law (wife’s sisters) opposed the proposed sale. One of the them, who lives in Bikru, sought Dubey’s intervention in the matter.Tiwari was threatened and beaten up publicly by Dubey on July 1, according to the police investigation. The next day, he gave a written complaint to Vinay Tiwari, the then station officer at Chaubeypur.Also read: Singhvi moves SC for mechanism to probe encounter killings, custodial deathsAccording to the police, the station officer, instead of lodging a complaint, had asked Tiwari to accompany him and met with Dubey for reconciliation. However, they were both beaten up by the gangster.Following the incident, the FIR was lodged on the intervention of DSP Devendra Mishra, who was the Bilhaur circle officer, on July 2 evening.A few hours later, Mishra assembled a team comprising 25 policemen, including three police station officers, for a raid on Bikru where the gangster and his men ambushed the police team and killed eight of them. Five policemen, a homeguard and a civilian were injured in the firing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complainant-against-dubey-goes-missing/story-nYELWeW9ca0p3lOgngnhII.html
14-07-2020||India||Glenmark Pharma cuts price of its Covid-19 drug FabiFlu||Drugmaker Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited said on Monday that it had reduced the price of its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) drug Favipiravir from Rs103 to Rs75 per tablet, which could reduce the treatment cost of a 14-day regimen to Rs10,200 from Rs14,000. The antiviral oral drug is marketed under the brand name FabiFlu and was launched in the Indian market on June 21.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted FabifFlu approval for Covid-19 treatment under emergency use authorization, which means that since limited data is available on the drug’s performance on cases of the disease, doctors prescribing the drug will have to obtain written informed consent of patients.Also read: Coronavirus pandemic is going to get worse and worse and worse, says WHO chief“The price reduction has been made possible through benefits gained from higher yields and better scale, as both the API (active pharmaceutical ingredient) and formulations are made at Glenmark’s facilities in India, the benefits of which are being passed on to patients in the country,” the company said in a statement.“Glenmark has successfully developed the API and the formulation for FabiFlu® through its own in-house R&D [research and development] team within the country, ensuring self-reliance with regard to long-term production and manufacturing. The API is manufactured at the Gujarat production facility which is USFDA & MHRA–UK approved. The formulation product is manufactured at the facility in Himachal Pradesh, which is also USFDA and MHRA-UK approved.”USFDA is short for the US Food and Drug Administration and MHRA stands for Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Glenmark also announced that it had started a Post Marketing Surveillance (PMS) study on FabiFlu to closely monitor the efficacy and safety of the drug on 1,000 patients who are prescribed it.“We expect this post marketing surveillance study to shed more light on the drug’s clinical effectiveness and safety in a large cohort of patients prescribed FabiFlu. Our priority from the start of this pandemic has been to offer patients in India an effective treatment for COVID-19, while also ensuring accessibility to the masses. Our internal research shows us that we launched FabiFlu in India at the lowest market cost as compared to the cost of Favipiravir in other countries where it is approved. And now we hope that this further price reduction will make it even more accessible for patients across the country,” said Alok Malik, senior vice president and head – India business, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals.FabiFlu in India was originally launched at Rs103/tab. Its price is Rs600 per tablet in Russia, Rs378 in Japan, Rs350 in Bangladesh and Rs215 in China.“Most patients exhibiting mild to moderate symptoms can benefit from FabiFlu use. Glenmark has also completed the phase 3 clinical trial with Favipiravir (FabiFlu) in mild to moderate Covid-19 patients in India. The trial results will be available shortly,” the company said in its statement.Also read: TB vaccine averts severe infections, deaths from Covid-19, says studyGlenmark is also conducting another phase 3 clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of the antiviral drugs Favipiravir and Umifenovir as a combination therapy in hospitalised adult Covid-19 patients in India with moderate symptoms of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glenmark-pharma-cuts-price-of-its-covid-19-drug-fabiflu/story-fQuRMvJ2TlilXQACQEoAHL.html
14-07-2020||India||Covid-19 drug Itolizumab best used pre-ventilator: Data||Biocon’s anti-psoriasis injection Itolizumab, which was approved to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday works best before a patient is put on ventilator, according to trial data released on Monday.Older patients and those with co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension also recovered well after four weeks of therapy, concluded the open-label, two-arm randomized pivotal trial conducted on 30 Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at four hospitals in Delhi and Mumbai. The median age was 51 years for patients on itolizumab and 50 years for those in the control group.Of the 30 patients enrolled for the trial around May, 20 were on itolizumab and 10 were provided best supportive care. All 20 on the itolizumab arm recovered well; and of the 10 patients in the control group, three succumbed to the disease.Hospitals where trials were conducted are KEM and Nair Hospitals in Mumbai, and Lok Nayak and All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi.The drug is being marketed under the name of Alzumab since 2013 for psoriasis, an autoimmune skin disorder. It is not a biosimilar but an original biologic therapy innovated in India for treating moderate to severe acute respiratory distress syndrome due to Covid-19. The drug is a monoclonal antibody, in this case, a man-made protein acting like human antibodies in the immune system. “Why we are excited about the trial results is because this pandemic has plunged us into a humanitarian and economic crisis. This drug has a proven safety record through seven years of use. It follows an immuno-modulatory action mechanism that downgrades the cytokine storm (the body’s hyper immune response to a disease). This virus is hyperactivating our immune system that leads to organ damage, and the drug in trials has shown to start slowing down the immune response thus saving lives,” said Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, executive chairperson, Biocon.“30 may seem like a small number but it the minimum requirement to establish proof of concept that the drug works. We must realise that there’s an emergency situation at hand and there’s no time for conducting large trials, which is a reason why approvals are given under emergency use. But the regulatory approval is very robust,” she added.There are three stages to Covid-19, and experts say itolisumab will have maximum benefits if it is administered in stage II when the lungs start getting affected.“Apart from those on trial the drug has saved about 150 lives in states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi,” said Mazumdar-Shaw.Doctors investigating the safety and efficacy of the drug say that some of their other frontline staff that was down with Covid-19 were given the drug as part of off-label use because of the encouraging results.“At least 20 more people took the injection with good results in our hospital. This drug is working well and has benefited almost all patients who took it,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital.A maximum of six doses are required for treating a patient, but most patients do not need more than four. The cost per dosage (vial) is around ₹8,000. “The price may seem on a steeper side but what one doesn’t realise is that this drug will save the patient the cost of a ventilator bed in the ICU. Even if about three days of ICU stay is reduced it will be cost effective in totality,” said Sandeep Athalye, chief medical officer, Biocon.Dr Rosemary D’souza, from Mumbai’s Nair Hospital, which was one of the trial sites confirmed that the drug “ definitely decreases mortality, and also reduces time to recovery.”Biocon is likely to conduct more trials later on a larger sample. “Our US partners are also trying to conduct larger clinical trials based in the US which will take care of US regulatory approvals. Our first priority will be Indian market and later foreign markets. The sale will be done through a closed channel so as to ensure there’s no black-marketing of the drug.,” said Mazumdar-Shaw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itolizumab-best-used-pre-ventilator-data/story-ATbODyqjFmjINxbBp3iZeN.html
14-07-2020||India||Babri demolition case: Kalyan Singh blames Congress||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kalyan Singh told a court on Monday that the then Congress-led government at the Centre fabricated charges against him in the Babri Masjid demolition case and that his government at the state provided adequate security to the disputed structure. Singh, who was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh when the 16th century mosque was demolished by a mob on December 6, 1992, was recording his statement in the special Central Bureau of Investigation court, which is currently recording the statements of 32 people accused in the case. Other accused, including former deputy prime minister L K Advani and senior BJP leader M M Joshi, are yet to be examined at this stage.“As chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, my government and I had made three-tier security arrangements for the disputed Babri structure,” he said. “At regular intervals, officials concerned were also instructed to review security arrangements of the structure (Babri Masjid),” he added. The court is conducting day-to-day hearings to complete the trial by August 31, as directed by the Supreme Court.The court also ordered the CBI to file a status report on the whereabouts of Om Prakash Pandey, who belongs to Uttarakhand and is one of the 32 accused in the case. The court had issued a non- bailable warrant against Pandey on July 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-case-kalyan-singh-blames-congress/story-aGa8VNXKjhhyNPC50hZW1I.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Lord Ram born in Nepal’: PM Oli ignites new row with stunning claim on Ayodhya||Stoking a potential controversy, embattled Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli on Monday claimed that the “real” Ayodhya lies in Nepal, not in India and that Lord Ram was born in Thori in southern Nepal.Condemning Oli for his remarks, BJP national spokesperson Bizay Sonkar Shastri said that the Left parties even in India played with people’s faith, and the Communists in Nepal will be rejected by the masses in the same way they have been here.“Lord Ram is a matter of faith for us, and people will not allow anybody, be it prime minister of Nepal or anyone, to play with this,” he said in New Delhi. Speaking at an event on the birth anniversary of Nepalese poet Bhanubhakta at the Prime Minister’s residence in Kathmandu, Oli said that Nepal “has become a victim of cultural encroachment and its history has been manipulated.” Bhanubhakta was born in 1814 in Tanhu of western Nepal and is credited for translating Valmiki’s Ramayan into Nepali language. He died in 1868.“Although the real Ayodhya lies at Thori in the west of Birgunj, India has claimed the Indian site as the birthplace of Lord Ram,” Oli said.“We also believe that deity Sita got married to Prince Ram of India. Actually, Ayodhya is a village lying west of Birgunj,” he said, adding that the marriage between bride and bridegroom at such a distance was not possible at the time when there was no communication and transportation system.“The place called Thori, near Birgunj is the real Ayodhya, where Lord Ram was born. In India there is great dispute on Ayodhya. But, there is no dispute in our Ayodhya,” Prime Minister Oli was quoted as saying by his press advisor Surya Thapa.“Valmiki Ashram is also in Nepal and the holy place where King Dasharath had executed the rites to get the son is in Ridi, which is in Nepal,” he said.As Dasharath was the ruler of Nepal, it is natural that his son Ram was also born in Nepal, Oli argued. Therefore, real Ayodhya lies in Nepal, he claimed.Many scientific inventions and knowledge originated in Nepal, but unfortunately such a rich tradition could not continue later, Oli said.Prime Minister Oli, under growing pressure to resign amidst a rift in the ruling Nepal Communist Party over his style of functioning, has alleged that some of the ruling party leaders are aligning with the southern neighbour to remove him from power after his government issued a new political map incorporating three Indian territories of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura. His allegations have been criticised by senior NCP leaders, including former prime minister ‘Prachanda’, who demanded Prime Minister Oli’s resignation, saying his recent anti-India remarks were “neither politically correct nor diplomatically appropriate.” The India-Nepal bilateral ties came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8.Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory.Later, Nepal updated the country’s political map through a Constitutional amendment, incorporating three strategically important Indian areas.India termed as “untenable” the “artificial enlargement” of the territorial claims by Nepal. India has handed over a diplomatic note to Nepal over the map issue, Nepalese media reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-ram-s-ayodhya-in-nepal-pm-oli-makes-a-stunning-claim-to-needle-india/story-Osw6gdQDb8TckQc0a9GhXN.html
14-07-2020||India||Abdullahs move Jammu and Kashmir high court for leaders’ release||Jammu and Kashmir National Conference (NC) president and Srinagar MP Farooq Abdullah and his son and former chief minister Omar Abdullah on Monday filed petitions challenging the detention of 16 senior leaders, of the party, many among whom were former ministers and legislators.The habeas corpus petition was filed by the two senior NC leaders in the Jammu and Kashmir high court. They said the detention of NC leaders was “unconstitutional and illegal.”According to NC, party president Farooq Abdullah filed a petition for the release of Ali Mohammad Sager, Abdul Rahim Rather, Nasir Aslam Wani, Aga Sayeed Mehmood, Mohammad Khalil Band, Irfan Shah and Sheemama Firdous.Omar Abdullah challenged the detention of Mohammad Shafi Uri, Aga Ruhullah, Chaudhary Mohammad Ramzan, Mubarak Gul, Basher Veeri, Abdul Majeed Larmi, Bashaarat Bukhari, Saifudin Bhat and Mohammad Shafi. Both the leaders challenged the detentions through their counsel Shariq Reyaz.An NC spokesman said the decision to move to court had been taken to seek relief for party leaders who had been kept under house detention after being shifted from detention centres. ‘Shifting of the detainees from the detention centres to their homes only characterized revolving door detention practice,’’ he spokesman said.‘’The house detentions without any administrative order are unlawful, undermining due respect to human rights and individual liberty,’’ the NC spokesman said, adding that the party hoped the court will come to the rescue of political leaders who had been suffering ever since article 370, which granted special status to J&K, was effectively revoked in August last year. ‘’Most of the leaders are suffering from various ailments.’’The NC leaders were arrested a day before the abrogation of article 370 along with Omar Abdullah and Farooq Abdullah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abdullahs-move-hc-for-leaders-release/story-8vUPBAyNhOBCAPCqDdtOSM.html
14-07-2020||India||Zero tolerance for ceasefire violations: Army chief to Pakistan||Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Monday reaffirmed India’s “zero tolerance” policy against ceasefire violations by Pakistani troops and attempts by terrorists to infiltrate into Kashmir from across the border. Ceasefire violations in Jammu and Kashmir have increased, and the Indian Army has said it had recorded as many as 2,542 breaches until June 30 this year. On Sunday, Pakistan initiated cross-border firing in the Nowshera sector of Rajouri and Kirni and Qasba sectors of Poonch.As many as 3,289 violations of a truce deal reached in November 2003 were recorded last year, the highest in 16 years.“The COAS (chief of army staff) reinstated the fact of zero tolerance against the ceasefire violations by Pakistan and infiltration attempts by terrorists,” Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand, the defence ministry spokesperson, said in a statement.“He further highlighted that all agencies of the services and government are working together relentlessly and will continue to do the same to defeat the nefarious design of proxy war being fuelled by our adversaries,” he added.Gen Naravane visited the forward areas along India’s 198 kilometre-long international border with Pakistan to review the security scenario and preparedness of troops deployed in the Jammu-Pathankot region.He interacted with the field formation commanders and troops during his visit. He also visited the forward areas of Gurj Division and was briefed by Major General YP Khanduri, general officer commanding (GOC), Gurj Division.“The Army Chief addressed all ranks of Western Command through video conferencing and lauded the morale of the troops. He expressed complete confidence in Indian Army’s capabilities to thwart any misadventure by the enemies of our country and handle any situation,” the spokesperson said.The army chief arrived in a fixed-wing aircraft at the technical airport in Jammu and then visited the Tiger Division from where he flew in a helicopter to forward areas.The international border in the Jammu region is manned by the Border Security Force (BSF) on the Indian side and Pakistani Rangers on the neighbour’s side.“Though there is no heightened activity across the IB, the army chief had to see the prevailing security scenario and readiness of the troops deployed on the ground in Jammu-Pathankot region,” said Col Anand.The Army Chief was received in Jammu by Lt Gen RP Singh, GOC-in-C Western Command, Lt Gen Upendra Dwivedi, GOC Rising Star Corps, Maj Gen VB Nair, GOC Tiger Division and Air Commodore AS Pathania, AOC, Air Force Station Jammu .Gen Naravane was briefed by Lt Gen Dwivedi on the operational preparedness, upgrading of security infrastructure and internal security matters.The Army Chief addressed all ranks of Western Command through video conferencing and lauded the morale of the troops. He expressed complete confidence in Indian army’s capabilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zero-tolerance-for-ceasefire-violations-army-chief-to-pak/story-wtguyi0d6wwbL8ey3P26uO.html
14-07-2020||India||New ministers in Shivraj Singh Chouhan govt allotted portfolios||Madhya Pradesh (MP) chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan allocated portfolios on Monday morning among 28 new ministers, who were inducted in the cabinet on July 2 , and five others inducted earlier, with senior BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia’s imprint being visible in the exercise.The current strength of the Chouhan cabinet is 34, including the CM, while one ministerial berth is still vacant. In the first cabinet expansion exercise carried out on April 21, almost a month after Chouhan assumed office for a fourth term, five ministers were inducted including two Scindia loyalists, Tulsiram Silavat and Govind Singh Rajput. The others inducted were Narottam Mishra, Kamal Patel and Meena Singh.Silavat and Rajput are among six leaders who were ministers in the Congress government that governed the state till March. The others are Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Pradyumn Singh Tomar and Imrati Devi. These ministers resigned from the state assembly along with 16 other MLAs, all loyalists of Scindia, in March in an act of rebellion against the then chief minister Kamal Nath and thus, paved way for formation of the BJP government headed by Shviraj Singh Chouhan. Of the 16, 12 got ministerial berths in the July 2 cabinet expansion.Also read: Narottam Mishra is MP home minister, Yashodhara Raje Scindia gets sports. Check full listWhile Silavat retained the water resources portfolio, he was also assigned an additional department, fisheries welfare and development. Similarly, Rajput was allocated transport and revenue, the same portfolios he had in the then Nath cabinet. Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary who has an MBBS degree will be the new health minister of the state. Mahendra Singh Sisodia was minister for Labour in the then Congress government, is now minister for rural development and Panchayi Raj. And Imrati Devi has retained the women and child development department. Narottam Mishra from Gwalior-Chambal region continues to maintain his No. 2 position in the cabinet , with home and also being allocated Jail, Parliamentary affairs and Law and Legislative affairs. His name appears in the list of ministers immediately after the CM. Another BJP heavyweight Gopal Bhargava who is the senior most lawmaker in the state assembly was given PWD and Cottage and village industries. His name appears at No. 3 in the list. BA senior leader in the BJP Jagdish Devda is the new finance minister. Vijay Shah from a tribal royal family in Nimad region is the new forest minister in the government.Reacting to the portfolio allocation state Congress spokesperson Abhay Dubey said, “This was not portfolio allocation but an exercise to distribute lucrative departments among certain top leaders.”Urban administration and development minister Bhupendra Singh said, “There is nothing like a lucrative department in the government. There has been a delay but the chief minister allocated the portfolios having looked into all the aspects. There is no outsider in the cabinet. We are all from the same family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-ministers-in-shivraj-govt-allotted-portfolios/story-zgl13STTgL8XIUV5ukDhbK.html
14-07-2020||India||2 Jaish terrorists killed in Anantnag encounter, one woman injured||Security forces on Monday killed two Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists, one of them a foreigner, in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag district.The terrorists were killed after an encounter broke out at Srigufwara village, 60 kms from Srinagar, soon after security forces launched cordon and search operation in the village.“During the search operation as the presence of terrorists got ascertained, they were given opportunity to surrender, however, they fired indiscriminately on the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter,’’ police spokesman said adding that in the indiscriminate firing by militants, one woman received gunshot injuries who was shifted to hospital for treatment where her condition is stated to be stable.‘In the encounter, two terrorists affiliated with proscribed terror outfit JeM were killed and their bodies were retrieved from the site of encounter. One of the killed terrorists has been identified as Nasir alias Shahbaz alias Baz Bai,a Pakistan resident, ‘A’ category terrorist, while as the identification of the other killed terrorist is being ascertained,’’ the spokesman said.Police spokesman said that on a specific input generated by Anantnag Police about militant presence in Srigufwara a joint cordon and search operation was launched by J&K Police, 3 Rashtriya Rifles and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in the area.On Sunday, three militants were killed in a day-long encounter with security forces in Sopore in the northern district of Baramulla.Meanwhile, forces have arrested four associates of terrorists on Sunday evening during two separate search operations at Chandargeer and Sadhunara areas of Bandipora.Bandipora Police along with 13 Rashtriya Rifles and 45th Battalion of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), acting on a specific input, arrested a terrorist associate during a search operation in Chandargeer. ‘He has been identified as Shafat Ahmad Dar resident of Chandargeer. Incriminating materials including a live grenade has been recovered from his possession,’’ the officials said.Similarly, during another search operation in Sadhunara, security forces arrested three more militant associates identified as Mudasir Ahmad Khawaja, Abdul Qayoom Margo and Ishfaq Ahmad Dar all residents of Sadhunara.‘’Incriminating material, including two live grenades, a AK magazine, 25 live rounds of AK-47 rifle and a UBGL, has been recovered from their possession.’’Officials said all the four associates are actively involved in providing logistic support and shelter to active terrorists of proscribed terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Suspected militants also attempted to attack a deployment of central armed forces with grenades at Awantipora in south Kashmir’s Pulwama late last evening.“Terrorist attempted an attack on CAPF at 1645 hours today at Chersoo, Awantipora. Suspects moving on a bike threw two grenades on CAPF (who were) deploying without taking out pins. Grenades did not explode. Efforts are on to nab the terrorists,” a spokesperson of the Indian Army said.Officials have said around 134 militants have been killed in Kashmir so far this year with 48 of them in June, the highest monthly toll in recent years. Majority of these militants have been killed in south Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-jaish-terrorists-killed-in-anantnag-encounter-one-woman-injured/story-b4J8M5LIixDaSYq9Do09cJ.html
14-07-2020||India||4th round of India-China Lt Gen-level talks today||Senior Indian and Chinese military commanders are set to meet at Chushul in eastern Ladakh on Tuesday to negotiate the next stage of disengagement between the two armies along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), with the talks expected to focus on reducing tensions in the Finger Area and Depsang plains as well as pulling back weapons from friction points, people familiar with the developments said on Monday.This will be the fourth round of talks between the corps commander-ranked officers of the two armies who made previous attempts to reduce tensions along the disputed border on June 6, June 22 and June 30.Negotiations are expected to be far harder this time as the continued presence of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the Finger Area and the Depsang sector could be the sticking point in the talks, said one of the officials cited above. The meeting is expected to begin at 11.30am.In Tuesday’s talks, the two commanders are expected to discuss the step-wise withdrawal of weapons and equipment to mutually agreed distances from friction areas along the LAC and thinning the overall military buildup in the region, said a second official.Also read| HT Editorial: What does China want?This military dialogue will be followed by another meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs. The military commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while WMCC monitors the process.The July 14 dialogue will be crucial as it will take up the Finger Area near Pangong Tso and the Depsang plains where there is Chinese intrusion across India’s perception of the LAC, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“In both these locations, the Indian side should insist on restoration of status quo ante as anything less than this could leave us with a territorial disadvantage,” Hooda added.The military talks follow a series of steps taken by the two armies at friction points in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra to implement a complex disengagement plan hammered out at the June 30 meeting between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region.Also read: Forces have ‘full possession’ of all our country’s land, says ITBP chiefThe current disengagement process began after the June 30 military dialogue and a subsequent conversation on July 5 between national security adviser Ajit Doval and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi. Even as uncertainty persists in the Finger Area and Depsang plains, the army is monitoring the withdrawal of the PLA from Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, where 4-km buffer zones have come up.At the June 30 meeting, the Indian side reiterated its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from friction points along the LAC and sought the restoration of status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April) in the Finger Area, Galwan Valley, Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang plains, apart from emphasising the need for thinning the military buildup in the region.The disengagement effort involves rival troops pulling back a specified distance from face-off sites, with further retreat taking place in phases as the plan progresses on a verifiable basis on the ground every 72 hours by both sides.The creation of buffer zones has temporarily restricted the patrolling activities of both armies in the region. While some experts saw this as a necessary step, others cautioned that the temporary curtailing of patrolling rights should not become a long-term feature undermining Indian presence and control.The military build-up in Indian and Chinese depth areas hasn’t thinned, with both sides keeping their guard up. The deployment of thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns, missile systems and air defence weapons continues in the region.The PLA pulled back 2 km from Patrolling Point 14 (Galwan Valley), PP-15 (Hot Springs) and PP-17 (Gogra) last week, with the Indian Army withdrawing proportionately in these areas.The army observed some thinning of PLA troops, vehicles and removal of structures from a key spur in the Finger Area over the last week but it can’t be seen as disengagement, said a third official.The Finger Area, which refers to a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong lake, remains the biggest test and hardest part of the disengagement process, as reported by HT last week.Before the PLA grabbed positions on Finger 4 overlooking Indian deployments, the army would patrol right up to Finger 8 that New Delhi considers within Indian territory. The new positions held by the PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers 4 and 8 are 8km apart.The Indian claim line in this sector extends to Finger 8, while the Chinese claim is up to Finger 4 where the PLA has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes, observation posts and tented camps over the last two months.The army is keeping a strict vigil along the contested border in the Depsang sector where the PLA’s forward presence is a matter of serious concern and where a 2013 Chinese intrusion blocked the access of Indian soldiers to several patrolling routes, including the ones leading to PPs-10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4th-round-of-india-china-lt-gen-level-talks-today/story-LMbMtAGmkvHhcWRimCBqNL.html
14-07-2020||Editorials||The US steps up against China||China has developed a reckless track record, of antagonising country after country, with little regard for consequences. The only country China is wary of acting against is the United States (US). This is why Washington’s announcement of measures against the Chinese regime in the past few weeks is noteworthy. The US formally announced on Monday that it did not recognise China’s claims on submerged shoals and reefs in the South China Sea (SCS), diluting Washington’s traditional stance of remaining neutral in third party territorial disputes. The US foreshadowed this by its earlier statements blaming the Chinese aggression for the situation in Ladakh. Washington has also imposed sanctions against individual Chinese officials involved in its gulags for Uighur minority members. It also took measures, against China’s repressive moves in Hong Kong. The US’ actions against China on the economic front are equally important. It is now expected that a bilateral US-China agreement on accounting standards will fall apart. This will result in many Chinese firms being forced out of US capital markets and stock exchanges, a form of financial decoupling.Superpowers on a collision course is a recipe for global war, which is why the US and China tend to pull their punches against each other. The US preferred to attack the Chinese claim on the SCS on a legal point, namely that international law does not allow countries to stake territorial claims on the basis of partially submerged reefs and rocks. It avoided going after the genuine islands that China has illegally captured. Nonetheless, the US has laid the basis for potentially more assertive warship movements inside Chinese-claimed waters.In the last 15 years, the world has seen Washington blow hot and cold in its responses to Beijing’s assertiveness. Barack Obama’s administration was willing to sacrifice strategic interests in return for cooperation on issues such as the climate crisis. President Donald Trump has wobbled on the security side when China seemed willing to grant trade concessions. Now, the US is not interested in safeguarding any element of its relationship from the bitter strategic relations. However, there should be no doubt as to who is to blame for this — Beijing. The international community has been more than accommodative of China’s aspirations. Over the past few years, and especially the past few months, it is evident Beijing sees its interests best advanced by using its power to instil fear rather than admiration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-us-steps-up-against-china/story-JpiaeGWYrIxlBJkRsxncBJ.html
14-07-2020||Editorials||In government schools, focus on quality | HT Editorial||A recent analysis of the education expenditures of eight states by the Centre for Policy Research’s Accountability Initiative showed that while their elementary and secondary school expenditure (per student) increased in 2017-18, as compared to 2014-15, enrolment in government schools fell during the same period. The eight states are Bihar, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Odisha and Himachal Pradesh. The reasons for falling enrolment include poor quality of learning; teacher vacancies and absenteeism; weak infrastructure; and low transition rates to secondary level.A look at the distribution of the expenditure suggests that it has been geared towards providing incentives to students, infrastructure, and salaries to teachers. While this made sense when the goal was on better hard- and soft-infrastructure, the focus now should be on learning quality — students are moving out because the State schools are failing to address that key issue. This is not surprising because while teacher salaries constitute a large share of the expenditure, the investment in their training is low (less than or equal to one per cent in most states).The pandemic has now made the learning challenge more complicated. To ensure that students regain the lost ground, states must invest in pedagogical and technological tools; assess student needs and equip them with foundational skills; engage with parents and the community; and establish a continuum of learning opportunities because there could be closures in future too. To do these, teachers will be critical; investing in their development will fast track the learning recovery process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-government-schools-focus-on-quality/story-HUeFsf5K0Jn9NBQyToEJTN.html
14-07-2020||Editorials||HT Editorial: What does China want?||The post-1988 framework of India-China ties rested on a simple principle. Both countries recognised they had a serious boundary dispute, but they agreed that the larger relationship should not be held hostage to the dispute. And therefore, while the border should be kept peaceful, and talks on the dispute could continue, pending a final settlement, India and China should continue to deepen ties in other spheres. This framework lasted three decades. Other elements of the relationship — high-level visits, trade and investment, cooperation on global issues — coexisted with the stalemate on the border dispute.But to keep the border peaceful, the two countries also signed a range of agreements. In 1996, a pact on confidence-building measures in the military field along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in border areas laid out a list of restrictions to reduce the possibility of a clash and build trust. It recognised that the implementation of the agreement would require both sides arriving at a “common understanding of the alignment” of LAC, and therefore, both India and China decided to speed up the process of “clarification and confirmation” of LAC — by clarifying the alignment in areas where there were differing perceptions, and then exchanging maps “indicating their respective perceptions”. It has been 24 years since the pact. India is clear about where its perception of LAC lies. It has repeatedly asked Beijing to clarify its perception of LAC and exchange maps. This will not be a solution — but it will at least prevent Beijing from shifting goalposts at will, and engaging in aggression to change facts on the ground. But perhaps precisely because it wants to keep that option open, China has been obstinate in not moving ahead with the process of clarifying LAC, especially in the western sector. So here is the fix. A longer term boundary solution is difficult because of the seemingly intractable nature of the dispute, especially Tawang (China will not get it back, but will keep alive its claim because of its past association with Tibet) and Aksai Chin (India will not get it back, but accepting that publicly will have costs). And China is not willing to do what is required for shorter term peace — by clarifying LAC. This leaves room for doubt about Chinese intentions, and its claims of wanting peace. If Beijing is interested in sustaining the overall relationship, it should clarify the LAC, be reasonable about its claims and live up to past agreements. Otherwise, the old framework of the relationship cannot last.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/what-does-china-want/story-MRX843hA7803wvLgG5KqGL.html
