01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Villagers claim illicit liquor trader-police nexus||Residents of Muchhal village near Jandiala Guru town of Amritsar district that witnessed 10 deaths due to consumption of hooch on Saturday claimed the illicit liquor trade thrived since there is a nexus between smugglers and police. Balkar Singh, a village resident, said, “As per our information, this (hooch consumed by locals who died) was alcohol used in making of liquor. They bring small bottles of concentrated alcohol and mix it with water. The people indulging in this business earn around Rs 3,000 by investing only Rs 60.”“The families into this business have become rich overnight. It can be gauged the fact that some of them have constructed lavish multi-storeyed houses,” he added.Charan Kaur, whose husband Balwinder Singh (65) died after consuming the hooch, is a neighbourer of Balwinder Kaur, who has been arrested for illegally selling liquor from her house. She said, “It was like living in hell in the neighbourhood of Balwinder Kaur who was into this illicit business for more than two decades. Her customers came to her residence starting morning till late night.”“In my family, only my husband consumed liquor. He purchased it from Balwinder Kaur. The narrow street leading to my house remained packed with the customers most of whom were drug addicts or bad elements. When police would come she bribed them,” she told.‘IT TASTED DIFFERENTLY FROM NORMAL LIQUOR’Some of the village residents, who consumed the hooch but survived, said the alcohol they consumed looked and tasted differently from the normal country-made liquor.Inder Singh (65) said, “I purchased liquor for Rs 50. I consumed some at Balwinder Kaur’s residence and brought the rest home. Immediately after consuming it, I had food which possibly saved me. I felt some uneasiness thereafter.” “I am not well since I consumed the hooch,” said Gurbir Singh, a rickshaw puller from the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/villagers-claim-illicit-liquor-trader-police-nexus/story-466PYwxQqShwpDlhagXZGI.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Hooch tragedy: Four held in Patiala raids, 1,150 litre lahan seized||Police on Saturday conducted raids at various locations in Patiala district and arrested four persons wanted in connection with the hooch tragedy that claimed at least 84 lives in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur besides recovering huge amounts of lahan (raw material to make liquor). A team led by Patiala range inspector general of police (IGP) Jatinder Singh Aulakh and senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vikramjeet Singh Duggal conducted the raids at Rajpura’s Jhilmil Dhaba and Banur’s Green Dhaba. Those arrested are Prem Singh, owner of Azad Transport, his accomplice Bhinda, Green Dhaba owner Gurjant Singh and Jhilmil Dhaba manager Narender Singh. They were handed over to the Tarn Taran police.The police recovered 200 litre lahan from Jhilmil Dhaba and 200 litre diesel-like liquid from Green Dhaba.Also, the police seized 950 litre lahan from Rajpura and Ghanaur areas and registered five FIRs. “The names of the two eateries had also surfaced when an illicit distillery was unearthed at Ghanaur of Rajpura on May 14. The police then conducted raids at these premises but failed to make any recovery. Bhinda was wanted in the case and was on the run since then,” a police official privy to the investigation said.SSP Duggal said the arrests were made on the basis of inputs received from Tarn Taran police. “It was found in the preliminary probe that the raw material for making illegal liquor was transported from these dhabas. A detailed investigation is on as how they run the business,” he said.The Ghanaur illegal distillery busted on May 14 was using ethyl alcohol (ENA), which is used to make sanitiser. The accused were diluting the chemical to make liquor and were selling around 1,000 cases of liquor a day.Amrik Singh, sarpanch of Khanpur Khurd village, whose wife is a zila parishad member affiliated with the Congress, was among those arrested in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooch-tragedy-four-held-in-patiala-raids-1-150-litre-lahan-seized/story-mFYlY3DZBYINB5oKub13EJ.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Sharpest 1-day spike of 322 deaths takes Maha toll past 15K||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 322 Covid-19 deaths, most in a day, to take the toll past 15,000 to 15,316, but also reported its highest single-day spike in recoveries at 10,725. This took the total recoveries to 2,66,883 at a recovery rate of 61.82%, closer to the national rate of 64.54%, as of Friday. The state has 149,214 active cases. Maharashtra reported 9,601 new infections in the past 24 hours, taking the state tally to 431,719, including 1,047 new cases in Mumbai. Mumbai’s caseload touched 115,331 and toll reached 6,398 with 45 more deaths. Pune topped the chart in terms of daily cases and deaths with the addition of 2,699 cases (461 in rural Pune, 1,441 in Pune city and 797 in Pimpri-Chinchwad) reported on Saturday. The district tally stood at 91,930, including 60,000 in Pune city. The district also saw 76 deaths (42 in city, 21 in rural Pune and 13 in Pimpri-Chinchwad), taking the toll to 1,175. Aurangabad and Jalgaon districts reported 17 and 20 deaths, while Raigad rural reported 26. Thane district and Vasai-Virar saw 19 and 12 fatalities. 64,845 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, translating into a test positivity rate of 14.80%. State’s cumulative positivity rate was 19.66%. 908,099 people are in home quarantine and 38,947 are institutionally quarantined. In the month of July, the state reported 247,357 cases, which accounted for 58.6% of the case tally in the state. While Mumbai cases came down drastically in July, Pune and other districts like Nashik, Aurangabad, Jalgaon and Solapur registered a rise in July.Of the total cases in the state in July, 14.81% or 36,626 cases were in Mumbai, 46.24% (114,383) in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), 31.43% (77,757) were in MMR, excluding Mumbai and 27.05% (66,904) in Pune.In June, MMR accounted for 69.09% (74,003 cases) of the total number of state cases (107,106) in the month. MMR, excluding Mumbai, accounted for 33.64% (36,031) of the state’s share. Mumbai’s share was 35.45% (37,972 cases), while Pune’s case share in June was 13.45%. Districts like Nashik, Aurangabad, Jalgaon and Solapur saw more cases in July than in June. While Mumbai and other cities in MMR have shown a fall in cases, Pune district and other parts of the state have reported a rise in cases in the last few weeks. Officials attribute the rise owing to the weak health infrastructure and lack in tracking-tracing the contacts. “Pune city and district administration initially failed to ramp up the facilities to cope with the spike after unlocking measures. It has now been done by setting up jumbo hospitals and acquisition of the private hospitals. Nagpur has adequate number of beds, but has no management of beds and proper tracking of the contacts. Similar are the cases with other districts where the number is rising. The cities in MMR could manage the addition of beds speedily, resulting in the fall in numbers,” a state government official said.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “In Pune, the growth is more in rural parts than the city because of the movement of people from outskirts of the Pune city. We have been focusing in Pune and other districts like Jalgaon, Aurangabad with the high growth rate by strengthening the infrastructure. We expect the infection curve to stabilise by August end even in these areas.”Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said that the number of cases has increased after the relaxations from the lockdown curbs and the district administrations will have to be on toes to contain the spread. “The spread can be arrested with more tests and aggressive tracking of the contact under ‘Chase the Virus’ mantra, which worked in Dharavi and Worli. It will help break the chain of the virus. The patients with comorbidities should be minutely monitored to keep the fatality rate in check,” he said. Thackeray inaugurated the ICU ward at a district hospital in Ahmednagar.Health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government has ramped up its health infrastructure over the past few months. He said that the number of laboratories for coronavirus tests has touched 211 and more than 21 lakh tests have been conducted in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sharpest-1-day-spike-of-322-deaths-takes-maha-toll-past-15k/story-V3XNjqioncucL8B5cfI2QJ.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor smuggling link traced to Rajpura, Noida||The link of smuggling of extra neutral alcohol (ENA), which is used for manufacturing illicit liquor, has been traced to Patiala’s Rajpura town and Noida in Uttar Pradesh with the interrogation of those arrested in connection with the 84 hooch-related deaths in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts. The police claimed to have identified the alleged racket kingpin as Gurpal Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran’s Dhotian village, who supplied illicit liquor in the area. He is already lodged in the Kapurthala jail. Officials investigating the matter suspect that a single lot of spurious alcohol smuggled in the area might be the reason behind the mass deaths.Till Friday, 41 people had lost their lives. The death toll mounted to 84 after Tarn Taran district reported 43 more fatalities between Friday night and Saturday morning.On Friday, the Tarn Taran police arrested four persons —Kashmir Singh, Angrej Singh, Amarjit Singh and Baljit Singh— from Pandoori Gola village for selling illicit liquor in the area on the basis of the complaints lodged by the some of the victims’ family members. Also, the Batala police arrested Darshan Rani and Rajan of Batala, Balwinder Kaur of Muchhal village and Mithu of Khalchian. Balwinder Kaur’s husband died after allegedly consuming the illicit liquor on Friday.Goindwal Sahib deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kawalpreet Singh said, “With the arrest of Kashmir and Angrej, we recovered 40 litre lahan (raw material used for making illicit liquor). Kashmir’s Toyota Innova car and a motorcycle were also confiscated.”A senior official involved in the investigation said, “Kashmir and Angrej told us they purchased ENA from the accomplices of Gurpal Singh.”“Racket kingpin Gurpal and his brother Rashpal Singh were involved in supply of alcohol to various villages of Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts,” he added. ‘WILL BRING GURPAL ON PRODUCTION WARRANT’DSP Kawalpreet said, “We will bring Gurpal on production warrant. Our preliminary probe has revealed that Gurpal smuggled ENA from Noida in UP. We have also identified four more suspects who are also lodged in jail. The hunt is on to arrest Gurpal’s brother.”Gurpal along with Nirmal Singh and Attar Singh of Sarhali village was arrested on July 9 this year in Phillaur of Jalandhar district with 4,000 litre alcohol being smuggled from Rajpura, as per the FIR registered at the Phillaur police station. An official said, “Balwinder Kaur purchased illicit liquor from Mithu and Gobind Singh of Kathunangal village. We have arrested Gobind Singh also. Mithu was producing illicit liquor at his home while Gobind purchased it from someone else. We are tracing the links of those who had been supplying alcohol to the village-level liquor suppliers.”Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Druman H Nimbale said they were considering Gurpal, his brother, and Kashmir Singh and Angrej Singh as the masterminds of the illicit liquor smuggling racket.ACCUSED FACING MULTIPLE CASES Kashmir, Angrej, Amarjit and Baljit were already booked under the Excise Act at various police stations, officials said. Sub-inspector (SI) Manjit Singh of Tarsikka police station in Amritsar said, “Balwinder Kaur’s husband had a case registered under the Excise Act. Mithu was booked in four cases, including one under Excise Act and three of theft.” Similarly, Darshan Rani and Rajan of Batala were already booked under Excise Act, the police said.HUGE SEIZURES IN TARN TARAN, AMRITSAR RAIDSThe police in Tarn Taran on Saturday conducted 82 raids and registered 14 cases under the Excise Act. SSP Nimbale said with the raids they recovered 4,410kg lahan, 16.7 litre ENA and 3,75 litre hooch. Similarly, the police in Amritsar registered 26 cases with the arrest of 6 persons. They also recovered 348 litre illicit liquor, 3,270kg lahan and 131 litre ENA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illicit-liquor-smuggling-link-traced-to-rajpura-noida/story-UEkrNLb0YB87duRTipJzQP.html
01-08-2020||City||Sisodia urges Shah to let hotels, weekly markets reopen in Delhi||New Delhi: Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday urged Union home minister Amit Shah to allow hotels and weekly markets to reopen in the national Capital and accordingly issue directions to lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, the government said. A day earlier, Baijal had rejected the Delhi government’s decision to allow hotels and weekly markets to reopen in the capital, saying the Covid-19 situation continued to be “fragile” in Delhi and the threat was still “far from over”. In a letter written in Hindi, the deputy chief minister said the Delhi government would again send its proposal on reopening of hotels and weekly markets to the lieutenant-governor on Tuesday. “I request you to reconsider your decision and direct the L-G to approve the proposal. If traders start their business, jobs will be generated, and that the condition of economy will improve,” Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, wrote in the letter. There was no immediate from the Union home ministry to HT’s requests for comment.On Thursday, the Delhi government decided to allow hotels, hospitality services, street hawkers to operate and did away with the night curfew hours applicable between 10pm and 5am under the Centre’s Unlock 3 plan. The government intended to allow weekly bazars to operate for a week on a trial basis to check if social distancing norms were being followed. An official order regarding the same was to come by Saturday. But the LG rejected the proposal on Friday, saying that Delhi still needs to hold on to a cautious and conservative approach in controlling the pandemic. The L-G’s office did not respond to HT’s query for a fresh comment on the matter.Sisodia, in his letter, said the Centre is showing “double standards” towards Delhi at a time when the entire country is following the Centre’s unlockdown rules and efforts are being made to resume economic activities. He said at a time when Delhi’s controlled Covid-19 cases and the situation started to stabilise, it is not being allowed to resume economic activities while states such as Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka, which are seeing a surge in cases, are being allowed to operate hotels and weekly markets. He wrote that 8% of Delhi’s business and employment has been hit due to the coronavirus disease outbreak. “Due to the closure of weekly markets, five lakh families are sitting at home. Now when they are hopeful that with control over coronavirus in Delhi, they will get an opportunity to restart their business, binding them under the decision of closure is unfair to Delhi’s economic situation and hopes of lakhs of people…If traders start their business, jobs will be generated, and that the economy will improve,” he said. The Delhi hotel and restaurant owners’ association said nearly 4 lakh people are associated with the industry in Delhi. “Hotel owners have not been able to meet their domestic expenses due to the closure since March 15...We demand the Centre and the Delhi government to waive off 80% tax on electricity bills, and provide rebate in house tax and water bills. We urge them to simplify the process of getting a fire NOC and police licence,” the association said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-urges-shah-to-let-hotels-weekly-markets-reopen-in-delhi/story-vwvant71ULwwFj6RTXjiZO.html
01-08-2020||City||Leopard-like animal caught on CCTV cameras in Vaishali, forest dept officials on alert||The officials of the district forest department are on alert after an animal that appeared to be a leopard was caught by a CCTV camera installed outside one of the houses in Vaishali’s Sector 3 locality early Saturday. While the CCTV footage of the animal moving about in front of the house is grainy, making a confirmation difficult, officials have not ruled out the possibility of the animal being a leopard. The CCTV footage of the animal roaming around the lane around 4.30am, was circulated on social media on Saturday and was brought to the attention of the forest department. Following this, teams were dispatched to Vaishali where officials traced the footage to a camera installed outside a house in Vaishali’s Sector 3. “The family living in that house had gone out of town three days ago. But while monitoring the CCTV footage from their phones, they saw the leopard-like animal moving about the lane and immediately sent the video to the local residents’ welfare association to alert neighbours and other residents,” Deeksha Bhandari, divisional forest officer, said. The officer said the size of the animal could not be fully ascertained due to the field of the CCTV camera but it had a long tail, which is generally found in animals belonging to the cat family. “The animal seems to be from cat family. It could be a leopard or a fishing cat, both of which are from the cat family. Both animals are listed under the Schedule I (of the Wildlife Protection Act). Our teams have distributed contact numbers of the local residents and have asked them to inform the department in case they spot the animal. Our teams are ensuring that there is no threat to human life and also to the animal. We are not ruling out the possibility of the animal being a leopard. However, at the location, we found no pug marks,” Bhandari said. The officials also took up combing operations in the area and suspect that the animal may have strayed into the area from the Hindon canal, which is adjacent to Vaishali, and has thick vegetation. The canal separates the two prime localities of Vaishali and Indirapuram. The sighting of leopard in Ghaziabad is not new. On December 17 last year, one had ventured into the Hindon airbase. The three-and-half-year old male leopard was trapped and later released safely in the Saharanpur forest range. A male leopard was also sighted in April 2017 in the Krishna Vihar Kuti area near Bhopra which is also near the Hindon airbase. The leopard was captured. However, it had by then injured a man, a child and cattle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leopard-like-animal-caught-on-cctv-cameras-in-vaishali-forest-dept-officials-on-alert/story-XInrEcBx6yKTKEhqOkFEDL.html
01-08-2020||City||Delhi police head constable dies of Covid||New Delhi: A Delhi Police head constable posted with the Defence Colony police station in south Delhi died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday -- the 15th Delhi Police personnel to have succumbed to the pathogen. Leela Dhar, 52, was in the intensive care unit (ICU) of Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Tahirpur since July 19. But his condition did not improve and he died on Friday, senior police officers said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that on July 11, the head constable had reported mild fever at the police station, after which he was taken to a nearby hospital, where he was tested for Covid-19. His reports came positive and he was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.“As Dhar’s condition deteriorated, he was shifted to the ICU. He was given plasma therapy. On Friday, we were informed about his death,” said Thakur, adding Dhar was on general duty and not deployed in a containment zone.A police officer from the Defence Colony police station said Dhar was diabetic and suffering from liver ailment and had symptoms of hypertension for the past few years. “He recently suffered from pneumonia,” the officer said, adding he lived in south Delhi’s Sri Niwaspuri police colony with his family. Before Dhar, 14 officers of Delhi Police, including an inspector of the special cell, died of Covid-19. Last month, three policemen died of the virus.More than 2,500 personnel have tested positive for the infection while over 2,000 have recovered from the viral infection and resumed their duties so far, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-head-constable-dies-of-covid/story-rmXCK6FfGM1LhAfv6FzQbJ.html
01-08-2020||Noida||Changes in billing slabs to spike power bills in UP, residents oppose move||The proposed changes in different slabs of electricity consumers’ categories of the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) are likely to burden the users. And, if the Uttar Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) approves these proposed slabs, it is believed that domestic and commercial consumers will see a spike in their electricity bills in the next fiscal.According to sources, the UPPCL has proposed only two slabs, i.e., consumption up to 200 units and above 200 units for the domestic category. Earlier, there were four different slabs under this category. “At present, there are around 80 slabs in different categories. However once the UPERC approves the new proposal, it will be around 50 slabs,” said a senior UPPCL official, preferring anonymity.He further said that under the new proposal, electricity bills for temporary power connections given for construction work, wedding events and religious programmes, will be reduced. “At present, a minimum-20 kilowatt (KW) power connection for such functions is given after a payment of Rs 4,750 per day, plus 20% electricity duty. On an average, people have to pay around Rs 5,500 for these functions. Under the proposed rates, electricity bills for these functions will be reduced by around 40%. Under the new tariff structure, similar relief will be given to different government and private educational institutions. However, the tariff is expected to be the same for private hospitals and nursing homes,” the UPPCL official quoted above said.When contacted, Virendra Nath Singh, Noida divisional chief engineer of Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), said that the proposed bracket of tariffs are to be approved by the UPERC and that the discom has no role in it. “The PVVNL is an electricity distribution company and it has no say in fixing the brackets of tariffs,” he said.Meanwhile, criticising this proposed change in slabs, PS Jain, the president of confederation of NCR residents’ welfare associations (CONRWA), said any change in tariffs will adversely affect consumers. “It is going to burden consumers. Noida’s power consumers are already paying the maximum fixed electricity charges in all of NCR region, despite generating maximum revenue and having minimum line loss. I’ve written a letter to the chief minister and the power minister to revoke any proposal from the UPPCL that suggests any change in power tariffs and consumer categories,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/changes-in-billing-slabs-to-spike-power-bills-in-up-residents-oppose-move/story-4TTab7Xn9HqRg4LWIbYJfK.html
01-08-2020||City||Gurugram: SIT formed to probe Covid drug smuggling racket||Gurugram: A special investigation team (SIT) was formed on Saturday to investigate an alleged racket wherein pharmaceutical drugs and medicines, including those used in the treatment of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease and cancer, were being illegally supplied to pharmacists and Iraqi interpreters. The matter had first come to light on July 28, when the city police had arrested four Iraqi nationals in two separate raids. K K Rao, police commissioner, Gurugram, said, “An SIT has been formed in the case. The team will be headed by an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) rank officer.” The police on Saturday arrested a pharmacist from Delhi, who was allegedly involved in supplying Remdesivir- an experimental drug administered to Covid-19 patients in emergency situations- to another pharmacist, identified as Pardeep, who had been arrested earlier. Police did not disclose the name of the arrested suspect from Delhi, stating that some of his aides are yet to be arrested and revealing his name would jeopardise further arrests. The police had earlier said that the role of some hospitals had also come under the scanner after vials and injections of Remdesivir were recovered in two raids this week. Police said the SIT would question the suspects and probe links to Delhi-based pharmacists. Police is also likely to probe the links of two Iraqi suspects to Kolkata, from where they claimed to have sourced several medicines. On July 28, the police had arrested four Iraqi nationals in two separate raids from sectors 47 and 57 after the drug control department had received a tip-off. Forty-eight vials of Remdesivir, 55 strips of Fabiflu (Favipiravir) and 18 packs of Lopikast — the three drugs used in the treatment of patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus — among a large cache of antibiotics, antacids, anti-allergics and other cancer treatment medicines were recovered in the raid. One SUV and Rs 74.55 lakh was also seized. Police probe has found that the suspects had been smuggling medicines to Iraq for at least two years and since the pandemic broke out, they had started dealing primarily in drugs used to treat Covid-19 which were in short supply and sold at exorbitant prices in Iraq. The suspects worked as translators for medical tourism patients at private hospitals and enlisted the patients or their attendants as conduits and asked them to carry medicines along with their personal medicines in the flights to Iraq, where an aide would collect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-sit-formed-to-probe-covid-drug-smuggling-racket/story-iR3ZOU1zlMB6nYc65RT7kI.html
01-08-2020||Delhi||37 police personnel suspended for dereliction of duty||Thirty-seven police personnel were suspended on Saturday for dereliction of duty after they had failed to turn up at the scheduled time to join the security arrangement duty for Eid-ul-Zuha in northwest district.All 37 personnel were part of the reserve force of deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya and they were supposed to report at her office in Ashok Vihar at 5am. However, some reached after 5.30am while others came an hour late. Their unprofessional conduct angered DCP Arya, who suspended them all.“The security arrangement for any religious festival is a sensitive duty and all police personnel are duly sensitised in advance. However, the 37 personnel took this casually and remained absent on an important event. The DCP suspended them and sent them to the district lines,” Delhi Police spokesperson Anil Mittal said.Eid al-Zuha or Bakr-Eid is marked by sacrificing an animal, usually a sheep or a goat, to prove man’s devotion and love for Allah. After the sacrifice, the faithful distribute the offering to family members, friends, neighbours and the poor and the needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/37-police-personnel-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty/story-9dYNftbXOVaYWei73q47nN.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||7 booked for molesting student, assaulting family in Chandigarh||As many as seven unidentified men were booked on Saturday for molesting a BCA student and assaulting her family in the Sector-38 market. In her complaint, the victim said that on July 30, the men started harassing her and when she objected, they molested her. Then, she called her father and other family members and the accused attacked and injured them. Based on the complaint, a case was registered at Sector-39 police station. No arrests have been made so far.Man attacked with sharp-edged weaponTwo men were booked for assaulting Ramanpreet Singh of Buterla village, Chandigarh, with sharp-edged weapons. The accused have been identified as Honey alias Boxer and Sahil. Singh said the accused attacked him and his neighbour Abhishek near Dushehra Ground in Buterla. A case has been registered at Sector-39 police station. No arrests have been made so far. 5 booked for attacking man, sonFive people were booked for assaulting a father-son duo in Sector 38, Chandigarh. The complainant, Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Sector 38, alleged that Prince, Vijay, Rana, Yuvi and Mukesh threatened and assaulted him and his son. They were injured and admitted to GMSH-16. A case has been registered at Sector-39 police station. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-booked-for-molesting-student-assaulting-family-in-chandigarh/story-IW6UpeIo9Xc9NCNRp3yGpI.html
01-08-2020||Noida||Noida: Only 217 patients qualify for home isolation in past 12 days||A total of 217 Covid-19 patients in Gautam Budh Nagar have been allowed to go under home isolation since July 20 when the state government gave its nod for asymptomatic patients to be isolated at home.According to the official records, 1,108 people had tested positive from July 20 to August 1. However, following the clinical assessments and counselling at the two observation centres in the district, only about 20% of them qualified for home isolation. “Total 217 patients have gone under home isolation. There is a dedicated team and a separate helpline number through which these patients are keeping in touch with the team and consulting doctors. The patients are called at least two times a day,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar. A separate toll-free helpline -- 1800-4192211 -- has been set up specially for the home quarantine patients, officials said. Suhas said that while the option of home isolation was for the convenience of the patients, there are enough beds to cater to all the positive patients. “We have enough beds in the hospitals to admit all the Covid-19 patients,” said the DM. Currently, there are two L1-category treatment facilities-cum-observation centres in the district -- the National Institute of Medical Science (NIMS) in Greater Noida and Tata hospital (developed under corporate social responsibility) at Sector 125. At NIMS, of 240 Covid beds, only 85 were occupied as of Saturday. Similarly, at the Tata hospital, there are 250 beds, of which only 38 are currently occupied. The officials said that they are allowing only those patients to isolate at home who have infrastructure like separate bathroom and room at their respective homes in a bid to save the rest of the family members from the infection. “We are allowing the patients for home isolation only after keeping them under observation for 48 hours. We have two observation centres -- one at NIMS and another at Sector 125. The patients are briefed about the standard operating procedure. The home isolation centre has a separate team of nine officials who are assigned 15-20 patients each to keep in touch with them. There are also two doctors available for consultation who could be reached through the helpline,” said Anil Kumar, chief development officer and head of the Covid-19 action team. On Saturday, GB Nagar had 846 active cases, while 4,439 patients have been discharged and 43 have died. The district has about 3,000 beds across 13 designated Covid hospitals of L1, L2 and L3 categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-only-217-patients-qualify-for-home-isolation-in-past-12-days/story-4bLYNnDim7BRzWzEitVOGL.html
01-08-2020||City||Assault on truck driver transporting meat: Badshahpur SHO suspended||Gurugram A day after a 25-year-old truck driver was allegedly beaten up with rods by a group of men on the suspicion that he was carrying beef, the station house officer (SHO) of Badshahpur police station was suspended on Saturday for “negligence of duty”, said the police.The incident had taken place in the area that falls under the jurisdiction of Badshahpur police station. The police said that they are conducting raids to arrest close aides of Pradeep Yadav (26) for their involvement in the assault. Yadav, a resident of Rajiv Nagar, was arrested in the case on Friday.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said they have identified the suspects and are conducting raids at multiple spots to arrest the remaining suspects. “These men call themselves cow vigilantes and take law in their hands. This is not the first time they have been involved in such an incident. They threaten people in the meat business and assault them whenever they get a chance,” he said. The suspects had followed the victim, Lukman of Nuh, from Badshahpur to Jama Masjid in Sadar market and assaulted him as they suspected that he was transporting cow meat, the police said, adding that the victim was transporting buffalo meat. Police commissioner KK Rao said that several motorcyclists had chased the victim as he was driving his pick-up truck and was on the way to deliver meat at a shop near the mosque. “The suspects had assaulted him in Sadar market area first and later bundled him in his truck and took him to Jail Chowk in Badshahpur, where he was beaten up again. He has suffered multiple fractures and is undergoing treatment at a hospital,” he said. According to the police, the suspects had assaulted the victim with iron rods and a hammer. Tahir Qureshi, who has been running a meat shop in the Sadar area for the past 11 years, said that the area is no longer safe. “This is not the first such incident. Four years ago, a similar incident took place with one of our men. On Friday, despite calling on the police control room number five times, they did not respond and took more than 1.5 hours after I informed them that the suspects might kill the victim,” he said. Qureshi said that the shop owners have demanded a permanent police post in the area and regular patrolling. Police commissioner Rao said the SHO has been suspended as he failed to handle the situation. “We have already deployed a police team in the area, and have taken a serious note on why the police control room number does not respond at the time of emergency. We have given the task to the technical team who will resolve the glitches,” he said. The police said the suspects had also manhandled policemen who had reached the spot and broken window panes of a PCR van as the cops were trying to shield the victim. Several videos have emerged on social media which purportedly show at least a dozen policemen watching as suspects were beating up the victim. The police had on Friday registered an FIR against unknown persons, though one suspect was already arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assault-on-truck-driver-transporting-meat-badshahpur-sho-suspended/story-i7KmRe5Tyfws59UHeLFAlL.html
01-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad case burden shifts from planned localities to old city||Ghaziabad Cis-Hindon area of the district reported the most number of Covid-19 cases in July, reversing the trend when trans-Hindon area comprising prime localities such as Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara had accounted for maximum positive cases till a month earlier. After Unlock 1 which started June 1, the trans-Hindon area was high on positive cases with a share of 52.72% while the cis-Hindon had a share of 33.7% of the 1,267 cases in the month, according to figures of the health department. The trend, however, has got reversed with the opening up of more activities under Unlock 2 and more testing taken up with the help of rapid antigen kits since June 26, officials said. In July, share of trans-Hindon area went down to 39.12%, while the cis-Hindon had 47.57% share of the total 3,134 cases reported in the last month, as per the official records. However, overall, the trans-Hindon area still has the maximum number of cases. As per the figures, areas of trans-Hindon, cis-Hindon and rural accounted for 44.22%, 41.92% and 13.87%, respectively, as their share in Covid-19 cases till the end of July. Notably, the first Covid-19 case was reported in Ghaziabad on March 5. “If we look at the overall figures, the trans-Hindon had about 2% more cases till July 31. Initially the trans-Hindon area was largely affected as many people go to Delhi for work. There was effect of cross-border infection. That’s why containment exercises were carried out in Khoda, Vaishali and Loni which yielded results and cases decreased,” said an officer from the health department, who wished not to be named. The trans-Hindon area, close to Delhi border, and cis-Hindon area are primarily separated by river Hindon. The cis-Hindon area comprises old city areas which have planned and unplanned colonies, and major markets. The trans-Hindon area, on the other hand, has more of planned residential localities and comprise majorly high-rise societies in Indirapuram, Vaishali, Kaushambi, and Vasundhara, among others. The district administration said that irrespective of spread of cases in the cis-Hindon area, it is focusing on early detection, faster testing and immediate referral of Covid-19 cases for treatment. “We have taken several steps to contain the Covid-19 spread. The testing has also improved vastly with the introduction of rapid antigen kits. We are also keeping in check the fatality rate and measures have yielded results. The spread of cases in cis-Hindon area in July could be due to high density of population as people started mixing after activities were allowed and more of testing taken up,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “Our surveillance and other teams are working round the clock. Besides, more of rapid response teams will be roped in to keep track of patients in home isolation. The monitoring of such patients will be strict. Our focus is to reach out to maximum people who have contracted virus. With all efforts, our discharge rate has touched 83.32% (till July 31), which is encouraging,” Pandey added. The overall figures of the residential segments in trans-Hindon indicate that Karhera-2 (comprising Indirapuram, Makanpur and Kanawani) has reported highest number of 549 cases, segment of Sahibabad-2 (Raj Bagh, Shalimar Garden, Rajendra Nagar, Lajpat Nagar, etc) account for 363 cases, Vaishali (comprising Vaishali, Ramprastha, etc) account for about 248 cases, while Vasundhara has about 233 cases.In cis-Hindon area, the Carte segment (Kavi Nagar, Avantika, Nehru Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Chiranjeev Vihar, Daulatpura, Maliwara, Mahindra Enclave, Ashok Nagar, and Nasirpur) has about 371 cases while Raj Nagar segment (Raj Nagar, Sanjay Nagar, New Friends Colony, Govindpuram, Kamla Nehru Nagar, Panchsheel Primrose, Guldhar, Bhatta Number 5, etc) has about 341 cases, Vijay Nagar-1 segment (Krishna Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Vijay Nagar, SP (city) office, Pratap Vihar, New Vijay Ngar, old Vijay Nagar, Mawi, Vijay Ngar PS, etc) has about 243 cases, while Sadik Nagar (Raj Nagar Extension, Sihni village, Noor Nagar etc) has about 222 cases. The rural area that includes Dasna and Loni, among others, reported at least 446 cases till July 31, as per the records. “During the initial months, the trans-Hindon area, which is are very close to Delhi border, was more affected. Now, with less cases being reported in Delhi, the infection is also on decline in trans-Hindon. Besides, initially the testing was more concentrated on high risk groups which largely surfaced from trans-Hindon areas,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). “Now, the testing centres have come up in all areas of the district and anyone can walk-in and get tested. So, city areas with high density of population churned out more positive patients in June-end and also in the month of July. However, the figures indicate that overall cases are now on decline in Ghaziabad for the past 10-15 days,” he added. According to official records, the Ghaziabad district had collected 105,202 samples for Covid-19 test till July 31, out of which test reports were received for 105,099 samples. The testing included 61,258 tests done through rapid antigen kits from June 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-case-burden-shifts-from-planned-localities-to-old-city/story-aQTzBZPhcPpdqSMIh9tWUM.html
01-08-2020||City||Supplying of mobile phones and drugs to inmates: Deputy superintendent’s son held from Sirsa||Gurugram Just over a week after a deputy superintendent of Gurugram’s Bhondsi jail was arrested for allegedly supplying mobile phones and drugs to inmates, his 30-year-old son was arrested from Sirsa on Saturday and charged with sedition for allegedly threatening prison officials, said police.The suspect was identified as Ravi Chautala, a resident of Sirsa and his father is Dharambir Chautala.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (Crime), said that Chautala threatened to “blast Bhondsi jail” in a purported audio clip that did the rounds on social media. He is also purported heard telling all officials — from constable to superintendent — to seek a transfer to another jail, Sangwan said. “Ravi is heard saying that he was in touch with all the gangsters lodged in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi jails and would take their support to extract revenge for his father’s,” he said. The crime teams traced his mobile number to Sirsa on Friday and arrested from his house early Saturday morning, said police. During questioning, Sangwan allegedly told police that he had recorded the audio on Wednesday night under the influence of alcohol and drugs. The mobile phone on which he made the purported recording has been recovered from is possession, said police. “The audio was cited as a national security threat following which we have registered a case and arrested him,” he said, adding that the arrest was based on a police complaint.A case under sections 121(waging war), 124A (sedition), 189 (Threatening a public servant with injury), 506 (threatening for life) and 507 (Criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the suspect at Bhondsi police station. Suspect was produced before the court on Saturday and was sent to 14-day judicial custody , said police. Ravi was also allegedly involved in drug peddling in Gururgam and Sirsa. “He was in touch with Bhondsi jail inmates and used to offer them drugs and mobile phones at cheaper prices and got them delivered through his father,” said Sangwan. Preliminary investigation has revealed that Ravi had come under scanner earlier also as he was allegedly involved in supplying mobile phones and drugs to inmates and people who have been out on parole and acquitted. He has completed Masters in History from Hisar and then did not continue with his studies and allegedly slipped into depression after he met with an accident in 2009 and remained in coma for a few days, said police. The father and son are now lodged in different barracks and are placed under quarantine. Dharambir Chautala was arrested last week for allegedly smuggling drugs and supplying SIM cards to inmates over the last two years. According to officers, 240 grams of a narcotics substance (Sulfa) and 11 SIM cards were allegedly recovered from his government accommodation. Police commissioner K K Rao said they are investigating the case and have identified a few people who are on their radar. They will be questioned by the police teams and will check if anyone else from the jail was in touch with Ravi Chautala. “We are monitoring calls of a few people and keeping a close watch on their movement. The crime teams have begun tracking the movement of drug peddlers who have criminal records,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/supplying-of-mobile-phones-and-drugs-to-inmates-deputy-superintendent-s-son-held-from-sirsa/story-eI462piygfRseJEiabHUQI.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||3 Covid-19 deaths, 28 new cases in Chandigarh||As many as three fatalities related to Covid-19 were reported on Saturday, in the biggest single-day spike in the toll in Chandigarh.The deaths took place over July 30 and 31, though they were added to the tally on Saturday. Meanwhile, with 28 fresh cases, the count climbed to 1,079, with 378 active cases.Even though the UT’s fatality rate remains around 1.5 %, there have been 12 deaths in just 25 days. Since the first fatality reported on May 3, only six deaths were reported till to June 6, a number which has tripled to 18 in a span of less than a month.Those who died belonged to Sectors 37 and 45 besides Kishangarh. According to the daily bulletin, a 55-year-old woman from Kishangarh died on July 31 at the Covid Hospital in Sector 48. She had comorbid conditions of diabetes and had reported with acute respiratory distress syndrome five days back.A 75-year-old woman also passed away at a private hospital in Mohali on July 31. She had a history of giddiness with fall on July 25 and was taken to hospital on July 27 with acute breathlessness before being tested positive on July 30.“She had comorbid conditions of hypertension, diabetes, and airway disease. She has two family contacts and a servant. All of them have been sampled and their reports are awaited. Her daughter-in-law with their kids are living in Mumbai. Her son has been living with them after lockdown in Sector 37 and is working in a telephone company at Mohali,” read the bulletin. The third fatality was a 96-year-old man from Sector 37 who died on July 30 at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. He had been bedridden after a paralytic attack one-and-a-half years back and was sampled after death on July 31 and found positive. The deceased has four family contacts.Fresh cases have been reported from Sectors 15, 18, 26, 37, 39, 40, 45 50, 51, 55, besides the GMCH-32 campus, Bapudham colony and Raipur Khurd.These include a resident doctor of GMCH-32 and a staffer of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research besides three persons from one family in Sector 40.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-covid-19-deaths-28-new-cases-in-chandigarh/story-sKfsKb0bixTYpQCGlCLSYP.html
01-08-2020||City||Over 8,000 North MCD teachers, unpaid since May, threaten strike from Aug 16||New Delhi: Over 8,000 teachers of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, who said they have not received their salaries since May, have threatened to go on strike from August 16 if they are not paid. The teachers’ association said they were yet to receive salaries for May, June and July and on Saturday sent a letter to the north corporation’s mayor and education department, giving them a “15 day-ultimatum”. The civic agency said they were facing losses of around ₹200 crore due to the lockdown, but are working to find a solution to pay the teachers within 10 days. The north corporation employs around 8,500 teachers across 714 of its primary schools. Ramniwas Solanki, general secretary, MCD Teachers Association —an umbrella body of all teachers’ association under the city’s civic bodies — said that though schools are shut for students, teachers are taking classes online and have also been distributing books and study material to students. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said the already cash-strapped civic body’s troubles were exacerbated due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which he said severely hurt their earnings. Property tax, parking contracts, advertisements, stamp duty are among the body’s main sources of revenue. “Our earnings have been affected drastically due to the pandemic. We are facing a loss of around ₹200 crore in the first two quarters of this financial year, so paying our employees has become tough. We are in contact with our teachers and have assured them to pay their salaries in next 10 days,” the mayor said. Solanki added that the admissions process has started, and warned work on that front would be affected if they go on strike. “We have been working without salaries for three months. The last salary we got was of April. For teachers, survival has become tough especially during the pandemic. We have today written a letter to the mayor and to concerned authorities in the education department to pay our pending salaries. We have given 15 days ultimatum to the corporation, so if they do not clear our dues we will stage an indefinite strike from August 16,” Solanki said. He said that in June, the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) directed the North corporation to release teachers’ salaries at the earliest, after which they were paid their April remuneration last month. Till June-end, teachers were engaged in distributing dry rations and cooked food, in the wake of the lockdown. While the food distribution has stopped, they are now taking online classes and are also sending students recorded audio and video lectures on WhatsApp. Kuldeep Khatri, president, Shikshak Nyaya Manch Nagar Nigam, a teachers’ union, said the situation of North civic body school teachers has taken a turn for the worse, with many now forced to take loans to manage their expenses. “Things have come to such a pass that we are not able to take care of our families. It has become a perennial problem, and the civic body should come up with a permanent solution,” Khatri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-8-000-north-mcd-teachers-unpaid-since-may-threaten-strike-from-aug-16/story-JVfa0wzgW1ZHKY8D7j3fdN.html
01-08-2020||City||Second phase of mock tests begin at DU ahead of open-book exam||New Delhi: Ten days before its first online open-book exam (OBE), Delhi University on Saturday began the second phase of mock tests for final-year students. The first phase of mock tests conducted between July 27 and 29 consisted of generic questions while those that began on Saturday, and will continue till August 4, were “based on real version and single paper of each program of final semester/year of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes of the current batch”. Students took to social media on Saturday to complain of issues they faced during the papers. “I was previewing my answers and when I opened the second file, someone else’s file was showing,” tweeted a final-year student of Faculty of Law, Delhi University. Students, however, said they faced fewer technical glitches this time as compared to the two previous mock tests. Utkarsh Singh, a final-year undergraduate student at Satyawati College, said, “Several students faced issues with the server today as well. Though I wrote my papers, I wasn’t able to submit because the site doesn’t work well on the phone and I couldn’t access my laptop at that moment. So many of my batch mates just don’t want to appear for these mock tests anymore because they are exhausted.” Dean (exams) Vinay Gupta said they had not received any such complaints. “Mock test may be considered to test the portal and to prepare for the final exam. At this difficult time, we are trying to facilitate the students and to get the system robust,” he said. The first mock test held on July 4 was riddled with glitches. Lakshita Sethi, a final-year undergraduate student of Shri Ram College of Commerce, said, “Though there weren’t any technical issues this time, we had to scan and upload pages one by one instead of compiling into one file. That can be a time-consuming process. On the final day, it can be a challenge and it would have been better if we had more time to practice.” Many students opted out of the tests on the first day as they said it wouldn’t help them much. Amreen Kohli, a final-year undergraduate student of Gargi College, said, “I didn’t appear for the test because it wouldn’t help me. Since our paper pattern changed this year, we should have mock tests for all papers but the administration is just holding the mock test for just one paper – that too in my case, it isn’t a high-stakes subject.” The varsity had announced OBE exams for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students as a one-time measure due to the Covid-19 crisis. DU teachers and students have been protesting against the open book online exams for over two months now, and demanding cancellation of final-year exams. Despite the opposition, DU has scheduled the online exams between August 10 and August 31. On Thursday, the university submitted in the Delhi High Court that of the 182,237 final year students who had registered for online exams, around 70,101 had logged in for the first phase of mock tests that started from July 27. Of these, 39,159 (21.4%) students attempted the exams and only 22,372 (12%) could submit their answer sheets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-phase-of-mock-tests-begin-at-du-ahead-of-open-book-exam/story-xXCCrhGO3qfhf2IOV1SmwM.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Clear your municipal dues before planning to sell property in Haryana||Those wanting to sell their properties in urban Haryana will have to clear their municipal dues first as the government is putting in place a mechanism to electronically disallow registration of transfer deeds in case of outstanding levy. The dues can be in the form of property tax, fire tax, development charges, water and sewerage charges. The move to introduce technology-based checks into the Haryana Land Records Information System (HALRIS), an online platform used for registration of properties, is aimed at preventing malpractices in registration of sale deeds. The state government recently halted the registration of transfer deeds across the state for a limited period citing alleged corrupt practices. “The default of the amount will be available online on the HALRIS. The system won’t allow the seller or buyer to take an online appointment for registration of a property unless the municipal dues are cleared,” said an official involved in building technology checks. Officials said that the idea behind introducing technology-based checks was to reduce physical interface between public and officials. “Gradually, it will be ensured that every property owner can pay the levies online and the municipal body data will get automatically updated,” said an official. The requirement to obtain a no dues certificate (NDC) from the municipal body before the registration of sale deed was always there but not enforced. “With an application programming interface (API) of the urban local bodies department, the HALRIS will automatically show whether any municipal levy is outstanding or not on a particular property. Each property in the municipal areas will be assigned a property identification number for this purpose,” the official said. Common online platform for municipal bodies The Urban Local Bodies (ULB) department is setting up a common online platform to facilitate generation of no dues certificate (NDCs) initially for 10 municipal corporations and 12 municipal bodies at district headquarters. “The measure is part of the framework to reduce malpractices in the registration of sale deeds and secure the tax revenue of the municipal bodies,” said a ULB official. While a few municipal corporations, such as Gurugram, Rohtak and over 20 smaller municipal bodies, have already provided the facility of online generation of NDCs individually, the state government intends bring the entire property data of urban areas on a single web portal. “There are some municipal bodies which have online systems but they are not linked to HALRIS,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/clear-your-municipal-dues-before-planning-to-sell-property-in-haryana/story-X4flfvRjKc3l3GtcJPkPpM.html
01-08-2020||City||Nearly 1 lakh challans issued in Delhi between June 15 and July 31 for Covid violations||New Delhi The Delhi Police has issued nearly one lakh challans between June 15 and July 31 for not wearing masks, spitting in public places and violating social distancing norms in the national capital, officials said on Saturday. As many as 97,417 challans were issued in 15 police districts during this period, they said.Of the total number of challans, a maximum of 9,524 were issued in outer district, followed by south district 9,417, southeast district 7,724 and west district 7,507, among others.Among 83,393 challans issued for not wearing masks, 9,234 were issued in the south district, 8,063 in the outer district, 6,550 in the north district, 6,189 in the southeast district and 5,980 in the west district and 3,173 in New Delhi, police said.Delhi Police officers said teams from each police station are visiting market places and issuing fines to those who are not following the norms under the Epidemic Act. Police have collected over Rs 3 crore as fines from people who do not wear masks. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal had empowered health, revenue and police officials to impose fines up to Rs 1,000 for violations of norms, including non-observance of quarantine rules, non-maintenance of social distancing, not wearing a face mask in public or workplaces, spitting in public places, and consumption of paan, gutka and tobacco in public places, to contain Covid-19.A fine of Rs 500 will be imposed for a first-time offence and a fine of Rs 1,000 for repeat offenders. The fines are collected by Delhi police sub-inspectors, who are empowered to impose fine as ordered by the LG. A total of 1,657 challans have been issued for spitting in public places. According to police, 305 challans were issued in west district, 254 in the outer district, 228 in Shahdara and 149 in the southwest district, among others.The lowest number of challans were issued in south district at five, they said.As many as 12,367 people were fined by police for violating social distancing norms. A maximum of 1,565 challans were issued in southwest district, 1,457 in outer-north, 1,388 in southeast district and 1,222 in west district among others, police said.The Delhi Police has distributed 1,56,817 masks to the needy since June 15. Police said that while they are imposing fines from those who can afford a mask but are blatantly not wearing one, they are donating masks to the homeless and the underprivileged. Police said they are collecting masks received as donations NGOs, good samaritans and are distributing it to the needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nearly-1-lakh-challans-issued-in-delhi-between-june-15-and-july-31-for-covid-violations/story-f2Sak1ol0DEDXOzPihVyoK.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Guidelines issued for sending rakhis to jail inmates in Punjab||The jails department of Punjab issued guidelines on Saturday for sending rakhis to prison inmates on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan on August 3.“The Jails department has issued detailed directions in this regard with time to receive the rakhis from 8.30 am to 5 pm,” an official statement said.According to Additional Director General of Police (Jails) Praveen Kumar Sinha, all the superintendents of jails have been directed that no physical meeting will be allowed on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan.There should be proper arrangements at the outer gate of every jail, the ADGP said, adding that a table would be placed at the gate where the rakhis would be received.The rakhis should be properly packed and sanitised before being sent inside a jail, he said.The officer asserted that social distancing should be maintained properly. He said the packet of a rakhi must carry a slip bearing the name of the inmate and the same should be delivered to him within an hour.An officer must be deputed with the security staff at the outer gate for checking and sanitising the packets, the ADGP said.No sweets will be allowed and only the rakhis will be delivered to the inmates, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guidelines-issued-for-sending-rakhis-to-jail-inmates-in-punjab/story-4ZWabLPIPbnPy0c2U372NL.html
01-08-2020||City||Violation of environment norms: NGT orders closure of sugar, distillery units of Panipat mill||Taking a serious note of environmental violations, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) ordered the closure of sugar and distillery units of the Panipat Cooperative Sugarmill until remedial measures are taken.The bench, headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, observed, “There are serious environmental violations in the functioning of both units. The norms under the Water Act, Air Act and the Environment Protection Act are also not being followed, which amounts to criminal offences.” “Groundwater is being illegally extracted which may seriously and irreversibly affect the environment,” read the order.HSPCB TO ENSURE UNITS IMPLEMENTATIONWith both the units and the sugarmill closed, the NGT directed the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) to ensure that the units can’t resume work until remedial measures have been adopted and the joint committee certifies this.The orders were based on the findings of a joint team, comprising officials of the Central Pollution Control Board and HSPCB. The joint team was formed by the NGT following complaints of pollution by the sugarmill’s distillery and sugar units. Though a closure notice was subsequently issued, the units had continued to function, causing air and water pollution. The NGT had then sought a joint status report from the CPCB and HSPCB.Talking to Hindustan Times, Pradeep Ahlawat, managing director the sugarmill, said, “The order is about compliance and they (joint team) have suggested remedial measures to resume operations of the units.”When asked if the mill will resume crushing operations this season, beginning in November, Ahlawat said, “Maintenance is underway and we will surely resume operations this season and ensure compliance of NGT orders.”S. Narayanan, member secretary of HSPCB, said that the closure orders have already been issued for the distillery and it will be closed in a couple of days by the field staff and the units will be allowed to operate only after full compliance as directed by the NGT.THE VIOLATIONSThe sugar and distillery units were meeting fresh water requirements through a borewell, without obtaining a no-objection certificate from the Central Ground Water Authority. Pit for collecting treated effluent was overflowing. Press mud (sugarcane residue) and boiler ash was dumped in open. Excess bagasse (sugarcane residue) from the mill house was falling from a height resulting in air pollution. At the distillery unit, the housekeeping was poor and stagnant water was found at several places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/violation-of-environment-norms-ngt-orders-closure-of-sugar-distillery-units-of-panipat-cooperation-sugarmill/story-nG8gmBGrsfEYWnP9KT6dcL.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Witerati: Of a Prince, Poppadums, Podcasts & Parotta||Poor Poppadums! Never in their wildest dreams would they have imagined such a fairytale unmasking in the face of a Pandemic – Poppadum’s Fifteen Minutes of Fame meets Prince and Podcasters.When Duke of Cambridge Prince William invited football star-turned-BBC podcaster Peter Crouch for a ‘Lads’ Night In’ at Kensington Palace, there were invitees not only of the guzzling kind but gastronomic guests, too. Poppadums met pints over podcasts at the Palace high table. Chitchat about Chelsea FC & Co was peppered by none other than curry and chutney from Crouch’s chosen Indian takeaway, Samrat. What a paradox of the Pandemic! While the Occident found it hard to digest that Prince Charles cold shouldered the customary “handshake” in favour of the Indian “namaste” as a Covid-safe Oriental form of greeting, ironically, his heir has extended a hand – “helping hand” – to pluck Poppadums out of pandemic-propelled pauper-hood.The curious case of the Prince and the Pauper called Pandemic’s Pappad.The Pandemic may be staging Poppadum’s Day Out At Palaces, but back home Poppadums aren’t currying much favour with the Lamba jis or Lally jis.Blame it on the Paratha. Gol-maal GST tried its level best to edge the tax-fattened frozen Parotta out of the platters of Lockdown-fattened Lollitas and Lamba jis. Alas, it lost the battle to a fabled foodie truism – You may or may not be able to take Lockdown’s Lamba ji & Co out for a Paratha, but you can’t take the Paratha out of Lamba ji or Lally ji. Such is the hold of this stuffed species parading puffily as a cousin of the reed-thin Roti, the latter looking in front of the Paratha of Punjabi eatopia as emaciated as a famished famine-hit baby of Ethiopia, that Poppadums simply stand sidelined on the Punju platter in ‘relation’ to the Parotta.Thus it transpires that Lockdown got the L ollitas and Lamba jis so ardently addicted to the readymade frozen #Parotta or #Parota, that even in Unlock 1. 0, it has their hearts as melted in its favour as the butter swimming on it. This brings us to the new lease of life Unlock 1.0 has delivered to the frozen Parotta.This also brings us to the rites of passage that may “accidentally” accord to the Poppadum a place on the Punjabi platter.In Unlock 1.0, the battle for a slice of the Punjabi platter is thus not between the Poppadum and Parotta. What’s rolling out instead is a battle more on manufacturing lines – Malabar Parotta VS Malaysian Parota, or Karumanchery Parota VS Kawan Paratha.The frozen Malabar Parotta denoting desi brands that beckon from Big Bazaar or Big Basket catalogues. And the Malaysian Parota playing brand ambassador for videshi manufacturers who are invading inventories to cash in on the readymade Roti space. Picture this. On any #WorkFromHome day of Unlock 1.0, a spectacle such as this can be sighted. Lollita potters into the kitchen to rustle up breakfast, only to find Lamba ji or Lally ji already lolling thereabouts in suspicious avatar. As a wannabe MasterChef India. Lamba ji & Co not quite the subscribers to subtleties of sayings like “Too many cooks spoil the (quarantine) broth”. So far so good. The only pot-ential hazard – Lamba ji or Lally ji’s palate pangs for the Paratha propel him to parade pots ‘n’ pans between two or more gas burners. Two, because he is thawing the Malabar Parotta on the traditional tawa and elsewhere on a non-stick pan he dabbles in defrosting of the paper-thin Malaysian Onion Parota. So far, two good. Lollita exits the scene out of deference for idiomatic indiscretions called ‘Too many cooks spoil …’ and for diversions like a webinar. Some seconds later, Lamba ji also executes an exit in a huff, but not because the Parotta has been fried to a perfect puff. His hasty exit has more to do with being manoeuvred out of momentary amnesia by the morbid memory of a meeting on Zoom with his CEO or Chairman in five minutes’ flat. Lamba ji enters the virtual meeting on the dot, only to exit the Zoom room in less than five minutes because his room is suddenly too hot. It’s not the Boss who’s fuming, but the whole house. Lamba ji rushes out for role reversal into MasterChef mode, only to encounter not the defrosted Parotta but things more frozen – Lollita’s frosty glare. Lamba ji’s countenance contorts with consternation at the charred contents. His puckering at the Parotta’s rites of passage being reminiscent of that mournful melancholy mapping the faces of kith and kin who’re called upon to identify a mishap-maimed relative. The curious case of Pandemic’s frozen Parotta being reborn as a Poppadom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/witerati-of-a-prince-poppadums-podcasts-parotta/story-Wly2lulRMlD5EiTFrUjJbK.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||AAP backs Ludhiana villagers’ fight against land acquisition||Leader of opposition in the Vidhan Sabha and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA, Harpal Singh Cheema, visited Sekhowal village on Saturday and extended support to villagers in their fight to save 407 acres of panchayat land from acquisition.Cheema said the previous SAD-BJP government had also acquired land in different parts of the state for establishing industrial parks, but no project had been developed yet. “The government should develop industrial parks on those chunks of lands rather than acquiring new land by forcing villagers,” he said.“The AAP will stand with the villagers at every point and I will raise the issue in the Vidhan Sabha. Further, a resolution approved by gram sabha of the village against acquisition of land will also be sent to the Prime Minister. Apart from providing legal help, AAP will also raise an agitation, along with the villagers, if required,” said Cheema, who was accompanied by deputy leader of opposition in Vidhan Sabha, MLA Sarvjit Kaur Manuke and other AAP leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aap-backs-ludhiana-villagers-fight-against-land-acquisition/story-Vn7X35VR5IhGb7ADWruvQK.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||IndiGo to compete replacing A320 Neo aircraft engines by August end||Budget carrier IndiGo will complete replacing engines in its last batch of 14 Airbus A320 Neo aircraft, by August-end. The aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had on June 1 extended its May 31 deadline to refurbish engines in A320Neo fleet to August after supply chains and production lines were hit owing to the ongoing pandemic.The Pratt and Whitney (PW) engine-powered A320 neo planes in IndiGo has been facing glitches both mid-air and on-ground since their induction in 2016, following which, DGCA at the end of 2019 had directed the low-cost airline to replace them with a modified version, by May 31 this year.According to DGCA, IndiGo had 106 PW powered A320Neo planes in its fleet.“We are coming to finish this whole exercise, and by August we will have everything done and the whole fleet will be refurbished. Right now we still have 14 aircraft left which needs to be refurbished and we can see from the pipeline of the incoming engines, the whole exercise will be finished by the end of August,” (sic) IndiGo chief operating officer- Wolfgang Prock-Schauer, told analysts on a call during the airline’s June quarter financial results that took place on Wednesday. A query to IndiGo on how many aircraft had undergone engine replacement did not yield any response. IndiGo has a fleet of 274 aircraft, until June 30, 2020, including 120 A320 CEOs, 108 A320Neos, 18 A321neo and 25 ATRs. The airline’s chief executive officer Ronojoy Dutta had in June said that 120 of its A320CEO aircraft will also be replaced with the fuel-efficient Neo. Indigo, reported its sharpest quarterly loss in at least five years due to Covid-19 related restrictions. The company recorded a net loss of ₹2,844 crore for the April-June period as against a profit of ₹1,200 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/indigo-to-compete-replacing-a320-neo-aircraft-engines-by-august-end/story-UJ7KOlzsuOA4XiGkckAsmJ.html
01-08-2020||City||With 80% recovery rate, Bhiwandi now aims for zero deaths||With a recovery rate of over 80%, the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation has now launched Mission Zero Deaths to focus on ensuring there are no fatalities due to Covid-19. The city has managed to increase its doubling rate from 6.4 days in June-end, to 47 days – the highest in any corporation in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Bhiwandi city has reported a total of 3,831 Covid-positive cases and 263 deaths by Friday. For almost a fortnight, the daily death toll has varied between zero and two. Rajesh Narvekar, district collector, Thane, said, “Bhiwandi city has drastically lowered its fatality rate and the number of positive cases, in the last one month. There is enough availability of beds in the city as well, due to the increased recovery rate.” After Pankaj Ashiya took over as civic commissioner in Bhiwandi, he focused on contact tracing, testing, and institutional quarantine, to slow down the spread of the coronavirus in the city.Ashiya has now initiated Mission Zero Deaths that will focus on zero fatality. “At present, 200 patients are receiving treatment at various hospitals in the city. We have more than 1,000 beds available for Covid patients, with facilities for oxygen and ventilators. Moreover, an efficient team of doctors and nursing staff are present to handle positive cases. Hence, we are now focusing on fatalities. We aim to ensure that not even 1% of Covid deaths should be from Bhiwandi,” said Ashiya. Continuous appeals have been made to ensure that locals visit a mohalla clinic or government hospital immediately if they recognise symptoms such as cough, fever, cold, and difficulty in breathing. IGM Hosp to admit non-Covid patients Within a week, the Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Bhiwandi will open up for non-Covid patients as well. This is the only Covid-19 dedicated hospital in Bhiwandi city. “Non-Covid patients are finding it difficult to get treatment. With the decreasing number of cases, we are planning to let IGM Hospital treat all patients. However, a strict protocol of wearing masks and social distancing will be followed,” said Ashiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-80-recovery-rate-bhiwandi-now-aims-for-zero-deaths/story-9hWNSc0KbisGJNeQfpFk0O.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||After recovery, Covid-19 survivors battle anxiety, paranoia, depression||Psychiatrists across the city say survivors of Covid-19, particularly those who had severe cases, may suffer mental health issues while rehabilitating, after recovering from the infection.Anita Agarwal, 42, tested positive for Covid-19 on June 29, and was admitted to Seven Hills Hospitals where she was kept on a ventilator for five days and spent another week in the intensive care unit (ICU). She was discharged on July 12 and has been since battling severe anxiety. She is afraid of spreading the infection even though she is now Covid-free. “Even after 14 days in home quarantine after she was released from the hospital, she refused to step out of her room. She wouldn’t allow our son to go near her. She was panicking continuously in fear,” said Anil Agarwal, the patient’s husband.City psychiatrists say many Covid survivors are experiencing mental health issues, including post-intensive care syndrome (PICS), anxiety, sleep difficulties, depression and delirium. “Covid-19 survivors often develop weakness and fatigue with muscle weakness. This adds to their anxiety levels. Many are showing signs of obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), where they constantly clean their hands with sanitiser. They even refuse to remove masks at home,” said Dr Avinash De Sousa, a psychiatrist and editor of the Indian Journal of Mental Health. Ashita Bose, 55, had come to Mumbai to visit her son in June when she was diagnosed with Covid-19. She spent 13 days at the isolation ward at Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray (HBT) Trauma Care Hospital in Jogeshwari, and was discharged on July 2. “For seven years, my mother was treated for depression in Kolkata and had recovered gradually. Since her release from hospital, she has once again developed symptoms. She can’t sleep at night and has almost stopped eating. She gets scared even if anyone rings the doorbell,” said Bose’s son, Satadru who works for an IT firm. Owing to the infectious nature of Covid-19, medical staffers working in isolation wards have to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) all the time, which can make patients feel isolated and yearn for human contact. “The relationship between doctors and patients relies on trust. But when a patient can’t see the face of their treating physicians, it does sour ties. At the same time, they don’t find their close ones beside them. This can lead to delirium, a confused state of mind post-discharge,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital and in-charge of managing Covid-19 beds in private hospitals. Patients who were intubated often experience flashbacks or feelings of paranoia. “These patients have seen people die before them in hospitals, which is not an easy experience to forget. Many recovered patients keep checking their temperature in panic,” said Dr De Sousa. Recovered patients may also face stigma and discrimination from others. “Some neighbours are welcoming while others stigmatise Covid-19 survivors. In fact, often recovered medicos also get humiliated when they return after being discharged. This instigates the sensitive minds of survivors, who are already fragile after fighting against the virus,” said Dr Milan Balakrishnan, secretary of Bombay Psychiatric Society.A report on psychiatric and neuropsychiatric presentations associated with severe coronavirus infections, which studied patients from China, Canada, France, Hong Kong, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Japan, Singapore, the UK, and the USA was published in the medical journal Lancet in May. It stated that 65% of discharged patients complained of delirium. “Clinicians must be aware of the possibility of depression, anxiety, fatigue, post-traumatic stress disorder, and rarer neuropsychiatric syndromes in the aftermath,” reads the study in its conclusion. Another study, by Henk Stam from Erasmus University Medical Center, Netherlands, has also advised continuing medical attention for Covid-19 survivors. “The notion that patients surviving intensive care and mechanical ventilation for several weeks can be discharged home without further medical attention is a dangerous illusion,” reads Stam’s study, which was published in the Journal of Rehabilitation Medicine in April. What to do after recovery? 1. Keep busy and follow a regular schedule 2. Don’t oversleep or sleep less than eight hours 3. Be physically active 4. Practice meditation 5. Don’t keep discussing Covid-19 with family members 6. In case of anxiety, try to breathe slowly 7. When feeling angry, count backward from 100 to 1 8. If you keep feeling sad persistently for days, consult a psychiatrist 9. Avoid tobacco, alcohol and other drugs 10. Avoid interaction with people who stigmatise or lack knowledge of the virus 11. Maintain a diary or blog 12. Listen to music. (Source: Guidelines issued by Union ministry of health)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-recovery-covid-19-survivors-battle-anxiety-paranoia-depression/story-z04UyhRBCasqmKYGqLCSSI.html
01-08-2020||Lucknow||Free rides for women on UPSRTC buses on Raksha Bandhan||Like previous three years, Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) will provide free rides to women in all categories of buses on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan.The chief minister has issued directives to this effect. He has also directed for intensive patrolling on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, the spokesperson said.This facility would be available in all categories of buses for women passengers, the official said.He has directed rakhi and sweet shops to remain open on Sunday in view of the festival.Markets in the state are recently observing their weekly-off days on every Saturday and Sunday in view of the cleanliness and sanitisation campaigns that are carried out on weekends.Directing strict compliance of Covid-19 protocol during the festival, the CM has directed that no public programmes be organised and the festival be celebrated at home, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/free-rides-for-women-on-upsrtc-buses-on-raksha-bandhan/story-S8jpcKSkwFcTEkOnqPdyhK.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Maha panel to give report on mask, sanitiser prices in 3 days||A four-member committee set up to control prices of masks and sanitisers amid the coronavirus outbreak will give its report in the next three days, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday. In a statement, the minister said that the prices of both the items need to be capped in a bid to give relief to people as demand for both the products have increased significantly. “The state would fix a maximum price for both masks and sanitisers,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-panel-to-give-report-on-mask-sanitiser-prices-in-3-days/story-WJK1tx8kC5ImjdvrfhRLdI.html
01-08-2020||City||43-year-old matka king shot dead in Kalyan||A 43-year-old man was shot dead by four bike-borne people at Kalyan on Friday night. According to the Mahatma Phule police, the murder took place after the victim assaulted the main accused’s friend. The police have identified two people, including the main accused, but are yet to identify their two accomplices. No arrests have been made yet.The victim, Jignesh Thakkar alias Munna bhai alias Muniya, owned a club in Kalyan, and also operated a stone crushing business. From the past few years, he had been running a lottery business and was known as Kalyan’s matka king. According to the police, Thakkar was talking on the phone around 10pm on Friday inside Suyash Plaza building compound, where he has an office. Four bike-borne people reached the spot and shot at Thakkar four-five times and threatened the people present at the spot too.After the accused left, the people present at the spot rushed Thakkar to hospital, but he died on the way. “Three bullets hit the victim and died while he was being taken to the hospital. From the CCTV footage of the spot, we have identified one accused as Dharmesh alias Nitin Shah, while the second accused is Jaypal. We don’t know his second name yet, and are also trying to find out the identities of their two accomplices,” senior police inspector N Bankar of Mahatma Phule police station said. Bankar further added that through initial inquiry, the police have established that Thakkar and Shah were childhood friends and have 15 to 20 criminal cases, including those of extortion, attempt to murder, robbery and murder, registered against them. However, owing to a financial dispute, the two parted ways. On July 27, Thakkar had a huge fight with Shah’s close friend Chetan Patel at Shankar Rao Chowk in Bazarpeth. Patel had also registered a case of assault against Thakkar. “Shah, the main accused in the case, is a close friend of Patel. Shah planned the murder after discovering that Thakkar assaulted his friend. We have registered a case against Shah, Jaypal and the two unidentified accused for murder and criminal intimidation,” deputy commissioner of police V Pansare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/43-year-old-matka-king-shot-dead-in-kalyan/story-v4bCddgXQnNahHlAYHWCoN.html
01-08-2020||City||Rakhi eve: Ludhiana shops, malls open today||Revoking the Sunday curfew restrictions for August 2, the district administration has allowed all shops and shopping malls to remain open on the eve of Raksha Bandhan.As per the order released by deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, the businesses can remain open from 7am to 8pm, but residents and shopkeepers should adhere to social distancing and avoid gatherings. Residents have been advised to avoid travelling and wear masks in public. Sharma has also made it mandatory for sweetshop owners and Rakhi sellers to distribute two masks, along with the sweets and rachis, for free. Earlier chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had made the same appeal to encourage the use of masks.Meanwhile, the administration also allowed shops on Shahpur Road, a containment zone, to open on Saturday evening after shopkeepers complained to losses ahead of Raksha Bandhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rakhi-eve-ludhiana-shops-malls-open-today/story-TSJVCgJhorVZWDulh9bEoN.html
01-08-2020||City||17 Covid-positive women deliver healthy babies at Ludhiana’s Mother Child Hospital||As many as 17 Covid-positive women have successfully given birth to babies at the Mother Child Hospital (MCH) situated on the civil hospital premises, since the outbreak began in March.Sharing this, senior medical officer Dr Malwinder Mala said all newborns were negative. “Despite the large number of Covid-19 cases in the district, the team of doctors at MCH has been carrying out deliveries successfully. Only one woman had some medical complications, and by the time, she arrived at the MCH, the baby had passed away,” she said, adding that 11 more Covid-positive pregnant women were admitted at the civil hospital’s Isolation Centre and were being given proper care. She said all mothers were breast feeding their newborns under proper precautions. Therefore, there was no case of Covid transmission through breast milk in Ludhiana. “A separate operation theatre and labour room have been set up inside the Isolation Centre, where deliveries of Covid-positive women are conducted by specialised health staff,” she added.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the state government was committed to providing best healthcare to Covid patients. He urged residents to immediately get themselves tested if they notice any Covid symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-covid-positive-women-deliver-healthy-babies-at-ludhiana-s-mother-child-hospital/story-Teff1NNomZw0mEy6cFlIIO.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Give respite to consumers: RTI activist to Maharashtra power regulator||In a written application to the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC), Right to Information (RTI) activist Anil Galgali has asked the regulatory body to provide relief to thousands of consumers who have received inflated power bills in the past two months. Galgali has asked MERC to write-off certain charges from the bills, sent between March-June, so that the overall amount is reduced. “Citizens are suffering because of the inflated bills,” Galgali said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/give-respite-to-consumers-rti-activist-to-maharashtra-power-regulator/story-RRV5F87Fe9xvoY1J6UeimJ.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||232 Maharashtra cops test positive for Covid-19 in 24 hours||In the past 24 hours, 232 personnel from the Maharashtra Police have tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total count in the state force to 9,449. So far, 103 policemen have succumbed to the infection. This includes 55 victims from the Mumbai Police.According to the Maharashtra Police, while over 100 new cases are being reported daily, the number of cops discharged daily is higher. In the past 24-hours, 238 infected policemen were discharged. Overall 7,414 cops have recovered so far.“Infected policemen are recovering fast and also resuming duty as they are no longer scared of the disease. Initially, policemen were fearful, but as awareness about the disease spread and subsequent precautionary measures were taken, they started carrying out their duties fearlessly while following all safety precautions,” said Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order).In Mumbai, around 3,800 policemen have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.To protect police personnel and boost early detection, the top brass of the Mumbai Police organised mass rapid antigen testing for its personnel.In the first phase of testing, only those policemen in the 44-55 age group who worked in infection-prone areas were tested. In the next phase, younger policemen will undergo testing.So far, 77 personnel from Mumbai Police have tested positive after 3,446 policemen underwent rapid antigen testing in South, East, Central, and West regions. Only north region police station staff and side-branch personnel are left to be tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/232-maharashtra-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-24-hours/story-bsacOxFt2fo8IUHbirWyCI.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||At 2.04 lakh, July topped in Covid tests in city: BMC data||The city saw a rise in Covid testing in July, with 2.04 lakh samples being tested, compared to 1.32 lakh in June and 1.2 lakh in May, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The number of average daily tests, too, went up to 6,600 in July, from 4,422 in June and 3,872 in May. The overall positivity rate has gone up to 21% as of July 31, from 20% on June 1 and 9% on May 1. As of July 31, Mumbai had conducted 5.37 lakh tests. BMC started to screen fliers at the airport since January 18. The first test was conducted on February 3 and first positive case was reported on March 11. The one-lakh-testing-mark was crossed on May 6, two lakh on June 1, three lakh on June 24, four lakh on July 14 and five lakh on Wednesday. Although Mumbai’s testing has increased, it is lower compared to Delhi, which has carried out 10.13 lakh tests until July 30. In May, BMC had conducted over 1 lakh tests, of which around 31,000 were positive. In June, around 36,500 cases were detected against around 1.20 lakh tests. In July, Mumbai recorded around 35,000 cases from around 2 lakh tests. According to BMC officials, the testing numbers have gone up owing to usage of rapid antigen kits and liberalised testing policy. The civic body last month procured 1 lakh rapid antigen kits, which give results in 30 minutes. Further, on July 7, BMC liberalised testing policy allowing any citizen to and get tested without the prescription of any medical practitioner A BMC official said, “In the first half of July, we were testing 5,000-7,000 samples. However, in the second half of July, we tested 7,000-11,000 samples a day. This was possible due to aggressive usage of rapid antigen kits, and liberalised testing policy.” Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner of BMC, had last week told HT that of the total tests being conducted daily, 30-35% are conducted using rapid antigen kits. Siddarth Paliwal, a private health consultant, said, “The more samples we test, the earlier we will detect those having Covid-19. Early detection will also help bring down the fatality rate, which is over 5% in Mumbai. Also, BMC should undertake sero survey on a larger scale in locations such as Dharavi, Worli, Chembur, Deonar and parts of central Mumbai that were earlier hot spots. This will give a better understanding for tracing and testing strategy.” On Saturday, Mumbai recorded 1,047 fresh cases and 45 new deaths, taking the city’s case tally to 115,331 and toll to 6,398. The number of discharged patients in Mumbai was 87,906, with a recovery rate of 76.22%, and active cases stood at 20,731. The fatality rate was 5.54%, and doubling rate 77 days. Dharavi, an earlier hot spot, recorded only four new cases on Saturday, bringing the area’s count to 2,560, of which 2,235 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-2-04-lakh-july-topped-in-covid-tests-in-city-bmc-data/story-eoi9XgirhIqSE6nyqczjFN.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Four minors booked for sexually assaulting 14-year-old at hostel in Mumbai||Tilak Nagar police booked four minors on Thursday for allegedly sodomising a 14-year-old boy at a Chembur hostel, repeatedly between October last year and March. Two of the accused are 15 years old, while the other two are 16 and 17 years old. The also threatened the boy of dire consequences if he revealed the crime. The incident came to light last week when the boy visited his aunt’s house and she observed changes in his behaviour. The boy’s aunt said that he also suffered from pain, after which she took him to a private doctor. However, the treatment did not help the boy and his aunt took him to Rajawadi Hospital, where the doctor informed her that her nephew was sexually assaulted. She then filed a complaint with the police and a first information report (FIR) was registered on Thursday. The four minors are booked under sections 377 (unnatural offences), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault) and 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012. “After the lockdown was imposed, the accused left the hostel and went to their respective villages. We are probing the case further,” said Senior inspector Sushil Kamble from Tilak Nagar police station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-minors-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-14-year-old-at-hostel-in-mumbai/story-z6tJIvwb4Wi4PsjEA3kVkJ.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra cyber police issue advisory about ‘virtual kidnappings’||The state cyber police on Saturday issued an advisory to alert citizens about virtual kidnappings, a new modus operandi used by cyber fraudsters for ransom. As per the advisory, parents whose children are studying or staying abroad are targeted. “Eight such cases have been reported in the US and 15 in Australia this year. This could happen in India as well, and hence, we are alerting citizens about it,” Yashashvi Yadav, special inspector general of police (Cyber). The gang calls children living abroad posing as security officers and tells them that their hostel or house is surrounded by attackers and asks them to switch off their phones. The fraudsters could also send a parcel to the child and later call them, posing as officials from their embassy, to inform that the parcel is linked to illegal activities. The fraudster then recommends the child to switch off the phone and go in hiding for some days. After that, fraudsters call parents and tell them their child has been kidnapped and demand ransom in cryptocurrency or wire transfers. Fraudsters use ‘DeepFakes’, fake videos or audio recordings of the child created using technology, to ensure that the act does not seem staged. As the parents are unable to contact their child, they pay the ransom.The police requested citizens to be alert and not fall prey to such frauds, adding that if they find themselves in such a situation, they should first inform the local police and also check if the ‘kidnapping’ calls are actually from their child’s phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cyber-police-issue-advisory-about-virtual-kidnappings/story-tnBrg2LHFBEZ9d7odlsGUJ.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Covid positive accused, who fled from facility, tries to kill two cops||An arrested accused, who tested positive for Covid-19 and escaped from Shivaji Nagar isolation facility, has been booked by police in fresh case for trying to kill two policemen.The accused Santosh Meghraj Tivarekar, 20, tested positive in July first week after being arrested by RCF police on June 29. Another accused, Irfan Shakir Ali Khan, 19, arrested in a separate case, also tested positive. Both of them were shifted to Shivaji Nagar isolation centre, from where they managed to flee on July 13. According to police, Tivarekar is a habitual offender who has been named in several bodily and property crimes. A patrol team of RCF police station spotted him on a two-wheeler on Thursday and chased him. However, Tivarekar dashed his two-wheeler into the police bike at a turn and fled from the spot. “Our two policemen got injured and sustained head injury. We have registered an offence of attempt to murder against the accused along with other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code,” said Shashi Meena, deputy commissioner of police, zone 6.The hunt for the accused is on and the police have intensified their search for both the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-positive-accused-who-fled-from-facility-tries-to-kill-two-cops/story-SRh4AQQpMK7g5tp00xeRzN.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Don’t give metro work to Chinese firms, ex-Army personnel writes to Maharashtra CM||Amid the India-China stand-off in Ladakh, a Mumbai-based charitable trust along with an ex-Army personnel has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to act upon the involvement of Chinese companies in Metro works in the city.HT had earlier reported that Chinese companies, including the Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Co Ltd (STEC), China Railway Tunnel Group Co Ltd (CRTG) and Continental Engineering Corporation (CEC), are undertaking civil and tunnel works for Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz). The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is building the fully-underground Metro, has also appointed SJEC Corporation for system works.CRTG in a joint venture with J Kumar Infra Projects Ltd is also building parts of Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli). Another Chinese company, the China Harbour Engineering Company Ltd (CHEC), is also building part of Metro-4 (Wadala-Kasarwadavali) in a joint venture with Tata Projects.In a letter addressed to Thackeray, Udaan charitable trust said, “We appreciate Maharashtra government cancelling the contracts with Chinese companies, but the attempt seems insufficient, given we continue to let Chinese companies dominate the Metro space.” In June, state industries minister Subhash Desai had said that status quo has been maintained in the memorandums of understanding (MOUs) signed with the Chinese companies. In his interview to Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana, the chief minister had said the Centre must make its stand clear on the involvement of Chinese companies.Dilip Abhyankar, a retired Lt Colonel from Mumbai, said, “In the current situation, we should not let any Chinese activity dominate the space. Instead, we should give more opportunities to Indian manufacturers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-give-metro-work-to-chinese-firms-ex-army-personnel-writes-to-maharashtra-cm/story-gEtlNqPJkPe0GjKtXkGk5O.html
01-08-2020||City||Kalyan civic body pays for cremation of Covid-19 victims||The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has decided to incur the cost for cremation of Covid positive persons. “We have appointed an agency for the cremation job and the civic body will incur the cost for the same. As most of the families are not able to do it as they are already infected or they fear getting infected, we will do it,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commissioner. The civic body has paid for around 40 cremations over the past four-five days. As per KDMC, it spends around ₹4,000-₹5,000 on each body for cremation in the traditional method using stand and wood. The cost covers wood, staffers and diesel required for the process.“Earlier, when most of the bodies were cremated through gas method, machines often failed due to the continuous cremation and the load. So we have now decided to help families do the cremation through traditional way, and that too free of cost. The civic body will bear the entire expense,” said Sapna Koli, city engineer, KDMC. The civic body chief and other officials visited a crematorium near Prem Auto in Kalyan (West) which recently got five new burning stands and one gas cremation facility. There are 59 crematoriums within KDMC limits which have a total of 77 burning stands for traditional cremation. There are six crematoriums with gas cremation facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-civic-body-pays-for-cremation-of-covid-19-victims/story-SpHdEcK6UqyhRJqFb1LBWO.html
01-08-2020||City||Gurugram: Labour dept initiates work on unified database for workers, industries||Gurugram: To ensure that all information pertaining to workers and commercial enterprises is available through a single platform, the Haryana government has decided to create a unified database, called the Haryana Udhyam Memorandum (HUM), which will have information about all shops, MSMEs (micro small and medium enterprises), as well as large and mega industries in the state. The details of all their employees would also be registered on the database. The government has decided to launch a six-month-long campaign to register the different entities across the state.The HUM database was launched by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on June 6.Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who was in Gurugram on Thursday, said that unique identification numbers will be issued to these enterprises and the other departments concerned have been asked to expedite the registration of stakeholders. “The decision to create a unified portal has been taken after the experience of handling the emerging situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Chautala, adding that information on a single platform would enable easier formulation and execution of welfare policies.Officials also said that the HUM portal will provide real time data for flexible policy planning and to meet emerging situations like the coronavirus pandemic, as lack of quality data with regard to commercial entities, migrant workers and employees acted as a handicap while carrying out relief operations.Following the directions of the state, Gurugram’s labour department on Saturday said it has written letters to all industrial associations and major contractors in the city to get themselves registered with HUM and seed the details of the employees. According to officials, HUM is a user friendly portal wherein users can fill in the details of their enterprises and workers with ease.At present, over 506 industrial units and 480 commercial units from across the state are registered on the HUM portal but registration of workers seems not to have started, as per details on the portal. Gurugram has around 20,000 large and small industrial units which operate in industrial areas developed by the government, as well as in old industrial clusters. “We are reaching out to industrial units across the district and have asked them to register at the earliest. The details of the workers will have to be seeded and this exercise will be carried out for the next six months,” said Manish Sharma, additional labour commissioner, NCR, Haryana.As per the labour department, all establishments in the city, including industrial units, shops and commercial establishments, in due course will have to seed the details of their employees on the portal so that the workers can get benefits under the Employee’s Provident Fund (EPF) rules and Employees State Insurance (ESI) Act.Sharma also said that in the next six months, all organisations employing contractual workers will have to get a HUM number and the registration of contractors and workers will be done through Aadhaar numbers. The government has also proposed to take action against firms as well as individuals who do not register by February, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-labour-dept-initiates-work-on-unified-database-for-workers-industries/story-8DiitNlsygoVWrKaI28iEN.html
01-08-2020||City||Drugs worth ₹1.31 crore seized from a truck||Thane Chitalsar police on Saturday seized a large consignment of marijuana (ganja) by intercepting a truck filled with corn. The anti-narcotics cell and crime branch have found 691 kg of marijuana (ganja) worth ₹1.31 crore in joint action. The driver of the truck is absconding. According to Chitalsar police officials, on Friday police officials received a tip-off about a red truck carrying drugs. Accordingly, the police and crime branch officials stationed a check post at every entry and exit point. Deputy commissioner of police, Avinash Ambure said, “We received a tip-off about a truck parked near Tatvagyan Vidyapith, Kapurbavdi Thane. Our officials went there and checked the truck. The team opened all the corn-filled boxes and found marijuana stored at the bottom. We immediately seized all the material, though the driver had fled from the spot. The truck had come from Karnataka, however, we are yet to get the details from the owner of the truck and receiver of the consignment.” Ambure informed that the police have seized 691 kg marijuana worth ₹1.31 crore. The truck used for transporting is also seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drugs-worth-1-31-crore-seized-from-a-truck/story-stzKBS81ATRZZ7k6X5WA4M.html
01-08-2020||City||FYJC admissions: New portal has list of all Mumbai Metropolitan Region colleges, details||Students who apply for a first-year junior college (FYJC) seat will now get to see the list of available college options under a new option, ‘Know your eligibility’, introduced on the online admission portal this year. The portal will also have details of all colleges in a region such as fees and subjects offered. For 2020-21, around 3.19 lakh seats will be up for grabs in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) across 819 colleges. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad inaugurated the portal for FYJC (https://11thadmission.org.in) on Saturday afternoon. This year, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the education department has introduced a zero-contact admission process for students in six regions across the state – Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Amravati. Students can complete the entire admission process, from filling their admission forms to confirming their seat in an allotted college, online this year. More than 1.92 lakh students registered on the portal until Saturday evening, of which over 1.72 lakh are from state board schools. “We understand the current situation and associated challenges and have hence simplified the process for admissions. We have tried to address the glitches reported in the previous years to make the process smooth,” said Gaikwad. This year, the department has added several features to the admission portal. In addition to the feature that allows students to check previous cut-offs and colleges in their score range, the portal will allow them to address their grievances with respect to filling forms online. Students from IGCSE and ICSE boards who usually have to approach guidance centres to get their grades converted to marks for the admission process can now do it on the portal itself. Students will also be given a three-month window period to submit their original documents to the college. From August 1, the portal opened for students to fill Part 1 of their form, which includes basic details. The department will later notify students on the dates for filling Part 2, which includes entering marks and college preferences. The department also plans to roll out a mobile application. “It has been tested and will be launched soon,” said an official from the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fyjc-admissions-new-portal-has-list-of-all-mumbai-metropolitan-region-colleges-details/story-fSmHHwATfbG53uk9wpdvDK.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||66-year-old duped of ₹2 lakh in an online fraud||Mahim police have booked an unknown person for duping a 66-year-old headmaster of a prominent Marathi school in Shivaji Park of ₹2 lakh.According to the police, the complainant in last week of May received a call from a woman, claiming to be an executive from her bank’s credit card department.“The complainant said the caller already knew her 16-digit credit card number and used it to gain her confidence. Under the pretext of extending the complainant’s credit limit from ₹1 lakh to ₹2 lakh, the caller obtained her other card details such as CVV number and the card’s expiry date,” said an officer.Under the pretext of completing the procedure, the accused told the victim that the system would generate passwords to complete the process and the victim would have to share it to proceed with the process.As per her instructions, the woman shared the passwords (OTPs). The amount was then deducted from her account. When inquired about it, the caller told her that it’s a part of the process and once her credit card’s limit is exceeded to ₹2 lakh she would get all her money back in her account, the police said.In July first week when the complainant received her credit card’s statement, she realised that ₹2 lakh had not been credited back and the caller woman was a fraud.The complainant then filed an online complaint and on Thursday registered an FIR at Mahim police station.The police have begun the probe and are obtaining call details of the phone number used in the crime and also obtaining details of the fraudulent transactions from the concerned bank and e-wallet service provider.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/66-year-old-duped-of-2-lakh-in-an-online-fraud/story-WAy8ekMhM3qpPB9j9iLoDK.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Senior MMRDA official falls to death from fourth floor||A senior official of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) fell to death from his fourth-floor flat in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) late on Friday night.The deceased, Kulvindar Singh Kapur, 55, was the director (system) in MMRDA.Anand Muley, senior inspector at BKC police station said, “We are still investigating whether he jumped off or fell from the flat accidentally. At the time of the incident, his wife and 25-year-old son were present in the flat.”“Soon after the incident, he was rushed to Hinduja Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. His body has been sent to the Sion Hospital for post-mortem,” Muley added.Police have registered an accidental death report (ADR) and are investigating further.MMRDA in a statement said, “We regret to inform you about the sad demise of Shri Kulwendra Singh Kapur, director (systems) MMRDA. Mr. Kapur was appointed on the post from July 2, 2019. Prior to his appointment in the MMRDA he was working with Western Railways. On July 31 late night he was found in unconscious state, at his residence building compound (officers’ quarters) at BKC by a security personel.”RA Rajeev Metropolitian commissioner, MMRDA has expressed his deepest condolences and said the sudden demise of Mr Kapur is a big loss to the MMRDA. “MMRDA as a family shares the grief along with his family in this difficult times. May god give the family strength to overcome this irreparable loss.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/senior-mmrda-official-falls-to-death-from-fourth-floor/story-KO2lmpoJMy5Gs9PPUFfyHM.html
01-08-2020||City||Three booked for black marketing of rice||The Navi Mumbai police on Friday booked three persons and busted a rice black-marketing racket. Police have also seized 110-tonne (1.10 lakh kg) rice worth ₹33 lakh. According to police, the trio had been allegedly black-marketing the subsidised rice allotted under the public distribution system for the last three months. The accused illegally bought 110-tonne (1.10 lakh kg) rice meant for the poor in the ration shops in Solapur. They, then, exported the rice to Dhaka, Qatar and Madagascar and sold them for three times the price. The accused identified as Bhimashankar Khade, Iqbal Kazi and Laxman Patel are currently at large. With the help of his co-accused, he would store it at Kazi’s warehouse located along the Mumbai-Goa highway in Palasphe. Once the consignment was brought over to the warehouse, they would break the seals of the rice sacks and refill it in other sacks with ‘Asian Rice’ printed on it. Once the rice was repackaged, Patel, a Ghatkopar resident, would export it to countries like Dhaka, Qatar and Madagascar. Kazi is the director of the warehouse, said police. “We seized 110-tonne of rice valued at ₹33 lakh from the godown along the highway. The rice was brought to the warehouse in four containers in the last four to five days,” said Ashok Dudhe, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2. During the raid, the police found workers at the warehouse, who were segregating and loading the sacks. The daily wage workers were employed by the accused and their statements are being recorded. Police said they were not aware that the rice was black marketed. “The accused were essentially selling the rice under a new name called Asian Rice and then exporting it for a profit. We suspect they were making Rs 25 profit for every kg of rice exported. Patel, the exporter, was previously booked under Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) and Khade also has a cheating case registered against him at Bhoiwada police station dating back to 2001,” said an officer from Panvel police station. The police have also procured CCTV footage which established that the accused were involved in the racket for at least three to four months. The accused have been booked under sections of Essential Commodities Act, said Ajay Kumar Landge, senior inspector at Panvel police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-booked-for-black-marketing-of-rice/story-SCMEiP46rBIvZ5tBnmNELL.html
01-08-2020||City||Hooch tragedy: Ludhiana MLA demands Rs 1-crore compensation for victims’ families||Accusing the Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) of encouraging liquor mafia in the state and slamming the state government for failing to tighten the noose around them, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) president and MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains demanded that the state government should pay a compensation of Rs 1 crore each to the families of those who died after consuming spurious liquor in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Batala (Gurdaspur).During a press meet at his office in Kot Mangal Singh on Saturday, Bains said that the chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had taken an oath to make Punjab drug-free but had failed to eradicate ‘Chitta’ from the state and now deaths were also taking place due to spurious liquor.Bains said, “Illegal liquor factories were earlier sealed in Khanna and Ghanaur but no action was taken against the Congress and Akali leaders who are behind such illegal trade. The illegal liquor factories in Khanna and Ghanaur were being run by Congress leaders while the material used for making spurious liquor in Ghanaur was being supplied by a SAD leader.”While demanding compensation for the families of the deceased, Bains said that the state government should tighten the noose around the liquor mafia, otherwise the LIP will plan an agitation against the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hooch-tragedy-bains-demands-rs-1-crore-compensation-for-victims-families/story-Ig1R0xbVU41G2VQ864MfuK.html
01-08-2020||City||No let-up in illicit liquor trade in Doaba||Jalandhar Despite police claiming to keep strict vigil, illegal liquor trade continues unabated in the Doaba region. As elsewhere in the state, lockdown has seen a spike in smuggling as well as recovery. Police have recovered over 30,000 litre illicit liquor in the region this year.A police officer said most illegal production cases were in rural areas due to shortage and costlier availability of liquor during the lockdown.Jalandhar district has seen the registration of 810 FIRs, with 791 accused being put in jail and 65,000 liquor bottles being seized. Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said excise and police teams have been acting against illicit liquor smuggling. “We have inspected 1,103 premises of godowns, marriage places, rice mills or shellers during a search operation to check liquor smuggling and bootlegging. A helpline number 85569-18229 has been launched, where people could share information on illicit liquor smuggling,” the DC added. Jalandhar rural police seized around 8,500 litre illicit liquor, chemicals and 3,58,080 kg lahan from January 1 to July 31. “Most of the recovery was made during special drives in lockdown,” said Jalandhar SSP Satinder Singh. Police commissioner Gurpeet Singh Bhullar said the Commissionerate Police had registered 496 cases related with smuggling of illicit liquor, arrested 557 accused and seized over 38 litre illicit liquor, 1,430kg lahan and around 15,000 litre English wine from January 1 to July 31. Hoshiarpur SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said police have registered 215 cases and arrested 268 people by seizing 13,438 litre illicit liquor and 20kg lahan this year. The SBS Nagar district registered 132 FIRs and arrested 144. In Kapurthala, over 8,000-litre illicit liquor was seized this year, but most recovery was made in the lockdown. SP Mandeep Singh said police registered 174 FIRs and recovered 5,318 litre illicit liquor and 17,935 kg lahan from accused from May 16-July 31, 2020.In recent recoveries, 435-litre illicit liquor and 800kg lahan was recovered from Kheeran Walli village area on July 18. Assistant excise and taxation officer Hardeep Bhanwra said, “We have arrested a bootlegger and illicit liquor supplier, Baljinder Singh, who used through children and women for the trade.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-let-up-in-illicit-liquor-trade-in-doaba/story-Ws6HHMmq10QqMNvx1k80eJ.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Can’t exclude days from period of actual detention for default bail: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday held that no period from actual detention, especially the day of first remand of the accused and that of filing of the charge sheet, can be excluded from consideration while counting the period for default bail.“The period envisaged under Section 167(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) has to be calculated from first date of remand order and the said day cannot be excluded,” said justice PD Naik while granting default bail to Deepak Kudalkar, who was arrested by Navghar police for cheating and criminal breach of trust.He was arrested on February 26, 2020, the day on which an FIR was registered against him. He was produced before a magistrate and was remanded in police custody the same day.On May 26, 2020, he applied for bail contending that the period of 90 days for filing charge sheet against him was over on May 25, and thus he was entitled to default bail as provided for in section 167(2) of the CrPC.An additional sessions judge at Thane, however, rejected his plea after the police filed charge sheet on May 26 itself. The sessions court concluded that the date of first remand and the date of filing of charge sheet were excluded from the period of 60 or 90 days — depending on the punishment provided in the sections applied in the case, as per sections 9 and 10 of the General Clauses Act.Kudalkar then moved HC contending that he was entitled to default bail and the two days could not be excluded from the statutory period, as done by the sessions court.Justice Naik accepted his arguments. After perusing case law on the subject, the judge held that the provisions of the General Clauses Act were inapplicable in the case and “there cannot be exclusion of any period from authorised detention while computing the period of 60 days or 90 days as the case may be by invoking provisions of General Clauses Act”.HC then held that Kudalkar was entitled to default bail as no charge sheet had been filed till the time he applied for default bail on his 91st day in detention, and ordered that the accused be released on furnishing personal bond in the sum of ₹50,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/can-t-exclude-days-from-period-of-actual-detention-for-default-bail-hc/story-cN7eiwopZZT948zx7F4cyK.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank case: HC strikes down special court’s observation||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday struck down observations made by the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court, that offences of cheating and criminal breach of trust were “made out” against all the accused in the Yes Bank fraud case.CBI has booked Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapur and Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) promoters Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan under sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 7 (public servant taking gratification), 12 (abetment of offences), and 13(2) (criminal misconduct) r/w. 13(1)(d) (obtaining any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage by any corrupt or illegal means or by abusing position) of the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, 1988.However, on July 17, the special CBI court found that the investigation agency (CBI) had not applied to obtain sanction to prosecute the accused persons under provisions of the PC Act, as required under section 19 of the said Act. It remitted the case for trial to the metropolitan magistrate concerned and observed that the charges under the IPC sections were close to being proved.The special court had said that it would not be proper and legal to keep the proceedings pending for an indefinite period in the hopes that the prosecution would apply for sanction in regards to the PC act charges.The Wadhawans had moved the HC, taking strong exception to the observation, contending that it was likely to cause prejudice against them.Justice Anuja Prabhudessai found substance in their objection. The judge said the observation was made without any application of mind, as on the relevant date, the special court only considered the aspect of want of sanction to prosecute and remitted the matter to the magistrate.“It is thus evident that the impugned observations have been made for the purpose of remitting the proceedings to the metropolitan magistrate, and that there was no application of mind for arriving at a prima facie conclusion that offences under sections 420, 409 r/w 120B of the IPC are in fact, made out against all the accused,” said the judge.“The apprehension of the applicants, that these observations may leave no discretion unto the learned metropolitan magistrate... cannot be said to be baseless,” she said and clarified that the magistrate shall proceed with the matter without being influenced by the observation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-case-hc-strikes-down-special-court-s-observation/story-ToCQIUK4YD05QVVTivOAkP.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Memories and poetry brewed with tea and a little sugar||Making myself a glass full of tea, I glance after many years at the volume of memoirs and poems in English translated from Punjabi, of poet Lal Singh Dil. On the front cover he is referred to as the Poet of the Revolution, but the back cover carries lines of his poem negating the title. The poem reads: For us trees do not bear fruits, For us Flowers do not bloom, For us there is no spring, For us there is no Revolution! Memory not being what it was, I wonder at the contradiction between the title and the poem. But then life is often a jumble. Then I turn the pages of the book and somehow spill a little tea on a page with my shaky hands. In panic I try to rub it off but the pale brown stain is there for keeps and on the next page I find the picture of the poet pouring steaming tea from a jug with half a smile on his lips.And there I am in the tea shack opposite the motor market on Machiwara road in Samrala town, which I would once frequent to meet the legendary poet of Naxalbari. He is acknowledged till date as one of the top 20 poets of Punjabi with his poetry inviting research and scholars penning copious thesis. Dil too had dreamt of a revolution and a time when he would no longer be the outcaste whose bowl had to be thrown into fire for purification after he had sipped his tea and the water jug at the party meeting would not be pulled away when he tried to reach out to it for some water. Well, such are the contradictions of a caste-ridden society and he realised that for the Dalits there was no revolution. The comrades of his Naxalbari days had returned to their folds and were now editors, executives, professors, businessmen or expatriates.Dil was the first of his tanner clan to complete school. His mother had to sell the only pair of gold earrings she possessed to buy him a bicycle to pursue a junior basic teacher training course. He would have come up in life but then came the dream of the revolution and claimed him as one of its own. However, when the dream died, he had nowhere to go. So after jail, police torture and harassment of his family members, he chose exile in the fruit orchards as a caretaker, embraced Islam to escape the caste stigma; convinced that ‘Allah is very kind to Maoists because he understands cultures!’ This was what he wrote to his poet friend Amarjit Chandan in explanation of choosing to convert to Islam and have a religion to call his own. Alas! He was to find that even there caste existed.When he returned home to Samrala and was desolate after his mother’s death friends tried to help by setting up the tea shack with wooden planks nailed together. Dil found in the drug addict upper caste friend Pala a partner and happily poured tea from a dented jug into the glasses in a tote for the drivers, mechanics, teachers and writers who frequented his shack in the motor market. When free he would scribble some lines in between or talk to the literati that gathered there to discuss poetry and politics. And I awaited my tumbler of tea, asking for a little less sugar and a little more ginger in the brew. Tea shacks were my haunt all through youth but tea had never tasted as good as it did in downtown Samrala!The tea shop closed after Pala’s death when, disoriented, Dil forgot to keep accounts or collect payments. When I went to meet him years later in his one-room brick home built on the family plot of Chamar Basti with a little open space, I found the wooden planks of the tea shop stacked in the ‘kacha kotha’, perhaps for firewood. A little flower bed in a corner had a couple of red roses blooming amid green leaves. And his little hungry grand-niece would come crawling up the stairs to take a sweet from the kind old man who knew that her mother’s breasts did not have enough milk for her. No matter how hard life is, Lal, there is always room for a few green leaves, a child’s smile and some sweetness. Oh! Let me add a little more sugar to my tea.nirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-memories-and-poetry-brewed-with-tea-and-a-little-sugar/story-0m9bjSiB4LDhRDkOorKfxI.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||AICTE approval for 100 institutes to start admissions in 2020-21||Over 100 new professional institutes for engineering, management, and pharmacy have received approval from the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to start admissions from the 2020-21 academic year. Keeping in mind the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19, for the first time, AICTE approved these colleges by scrutinising all necessary documents online and conducting a virtual tour of the institute to check the infrastructure, before signing off on their approvals.According to figures shared by AICTE, a total of 58 new engineering diploma and degree colleges have been approved for the 2020-21 academic year, increasing the overall intake capacity by 16,333 seats. However, due to the gradual decline in overall demand for engineering seats, more than 600 engineering institutes have sought a reduction in their intake capacity, and another 140 institutes across the country have asked for permission to shut down completely. This will further bring down the total intake capacity of engineering institutes by over 1.22 lakh in the upcoming academic year.In a statement released in May, the council had clarified that the requirement of documents remains the same as for the previous few years. “We devised online scrutiny of documents and virtual institute inspections in order to proceed with approval of new colleges. This was done as the approval process could not be delayed any further, and therefore, we had to come up with a viable solution,” said Anil Sahasrabuddhe, chairman, AICTE. He added that the online scrutiny has been at par with any physical scrutiny done in the past.Once again this year, not a single new engineering institute has received approval in Maharashtra for 2020-21, as yet.Last year, new approvals made way for 54,618 seats across diploma, undergraduate (UG) and post-graduate (PG) institutes. However, the total intake capacity of engineering institutes went down by over 2.20 lakh, which included 99,806 diploma seats and 1.20 lakh UG and PG seats, owing to either closure of institutes or divisions in certain sectors.“Engineering institutes across the country have been suffering, and a majority of them have not managed to attract enough students over the years. The ban on new engineering institutes has been to ensure control over the mushrooming of institutes that don’t promise quality education,” said Sahasrabuddhe.Since the two-year ban on new engineering institutes was implemented starting 2020, several institutes have sought permission to start new branches in Artificial Intelligence (AI), Blockchain, Data Science and Analytics, and Robotics.“Several branches of engineering, including civil and mechanical, are attracting very few students off late due to the low job offers they get. The software industry, on the other hand, is continuously evolving and thus, attracting good jobs and students,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal, Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra. He added that reducing seats in redundant branches and giving a boost to new dimensions in the field are moves welcomed by engineering aspirants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aicte-approval-for-100-institutes-to-start-admissions-in-2020-21/story-j4CaCg1x2hO653JOws0NhP.html
01-08-2020||City||Serial killer hooch devastates families||TARN TARAN Pain in the stomach, throwing up, and a few hours later death at the local civil hospital on Friday. For Kinder Kaur, 40, and Sona, 16, of Sangha village, 5km from the district headquarters, these are the last memories of Manjit Singh, 45. Manjit was their breadwinner and pulled a rickshaw for a living, despite a disability with his right hand. Kinder and Sona are also polio afflicted.At last count, Manjit was just one among nearly 90 persons, who have died after consuming spurious liquor in Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Amritsar districts over the past few days. Manjit had drunk illicit liquor on Thursday night. “As soon as entered home, he threw up and complained of stomach pain. We rushed him to Tarn Taran civil hospital, where he succumbed on Friday morning,” said Kinder. She added, “I and my son were dependent on him. Liquor has destroyed my family, which was already struggling for livelihood.” Nirvail Singh, a resident of Sangha, said, “Manjit had purchased illicit liquor from Resham Singh’s home in the village itself. Resham also drank from the same lot and he died on Saturday morning. Resham is survived by his four daughters, wife and mother.” He added that the government must give compensation to both families. KILL ME ALSO, SAYS WIFE OF LABOURERLakhwinder Singh, 55, a labourer of Kang village, falling under Khadoor Sahib sub-division, has left behind his wife Kirandeep Kaur, 50. The couple had no children. “I married Lakhwinder 30 years ago. We had no children, but we were living happily. Now, the liquor has stolen all my happiness. What will I do by living alone now, I should also die,” said Kirandeep. She alleged that her husband had purchased illicit liquor from Pal Singh and Meek Singh of the village (both brothers). She added, “Pal Singh and his family have been selling illicit liquor for decades. Villagers had approached the police, but no action was taken. Pal and his family have been protected by Congress leaders of the area.”Her nephew, Gurpreet Singh, said, “Police and politicians are the real killers of my uncle. If they had acted to stop the selling of hooch, several lives would have been saved.”3-YEAR-OLD REFUSES TO LET GO OF PAPA’s PHOTOMuchhal (Amritsar) Physical challenges were already creating hurdles for him. The only breadwinner in his family, Joga Singh, 32, another victim, was a construction labourer. He aspired for a good life and planned to get a washroom constructed in his house. “My husband rarely partook of liquor earlier, except at weddings. On Wednesday evening, the mason, who was working to build the washroom in our house, asked my husband to bring liquor worth Rs. 20. They drank and he died, ruining my life,” said Paramjit Kaur, who has two kids—son, 7, and daughter, 3. When this correspondent asked her to show photo of her husband, the daughter did not want to let go of the photo of ‘Papa’. “I don’t how will my sister live, because she is also handicapped. The announcement made by the government to give compensation is not enough, as Rs 2 lakh is small amount. Secondly, a government job should be given to all the kin”, said Manjit Kaur, sister-in-law of Joga Singh.FARMER’S WIDOW SEEKS DEATH FOR HOOCH SELLER Jaswinder Singh, 37, of Muchhal village was a farmer, but the family owned only 3 kanal land. Here too, the sole breadwinner is gone. His wife, Veerpal Kaur, said, “My husband’s death has made my life full of sorrows. My 11-year-old son cannot cultivate. Both are studying yet,” she added. She demanded death sentence for Balwinder Kaur, from whom her husband purchased the poisonous liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/serial-killer-hooch-devastates-families/story-09zv9iW7HqbkCm7yPWloaM.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Decline in shark species due to flawed fishing practices, fin trade: Report||Unsustainable fishing practices, excessive juvenile bycatch and illegal shark fin trade are leading to a rapid decline of threatened, vulnerable, and critically endangered sharks and allied species.A report published by the Mangrove Foundation under the state forest department (mangrove cell) has documented such practices along commercially important landing sites, where high-density of elasmobranch population along the Maharashtra coast was leading to overall habitat degradation at fishing grounds. Elasmobranchs are sharks, skates, rays and sawfish that have a skeleton made of cartilage instead of bone. Their distribution ranges from near-shore regions to the deep oceanic waters.Rajendra Jadhav, joint commissioner, state fisheries department said, “This is an extremely serious issue. We will call for exact details from the forest department and see to it that immediate action is taken for the shark fin trade while sensitising fishers against juvenile fish catch is being undertaken.”The report identified a fish landing centre in Satpati, Palghar where the capture of eight shark species, including some part of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List, saw their fins removed and kept out to dry. Though fishers admitted they were stored for trade, it was not clear whether these fins were meant for export purposes.Shark fin import and export was banned by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry in 2015.“Satpati is famous for pomfret fisheries that operate using gillnet gear. Different mesh sizes lead to a variety of sharks getting caught. Locals separate their meat, body parts and fin. When we asked where fins are sold, they refused to share the information,” said Dhanashree Bagade, author of the report and marine biologist, Mangrove Foundation. “Similar reports have been received from Malvan but we did not find proof of such activities.” Shark fishing is not illegal in India. Only catching protected species (10 sharks – see box) are prohibited by law, and are considered illegal.The study identified 34 elasmobranch species - 14 sharks, 15 rays and five species of wedges, sawfish and guitarfish - being caught across Satpati, Sassoon Dock, New Ferry Wharf, and Versova in Mumbai, Alibag in Raigad, Harnai in Ratnagiri and Malvan in Sindhudurg along the Maharashtra coast including Mumbai. “Maximum quantity was identified across fish landing centres in Mumbai owing to the highest number of boats with fishing grounds from south Ratnagiri to the Gujarat coast. Species including Hammerhead shark and Blacktip shark juveniles were spotted at Mumbai, Malvan, and Harnai,” said Bagade.Of 34 species caught, 31 were identified by marine biologists. Of these, eight species each fell under vulnerable, endangered, and near-threatened categories of the IUCN Regional Red List while one species of guitarfish (schedule I under WPA) was critically endangered. “The most striking factor was 18 of the 31 species caught or 58% were juvenile elasmobranchs,” said Bagade. The study was undertaken between April and December 2019.Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell) said, “There is a need for capacity building and sensitisation within the fishing community. More research on affected habitats and species risk is needed, which our small grants research projects are looking into.”Experts said conservation actions require stakeholder involvement and practical measures. “By catching threatened fauna and increasing juvenile catch is a threat to vulnerable marine fisheries of Maharashtra. Mitigations are limited or challenging and don’t apply to all species or all fishing gear together. We have to think about practical options without affecting livelihood taking all stakeholders on board,” said Anulekshmi Chellappan, scientist-in-charge, CMFRI Mumbai.WHY SHARK FINS?Shark-fins are one of the most luxurious fish products in the world that get higher prices in the export market. The white fins gave a superior yield than the black fins. Fins are used as shark fin soup, a delicacy in China and various parts of South-East Asia. “The value of the shark fin ranges between Rs.1000 to Rs.15,000 per kg in the international market, making it a lucrative clandestine business. After catching protected shark species, fishermen remove the fin, scale the skin, and finally collect a bone-like ray that is used as soup sticks in China and other Southeast Asian countries, mostly to enhance flavour. The rays are packed in stacks and shown as wood so they are not detected by customs or coast guard. The value of the fin for ranges from Rs.1000 – 5000 for sharks that are allowed to be caught, and fins of protected schedule 1 species sells as high as Rs.15,000 since they are protected along Indian waters,” said E Vivekandanan, former principal scientist and current national consultant at CMFRI.YEAR WISE SHARK LANDINGS IN MAHARASHTRAMaharashtra witnessed its lowest annual fish catch in 45 years in 2019, as per the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI). Shark captures witnessed a 43% drop from 2018. Other elasmobranch species caught include Skates, rays, eels, and catfish. They are exploited by a variety of fishing gears like gill nets, long lines and trawls along the Indian coast by both traditional and mechanised sectors. While guitarfish and wedge fish capture marginally increased while 446.5-ton rays were caught. The drop in catch was owing to extreme weather events and successive cyclones in the Arabian Sea that reduced fish catch day.2019 - 1299 tons2018 - 2295 tons2017 – 3086 tons2016 – 3031 tons2015 – 3548 tons2014 – 4780 tons2013 – 4550 tons(Source: CMFRI)SPECIES AT RISKProtected under Wildlife laws: Whale sharks, tiger sharks, white sharks, Speartooth sharks, and other elasmobranch species such as hammerhead sharks, pointed sawfish, Largetooth sawfish, Longcomb sawfish, and guitarfish. 14 species at risk according to the study: Spadenose shark, Tiger shark, Grey dog shark, Milk dog shark, Black tip shark, Spot tail shark, Bull shark, Scalloped Hammerhead shark, Hard nose shark, Grey bamboo shark, Ridgeback catshark, Thresher shark, Fawn shark, Graceful shark.(Source: Mangrove Foundation Research)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/decline-in-shark-species-due-to-flawed-fishing-practices-fin-trade-report/story-eCjjvH9jLDGj6O4Upik2JL.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 28 fresh Covid-19 cases, 3 more deaths||Twenty-eight more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Saturday, taking the union territory’s tally to 1,079, while three more fatalities pushed the toll to 18, a medical bulletin stated.A 96-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 after he died on July 30. He had suffered a paralytic attack in the past, it said.A 55-year-old Covid-19 positive woman, a resident of Kishangarh, died on July 31. She was a diabetic and also suffered from acute respiratory distress syndrome, according to the bulletin.Another Covid-19 woman, 75, succumbed to the disease on July 31. She had comorbidities like hypertension and diabetes, the bulletin said.The 28 fresh cases were reported from areas in sectors 40, 18, 39, 55 and 26, it said.There are 378 active Covid-19 in Chandigarh as of now, it added.A total of 16 Covid-19 patients were discharged after they recovered. A total of 683 people have been cured so far.A total of 14,239 samples have been taken for testing so far and 13,090 of them have tested negative. Reports in 67 cases are awaited, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-28-fresh-covid-19-cases-3-more-deaths/story-8ZXhyB75IuSUwzZ6A49s5K.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Random forays: Our world needs true leaders today||The world needs true leaders more than ever before. The happenings of our world do not, by and large, inspire in us any confidence about the current crop of individuals who lead their countries. We live in such connected times that it is easy to know what goes on in the back alleys of Manila or the corridors of power in Venezuela. There is no excuse for shoddy leadership, no place to hide. Why is humanity unable to produce inspirational and impactful leaders in this era of widespread knowledge and high learning? Why, despite all the mind-boggling progress that the world has made in artificial intelligence and high technology, have we not been able to propel the best of men and women to positions of eminence and power?The recently popular social media post about women leaders who have successfully contained the pandemic in their lands, starkly in contrast to a group of male heads of government who have utterly failed to do so, actually gives us a clue. Women clearly possess minds and hearts which are more empathetic and emotionally refined than do men. Whether such qualities have actually translated into concrete results on the ground as a result of leadership which cares, is a moot point. But it is evident that leaders of nations need to be extra special human beings, which is unfortunately not the case in most countries.All the portals of learning that society can offer, online or on campus, cannot combine to impart the skills of leadership that are actually needed by achievers. Which university for instance offers a course titled “Qualities of the Head and Heart”? It is virtually impossible to inculcate such invaluable nuances into the mindset of any person simply by educating him or her.Contrastingly, the general thought process of society has a major role to play in this process. When divisiveness and self-centredness become the global norm, it is impossible to produce balanced leaders. Leaders like Nelson Mandela and even Barack Obama would perhaps have at least been able to inspire some of the populace to think rightly in order for individuals to give off their best for the larger good.Empathy. level headedness, presence of mind, creative thinking, poise and unstinted inspiration are not injectable tonics which a youngster can gulp down. Families, schools and neighbourhoods must play a large role in infusing such delicate sensibilities into growing youngsters.A society gets the leadership it deserves, after all. Why are we not preparing our youngsters to become visionary, large hearted, compassionate grown ups of the future? The whole emphasis of our educational system seems to be that individual success matters, and everything else can go out of the window. And how many right-thinking youths want to enter the rough and tumble of politics? Only the rare ones, for sure. Even seemingly sane men often become wonky when political power is thrust upon them. Groucho Marx said, “Politics is the art of looking for trouble, finding it everywhere, diagnosing it incorrectly and applying the wrong remedies!” Many a promising leader starts appearing like a much deflated version of himself once he is in the hot seat. The grounding which potential leaders must possess and the training which they must undergo have to necessarily be firm and rigorous. In India, bureaucracy, industry and academia have suffered too, on account of often not being led by inspirational human beings with a sense of rectitude and probity. An ability to lead from the front and to stay calm in a crisis are sorely missing too.Perhaps the solution lies in actually incorporating subjects of leadership in school curricula. When leadership becomes our priority, then we will encourage the flowering of superior leadership qualities in our young ones. Role models are needed too. Theoretical imparting of knowledge about leadership will not achieve any perceptible results. Outstanding individuals from all walks of life need to be invited to walk into schools and address the citizens of tomorrow as mentors.As I pause to gaze out of the window into the still azure skies, I sense hope. Humanity loves a challenge. Out of the mire, will surely rise, some real heroes.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-forays-our-world-needs-true-leaders-today/story-8gS6EaQIIi2Ds3YaceMSmM.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Snake with a white bindi||Two species of snakes, encountered rarely in the tricity region, share common aspects. The Common Bronzeback Tree snake sports a distinct white spot on its head. The orange-reddish Black-headed Royal snake displays inky splotches across its body and is the only Indian snake known to change its patterns and colours through its lifetime.Both these species are adept climbers. The very thin tree snake prefers to dwell in twiggy bushes, leafy branches among trees and merges deftly with drooping vines. It has a very long tail and can grow to 5.5 feet. To the uninitiated observer, the sheer agility of tree snakes is mistaken for a magical power to fly among trees! But this is not so as the legendary herpetologist Rom Whitaker points out: “Unlike other snakes, bronzebacks have no fear of falling and regularly jump about branches and to the ground from heights of 10-20m...the female lays about six long, thin eggs in a tree hole or old bird nest...(food is) mainly frogs and lizards. It is not uncommon for bronzebacks to hunt tree frogs and lizards in thatched roofs; consequently they sometimes get into trouble with human occupants.’’Snake rescue personnel in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula have found tree snakes in balconies, backyards and kitchens, especially in the rainy season. The royal snake also nurtures a ferocious climbing ability. In fact, the first record for the tricity of the royal snake was when Salim Khan rescued one specimen hiding in the lofty ceiling of Room No 26, Punjab and Haryana High Court, in June 2011. Referred to as ‘Rajat Bansi’ in the vernacular, the royal snake is a destroyer of rodents and helps farmers. It looks like the venomous Russell’s viper and emulates the viper by hissing madly like a bursting pressure cooker when challenged. Both the royal and tree snakes are basically non-venomous, though the former’s bite is reckoned as possessing a mild toxicity to humans.A FLOWER FROM MEMORY LANE What is more blue, the Indus or the Ladakh sky? Neither, if you have a glad eye for Himalayan flowers! Then, it is the dreamy blue of the Himalayan Blue poppy, deeper than the oceans glimpsed from eyes in the high skies. Last year in July, tourists and travellers were soaking in the awesome spectacles of Ladakh, wondering, and wandering to a blue horizon. No one could have imagined then that a year hence, that ethereal horizon would be lost. A brutal Covid lockdown and LAC tensions turned the paradise into a no-go zone. So, what do we have left but memories. A gorgeous picture of poppies. That juxtaposed the fragility of the flower with the gaunt grandeur of rugged ridges. In turn, they were streaked with a sigh, of ebbing snows.It was a traveller from far away New Zealand and an accomplished photographer, Peter Sheppard, who had chanced upon poppies in July 2019. In his words then, the magical moments.“From New Zealand, late last July, I was heading for Zanskar in the remote Himalayas with Lynne Welch and Tenzin Wangjor. I was interested in seeing the high Himalayan Blue poppy. We were driving towards Zanskar from the wonderfully-isolated setting of Rangdum, which sports a wonderfully-perched monastery. On the drive to Zanskar, we suddenly noticed these rare poppies among rocks close to the road. We stopped, leapt out, and admiringly photographed their intense blue colour and characteristic foliage. As you will know, they are regarded as rare, even endangered,’’ Sheppard told this writer.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-snake-with-a-white-bindi/story-sgQ7shOQ0pFAkqahFYAxVM.html
01-08-2020||City||Ludhiana govt schools receive ₹75-lakh grant for construction of new classrooms||In a major relief to staff and students, 17 government schools here have received a grant of Rs 75 lakh for the construction of 25 new classrooms. The state government had sent the funds to the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) office, Ludhiana from where the amount was e-transferred to the schools. Government Primary School, Jahangirpur has received a grant of Rs 9 lakh for construction of three new classrooms. The school, situated at Rahon Road, has five classrooms which had been declared unsafe two years ago. The school authorities had been forced to adjust students of two classes at a nearby dharamsala, another two at Gurdwara Sahib, and one class on the school premises. School head Manmohanjit Singh, said, “This is a big relief for the school as after construction of the rooms, students will get a better learning environment. We have received Rs 9 lakh to get the construction of three new classrooms started.” Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, got Rs 15 lakh to come up with five new rooms as the school strength has reached 4,300. School principal Sanjeev Thapar said, “To accommodate 4,300 students, we require more rooms and authorities have transferred the grants for the construction of the same. We will be constructing the five rooms in the primary section building.” GOVERNMENT HIGH SCHOOL, SUNET RECEIVES GRANT FOR TWO CLASSROOMS Students of Classes 6 and 7 of Sunet’s Government High School had been attending classes in the school’s corridors for the past two years. The public works department had declared one of the school’s two blocks unsafe in the second week of August in 2018. The ‘unsafe’ block had nine rooms, five of which were classrooms while the remaining ones were being used as an office, a clerk room, a home science laboratory, and a chowkidar room. School headmaster Ravinder Singh said, “We have received grants for construction of two classrooms but we require around 15 classrooms to accommodate 805 students. We are already constructing one new classroom with the staff and NRI’s contributions.” Rajinder Kaur, district education officer, elementary, said, “We have transferred the grants to the 17 schools so that construction work can be started by the school authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-govt-schools-receive-75-lakh-grant-for-construction-of-new-classrooms/story-GhASI6rmHbleNqtOmp2yhL.html
01-08-2020||Pune||PMC brings down containment zones in city to 75||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday announced new containment zones in the city, bringing down the number of areas under strict restrictions to 75. According to the order issued by the Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, there will be 75 containment zones in the city as compared to 87 previously. Kumar has also empowered ward officers to seal buildings or areas with more than five positive cases. PMC has allowed essential shops to operate in two shifts - 8am to 12 noon and 5pm to 6pm, instead of 9am to 2pm as per the previous order. “Containment zones in Pune will continue to have all the previous restrictions. Only essential commodity shops will be open and timings will also be restricted. Movement of residents of containment zones is also restricted,” said Kumar. The new containment zone map will be applicable from Saturday midnight. The commissioner has instructed the police and local PMC officials to seal these areas. PMC has adopted the micro-containment zone policy and is reviewing containment zones every week. Number of containment zones in city June 2: 63 June 16: 73 June 24: 74 July 1: 109 July 23: 87 August 1: 75||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-brings-down-containment-zones-in-city-to-75/story-ld44Ii9Ay3kvhUkqrcjL9I.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Vij inaugurates MRI and CT Scan centre at Ambala Cantt civil hospital||Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij inaugurated the MRI and CT scan centre at civil hospital in Ambala Cantonment on Saturday. Speaking to media persons, Vij said, “The magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) machine has been installed on a public-private partnership (PPP) model. It produces much lesser sound than other machines and takes lesser time. It can also perform MRIs of children, pregnant women and heart in case of heart diseases. Along with this, a brain MRI can also be done in five minutes. This facility will be free for Scheduled Caste (SC) patients, BPL card holders, accident victims, regular government employees and pensioners of Haryana.”The centre has come up at a cost of about Rs 6 crore.“All tests done by MRI machines have different rates, which have been set by the government, and are much lower than market price. The best cancer hospital in north India is also going to be inaugurated soon, where the building is ready and the remaining work is also going fast,” Vij added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vij-inaugurates-mri-and-ct-scan-centre-at-ambala-cantt-civil-hospital/story-sM2vqJINrpc3jPCgGZKjnJ.html
01-08-2020||Lucknow||47 deaths, 3,807 new coronavirus cases in UP; total count crosses 89K mark||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday reported 47 more deaths due to Covid-19 and 3,807 fresh infections, a health official said.The infection tally has now climbed to 89,068 and the death toll reached 1,677, Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters.  On Friday, the state’s Covid-19 tally stood at 85,261, he said.  Prasad said 51,354 more patients have been discharged after treatment, bringing the number of active cases to 36,037. Among the 47 new deaths, six were reported from Lucknow, five from Bareilly, four from Prayagraj and three each from Kanpur Nagar and Gorakhpur, a health department bulletin said.At 202, Kanpur has registered the highest number of deaths due to Covid-19, followed by Meerut 108 and Lucknow 101, it said.Lucknow reported 363 fresh cases, Kanpur Nagar 317, Prayagraj 231 and Varanasi 229, it said.The additional chief secretary said 93,381 samples were tested on Friday. Till now, over 24.18 lakh samples have been tested in the state, he said.  During a routine meeting at his residence, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath asked officials to make arrangements for additional ventilators at BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur and Jhansi Medical College in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state.He directed officials to work in a proactive manner to effectively contain the spread of the disease.“As per requirement, additional ventilators should be arranged and provisions of portable ventilators should also be made,” he said.The chief minister also instructed officials to complete the construction of the medical institute for children in Gorakhpur by August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/47-deaths-3-807-new-coronavirus-cases-in-up-total-count-crosses-89k-mark/story-2G7BxkTa0hR8Heym7BhnEP.html
01-08-2020||City||Mission Fateh: Covid awareness drive at sweet shops in Ludhiana ahead of Raksha Bandhan||In view of the upcoming festival of Raksha Bandhan, the health department started a special awareness drive to create awareness among people regarding precautionary measures to be taken to contain the spread of Covid-19.A total of three teams of the civil surgeon office have been deployed to carry out the awareness drive in the district. On Saturday, the teams visited sweet shops and shops selling rakhis and apprised shop owners and their staff to follow guidelines issued by the government. They also urged people to maintain social distance and wear masks. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said that these awareness teams have been deployed because there can be an increase in the number of cases owing to lack of information. Dr Bagga said due to Raksha Bandhan, there will be crowding at sweet and gift shops therefore the teams visited various such shops on Saturday and told the owners and the staff about the guidelines on Covid-19 in detail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mission-fateh-covid-awareness-drive-at-sweet-shops-ahead-of-raksha-bandhan/story-ijaaMGNEK4RNjdZxrYRGtK.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bitter times for Ludhiana sweet shop owners ahead of Raksha Bandhan||Sweetshop owners, who were relieved by the government’s decision to reopen confectionaries on the eve of Raksha Bandhan, have reported poor sales amid the Covid-19 pandemic. While a few said business was slowly coming back on track, others said they had never witnessed such slowdown in the market during Raksha Bandhan and the festive fervour was conspicuously missing from the markets. Punjab Halwai Association president Narinder Pal Singh Pappu said, “The decision taken by the state government to open sweet shops on Sunday will help the sector move past the slowdown. Initially, we were expecting low sales. Only 30-35% material is being prepared in comparison to last year, but business has improved ahead of Raksha Bandhan, as residents have started purchasing sweets. We are taking all precautions to avoid spread of infection.”However, few shopkeepers said they were still witnessing an unprecedented slowdown in the countdown to the festival. The owner of Amanz Sweets, Model Town, Shamsher Singh, said,”We have been in business for around 12 years now, but have never witnessed such a poor response during Raksha Bandhan. Fear has gripped the residents and only around 25% people have bought sweets in comparison to the past .” Shopkeepers are hoping for better sales on Sunday. Owner of Chawla sweets in the Field Ganj area Mohinder Pal Singh said, “We have only received a 25%-30% response. Festive fervour is missing from the markets. We hope residents step out of their homes on Sunday and an increase in sales is witnessed.”Social distancing a rare sitePunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s appeal to distribute free masks with sweets received a lukewarm response. While city-based shops were seen distributing masks, shopkeepers in the interior refrained from doing so. Also, social distancing norms were not followed. While shopkeepers were avoiding crowding inside the shops, residents waiting for their turn outside the shops ignored social distancing. Pappu said,”The association has asked every shopkeepers to distribute free masks with sweets and take all precautions required to control spread of disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bitter-times-for-ludhiana-sweet-shop-ownersahead-of-raksha-bandhan/story-ZFxhQ6CL2mncNzpQJispnM.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Drive against dangerous driving in Ludhiana, 13 land in lock-up||Gone are the days when rash drivers were let go with a challan. Nowadays, traffic police personnel in Ludhiana are cracking down on dangerous drivers and jailing them. The Ludhiana traffic police on Saturday initiated a special drive against wrong-side driving and dangerous-driving on National Highway 44 near Basti Jodhewal Chowk. They arrested 13 violators who were caught turning from unauthorised cuts in road dividers.The violators were arrested under Section 202 of the Motor Vehicle Act. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, traffic) Gurdev Singh said police had received complaints against people driving on the wrong side of the National Highway-44. He added that instead of issuing challans to such people, they had decided to arrest them. In almost four hours, police arrested 13 violators. They were jailed for a few hours and then released on bail.“Section 202 of the Motor Vehicle Act gives power to a public servant to arrest violators without a warrant. Violations under three sections - Sections 184 (dangerous driving), 185 (drunk driving) and 197 (taking a vehicle without authority) of the Motor Vehicle Act can land one in jail,”said the ACP.“The violators can be imprisoned for around six months or a fine between ₹1,000-₹5,000 can be imposed. Second time offenders can get a fine of ₹5,000-₹10,000 or be imprisoned for up to two years,” he said.The ACP said the drive will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/drive-against-dangerous-driving-in-ludhiana-13-land-in-lock-up/story-ba3JPvDukJwEbXVquzyERN.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh our take: Stop begging in tricity at any cost||UT adviser Manoj Parida’s recent tweet urging Chandigarh residents not to give money to beggars clearly highlights the administration’s failure in rehabilitating beggars. Parida said the beggars could not be jailed since “beggary is not a crime,” to which Rajesh Jogpal, a Haryana-cadre Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer and former Panchkula MC commissioner, responded (also in a tweet): “The Chandigarh administration has adopted Haryana Prevention of Beggary Act 1971, under which beggary is a crime.” Jogpal also said that Chandigarh had three certified institutions to house people nabbed for begging. Provisions say they can’t be jailed, but put in these institutions. Given that the tricity is also coping with the Covid-19 pandemic, to have people subsisting on meagre earnings from begging, living in unhygienic conditions and sleeping in the open is clearly an invitation to disaster. Not just that, to have families without a source of income, living under the open skies with no idea where their next meal is coming from, underlines the failure of society to provide them the requisite support to help them join the mainstream. Tricity authorities should realise that simply allowing people to beg reflects badly on them and on their will, administrative capabilities or whatever you choose to call it, to do everything possible to end this problem. Right thinking individuals in charge should put their heads together to look for a way out – including providing beggars skills training, mental and physical health treatment, drug rehabilitation, education and work. A sustained rehabilitation programme to mainstream them with a source of livelihood as well as social intervention seems to be the best solution.People who give money to beggars and encourage idleness and crime should also be penalised. The lockdown after the Covid-19 outbreak too has led to millions of jobs drying up. If urgent measures are not taken going forward to generate more employment, begging and associated health and law and order problems are set to rise exponentially.Can an exhaustive survey be undertaken to identify beggars in the tricity and cross-border checks imposed to make them stay within their own territories? From family planning measures to education – can the remaining beggars then be monitored and rehabilitated? This is the time to put an end to an age-old scourge that Indians have become accustomed to living with. How society can figure out a way to do this is the bigger question. THE END What is the best solution to the problem of begging?What needs to be done to stop this problem of begging? Send your responses with a photograph to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by August 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-stop-begging-in-tricity-at-any-cost/story-inq7flrwy1Av66ub8HyApN.html
01-08-2020||Dehradun||India’s first snow leopard conservation centre to come up in Uttarakhand||Taking another step towards conservation of elusive snow leopards, India’s first Snow Leopard Conservation Centre will be opened in Uttarkashi forest division in Uttarakhand, officials informed.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat along with state forest minister and officials from the state forest department took a meeting in this regard on Saturday. The conservation centre will be built by the Uttarakhand forest department along United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) as part of its six-year long project, SECURE Himalayas. The project aims at securing livelihoods, conservation, sustainable use and restoration of high range Himalayan ecosystems. The project also looks into conversation of snow leopards and other endangered species and their habitats, found in Himalayas. This project was started in 2017. Chief minister Rawat said that special efforts should be made to conserve and increase the number of snow leopards in the state. “Areas where snow leopards have been seen in the last few years, such areas should be identified by the forest department in collaboration with local people and military forces. Snow leopards should be estimated in these areas by making grids. The conservation of snow leopards and other wildlife in the area will give a boost to winter tourism in the state,” said Rawat. He said that there are many species of wildlife in the hilly regions of Uttarakhand, which become the centre of attraction for tourists. The chief minister was apprised by officials that snow leopards have been frequently sighted in in Uttarkashi and Pithoragarh districts but an estimation has not been conducted so far. There are currently 86 snow leopards in Uttarakhand based on various researches. JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand said that the conservation centre will be built at a place named Lanka, near Bhaironghati bridge in Uttarkashi district. “The snow leopard conservation centre aims to protect the animal with the help local community and also give employment to locals from nearby villages through tourism. Today (Saturday) a presentation was made in front of the chief minister where the design of the conservation centre and other details were discussed,” said the chief wildlife warden. Rajiv Bhartari, chairman of Uttarakhand Biodiversity Board who was also a part of the meeting said that the aim of the conservation centre is to generate awareness amongst people about the elusive big cat. “Architect Anne Feenstra shared details of how the snow leopard conservation centre will be; it will have three blocks, a learning block, a café block and a forest department facility. Given that the centre will be made at such a height, the structure is very important so that it withstands the extreme snowfall and the heat level is maintained in a sustainable manner,” said Bhartari. He added that the centre through the café block and souvenir shops aims to give employment to locals from five villages in that area. The snow leopard is a Schedule I animal under Wildlife Protection Act of India and is listed as “endangered” by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. The animal faces many threats to its existence due to poaching and habitat destruction. It inhabits the Himalayas at elevations ranging from 3,000 to 4,500 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/india-s-first-snow-leopard-conservation-centre-to-come-up-in-uttarakhand/story-sLcB2QhA1Ttx6BpeH92zpI.html
01-08-2020||Pune||PMC, administration meet pvt labs; ask them to first submit reports to authorities||The district administration and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have asked private laboratories to inform them about the results of the Covid-19 tests they conduct, instead of contacting patients directly, to prevent bed mismanagement. “Private labs can test people who approach them, but they should first inform authorities instead of directly calling up the patients. This way we can ensure proper bed management, and improve contact tracing, which will help us identify more positive patients,” said Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, said, “It is true that the coordination needs to improve. Data from private labs goes directly to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It also creates differences between PMC and state Covid numbers every day. We are working on it and in the next two -three days, the issue will be sorted out.”The state government had allowed private labs to conduct Covid-19 tests after ICMR approval and even fixed the test rates. However, there have been a series of complaints that labs are not submitting information to the PMC. Earlier, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol had even raised questions about the coordination between private labs and the administration. The mayor appealed to the administration to appoint a deputy collector level officer to ensure better management.During a meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday, the mayor and other representatives had raised this issue as many patients were reported running from one hospital to another hospital in search of beds. The chief minister asked the administration to ensure that private labs submit all information of positive patients to the PMC.A patient from Vishrantwadi, said, “We got tested at a private lab and three members of our family were positive. We preferred to go for home isolation. Irony is that PMC was not aware that we tested positive for Covid and did nothing to isolate us in our society and did not even call us to cross check. We came to know that the PMC did not get our information from the lab. We called the PMC and informed them of our results. However, no one came forward to check our contacts. We, then, informed all the people we met and requested them to get tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-administration-meet-pvt-labs-ask-them-to-first-submit-reports-to-authorities/story-d1Si6WJnmICqSCe27trGhN.html
01-08-2020||Dehradun||Three Covid-19 positive patients die in Uttarakhand, state tally rises to 7,447||Uttarakhand on Saturday reported 264 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 7,447. Three Covid-19 positive patients also died in the state. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Saturday evening, 264 fresh cases included maximum 95 from Nainital district. The other districts reported, Almora (4), Bageshwar (31), Champawat (4), Dehradun (27), Haridwar (42), Pauri (4), Pithoragarh (7), Rudraprayag (1), Tehri (2), US Nagar (30) and Uttarkashi (17). According to health bulletin released by the state health department, a 42-year-old man who died in AIIMS Rishikesh on July 31 due to type 1 respiratory failure, ARDS and Covid-19 pneumonia. A 42-year-old man who died at Government Doon Medical College on July 31 and the death summary is awaited. Another 49-year-old positive man died in Sushila Tiwari Government Hospital in Haldwani on July 31 due to CVA, myocardial infarction, left sided hemiparesis, septicimia and shock. A total of 83 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now with 13 patients dying due to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The rest of the positive patients died due to comorbidities and other causes, added health officials. Many of 264 fresh cases were reported in case of people who had travel history from Delhi-NCR, Karnataka, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Arunachal Pradesh. Of the fresh cases, 178 were contacts of earlier positive cases which included seven army personnel from Pithoragarh district. Five healthcare workers and four police staff also tested positive on Saturday while 16 people were detected positive at flu clinic. Also, 162 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Saturday with a maximum of 53 from Dehradun district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 23.80 days, while the infection rate is 4.62%. The state has so far tested over 1.72 lakh samples of which results of over 8,000 are awaited. Anoop Nautiyal, the founder of Dehradun-based think tank Social Development for Communities that has been analysing the Covid-19 data in the hill state, said that recovery rates for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand have reduced dramatically. “We are now at 58%, a drop of 23% from a recovery rate of 81% in the beginning of July. While hill districts of Bageshwar, Chamoli and Tehri are at top; plain districts of Haridwar and US Nagar languish at the bottom,” said Nautiyal. He further said that in Unlock 2.0 from July 1- July 31, cluster cases from marriage functions, factories, hospitals have increased with most cases being “local cases from community or health workers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/three-covid-19-positive-patients-die-in-uttarakhand-state-tally-rises-to-7-447/story-8lxLAOe3xVXwRJMIWROPDI.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||A juvenile can’t be denied bail merely on report of threat to life: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that merely an apprehension that a juvenile in conflict with law could be harmed, is no ground to deny bail.The HC bench of Justice GS Sandhawalia said that bail to a juvenile ‘is a rule’. “It will not be fair as such that he should continue to be detained in juvenile home on this aspect,” the court said, while referring to a social background report which had been furnished by the child welfare police officer, wherein it is observed that life of a child in conflict with law is in danger if he is set free.The court said that if there is any danger to life of the juvenile, it is for his family to approach the state to protect him from the threat perception. “If he is not released on bail, he will only be exposed to other children who have also been detained on account of having committed offences. The ends of justice will not be served if the petitioner is kept in juvenile home during pendency of trial. Possibility of the petitioner being misguided by other accused in calling the deceased cannot be discounted,” the bench observed, ordering his release on bail. The court also took note of the fact that he and his family had no other criminal cases against them.The order came in a bail plea filed by a juvenile, aged 16 years. The juvenile was among three persons booked in a murder case reported in November 2019. The allegations were that the boy called the deceased on some pretext and then two more persons joined in and the victim was allegedly burnt to death.The crime was a result of the victim’s brother marrying the sister of two other accused against wishes of the family. The Juvenile Justice Board had denied bail in December 2019.The order was upheld by the district and sessions court, Mansa, in February this year, which prompted the family to approach HC. The Mansa court had denied bail observing that the juvenile will be exposed to physical danger since the dispute arose out of honour killing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/a-juvenile-can-t-be-denied-bail-merely-on-report-of-threat-to-life-hc/story-dvPMbCoMg0YLuDFrZPdwFL.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Is it so difficult to wear masks, questions Punjab CM||Taking a serious note of the “highly irresponsible” behaviour of people who continue to put lives of others at risk by violating the covid safety rules, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday warned of serious consequences for the state, which is witnessing a spike in cases over the past few days.Stating that the state reported 665 cases on Friday, which also saw 4,900 challans being issued for covid violations, Captain asked why it was so difficult to wear masks, wash hands and not spit on roads.“Don’t people care about their fellow beings?” he questioned those who insist on continuously ignoring his appeals to adhere to all safety norms. Citing examples of Maharashtra and Delhi, he said that safety of Punjab is in hands of people.During his weekly Facebook Live #AskCaptain interaction, the CM added that his government has announced opening of gyms from August 5 in line with the central government’s Unlock 3.0 guidelines, but they will need to strictly adhere to protocol and directives of the health department.Stressing on the need for precautions and early detection to save lives, Captain reiterated his appeal for recovered covid patients to donate plasma, for which a plasma bank is already operational and two more are all set to come up in state.“If I was a recovered patient, I would have definitely donated plasma,” he said, adding that he has already directed that plasma be made available free of cost at all government and private hospitals.In response to a request from a Ludhiana resident for daily updates on bed availability to be posted on Cova app, the CM said he will direct the health department to arrange for the same.On a question from Kargil Gallantry Award and Sena Medal winner Balkar Singh from Barnala regarding one-rank promotion for police and defence personnel as announced earlier, the CM said the state government is committed to giving one-step promotion to the Gallantry Award winners.On some Punjabi singers promoting gun culture, the CM appealed to all artistes to stop singing such songs and promote Punjab’s culture and ideology instead.When a Rajpura resident raised concern on the issue, he said that arresting singers is no real solution and these singers need to understand the negative impacts of such songs on youth.The CM asked Hoshiarpur DC to submit a report within a week on complaint of Commodore VK Gautam Retd NM alleging fabrication of revenue records by circle revenue officer of Mukerian to omit the process of auction to blackmail him after he purchased a property in auction. Captain said the matter is serious and action will be taken against the guilty.The Punjab government will soon introduce urine test every six months for dispensing de-addiction drugs to check abuse.A Ludhiana youth requested the CM to direct OOAT clinics to give 10 days’ medicine at a time as per past practice, as otherwise a lot of time is wasted every day in long queues to get daily dose of medication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/is-it-so-difficult-to-wear-masks-questions-punjab-cm/story-389NkumzMIL6BYDNA22azH.html
01-08-2020||City||9 injured in group clash over loud music in Mohali’s Jagatpura village||Nine persons were injured in a clash between two groups over loud music at a party in Mohali’s Jagatpura village. The injured have been identified as Rashid, Arshad, Sahil, Dinesh, Amresh, Manu, Manju and Rekha, all residents of Jagatpura, which is situated near Sector 48. They are undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.Sources said the two groups entered into a brief argument before coming to blows. Even sharp-edged weapons were used, leaving nine of them injured. “Medical reports are awaited. The injuries are mostly blunt, but we are still investigating,” said inspector Daljit Singh, station house officer, Sohana. Police were still in the process of recording statements and had not registered any FIR till the time of filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-injured-in-group-clash-over-loud-music-in-mohali-s-jagatpura-village/story-Qy8V4Ui7irTnr7FehJ5qgN.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Heavy to very heavy rains likely in Mumbai between August 3-5||Mumbai and some other districts in Maharashtra are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall in a few places from August 3 till August 5, said the India Meteorological Department on Saturday.The places likely to get heavy to very heavy rainfall during this period, apart from Mumbai, are Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Beed, Latur and Osmanabad districts.Places in Nanded, Hingoli, Parbhani, Jalna, Sangli and Aurangabad are likely to receive light to moderate rain till August 5, the IMD forecast added.As per IMD classification, “heavy to very heavy rainfall” means precipitation ranging from 64.5 mm to 204.4 mm in a period of 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-to-very-heavy-rains-likely-in-mumbai-between-august-3-5/story-uiX9UqSnpvERw5CvERKGxN.html
01-08-2020||Patna||Flood situation worsens in Bihar; 2 more die, close to 50 lakh affected||Floods claimed two more lives in Bihar on Saturday taking the death toll to 13, while the number of people affected by the calamity inched closer to 50 lakh as the waters of overflowing rivers reach fresh areas of the state’s northern part.According to the bulletin issued by the state disaster management, two fresh casualties were reported from Muzaffarpur district. Earlier, Darbhanga and West Champaran had reported seven and four deaths respectively.The number of people affected by the floods, across 14 districts, stood at 49.05 lakhs, up from 45.39 lakhs on Friday.The number of affected panchayats too has risen to 1,043 from 1,012 on the previous day.According to the department, the state has received a total average rainfall of 768.5 mm since the onset of monsoon, which was 46 per cent above normal.This has led to a rise in water levels of most rivers flowing through the state, especially those originating in Nepal and crisscrossing the northern districts, known for bringing along huge deposits of silt.More than a quarter of the affected populace resides in the three adjoining districts of East Champaran, Gopalganj and Saran, all of which fall in the Gandak basin, named after the river that enters Bihar from Nepal through the remote West Champaran district.Other rivers which have been flowing above danger levels at various places include Koshi, Budhi Gandak, Kamla, Bagmati and Adhwara.Besides these districts, those ravaged by the deluge so far are Khagaria, Kishanganj, Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Sheohar, Siwan and Samastipur.Sixteen cattle have also been killed in the floods till date, according to the bulletin.Relief and rescue work is, meanwhile, in full swing with 29 teams of NDRF and SDRF pressed into service. The number of people evacuated till date was 3.92 lakh, an addition of about 16,000 since the previous day.Only 26,732 people have, however, taken shelter at 19 relief camps. Care was being taken to ensure that social distancing measures and other precautions against the COVID 19 pandemic were in place at the camps and community kitchens set up for flood victims.Close to 9 lakh people were being fed at 1,340 community kitchens, which are functioning in 11 of the affected districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/flood-situation-worsens-in-bihar-2-more-die-close-to-50-lakh-affected/story-MS93F088xIbcBNdSFPMlZI.html
01-08-2020||Pune||Three arrested for robbery at Market Yard||The Anti-Narcotics Cell (West) of the Crime Branch on Saturday arrested three persons for robbery at Market Yard on July 29.The arrested have been identified as Thapa alias Vikas Govind Kamble (21), a resident of Lohianagar; Mayur Suresh Jadhav (19), a resident of Janta Vasahat and Akshay Ramesh Navle (19), a resident Janta Vasahat.On July 29, an offence of 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered at the Market Yard crime branch in which the accused had robbed complainant Sumatilal Ostwal of Rs 3.3 lakh. Based on technical analysis and close circuit television (CCTV) footage analysis, crime branch sleuths - Ramesh Chaudhar, PSI Dattaji Mohite; head constable Uday Kalbhor, Sunil Chikhale, Ramesh Garud and driver Mohan Yelpalle under the guidance of DCP (crime) Bacchhan Singh arrested the accused. According to the crime branch, a total recovery of Rs 3.63 lakh has been made, which includes cash worth Rs 2.88 lakh. Besides, one motorcycle used to commit the crime valued at Rs 75,000 has also been seized from the accused. Investigation is underway to establish the role of any other accused, and more victims of these accused. The accused have been handed over to the Market Yard police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/three-arrested-for-robbery-at-market-yard/story-dHnI6ybNJIdup4E9MfwIRJ.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||This Independence Day, Punjab CM will unfurl Tricolour in Mohali||Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh will unfurl the national flag in Mohali on the occasion of Independence Day, while Punjab Vidhan Sabha speaker Rana KP Singh will unfurl the Tricolour in Rupnagar, and Punjab Vidhan Sabha deputy speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti in Faridkot.As per the programme released by the general administration department of the Punjab government, state medical education and research minister OP Soni will unfurl the national flag in Amritsar, state water supply and sanitation minister Razia Sultana in Barnala, state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal in Bathinda, state welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in Ferozepur, and state local government minister Brahm Mohindra in Fatehgarh Sahib.Similarly, state rural development and panchayat minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa will unfurl the Tricolour in Gurdaspur, state industry and commerce minister Sundar Sham Arora in Hoshiarpur, state cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa in Jalandhar, state food and civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu in Ludhiana, state revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar in Mansa, state sports and youth affairs minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi in Muktsar, state social security, women and child development minister Aruna Chaudhary in Pathankot, state health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in Patiala, state public works minister Vijay Inder Singla in Sangrur, state technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi in SBS Nagar, and state water resources minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria in Tarn Taran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/this-independence-day-punjab-cm-will-unfurl-tricolour-in-mohali/story-55PZT17sN6LtmTn3jdc2RN.html
01-08-2020||City||Panchkula tally climbs to 599 with 38 fresh infections in district||The number of Covid-19 cases climbed to 599 in Panchkula district, with 38 fresh infections being reported on Saturday. Of these five are ITBP personnel, all in their 30s.The past four days account for 25% of the cases reported so far, with maximum of 46 surfacing on July 29, followed by 34 and 29 on July 30 and 31, respectively.Many cases are being reported from rural belts, with a fresh one surfacing at Marranwala village in Kalka, which was sealed on Friday after reporting 20 infections in four days.Four women also tested positive at Tapriyan village while a case each surfaced in Hangoli, Kheri, Kundi, Vasudevpura, Nawannagar and Bitna.As many as 11 people tested positive in Panchkula city, with cases spread across Sectors 2, 4, 10, 12, 15, 21 and 25 besides Mansa Devi Complex. Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the process to declare these areas as containment zones has started and infected persons have been kept in isolation.With 296 patients discharged so far and two succumbing to the disease, 301 cases remain active in the district. Reports of 191 people are pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-tally-climbs-to-599-with-38-fresh-infections-in-district/story-W7h4jF9bg4q2BOgxTsEirM.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 9,601 Covid-19 cases in day; tally at 4,31,719||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally spiked by 9,601 new cases to 4,31,719 on Saturday, the state health department said.With 322 fatalities, the toll went up to 15,316, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said.A total of 10,725 patients were discharged in the day, raising the count of recovered cases to 2,66,883.Maharashtra now has 1,49,214 active cases.Mumbai city reported 1,047 new cases, taking the tally to 1,15,331 while suburbs added 2,995 new cases.The death toll in Mumbai now stands at 6,398.The number of cases in Mumbai Metropolitan Region reached 2,42,778 with 9,766 fatalities, it said.A total of 21,94,943 people have been tested so far in the state for Covid-19, the department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-9-601-covid-19-cases-in-day-tally-at-4-31-719/story-Kw31u9D8a0MHqq60WImyAJ.html
01-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 1,118 fresh coronavirus cases, death toll nears 4,000||Delhi on Saturday recorded another round of 1,118 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the cumulative tally recorded to 1,36,716. The national capital has 10,596 active cases as of Saturday out of which 5,660 people are being treated in home isolation, according to the health bulletin released by the government. With 26 new deaths in the last 24 hours, the cumulative death toll has reached close to 4,000-mark at 3,989. Out of the total infected, 1,22,131 have recovered, taking the recovery rate of national capital to 89.3 per cent. A significant reduction in Delhi’s containment zone was also recorded after the authorities conducted a review. From over 700 restricted zones in July end, the containment zones have been reduced to 496, allowing activities prescribed under the Unlock 3 guidelines released by the ministry of home affairs. As of Saturday, Delhi has conducted over 10 lakh tests, out of which 18,154 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, taking the positivity rate of cases to 6.1 per cent. Delhi has conducted 55,312 tests per million, according to the data released by the state government. Delhi has 16,238 beds available for those infected by the coronavirus (Covid-19), out of which 4,320 are occupied by people, including those travelling to Delhi, by Vande Bharat Mission and Bubble flights initiatives started by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-1-118-fresh-coronavirus-cases-death-toll-nears-4-000/story-CjuC9277qLSYx7lvaW8rDP.html
01-08-2020||Pune||CBI arrests two bank staffers for demanding Rs 2 lakh bribe||Pune The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested a relationship manager and a rural sales executive of HDFC Bank of Baramati branch in a bribery case involving a sum of rupees two lakh. An FIR has been lodged under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. According to the complaint, it is alleged that the bank’s relationship manager demanded a bribe of Rs 2.70 lakh from the complainant for the sanction and disbursement of loan of Rs 99 lakh from HDFC Bank, Baramati branch. The complainant alleged that the bribe amount was later negotiated to Rs 2.25 lakh and the accused sent his junior (rural sales executive) to collect the money from the complainant. CBI laid a tap and caught the rural sales executive red-handed while accepting the bribe from the complainant. Later, the relationship manager was also arrested. Searches were conducted at the office and residential premises of the accused in Baramati. The arrested accused were scheduled to be produced before a court at Pune on Friday, the CBI press statement said. HDFC Bank public relations department in a statement said, “The matter has been brought to our notice. As a responsible corporate, we have zero-tolerance toward any such deviations or act by employees. Appropriate staff action will be initiated and we will also support the police in their investigation”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cbi-arrests-two-bank-staffers-for-demanding-rs-2-lakh-bribe/story-MOZGtW55x4dH0ApbyunS9N.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police constable’s body with bullet wound recovered from his car near MLA Hostel in Chandigarh||A 23-year-old Punjab Police constable’s body with a bullet wound was found in his car parked outside Punjab MLA Hostel in Chandigarh in wee hours of Saturday. Deputed with the 82 battalion of Punjab Police in Chandigarh, he belonged to Jalandhar and was on security duty at the Punjab and Haryana high court. Police recovered his 9mm service pistol, from which the bullet was fired, and a mobile phone from his Maruti Baleno. “Initial investigation points at suicide, but we are probing other angles too. The car was locked from inside. The bullet had entered through the chin,” said inspector Sher Singh, station house officer, Sector 3. No suicide note has been recovered and the family has ruled out foul play, he said.The victim’s colleague who stayed with him in the barracks near the MLA hostel, told police that he used to return after his duty at 5pm daily, but failed to show up on Friday. On waking up in the middle of the night and finding him missing, the colleague went out and found his car parked there. On peeping through the window, he found him in the driver’s seat and bleeding.Police received information around 3am and the body was rushed to the PGIMER, where he was declared brought dead. Police have initiated inquest proceedings. The postmortem is likely to be conducted on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-police-constable-s-body-with-bullet-wound-recovered-from-his-car-near-mla-hostel-in-chandigarh/story-4MdkO1zY57Y38lvYRBO7FJ.html
01-08-2020||City||Mohali district sees 15th Covid-19 fatality, steepest single-day spike with 44 cases||A 65-year-old man from Kansal suffering from both diabetes and hypertension died a day after testing positive for coronavirus disease, taking the number of fatalities due to the infection in Mohali district to 15 on Saturday.The development comes as the district recorded the steepest single-day spike with 44 Covid-19 cases surfacing on Saturday. “The 65-year-old comorbid man was a patient of chronic disease, though he was asymptomatic to Covid-19. He tested positive on July 31 at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh,” said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. “According to his family, he was due for a surgery at a private hospital in Mohali. He died on the way to the hospital, probably due to a heart attack, on Saturday.” The total number of cases in the district has gone up to 894,of which 351 are active. As many as 528 patients have successfully recuperated, of whom 14 were discharged on Saturday, according to the daily bulletin.The fresh cases are scattered all over the district, with maximum (21) reported from Dera Bassi subdivision, followed by 13 from Kharar and 10 from Mohali subdivision. Interstate movement a challenge: Civil surgeon “Mohali faces greater challenges compared to other districts as there is constant movement of people to and from Panchkula, Chandigarh and even Himachal Pradesh,” said the civil surgeon. “A large number of people from other states either live or work here. So, controlling Covid spread in Mohali does not mean just taking care of the local population but also requires hashing and rehashing strategy in sync with neighbouring states,” he said. Health teams are working round the clock and collecting 450 to 500 samples daily, and nine flu clinics are operational and are supported by 18 sampling teams, said the civil surgeon, adding that health workers are also screening every entrant to the city be it via road, rail or air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-district-sees-15th-covid-19-fatality-steepest-single-day-spike-with-44-cases/story-WPVvWiZjtj8A2Toauuie3H.html
01-08-2020||City||CM should own responsibility for hooch tragedy, step down: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said, “Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh heads a murderous government which has the blood of over 80 Punjabis on its hands.”Sukhbir, who visited Tarn Taran and Muchhal village in Amritsar, to meet families of those who died of consuming poisonous liquor, said, “The hooch tragedy is a direct and natural consequence of the patronage given to Congress leaders, including ministers and MLAs, for freely carrying out rampant illicit liquor trade in state.”“It is murder. All guilty, including ministers and ruling party’s MLAs should be arrested,” he added. He warned the CM against “making scapegoats to shield himself and his colleagues” who are “directly responsible for the tragedy”.Sukhbir said that more tragedies like this can happen anytime as “there is no stopping the Congress ministers and MLAs under the CM’s patronage from carrying on the illicit liquor trade”.“The CM cannot escape responsibility. He not only heads the excise department but had also been forewarned by us against such tragedy. But he kept ridiculing our warnings out of greed for quick money through illicit liquor trade,” he claimed. The SAD president demanded Rs 25 lakh compensation and job for each bereaved family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cm-should-own-responsibility-for-hooch-tragedy-step-down-sukhbir/story-vCYEScLrg3Zc9PmhQJgAbN.html
01-08-2020||Delhi||Number of Covid-19 containment zones down to 496 in Delhi||The number of Covid-19 containment zones has come down to 496 in Delhi after an extensive review by the AAP government, providing relief to thousands of people living in such restricted areas.The number of containment zones was 715 in Delhi by the end of July, affecting nearly 3.5 lakh people. With the number going down to 496, the movement of only about one lakh people will be affected, Revenue Minister Kailash Gahlot said in a statement on Saturday.The review of the containment zones by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government comes after a Union health ministry memorandum earlier this week, allowing all states and Union territories to de-notify a containment zone 14 days after the discharge of the last Covid-19 patient, officials said. Earlier such a de-notification could be done 28 days after the discharge of the last patient.“As desired by Honble CM @ArvindKejriwal all the containment zones in Delhi were extensively reviewed in last 2 days with each District DM and surveillance Team,” Gahlot said in a tweet.  A locality is declared a containment zone by the district authorities in Delhi if three or more persons there test positive for Covid-19.Reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the national capital on June 29, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had expressed concern over the large size of the containment zones as it restricted the movement of a huge population, Gahlot said.“During the last two days, an extensive review of containment zones was carried out with Revenue and Health officials. The result has been quite satisfactory. Against 715 containment zones affecting 348099 people, the number of containment zones is now down to 496, which affects the movement of 10,6211 people,” the minister said in the statement.The situation was again re-assessed by the chief minister, who directed such reviews at regular intervals.The Delhi government had been demanding changes in the containment zone norms as some restricted areas in the city were under a complete lockdown for three-four months with a large number of people forced to stay indoors, a senior government officer said.He said the redesigning of the containment zones will affect a lesser number people, while pointing out that the Rajnagar containment zone in southwest-Delhi, which affected around 43,000 residents earlier, will affect only about 1,600 people after the exercise.All entry and exit points are barricaded in a containment zone to prevent any movement of the residents. Police personnel are deployed to keep a watch on it, while necessary supplies are provided to the people in such zones at their doorstep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/number-of-covid-19-containment-zones-down-to-496-in-delhi/story-oPjTsT1v7UeBpU2P0xNLyK.html
01-08-2020||Kolkata||Bengal governor raises questions over funding of state’s Global Business Summit||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has raised questions over the funding of the Mamata Banerjee administration’s flagship annual investors’ meet, Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS). The governor has asserted that more money was spent in organising these events since 2015 than the investments that these summits have attracted. He has also raised questions about the funding agencies through which payments have been made to organise such events. “Assertion is that more amount is spent in BGBS than the investment generated on the ground,” Dhankhar tweeted on Saturday. He has sought a response from the state finance secretary about the details of the funds that have been spent into organising these summits, investments accrued and the jobs generated. The BGBS, which started in 2015, is attended by Union ministers and top industrialists. The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) had many times claimed that these events have generated business proposals amounting to thousands of crores while highlighting the achievements of Banerjee’s administration. Dhankhar has also raised questions about fiscal irregularities and patronage of these summits. “Issues of fiscal irregularities and patronage are also raised,” he tweeted. Dhankhar has sought details of the agencies through which funding has been made to organise the annual events and whether the payment was made directly or through the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI). “The governor has every right to seek any information he wants from the state government. However, tweeting about these and going to the press every time is unbecoming of a governor. He has failed to maintain the sanctity of his position,” said Tapas Roy, a TMC leader and one of the party’s spokespersons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-governor-raises-questions-over-funding-of-state-s-global-business-summit/story-QDRqIdfl4aMT8Q83N6ucMP.html
01-08-2020||City||Karnal woman found dead, husband, his 3 relatives booked for murder||A 25-year-old woman was found dead near the new grain market in Nissing village of Karnal on Friday following which her husband and three in-laws were booked. The deceased has been identified as Neeru Rani, a resident of Indira Awas Colony of Nissing. Her brother told the police that Neeru had got married to the accused, Shishpal, seven years ago and the couple has two daughters. However, their relationship started deteriorating a few years ago. Shishpal allegedly used to thrash Neeru, which led her to move to her parents’ house in Sadar Bazar a few days ago.On Friday morning, Shishpal allegedly came to take her home, however, a few hours later, she was found dead near the grain market.Based on the victim’s brother’s statement, police have booked the husband and three of his relatives under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.As per preliminary probe, Neeru had been strangulated to death but police are waiting for the post-mortem report for confirmation. Nissing police station in-charge Ramphal said the body was handed over to the family after post-mortem. The accused are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-woman-found-dead-husband-his-3-relatives-booked-for-murder/story-DsS9omQA4RELRFKPNUXcKO.html
01-08-2020||City||Need new policy on leasing of panchayat land: Cheema||Sangrur Leader of opposition in the state assembly Harpal Singh Cheema has questioned the existing process of leasing out panchayat lands in Punjab. Cheema visited families protesting against the ‘fake’ (dummy) auction of panchayat land in May-end at Gharachon village on Saturday. “A new policy must to formulated to give direct benefits to landless farmers, and others from backward classes and dalit communities. Nowadays, a shabby game is being played by leaders of the ruling party to leverage the existing policy to their own interests,” Cheema claimed.  He flayed the detention of around 100 dalit women and men by the police in connection with the police on Wednesday and said he would ensure that the rights of the landless farmers were not compromised. He also demanded the dismissal of all cases registered against protesting members of the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-new-policy-on-leasing-of-panchayat-land-cheema/story-OvpkeVV0hnx3UtzTfgxMCN.html
01-08-2020||City||Child marriage in Ludhiana: 16-year-old girl’s mother, groom booked||Acting on a case of a child marriage, the Salem Tabri police in Ludhiana have booked the groom, the minor girl’s mother and her aide. The accused have been identified as Pooja Verma of Preet Nagar of Moga, Gurwinder Gill and Gaurav.The matter came to fore on the complaint of the father of the 16-year-old girl. Parmod Kumar Verma, 39, of Kanija village, told the police that he and Pooja had three children – Kashish, 16, Nikhil, 14 and Chahat, 5.His wife had been living separately since September 12, 2018. A few days ago, his son told him that Pooja had married off Kashish to a Moga man.On digging deeper, he found out Kashish was forcibly married off to one Gurwinder Gill and approached the police.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Deepak Pareek said following the father’s complaint, Pooja, Gurwinder and her aide, Gaurav, were booked under Sections 9 and 10 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. “The minor girl was sent to a shelter home,” the ADCP added. No arrests have been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/child-marriage-in-ludhiana-16-year-old-girl-s-mother-groom-booked/story-R9zNjTnw9EGUmaO4EMnNkO.html
01-08-2020||City||Day after FIR, Youth Akali Dal cries foul, says police going soft on Congress, AAP||A day after being booked for holding a protest against a private hospital for “refusing treatment to a critical Covid patient”, Youth Akali Dal’s (YAD) district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha accused the Captain Amarinder Singh-led state government of quelling protests that exposed the state of Punjab’s healthcare system.Gosha alleged the police were using different yardstick for registering cases. “In the last one week, both the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party have organised gatherings and violated social distancing norms, but no case was registered. However, an FIR was lodged after YAD held a protest,” he added. Gosha said even health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu attended a function near Raikot on Friday where a large number of people were present. “Besides, the AAP submitted a memorandum to officials on Friday, where again social distancing norms were violated. Chairman of the Mullanpur market committee assumed charge in presence of a crowd and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu was the chief guest. Police should register a case against the Congress and AAP leaders as well,” he demanded, while adding he will continue to “expose private hospitals and state government”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-fir-youth-akali-dal-cries-foul-says-police-going-soft-on-congress-aap/story-1jtl92A7sAud7Sw0Uf1xjK.html
01-08-2020||City||2 Sangrur men die of covid-19, 18 test positive||Sangrur A 37-year-old man from Sunam and a 43-year-old man from Lehra died due to covid-19 at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on Saturday, with 18 testing positive. Of these, seven are from Sangrur (prisoners), five from Moonak (prisoners), two from Sunam and one each from Longowal, Kauhrian, Dhuri and Bhawanigarh. To date, Sangrur has seen 28 deaths due to the disease with 1,075 cases. The Sangrur administration has set up a special Covid Care Ward for pregnant women at the Dhuri civil hospital, where six pregnant women have received treatment. Three healthy babies have been delivered, said Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-sangrur-men-die-of-covid-19-18-test-positive/story-E2rAXYVIVMxIStQZieVMkK.html
01-08-2020||City||Snatchers strike thrice in a day in Ludhiana||Motorycle-borne snatchers targeted two men and a woman on Friday.Three men on a bike beat up a 48-year-old man and allegedly snatched his scooter and mobile phone near the Metro store at Jalandhar Bypass.Rajesh Kamar of Durgapuri, Waddi Haibowal, told the police that he was on his way to work at Fatehgarh Gujran when the trio stopped him. They thrashed him and snatched his mobile phone, before fleeing with his scooter as well.The Salem Tabri police registered a case under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). ASI Prem Singh, who is investigating the case, said police were scanning CCTV footage to identify the accused.In another case, a woman’s mobile phone was snatched near the Circuit House.Shipra Garg, 36, of Maharaj Nagar, reported that she and her children were riding a cycle rickshaw when two motorcycle-borne men snatched her gold chain and fled.The PAU police registered a case and initiated investigation.Similarly, Rajesh Kumar, resident of Cheema Park, reported that two men on a motorcycle snatched his mobile phone while he going to Transport Nagar from Jamalpur. A case under Section 379-B of the IPC was registered against the unidentified accused at the Moti Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/snatchers-strike-thrice-in-a-day-in-ludhiana/story-ZvgaM1KqzhEGvUWvgygS4O.html
01-08-2020||City||Leopard enters residential area in Shimla’s Sanjauli, kills pet dog||Creating a stir late on Friday night, a leopard entered a residential locality in Shimla’s Sanjauli area and killed a pet dog after dragging it into the bushes nearby.The leopard had strayed into the locality surrounding the graveyard at 1:30am on Friday. After hearing the noises, residents of the locality came out in the balconies of their houses and made a video of the incident, which was widely circulated on social media.“My son made a video of the entire incident. We have informed the divisional forest officer wildlife. There is a possibility that the leopard is a man eater,” said Buddhi Ram Justa, a retired government employee. A team of forest officials visited the locality to set up cages. The leopard also wandered into a locality in Ramnagar area of Shimla which has a forest in the surrounding.In wake of increasing complaints regarding leopards sighted in residential areas, the forest department has installed cages at various localities including Bemloe, Kasumpti, Tuttikandi, Tottu, Chotta Shimla and Kalong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leopard-enters-residential-area-in-shimla-s-sanjauli-kills-pet-dog/story-fMPDEDz4Ob9OE4cSLdaGhJ.html
01-08-2020||Delhi||Nearly 1 lakh challans issued by Delhi Police between June 15 and July 31||The Delhi Police has issued nearly one lakh challans between June 15 and July 31 for not wearing masks, spitting in public places and violating social distancing norms in the national capital, officials said on Saturday. As many as 97,417 challans were issued in 15 police districts during this period, they said. Of the total number of challans, a maximum of 9,524 were issued in outer district, followed by south district 9,417, southeast district 7,724 and west district 7,507, among others. Among 83,393 challans issued in the city for not wearing masks, 9,234 were issued in the south district, 8,063 in the outer district, 6,550 in the north district, 6,189 in the southeast district and 5,980 in the west district and 3,173 in New Delhi, police said. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal had empowered health, revenue and police officials to impose fines up to Rs 1,000 for violations of norms, including non-observance of quarantine rules, non-maintenance of social distancing, not wearing a face mask in public or workplaces, spitting in public places, and consumption of paan, gutka and tobacco in public places, to contain Covid-19. A fine of Rs 500 will be imposed for a first-time offence and a fine of Rs 1,000 for repeat offenders. A total of 1,657 challans have been issued for spitting in public places. According to police, 305 challans were issued in the west district, 254 in the outer district, 228 in Shahdara and 149 in the southwest district, among others. The lowest number of challans were issued in south district at five, they said. As many as 12,367 people were fined by police for violating social distancing norms. A maximum of 1,565 challans were issued in southwest district, 1,457 in outer-north, 1,388 in southeast district and 1,222 in west district among others, police said. The Delhi Police has distributed 1,56,817 masks to the needy since June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nearly-1-lakh-challans-issued-by-delhi-police-between-june-15-and-july-31/story-UwSB6hEoQrvzSVqzk32HvK.html
01-08-2020||City||70 new Covid-19 cases in Himachal, tally now 2,634||Himachal Pradesh on Saturday recorded 70 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state tally to 2,634, officials said. Active cases in the state are now 1,103 as 43 more patients have recovered.Of the new cases, 15 were reported in Sirmaur, 11 in Bilaspur, 10 in Una, nine in Solan district, eight in Kangra, seven in Mandi district, four in Chamba, three in Shimla, two in Kullu and one in Hamirpur district.In Kangra district, a five-year-old girl of Gopalpur in Palampur tehsil and a four-year-old boy have tested positive. A 22-year-old army jawan of Salli village in Shahpur tehsil and 21-year-old army jawan of Chauki village in Jawalamukhi tehsil are also among fresh cases. Both have a travel history to Leh. Another 27-year-old army soldier of Nurpur tehsil with travel history to Delhi has tested positive. In Sirmaur, five people tested positive in Purviya Mohalla, Nahan, while one person has tested positive in ward number 3, Paonta Sahib, said deputy commissioner RK Purthi. In Chamba, an army jawan having travel history to Srinagar tested positive while three other people who work in a private company and having travel history to Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha have tested positive in Holi village. In Bilaspur, 11 people who are working in the construction work of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Kothipura site have tested positive. They have been shifted to Dedicated Covid Care Centre (DCCC) Chandpur. In Mandi district, among the new cases are five police personnel of Gohar police station. In Hamirpur, a 25-year-old man of Sujanpur has tested positive.Special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal said so far 12 deaths have been reported in the state while 1,502 patients have recovered. As many as 15 patients have migrated out of the state. With 663 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra with 468 cases. Sirmaur has 345 cases, Hamirpur 307, Una 217, 168 in Shimla, 172 in Mandi district, Chamba 109, Bilaspur 99, Kinnaur 45, and Kullu has 37 cases. Lahaul and Spiti remains the least affected district with only four cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-new-covid-19-cases-in-himachal-tally-now-2-574/story-FjzE8LNAmchwx8yceezCsL.html
01-08-2020||Bangalore||New Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant takes charge||Strengthening security and safety in Bengaluru will remain the top priority in view of many important establishments functioning in the city, said the new Bengaluru police Commissioner Kamal Pant on Saturday.The officer, who was previously ADGP (Intelligence), was transferred on Friday.He replaced Bhaskar Rao, who has now been made ADGP- Internal Security.The new commissioner told reporters that he was aware of the challenges before him as the city had witnessed serial blasts in the past. “We are alert and our action against the criminals will continue,” Pant said.A grand farewell was given to the outgoing commissioner Bhaskar Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/new-bengaluru-police-commissioner-kamal-pant-takes-charge/story-4HLvUU6eo9QgAESVzj3LfM.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Kotkhai custodial death case : Court rejects Zaidi’s plea for B-Class facility, computer||A special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has disposed of both applications of suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Zahur Haider Zaidi, an accused in the Kotkhai custodial death case.Zaidi had filed two applications seeking better facility and a computer to prepare his defence. The CBI court had issued notice to the investigating agency to file its response.On Friday, public prosecutor for the CBI, KP Singh, opposed both applications saying Zaidi is facing trial for a heinous crime and did not deserve any special treatment in custodyAfter hearing both parties, CBI special judge Sushil Kumar Garg said “There is no such provision in the Punjab jail manual, under which an undertrial prisoner can be allowed to access computers for preparing their defence. Further, no inmate is allowed to use the computer in the office for preparing his/ her defence due to security reasons.”The Burail Model Jail superintendent had informed the court that other material such a pen and paper had been provided to Zaidi and he was allowed to discuss his case with his advocate through e-mulaqat or telephone. Therefore, the court dismissed this application.With reference to the second application regarding granting B-Class status to him for being a postgraduate and income taxpayer, the judge said, “No doubt Zaidi holds a degree in bachelor of science (engineering), but he is involved in the commission of murder along with other offences, which debars him from getting B-Class facility in jail.”Stating ‘equality before law prohibits discrimination’ and ‘like should be treated alike, unlike should be treated alike’ the judge quoted Article 14 of the Constitution of India, which provides of equality before law or equal protection of the laws within the territory of India. Dismissing the application, the judge referred to a letter issued by the Punjab government, department of home affairs and justice, which has been adopted by Chandigarh administration, as per which ‘prisoners involved in a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code are not entitled to get B-Class facility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kotkhai-custodial-death-case-court-rejects-zaidi-s-plea-for-b-class-facility-computers/story-oVyDNlnMG4e1OXtGuk7TgJ.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Death toll in Punjab hooch tragedy rises to 86; 7 excise officials, six cops suspended||The death toll in the Punjab spurious liquor tragedy rose to 86 on Saturday even as Chief Minister Amarinder Singh suspended seven excise officials and six policemen, officials said.The government also announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh for each of the families of the deceased, they said.Tarn Taran alone accounted for 63 deaths, followed by 12 in Amritsar and 11 in Gurdaspur’s Batala. Till Friday night, the state had reported 39 deaths in the tragedy unfolding since Wednesday night.According to an official statement, the CM ordered the suspension of seven excise officials, along with six policemen.Among the suspended officials are two deputy superintendents of police and four station house officers.Strict action will be taken against any public servant or others found complicit in the case, said the chief minister, describing the police and excise department failure to check the manufacturing and sale of spurious liquor as shameful.Nobody will be allowed to get away with feeding poison to our people, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/death-toll-in-punjab-spurious-liquor-tragedy-rises-to-62/story-cRRu9MqeHlOjkcYR7FTxPL.html
01-08-2020||Pune||1,635 fresh Covid cases, 30 deaths on Friday in Pune||The Pune city on Friday reported 1,635 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 30 deaths, according to the state health department. This takes the progressive positive cases in the city to 58,559. However, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in its daily report recorded only 818 fresh positive cases taking the progressive positives to 54,255. While 28 more deaths were reported taking the virus-related death toll in the city to 1,312. Eleven more deaths were reported outside PMC jurisdiction, one from the Khadki cantonment area and all others from Pune rural and outside the district. The number of patients in critical care has come down to 626 from Thursday’s 927 critical patients. Also 1,185 persons were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the discharged count at 35,123. According to the information given by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department, of the 28 deaths reported on Friday, the youngest deceased patient was a 38-year-old male from Bibwewadi admitted to Morya multi-speciality hospital who had Covid infection. While the oldest deceased patient was a 97-year-old male from Baner admitted to Jupiter hospital who died due to respiratory failure with pneumonia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/1-635-fresh-covid-cases-30-deaths-on-friday-in-pune/story-weIKHi4m3wy1XuL008qSbI.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chander Trikha appointed director of Haryana Sahitya Akademi||Panchkula: Veteran author and multi-lingual expert Chander Trikha, 76, has been appointed director of the Haryana Sahitya Akademi for the second time. He will continue to hold additional charge of the Haryana Urdu Akademi. Trikha had held the charge of the director of the Haryana Sahitya Akademi from 2000-05, too. He is the founder director of the Haryana Sanskrit Akademi. He said that his first task with the Sahitya Akademi would be to give annual literary awards to writers of Haryana as these have not been given for four years. Essentially a poet, Trikha has penned 30 books of poetry and prose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chander-trikha-appointed-director-of-haryana-sahitya-akademi/story-SU5SUDh12igORWl8mcRU9K.html
01-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Coronavirus dampens festive mood on Eid al-Adha||The festive spirit of Eid al-Adha was subdued in the national capital on Saturday with the coronavirus pandemic badly hitting livestock sale for the festival of sacrifice and restricting many people to their homes. Despite just around 10,000 active Covid-19 cases in Delhi -- far better than was feared -- and easing of lockdown restrictions, many faithful preferred offering ‘namaaz’ at their homes than visiting mosques.Those who offered prayers at mosques said a fewer number of people had turned up there, and the mood was not as ebullient as previous years.Outside the Jama Masjid, the Delhi Police put up signboards requesting people to wear masks and ensure physical distancing while offering namaaz.  Imtiaz Ahmad, who offered prayers at the mosque, said the turn out was way less than before when the crowd would spill on the streets too. People wore masks, carried their own mats and avoided hugging each other, he said.Yameen Ansari, a resident of Jamia Nagar who offered prayers at Jamaat e-Islami Hind Markaz in Azu Fazal Enclave, said though some people stepped out of their homes, unlike Eid Ul Fitr in May, the festive spirit was dim.“People could step out as things are under control in Delhi. Still, they were not as cheerful as before,” he said, adding friends and family have been avoiding gatherings on the festival.Abdul Noor Shibli, a journalist, who offered prayers at the Jamaat e-Islami Hind markaz, said it was the first time in four months that he went to a mosque. He said the mosque administration had deployed volunteers for thermal screening at the entry gates.“People wore masks and brought their own mats. Stickers were pasted on the floor to help them maintain distance,” he said, adding the turnout was half of what it used to be during festivals in normal times.Umar Sheikh Mohammad, the president of the Nizamuddin West Resident Welfare Association, said he offered prayers in a nearby mosque but the crowd was thin. The 51-year-old businessman, however, said offering ‘qurbani’ was not that easy as business was down.Covid-19 has hit businesses. People who could afford four goats till last year don’t have enough money to buy even one this Eid, he said, adding, “It was also not easy to purchase a goat and bring it home, as there are restrictions on the sale of livestock due to the pandemic.”  “A large number of people could not buy a sacrificial animal because the pandemic-induced economic crisis has rendered them jobless,” Mohammad said.Mohammad Izhaar, a goat seller at the famous sarpine market near Jama Masjid, said Bakr Eid has been insipid. Every year he sold around 15-20 goats on Eid al-Adha. This year, he has sold only four, that too at a loss.“It (the pandemic) has sucked the life out of us,” he said woefully. In a world without the coronavirus, sale of goats would have fetched Rs 60,000 to Rs 70,000, but this year they were sold at half the price, Izhaar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-coronavirus-dampens-festive-mood-on-eid-al-adha/story-QzTpJPZ9lGWg3GrxiSXUgM.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM to announce setting up of 10 government girls’ colleges on Raksha Bandhan||Chandigarh: The Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government will open 10 government girls colleges in nine districts, including the backward Nuh district that has 80% Muslim population. Government sources say Khattar will announce this decision on August 3 on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. The chief minister is likely to be connected via video conference with the villagers where the colleges will be constructed. In a July 31 letter to deputy commissioners (DCs) of Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Sonepat, Kaithal, Jind, Nuh, Hisar, Bhiwani and Panchkula, the director general and secretary higher education said that Khattar will be announcing the new girls colleges coinciding with Raksha Bandhan through video conference. The colleges will be opened at Bhainswal Kalan and Baroda (Sonepat), Agroha (Hisar), Goriwala (Sirsa), Issarwal (Bhiwani), Morni (Panchkula), Pratap Nagar (Yamunanagar), Ladana Chaku (Kaithal), Chatter (Jind), and Firozpur Jhirkha (Nuh). ADMISSIONS FROM THIS SESSION These colleges will be started from the makeshift buildings of government senior secondary schools from the coming academic session. The admissions will be made from this academic session. The higher education department has asked the district administrations to make arrangements to host the video conference at respective villages. Proper backdrop of the proposed colleges will be installed at the sites where panchayat members and other citizens will be invited to attend the digital ceremony. According to official data, ever since the BJP came to power in Haryana in October 2014, the present state government has set up 52 government colleges, including 30 for girls. There are 157 government collegesin the state of which eight colleges are in Jind district alone, while 20 government colleges are running in Sonepat district. “The state government aims to open at least one college within a radius of 20 km,” state education minister Kanwar Pal had said on the floor of the Vidhan Sabha during the budget session. In another step aimed at women empowerment, Khattar announced in his budget speech that girl students will get a passport free of cost from their colleges on graduating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-cm-to-announce-setting-up-of-10-government-girls-colleges-on-raksha-bandhan/story-cv8sPxOV4yEHhiGI6oy2AO.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, lockdown in containment zones of Himachal Pradesh extended till August 31||Shimla: With Covid-19 cases on the rise in Himachal Pradesh and in view of the Centre’s Unlock 3 guidelines, the state government has extended the lockdown in containment zones till August 31 and will open up more activities with riders. According to a notification by the state’s disaster management cell, night curfew has been lifted, while yoga centres and gymnasiums will be allowed to function from August 5. All educational institutions will remain closed and inter-state public transport buses will remain suspended but taxis can ply by registering on Covid-19 e-pass. Pass-free inter-district movement of government and private buses, taxis, autos and private vehicles is allowed. CURBS ON LABOUR FROM OUTSIDE STATE All inter-state movement will be monitored through registration in the Covid e-pass software to monitor compliance with quarantine requirements and facilitate contact tracing of a person. Labourers brought from outside the state by orchardists, agriculturists, industrialists, contractors or any other persons will be registered under Covid e-pass software and will be brought with due approval of the district administration and will be quarantined, according to guidelines. They will only be allowed to work after completing quarantine period or testing negative for Covid-19. Independence Day functions at the state, district, sub division and local levels and functions organised at homes will be allowed by practising social distancing and ensuring the health protocol. Places of worship will only be opened according to the guidelines to be issued by the state’s department of language, art and culture after ensuring full readiness to comply with the SOPs. Tourism units will also be allowed to open and operated. Government offices will function according to the guidelines by the department of personnel and SOP issued by the department of revenue. Restaurants, eateries (dhabas) will also be allowed to operate. Daily or weekend commuters such as industrialists, traders, suppliers, factory workers and others are allowed to enter or exit the state by providing their details to the deputy commissioner concerned. Armed forces and central paramilitary personnel coming or crossing through the state to join back duty are allowed to pass through the state without registering in Covid-19 e-pass software on the strength of their official identity card. QUARANTINE NORMS Any person coming to the state from a highly Covid-19 infected area will be institutionally quarantined. In cases of human distress, pregnancy, death in family, serious illness and parents accompanying children below 10, home quarantine may be permitted. Asymptomatic persons coming from other states will also be allowed to be home quarantined and all those arriving from abroad will also be quarantined. Any person with flu-like symptoms will be institutionally quarantined. Any one violating home quarantine will be immediately institutionally quarantined. Any person who has fully recovered from Covid-19 and has a negative report issued through reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test by an Indian Council of Medical Research-approved laboratory on entering the state will be exempted from quarantine. GUIDELINES FOR TOURISTS Tourists with bookings for duration not less than five days and having been tested negative for Covid-19 through RT-PCR test by an ICMR-approved laboratory not earlier than 72 hours at the time of entry will be exempted from quarantine but will have to take adequate measures such as wearing masks and observing social distancing. Conditions of quarantine will be waived for students/candidates and their accompanying parents/wards who need to move in and out of state due to competitive or selection examination if they re-enter or exit the state within 72 hours. Admit cards issued by the examination authority will be considered a valid document to enter and exit the state. Community awareness about prevention of Covid-19 will also be done by non-government organisations (NGOs), community-based organisations, educational institutions conducting online classes and district administrations. Any person violating these orders will be punished under Section 51-60 of Disaster Management Act, 2005, and under Section 199 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-rising-covid-19-cases-lockdown-in-containment-zones-of-himachal-pradesh-extended-till-august-31/story-O8eWQKZnU9i8goKueKmCEJ.html
01-08-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka Agriculture Minister B C Patil, wife and son-in-law test positive for Covid-19||Karnataka Agriculture Minister B C Patil on Saturday said he and his wife have been under home quarantine after they were tested positive for coronavirus.In a video message posted on Twitter, the Minister said he and his wife Vanaja were asymptomatic and there was no need for anyone to panic.He was confident that both of them would recover and would be back to work soon.Patil had tweeted on Friday night that his son-in-law too has been found infected by the virus.Prior to Patil, Forest Minister Anand Singh and Tourism Minister C T Ravi had tested positive for Covid-19.The independent MP from Mandya Sumalatha Ambareesh recovered from coronavirus recently.Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa too was under self- isolation for some time a couple of weeks ago after a few staff at his office-cum-residence-’Krishna’ were found infected by the virus.As on Friday, 1.24 lakh people were found Covid positive of which 2,314 people lost their lives and 72,005 are recovering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-agriculture-minister-b-c-patil-wife-and-son-in-law-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-mAs1hh7wgiSTALUjoesKHP.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||37-year-old gambling business owner shot dead in Kalyan||A 37-year-old man was allegedly shot at by unidentified men in Mumbai’s Kalyan on Friday night, police said. The man suffered bullet injuries and died on the way to the hospital. Jignesh Thakkar alias Munna Bhai had been running a lottery business since the past few years. He owned the Nilam club in Kalyan West. According to Mahatma Phule Police, the unidentified men fired four bullets at Thakkar near his work place late on Friday night. He was hit by two of them and collapsed on the spot.“We are yet to identify the accused and reason behind the murder. We have registered the case and investigating the matter,” a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/37-year-old-gambling-business-owner-shot-dead-in-kalyan/story-V9gC2dBdzkmxFZfAjTdDYI.html
01-08-2020||Kolkata||Duped by fake negative Covid-19 report, Kolkata man tests positive, dies days later||A bank manager (57) was duped with a fake report that showed him coronavirus disease (Covid-19) negative, when he had contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, and died of it in a government-run hospital in Kolkata on Thursday. Kolkata Police has arrested three persons on the basis of a complaint lodged by the deceased’s wife. Further investigation is on to ascertain how rampant was the racket. “The test report was fake, as it had a handwritten specimen referral form (SRF) ID that had only nine digits. While an original report comes printed and consists of 13 digits,” said a doctor of MR Bangur Hospital in Kolkata, the largest state-run Covid-19 designated hospital in the city. Police said the bank manager was suffering from a fever, cough and common cold. His family doctor referred him to a man, who runs a pathological laboratory, as he was too weak to visit a testing centre. “The owner of the laboratory sent a youth to collect his swab sample on July 25. A day later, his family members were told over the phone that he had tested Covid-19 negative. They were given a report, where the SRF ID was written in longhand and a WhatsApp message was also sent that declared the patient as Covid-19 negative,” said an official of Netaji Nagar police station in south Kolkata. However, he was rushed to a private nursing home, when his condition worsened. Later, the nursing home authorities referred him to MR Bangur Hospital, where the doctors detected the discrepancies in the test report. “The doctors told us that the report was fake. The youth took Rs 2,000 to collect the sample. My father died on July 30 (Thursday) after he had tested Covid-19 positive in the hospital. We lost valuable time for his treatment,” said the deceased’s son. Subhash Adhikary, the officer-in-charge of Netaji Nagar police station, traced the culprits on the basis of the WhatsApp number that was used to send the message to the deceased’s family members. Brothers Indrajit Sikdar (26) and Biswajit Sikdar (23) were arrested from south Kolkata. The duo was attached to two separate state-run hospitals as contractual technicians. Another person, Anit Paira, who runs a private laboratory, was also arrested. “The Sikdars told the deceased family members that they were attached to a well-known laboratory, where swab samples are tested. Preliminary investigation, however, revealed that the duo was not attached to the laboratory and no such tests were carried out in the laboratory. They made up the fake report and used the laboratory’s name to lend credibility,” said a Kolkata Police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/duped-by-fake-negative-covid-19-report-kolkata-man-tests-positive-dies-days-later/story-qeUweQH4JH97Vh5sHHoFoK.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Madhav Kaushik appointed Press Council of India member||Chandigarh: Chandigarh poet and prose writer Madhav Kaushik, 66, has been appointed member of the Press Council of India by the president of the National Sahitya Akademi for his expertise in literature and culture. Kaushik is the president of the Chandigarh Sahitya Akademi and vice-president of the National Sahitya Akademi. He has authored 40 books of poetry and prose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-s-madhav-kaushik-appointed-press-council-of-india-member/story-g9CETFEb8hnKMPYQGPo9pJ.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Senior MMRDA falls to death from fourth floor flat in Mumbai||A senior officer of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) fell to death from his fourth floor flat in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) late on Friday night.The deceased, 55-year-old Kulvindar Singh Kapur, was the Director (System) in MMRDA.Anand Muley, senior inspector at BKC police station said Kapur fell from the fourth floor of the building. “We still do not have a clear picture whether he jumped off or accidentally fell from the flat. At the time of the incident his wife and 25-year-old son were present in the flat,” he added. “Soon after the incident he was rushed to Hinduja Hospital where he breathed his last during treatment. His body has been taken to the Sion Hospital for postmortem,” Muley added.An accidental death record (ADR) has been registered in connection with the incident and further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/senior-mmrda-falls-to-death-from-fourth-floor-flat-in-mumbai/story-oxCERjBAapaTslDBmXOOlI.html
01-08-2020||Pune||Days after ‘recovering’ from Covid-19, 100-year-old woman dies in Pune||A 100-year-old woman, who had “recovered” from Covid-19 and discharged from a facility in Pune three days ago, died at home on Friday, family members said.The woman and four other members of her family were admitted at a Covid-19 facility in Vimannagar here on July 20 after they tested positive for the infection.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here On July 28, the centenarian and other members of her family were discharged from the facility after “recovering” from the infection.The woman’s son-in-law said she had almost stopped consuming solid food and was mostly on a liquid diet.“During her treatment also, she was on a liquid diet and her movement was restricted and today she died at home,” he said.According to doctors from the Pune Municipal Corporation (BMC), when brought to the facility, the woman did not have any Covid-19 symptoms and her oxygen saturation was also normal.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage But after a couple of days, her oxygen level dropped and doctors decided to shift her to a bigger hospital.“However, due to some reasons, the said hospital did not get her admitted. She was brought back to the CCC (COVID Care Centre) facility, where she received required treatment and her condition stabilised,” Dr Ramchandra Hankare, Chief Health Officer, PMC, had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/days-after-recovering-from-covid-19-100-year-old-woman-dies-in-pune/story-Tsa7KLF6yoRMIFm0lu5KvN.html
01-08-2020||Lucknow||Eid al-Adha celebrations subdued in most parts of UP following lockdown||Celebrations of Eid al-Adha were subdued in most parts of Uttar Pradesh on Saturday following the imposition of weekend lockdown in view of the coronavirus pandemic. In Lucknow, markets remained shut in prominent areas such as Hazratganj, Aminabad, Gomtinagar, Indiranagar, Latouche Road, Alambagh, Hewett Road, Aliganj and Gudumba. There was also less movement of people on the streets of the state capital. Imam of Lucknow Eidgah Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali told PTI, “Only five people offered namaaz at Lucknow’s Eidgah. Most people offered namaaz at their homes, and also did ‘qurbaani’ in their homes. Ninety per cent of people completed their prayers in the early morning itself. By and large, there was silence in most parts of the city.” In Pratapgarh and Gorakhpur as well the Eid festivaities were rather subdued as people stayed indoors and celebrated the festival in their homes itself. In Allahabad, people offered namaaz while observing social distancing and prayed for the eradication of novelcoronavirus, while the festival was celebrated in a very subdued manner in Barabanki as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/eid-al-adha-celebrations-subdued-in-most-parts-of-up-following-lockdown/story-w7bVg7EUHWFkXV9DMxkN6K.html
01-08-2020||Education||Mother- son duo from Maharashtra clears Class 10th exams together||While most parents push their children to study hard for the Maharashtra state board exams, Baramati resident Bebi Gurav led by example, by appearing for the exam along with her son and passing out with flying colours.The 36-year-old secured 64.40 per cent marks, while her 16-year-old son Sadanand scored 73.20 per cent in the Secondary School Certificate examination, results of which were declared on July 29.“I could not complete my school education because of my marriage at a very young age. But my husband encouraged me to appear for the Class 10 exams with my son,” said Bebi, who works for a cloth manufacturing firm. The woman’s husband Pradip Gurav and her son helped her study and egged her on the journey to becoming an SSC passout.“Both my wife and son studied hard together and secured good marks. I am happy and proud of their performance,” said Gurav, a journalist with a regional daily.Bebi would carry her textbooks to work and study during breaks and revise grammar, mathematics and other subjects with her son, while cooking meals for the family.With her new-found confidence, Bebi has now set her sights on the Higher Secondary School Certificate or Class 12 examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/mother-son-duo-from-maharashtra-clears-class-10th-exams-together/story-rQqhU3TEi3tLsC0fzD9ulL.html
01-08-2020||Kolkata||Eid al-Adha celebrated in Bengal amid Covid-19 pandemic||Eid al-Adha was celebrated in West Bengal in a low-key manner this year as Muslim devotees on Saturday offered prayers at mosques and homes while maintaining social distancing norms amid surging coronavirus cases in the state.As the lockdown restrictions have been eased outside containment zones, many devotees were seen offering namaz in mosques, though the usual hustle and bustle associated with the festival was missing from the minority-dominated pockets of the city.Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar extended his Eid greetings to people.“The festival inspires us to inculcate empathy, peace and universal brotherhood. Given Covid Challenge-Need to follow safety protocols-wearing masks, practising physical distancing in celebration,” the governor said in a tweet.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also wished people on the occasion in a Facebook pictorial post.Attired in traditional clothes, the young and elderly gathered in small numbers at mosques to offer morning prayers. They avoided the usual hugging and shaking hands with each other after the prayers to prevent the spread of the infection.The authorities made elaborate arrangements to sanitise the mosque premises and thermal screening of the faithful.The sight, smell and sounds of Eid were also missing from Zakaria street, next to Nakhoda Mosque in north Kolkata, which dons a festive look every year with numerous food stalls and gift shops dotting the road on the occasion.Many devotees also offered prayers with their families at home.Bengal Imams Association president Mohammed Yahia said all 26,000 mosque committees in the state have been asked to allow 25 faithful to enter their premises during morning prayers, barring a few located in containment zones.On the occasion of Bakr Eid, devotees performed the ritual of animal sacrifice with strict adherence to precautionary norms amid the coronavirus pandemic.“We have asked everyone from the community to distribute meat among the family members and close friends, and not to anyone else keeping in mind the present situation,” Yahia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/eid-al-adha-celebrated-in-bengal-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-OC5600CgB0DjEfjZQjnG0I.html
01-08-2020||Ranchi||Ex-BJP MLA booked for ‘stealing’ soil from Sarna Sthal||The district head of a tribal organization in Ranchi has lodged a criminal case against former BJP tribal legislator Gangotri Kujur and one other person, accusing them of stealing soil from a religious tribal place for Ram temple construction in Ayodhya, officials said on Friday. “An FIR has been lodged against Kujur and one Depeswar Nath Mishra at Ranchi’s Chanho police station by Kundresi Munda, Ranchi president of Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad (ABAVP), under Sections 379, 295 and 153 of the Indian Penal Code,” police said. Kujur, however, denied the allegation, terming it as a political vendetta. “It is a baseless allegation. We had requested the Pahan (tribal priest) of the Sarna Sthal to give some soil, which will be used during ‘bhoomi pujan’ of Ram temple in Ayodhya, and he accepted our request,” he said. However, officer in-charge of Chanho police station Dileshwar Kumar said that based on the allegations in the FIR, the accused collected soil clandestinely from Sarna Sthal in Chanho without taking consent from villagers or Sarna Samaj. “We have initiated investigation in the case,” he said.The complainant said the former legislator and Mishra tried to outrage religious feelings of tribal people of Sarna by stealing soil from Sarna Sthal, pious to the tribals. “In our Sarna religion, nobody is allowed to take soil from the Sarna Sthal for any purpose.” She said they are not against construction or ‘bhoomi pujan’ of the Ram temple. “It is the pride of Hindus and we respect that. But, we are not Hindus. We have a separate religion. No one has the right to distort our beliefs,” she said. She further alleged that stealing the soil was a tactic by a section of people to exhibit that tribals are a part of the Hindu religion, which is a conspiracy to weaken their demand for a separate religion code.Tribals in Jharkhand have been demanding for Sarna as separate religious code in the Census for decades. Jharkhand Congress and Jharkhand Vikas Morcha (JVM) had also included the demand in their manifesto during the Assembly polls last year. Kujur said the allegation was to malign her image in the area. “A handful of people want to create division in the society,” Kujur said. On a call of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), soils from 2,100 religious places, including temples, Sarna Sthals, gurudwaras, Jain temples and Buddha Vihars and holy water from 51 small and big rivers in Jharkhand, were collected for ‘bhoomi pujan’ of the Ram temple, scheduled on August 5. VHP state secretary Birendra Sahu said, “We have not collected the soil, but it was the people from particular religions who had collected and given it to us. We transported the collected soil and holy water to Ayodhya on July 26.” However, the collection of soil from Sarna Sthal has created a rift among different tribal groups. While a section of tribal groups have protested it, other sections welcomed the move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/ex-bjp-mla-one-other-booked-for-stealing-soil-from-sarna-sthal-for-ayodhya-s-ram-temple/story-26nuJlmYlgh0LpU25IzCnM.html
01-08-2020||Noida||Noida police attaches builders’ ill-gotten properties worth Rs 17.25 cr||Properties worth Rs 17.25 crore belonging to “builder mafias” were attached by the Gautam Buddh Nagar police in connection with illegal constructions in Greater Noida’s Shahberi, officials said on Friday.Proceedings were launched against eight builders and their properties attached under Section 14 of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, they said.On July 17, 2018, two adjoining buildings in Shahberi village had collapsed, leaving nine people, including a child and two women, dead.A probe by local authorities and administration later found that the buildings had come up illegally and without any proper approval, as did several others over the years in Shahberi, less than 50 km from Delhi.“On instructions of Police Commissioner Alok Singh, movable and immovable properties acquired through criminal and illegal means in Shahberi by the builders’ mafia are being attached,” Deputy Commissioner of Police, Central Noida, Harish Chander said.“On Friday, properties of eight such builders estimated to be worth Rs 17.25 crore were attached,” he said.These builders have been identified as Furqan, Furqan Ahmed, Furqan Ali, Nitin Kumar, Ashish Kumar, Anees Khan, Abrar Khan and Kanha Vats, he added.The immovable properties attached include over 30 apartments and 25 shops, Chander said.Similar action against gangsters and mafia who are engaged in illegal activities would continue in the future too, he said, adding that Friday’s action was in pursuance of the proceedings initiated in the wake of the twin-building collapse two years ago.Residents of Shahberi, a notified area under the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA), however, raised concern over the police action.“The police should also make clear the location of these properties which have been attached.“If they have attached flats constructed illegally by these builders in Shahberi, then it is a mere eyewash because the Allahabad High Court vide an order in 2014 ordered status quo in Shahberi, which means no new construction could have taken place and the title (ownership of property) could not be changed until further court order,” a resident, Sachin Raghav, said. PTI KIS DIV DIV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-attaches-builders-ill-gotten-properties-worth-rs-17-25-cr/story-yCSLeDxTx5sk6Qj8I0zcwO.html
01-08-2020||Jaipur||Tribal Day to be a public holiday in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government has decided to declare August 9 as a public holiday throughout Rajasthan on the occasion of World Tribal Day. According to an official statement, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has decided to declare a public holiday on the long-standing demand of the people’s representatives of the tribal society. On World Tribal Day, the tribal people living in different areas of Rajasthan organise religious, social and cultural programs. So far, the state government has declared a voluntary holiday on the occasion of Tribal Day. Many legislators and other public representatives had demanded to declare this day a public holiday in the state. PTI AG HMB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/tribal-day-to-be-a-public-holiday-in-rajasthan/story-WqldLm0mv7Dhzpt2h1hEYO.html
01-08-2020||Lucknow||Mayawati wishes people on Eid al-Adha, urges everyone to celebrate at home||Wishing people on the occasion of Eid al-Adha on Saturday, BSP chief Mayawati appealed to them to celebrate the festival at home in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases. “Congratulations and best wishes to all brothers and sisters of the country on Eid al-Adha (Bakrid). Due to the Corona outbreak, this festival should be celebrated at home with simplicity so that all of you are safe from the virus, and do not forget to help the poor and needy on this occasion,” tweeted the BSP supremo.On Friday, Mayawati had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to release the Muslims accused of small crimes from jails so that they can celebrate the Bakra-Eid at their homes.Taking to Twitter, she wrote, “In the times of COVID-19 when there is a general opinion in the country on reducing the number of prisoners in jails, there is a strong appeal to the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister to release Muslims imprisoned for petty crimes so that they go back with their families tomorrow to celebrate Bakra Eid.” (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mayawati-wishes-people-on-eid-al-adha-urges-everyone-to-celebrate-at-home/story-oVq9eEo3EJ1x0IO0rbSBqK.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai hospital devises ‘kavach’ to move Covid-19 patients||In a bid to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection among its medical staff, the state-run J J Hospital here has developed a transport chamber for contactless movement of Covid-19 patients within the premises.Developed by the general surgery department of the hospital with the help of engineers of a firm named Indomed Devices, the patient transport ‘kavach’ aims to reduce the risk of infection among the hospital staff, visitors and other patients.Sanskrit word ‘kavach’ literally means an armour.“The cost-effective glass transport trolley has a HEPA filter at the head end, which filters out particles as small as 0.02 microns,” said Amol Wagh, assistant professor of surgery at J J Hospital.“Everyday thousands of health care workers test positive for the infection and have to be quarantined. This results in shortage of medical staff,” he said.Hence, innovation in protective devices is the need of the hour as medical staff has to spend long hours in PPE kits, making it difficult for them to provide required patient care and treatment, Wagh added.Speaking about the innovation, head of surgery, Dr Ajay Bhandarwar, who came up with the concept, said the trolley will not only prevent transmission of coronavirus, but it also protect Covid-19 patients with low immunity from contracting other infections from their surroundings.Patients can be incubated in the trolley and tests, such as sonography, can also be done when the patient is inside the chamber, Wagh said, adding that engineers and experts are working on ways to install the chamber in ambulances and make it compatible for CT scans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-hospital-devises-kavach-to-move-covid-19-patients/story-KFzJZJztf6t0Bi6dvBlFCL.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Soldier from Himachal’s Hamirpur district killed in ceasefire violation by Pakistan at LoC||Pakistan army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation on the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. The Indian Army responded strongly to the enemy fire, a defence release said. Sepoy Rohin Kumar, 24, who belongs to Galore khas village of Hamirpur district in Himachal Pradesh, was critically injured in the exchange of fire and later succumbed to his injuries. “Sepoy Rohin Kumar was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” defence public relations officer Lt Col Devender Anand said in the release here. A pall of gloom descended on his native village as soon as the news reached the family. The sepoy was engaged to get married in November this year. His father works at a shop in Amritsar.The last rites of Rohin Kumar were performed with full military honors at a crematorium near his native village in the evening. His cousin brother lit the pyre amid slogans of ‘Pakistan Murdabad’ and ‘Shaheed Rohin Kumar amar rahe’.Earlier, Ankush Kumar of Karohta village in the district had lost his life while fighting the Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soldier-from-himachal-s-hamirpur-district-killed-in-ceasefire-violation-by-pakistan-at-loc/story-IbBLc1UfSfkOcTtykZu2PI.html
01-08-2020||Ranchi||Palamu Tiger Reserve offers Rs 5,000 for information about big cats||Palamu Tiger Reserve (PTR) officials on Friday announced a cash reward of Rs 5,000 for providing credible information about presence or movement of tigers inside the state’s only home for tigers. “A cash award has been announced for giving information about tigers with twin objectives. First, we have to make sure if PTR has tigers, so as to decide our next course of action. Secondly, there are reports that field staff members are not discharging their duties properly. In this case, it’s an alarm call for them,” Das pointed out.The PTR has not recorded any evidence of presence of a tiger since February this year when a tigress was found dead in the Betla National Park, the tourist zone of the reserve, spread over an area of 1,129 square km in Latehar and Garhwa districts. According to the latest tiger estimation data released by the Union ministry of environment, there was no tiger in the reserve.PTR field director YK Das said, “We have not recorded any evidence about a tiger’s presence in the PTR since the tigress was found dead in February. We found some tiger scats in May and sent them for testing but reports are awaited.”Das, however, expressed hope that the tiger population can be revived if all stakeholders come together. Das said, “One good thing about the PTR is that the habitat is still in a good condition.”The move by the forest officials assumes significance amid outcry by wildlife experts about lack of proper monitoring of wildlife in the reserve forest by the staff. Noted wildlife expert and secretary of the nature conservation society Dr DS Srivastava said, “They (the PTR officials) are not getting reports, as there has been very little monitoring of wildlife. Even the lower rung forest employees like forest guards consider themselves to be officers.”Suggesting ways out of this imbroglio, Srivastava said, “The situation has to be changed and the locals should be made a party to the management of the reserve so as to revive its lost glory.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-5k-for-information-about-big-cats-in-tiger-less-palamu-reserve/story-InLHbWGO8lQq58HQJpNjOM.html
01-08-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM says no lockdown in districts barring Sundays||Madhya Pradesh (MP) Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Friday night that from now on there would be no lockdown in any of the districts except those on Sundays and the pre-announced one, albeit the restrictions are in place in varying degrees in some towns and cities, including state capital Bhopal. Lockdown restrictions were imposed at night on March 24 in MP as a part of the nationwide restrictions to prevent the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, which were lifted in the state on June 15. However, the state government had left it to the respective district administration to decide on lockdown measures as the situation demanded after the restrictions were lifted on June 15.Consequently, lockdown restrictions were enforced in cities and towns such as Bhopal, Gwalior, Morena, Shivpuri, Jabalpur, Indore, etc, beyond June 15. The state government has also curbed the powers of district collectors in imposing lockdown measures, an official communiqué stated. “We have to accelerate the pace of our economy. From now on, there will be no lockdown in any district of the state other than the pre-announced one and Sunday. If the need for lockdown arises in any district due to unavoidable reasons, permission will have to be sought from the state level. No collector will be able to impose lockdown in the district on his/her own free will,” it said. The CM’s announcement came during a review meeting on Covid-19 situation in the state. He presided over the meeting via a video-conference link from a private hospital in Bhopal, where he is undergoing treatment for Covid-19. The CM said rapid antigen detection (RAD) test had started in Bhopal and it should be replicated in Indore and other districts as well. Chouhan ordered the setting up of an expert committee to curb the death rate in Hamidia Hospital, the teaching hospital of Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal, and also to improve the healthcare infrastructure, as per the official information. The CM announced that in the second phase of Kill Corona campaign known as “Sankalp ki chain jodo, Corona ki chain todo” would be launched in MP on Saturday (August 1) and to continue until August 14. “This is primarily an awareness campaign under which people will be made aware to wear masks and adhering to maintaining social distancing norms by which the viral infection will be eliminated,” the communiqué stated, quoting the CM. Chouhan said three kinds of quarantine facilities such as home, home, institutional, and paid are available. The paid category of quarantine facility is for those Covid-19 patients, who can afford it. Additional chief secretary Health Mohd Suleman said MP is ranked 15th in the country in both active and positive cases. According to Thursday’s (July 30) report, MP had 8,454 active cases. Efforts are continuously on to ramp up the daily testing count. On Wednesday (July 29), the state tested 14,647 swab samples. The latest health department’s bulletin – released at night on Friday – stated that MP has reported 31,806 Covid-19 cases, including 838 new ones in the past 24 hours. In July, the state recorded 18,213 Covid-19 cases, or 57% of the state’s viral load to date. While the corresponding figure between March 20 and June 30 was 13,593 MP has reported 867 Covid-19-related deaths, including 295 in July, or 34% of the fatalities because of the viral outbreak, the bulletin stated. In July and until June 30, 11,876 and 10,395 Covid-19 patients, respectively, were discharged from various hospitals in the state after they had recovered from their viral infection. Until July 30, the active Covid-19 cases in MP were 2,626 and the figure had gone up to 8,668 on July 31. MP has conducted 7,67,571 Covid-19 tests, including 4,02,104 and 3,65,467 in July and until June 30, respectively, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-cm-says-no-lockdown-in-districts-barring-sundays/story-moQJ7P9MZxv39MFpXl8yzI.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur reshuffles his cabinet, retains nine key departments||Shimla: Two days after the induction of three ministers into the Himachal Pradesh cabinet, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur reshuffled his team, keeping nine departments, including home and finance, with himself. The nine portfolios with the CM are finance, home, general administration, planning, personnel, public works, tourism, excise and taxation. Mahender Singh Thakur will take care of revenue, which was earlier held by the CM, and continue to head the Jal Shakti, horticulture and sainik welfare departments. Suresh Bhardwaj has got town planning, housing, parliamentary affairs, law and legal remembrance. Bhardwaj, who previously held the education department, has been allocated co-operation. Sarveen Chaudhary, the lone woman minister in the cabinet, has been given social justice and empowerment. Earlier, she held town and country planning and housing. Ram Lal Markanday has got technical education, tribal development, information technology and redressal of public grievances. Virender Kanwar has been allocated agriculture, while he will continue to hold his previous portfolios of rural development, panchayati raj and fisheries. Jai Ram Thakur’s trusted lieutenant Bikram Singh has got transport besides industries, labour and employment. Govind Singh Thakur is the new education minister of the state. He has got the charge of higher education, elementary education, language, art and culture. Dr Rajiv Saizal will look after health and family welfare and ayurveda. The CM held the charge of the health department earlier. Newly inducted minister Sukhram Chaudhary has got the charge of multi-purpose power projects and non-conventional energy, while Rakesh Pathania will look after youth services and sports and forests. Rajinder Garg has been allocated food and civil supplies and printing and stationery. HECTIC LOBBYING BEFORE EXPANSION The cabinet reshuffle was effected late on Friday after clearance from the party high command in Delhi. The chief minister had spoken to BJP president Jagat Parkash Nadda. There was hectic lobbying for the berths ahead of the cabinet expansion. Former food and civil supplies minister and Jawalamukhi legislator Ramesh Dhawala, former horticulture minister Narendra Bragta and former Vidhan Sabha speaker Rajeev Bindal had skipped the party legislators’ meet. Both Bragta and Dhawala were vying for a cabinet berth, while Bindal was unhappy over the induction of Sukhram Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-reshuffles-his-cabinet-retains-nine-key-departments/story-WUWvLBmqNLlVu47jI9zlML.html
01-08-2020||City||81st martyrdom day: Punjab to coordinate with Centre to bring Udham Singh’s belongings back: Singla||Punjab school education and public works department (PWD) minister Vijay Inder Singla said on Friday that the state government will coordinate with the Centre to bring back the belongings of Shaheed Udham Singh from London in the United Kingdom. The minister, who paid tributes to Udham Singh on this 81th death anniversary at his native town Sunam, said every possible option will be explored to bring the martyr’s pistol and diaries etc. back to Punjab. “The construction work on Udham Singh’s memorial got hampered due to Covid-19 but it will be completed before September 30. Now, a museum will also be constructed at the site of open air theatre where the belongings of Shaheed Udham Singh will be kept,” Singla said. SAD CHIEF ALSO PAYS HOMAGEShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president chief Sukhbir Singh Badal also paid tribute to the martyr at his native place.“We should construct memorials after our martyr. The coming generations will learn from freedom fighters. But chief minister Amarinder Singh never attended the martyrdom days of Bhagat Singh and Udham Singh. He feels no pain for our martyrs,” said Sukhbir.Besides, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Sunam Aman Arora also paid homage to Udham Singh. Meanwhile, nine members of the Punjab State Freedom Fighters Descendants’ Association climbed atop a water tank in protest. They were demanding reservation for descendants of freedom fighters at educational institutes and jobs, 300 units of free power and toll tax exemption, etc. Later, they called off the protest after assurance by the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/81st-martyrdom-day-punjab-to-coordinate-with-centre-to-bring-udham-singh-s-belongings-back-singla/story-Atw5eZDtZGWL1tY64llfuJ.html
01-08-2020||City||ITI instructors upgrade skills to impart virtual practical lessons||For Gurmeet Singh, a plumbing instructor at Government Industrial Training Institute (ITI) in Jalandhar, removing and fixing sanitary fittings at his house has become a routine.He does so regularly to impart virtual practical training to students of his trade. Gurmeet is among a few instructors who made the state technical education department administration to start online practical classes for ITI students amid the Covid-19 crisis.“We started online theory classes in mid-April. As the lockdown restricted outdoor movement, I thought of converting my house into an improvised workshop for the benefit of students. Since I had the basic tool kit at home, I started sharing videos with students, detailing sanitary and draining fittings etc.,” he said.Gurmeet’s daughter helps him in the technical knowhow.Similarly, Sukhwant Singh, a mechanical instructor at ITI in Bassi Pathana in Fatehgarh Sahib district, uses his tractor to teach about components of the farming machine. He is also using Google Meet and Zoom to connect with the students for online classes.“I am using my personal tractor to demonstrate various parts of the engine and servicing of a vehicle. I also visit local automobile workshops for live or for recording training sessions on servicing of other vehicles,” he said.About 28,000 students are enrolled in various ITIs across the state. Instructors who were totally unfamiliar with the digital mode of education were trained in virtual teaching.Department officials say 75-80% students are attending online classes, especially the crucial practical part.Students like Harinder Singh from Singo village near Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda said the online practical classes are proving useful. But disruption in mobile data signal causes trouble to students.But electronics instructor Pawan Kumar from Kalanaur in Gurdaspur said teachers try to take problems on WhatsApp messenger and videos are uploaded on a Youtube channel for the convenience of students.Principal secretary, technical education, Anurag Verma, said Punjab has become the first state to provide practical content of various vocational trades on the central web portal National Instructional Media Institute (NIMI).“Now, the practical video sessions prepared by our instructors are watched by students from other states as well on the central portal. As there is still no clarity on resuming classes, we wanted ITI students to get the most important aspect of practical exposure at their homes. We are working to redress the problem of a section of students who lack smartphones to access online classrooms,” said Verma.Manjinder Kaur, an instructor of stitching technology at Fatehgarh Churian in Gurdaspur, virtual classroom came as a challenge that she overcame with her family’s assistance.“Till lockdown was imposed in March, I was illiterate when it came to information technology. But as the department asked us to gear up for online classes, I took the pandemic crisis as an opportunity for skill development. My son and husband helped me in learning to prepare a PowerPoint presentation (PPT) and holding virtual classes on various aspects of stitching since April,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iti-instructors-upgrade-skills-to-impart-virtual-practical-lessons/story-Qs5jPIwKy8KcJIsUIWKX5L.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab adds 10,451 cases in July, positivity rate up||Punjab recorded a whopping 10,451 fresh Covid-19 cases and 237 deaths in July, with an increase in positivity rate. Whereas the overall mortality rate came down to 2.3% despite increase in the spread of the virus, mortality rate remained at 2.2 %. The national mortality rate for the month was also 2.2%, according the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) figures. Medical experts say there is an overall increase in the number of deaths but since the total cases have also gone up, the mortality rate remains almost the same. In June, the state had witnessed 100 deaths. By June-end, the state’s Covid-19 positivity rate was 1.8% which has increased to 2.7%. July alone witnessed the positivity rate of 3.8%. The national positivity rate also went up from 10% to 11% in July when the state conducted nearly 2.63 lakh tests. “The main reason behind rise in positivity rate is the increased testing and the state’s strategy to test every high-risk primary contact of a patient. The positivity rate among high-risk primary contacts is 10%. As July witnessed more cases due to unlock and increase in testing, positivity rate has also gone up,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. The state health department has denied any community spread even in the three worst-hit districts of Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar. “On Friday, we gathered feedback on chances of community spread but the spread of the diseases has remained restricted to certain clusters only,” said the nodal officer. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Punjab dipped from 70% in June to 66% in July. But health officials say it not worrying since the state’s mortality rate has decreased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-punjab-adds-10-451-cases-in-july-positivity-rate-up/story-1DhN0CJDXMZC7mMRcYCIjO.html
01-08-2020||City||Punjab hooch tragedy toll mounts to 41, CM orders magisterial probe||A day after seven men of Muchhal village in Baba Bakala sub-division died allegedly after consuming spurious liquor, as many as 34 more deaths under similar circumstances were reported from around 20 villages of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts on Friday, taking up the toll to 41. Of the 34 fresh deaths, four were reported from Muchhal village in Amritsar district, 19 from Tarn Taran and 11 from Batala. The toll may go up as many more were hospitalised.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered a magisterial inquiry and deputed Jalandhar divisional commissioner to conduct a probe. The CM assured of strict action against those found complicit in the illegal trade. He also directed the police to crack down on spurious liquor-manufacturing units across the state.Punjab Police on Friday arrested seven more people from Amritsar, Batala and Tarn Taran districts in over 40 raids conducted by five teams. A woman, Balwinder Kaur, was arrested on Thursday. One Mithu was arrested from Amritsar Rural area; Darshan Rani and Rajan from Batala; and Kashmir Singh, Angrez Singh, Amarjit and Baljit from Tarn Taran. Four fresh deaths were reported from Muchhal village. They were identified as Jaswant Singh, Joga Singh, Kirpal Singh and Gurpreet Singh. Jaswant is the husband of Balwinder Kaur who was arrested by the police on suspicion of selling home-made liquor in the village. She was booked under Section 304 (culpable homicide) of the IPC and 61-1-14 of the Excise Act by the Tarsikka police.Nineteen deaths were reported from Tarn Taran district. Some of the victims were identified as Gurdeep Singh (50) of Muradpura village, Sukhchain Singh (45) of Jodhpur village, Sucha Singh (80) and Resham Singh (45) of Pandoori Gola village, Nirvail Singh (50) of Jawanda Kalan, Varinder Singh (25) of Kakka Kandiala, Parkash Singh (48) of Bhullar village, Amardeep Singh (45) of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, Gurvail Singh (45) of Bachre village, and Pyara Singh (45) and Bhag Mal (50) of Sach Khand Road. Tarn Taran deputy commissioner (DC) Kulwant Singh said nine deaths were confirmed. “I have information some victims were cremated before the administration was informed. We are also ascertaining the circumstances under which these deaths took place,” he said. Tarn Taran sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Rajneesh Arora said six more people were undergoing treatment in various hospitals and their condition is stated to be critical.Gurpreet Singh, 25, of Sach Khand road area in Tarn Taran said, “My father Pyara Singh had gone out to have drinks on Thursday night, but he didn’t return. On Friday morning, we found him lying dead in the ground along the Sarhali road. He drank spurious liquor and died.” He said the rampant sale of liquor in the area has not only taken his father’s life, but also three of his uncles. “A case of murder should be registered against those who sold liquor to my father”.“After consuming liquor, my father Bhag Mal fell ill on Thursday night. We rushed him to Tarn Taran civil hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said Preetam Singh of Sach Khand road. The kin of the victims said had the police acted against the menace of countrymade liquor in time, the lives could have been saved.In Batala, 11 people died after drinking locally-brewed liquor (hooch) at Hathi Gate and adjoining localities on Thursday night. The victims were identified as Buta Ram, Bhupinder, Jatinder, Kallu, Bitta, Rinku, Kala, Naresh, Surinder, Jaspal Singh and Jagdish. Also, two others, Dharminder and Darshan, were undergoing treatment at an Amritsar hospital. A police team led by Batala DSP (city) Parvinder Kaur was hunting for a woman, popularly known as ‘Faujan’, who is tipped to have supplied the spurious liquor in the area. DSP Kaur said a case under sections 304, 328 of the IPC, and 61/1/14 of the Excise Act was registered against unidentified people and investigations were on.Rahul of Batala’s Kazimori locality said around 9pm on Thursday, his uncle Buta Ram returned drunk. “He told us that he bought liquor from a woman and after consuming it, he was feeling uneasy. Within half an hour, my uncle started vomiting and collapsed. He died at a hospital late night,” he said.Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said raiding teams seized chemicals and other material used in illegal and they have been sent for chemical analysis. “More arrests are likely. The crackdown on the spurious liquor mafia will continue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-hooch-tragedy-toll-mounts-to-41-cm-orders-magisterial-probe/story-ynet8aDbKYLvf6HNTXm2IJ.html
01-08-2020||City||Badals shielded dera head in blasphemy case: Punjab Youth Cong chief||Punjab Youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon accused the Badals of being directly involved in saving Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in the case of alleged blasphemy by personifying himself as tenth Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh in 2007.Addressing mediapersons in Mohali, Dhillon said if the 2007 case was enquired properly, the desecration incidents of 2015 could have been avoided. “The Badals backstabbed the Sikh panth (community) for their political gains. As the 2009 Lok Sabha elections approached, the then Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) government started weakening the case to get the dera votes for Harsimrat Kaur Badal. The collusion between the Badals and the dera chief led to delaying submission of challan in the case for four years,” he claimed, “Then just three days before the Vidhan Sabha elections in 2012, the then Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) government filed a cancellation report in the case for electoral gains. The government did not even bother to file an appeal in the case,” he added. “What forced the Badals-led government to take a stand in favour of the dera chief in court despite having evidences? Despite the Punjab governor issued sanction orders in the case, why did not the government challenge the cancellation report in the court? ” he questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/badals-shielded-dera-head-in-blasphemy-case-punjab-youth-cong-chief/story-QBI6i974tmSYzdsNYgNeLL.html
01-08-2020||City||Punjab-born UK MP Virendra Sharma leads campaign to save Heathrow jobs||LondonSenior Labour MP Virendra Sharma and over 25 MPs have written to chancellor Rishi Sunak to support airports such as Heathrow, where tens of thousands of employees face redundancy due to steep fall in business due to the coronavirus pandemic.Heathrow has historically employed a large number of Indian-origin people, who over the years took up residence in nearby London suburbs such as Southall. Many of them face job losses with the aviation industry suffering a major hit.Hailing from Jalandhar district, Sharma, who is MP for Ealing Southall, said: “Thousands face being made redundant because of falls in revenue for many businesses and certain industries almost completely drying up. Aviation is one of the hardest hit, almost no long haul routes are open and passenger numbers are down to tiny fractions compared to the start of the year.”The MPs wrote to Sunak that airports in England and Wales are expected to pay business rates as though they are functioning normally. Airports in Scotland and Northern Ireland have received support from their local governments, but those in England and Wales have not had such relief.The MPs wrote to the chancellor: “Under the current system while a business such as Tesco which has seen growth during Covid-19 has received £585 million in business rate relief, our airports have seen not a penny”.“We call on you to provide support to all English and Welsh airports in line with that afforded by Scotland and Northern Ireland. This will allow airports to continue to employ people, pay other taxes and support the Covid recovery we all so badly need”.Passenger numbers have fallen by 99% in some cases and more than 100,000 in the industry are facing the risk of unemployment. The aviation industry lost nearly £2 billion in the four-month period between March and June, which is equivalent to around £15 million each day, Sharma noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-born-uk-mp-virendra-sharma-leads-campaign-to-save-heathrow-jobs/story-CW4BzgkThLdR9W5BzV0UtJ.html
01-08-2020||City||Unlock 3: Night curfew, weekend lockdown to continue in Punjab||CHANDIGARH Punjab on Friday issued detailed instructions for the ‘Unlock 3’ and decided to continue with ban on the night movement from 11pm to 5am. The weekend lockdown will also remain in place in the state. As per a notification issued by the department of home affairs, the state has adhered to Government of India guidelines and has allowed holding of all kinds of examinations, admission/entrance tests conducted by universities, boards, public service commissions and other institutions with usual precautions or sanitation and social distancing. Ban on ‘langar’ and ‘prasad’ on religious places will continue even as the government has already allowed these places to open between 5am to 8pm. Restaurants will continue to open till 10pm but bars will continue to remain closed but liquor can be served in rooms and restaurant of hotels which would continue to operate with 50% of capacity. Inter-state movement of buses will continue to remain close and for interstate movement of persons, registration through COVA mobile app will continue to be mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-3-night-curfew-weekend-lockdown-to-continue-in-punjab/story-MHC7D4zKnIoAxl6HP1bzeO.html
01-08-2020||City||Spurt in Covid-19 infection: Amritsar records 525 cases in 10 days||Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Amritsar as nearly 525 people were tested positive for the virus while 14 patients died in the last 10 days in the district, among the worst-hit in Punjab.In July alone, the district recorded 902 cases of infection, nearly 48% of its total cases, and 35 deaths. The tally rose suddenly after mid-July. In the past four days only, 285 cases were reported along with 10 fatalities. To date, the district has had a total of 1,859 positive patients of which 78 died and 1,321 recovered. “The district had only one Covid case in March, 89 cases in April, 302 in May and 565 in June. Initially, an average 10-15 cases were being reported daily but now we are recording over 70 cases,” said Amritsar’s assistant civil surgeon, Dr Amarjit Singh.In June, the district health department tested nearly 24,000 people of whom 565 tested positive, with a positivity rate of 2.8%. The positivity rate increased in July by 0.8% as out of 24,902 samples tested, 902 were found positive.Dr Amarjit Singh added, “Increasing positivity rate is a matter of concern but most of the cases being reported these days are the close contacts of those infected earlier. Also, the district has ramped up the daily testing, which is showing more cases. We are testing over 1,000 people daily at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Amritsar. We are also focusing on tracing the close contacts of the patient.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/spurt-in-covid-19-infection-amritsar-records-525-cases-in-10-days/story-QnptEpoMBGAIrTUU6KvVPM.html
01-08-2020||City||Another high: Punjab records 16 deaths, 663 new Covid-19 cases||Ludhiana/Amritsar/Sangrur/Patiala/Jalandhar/PatialaIn yet another single-day spike, Punjab on Friday reported 16 deaths and 663 fresh Covid-19 cases. With this, the state’s positive patients’ count has reached 16,119 and death toll 386. Ludhiana reported a record jump of 218 cases. These include 14 health workers, four cops, six undertrials and two pregnant women. Besides, six people died of the virus in the district. Four Covid-19 patients from Amritsar district succumbed to the virus at local hospitals on Friday, health officials said. The district also reported 71 fresh Covid-19 cases. Twenty-three people contracted the infection in Gurdaspur. Bathinda reported two deaths and 51 positive cases. In Ferozepur, 40 people, including a six-year-old child, were tested positive. Fazilka reported 19 cases whereas, in Muktsar, three people were tested positive. Patiala district recorded highest 126 positive cases of coronavirus. Of these 50 are from Patiala city, 22 from Rajpura, 19 from Nabha, nine from Samana, six from Patran and 20 from different villages across the district. Meanwhile, Jalandhar reported 100 positive cases and Sangrur 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-high-punjab-records-16-deaths-663-new-covid-19-cases/story-PCijPrxqMqmvKDZvAENysI.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Indian veterinary body seeks ‘corona warrior’ tag||Indian Veterinary Association (IVA) has urged the department of animal husbandry and dairying, New Delhi, to extend Covid-19 warrior status to the veterinarians. In a letter to the department, IVA president Dr Chirantan Kadian has stated that veterinary services are emergency services and require round the clock intervention by veterinarians in all conditions, ranging from extreme weather conditions to epidemics and natural disasters. Kadian, who is also a president of Pashu Chikitsak Mahasangh, a Haryana-based apex organisation of state veterinary associations, said during Covid-19 pandemic, veterinary services have been declared essential. “In addition to services linked to the health and welfare of animals, we have a key role in disease prevention and management, including those transmissible to humans,” he said, pointing out that during delivery of veterinary services, veterinarians have the responsibility to safeguard their own health, the health of co-workers as well as the animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/indian-veterinary-body-seeks-corona-warrior-tag/story-MmHByK5QmYwcZWAkneovfK.html
01-08-2020||City||Karnal’s trauma centre nurses ‘leave duty to attend party’, inquiry marked||An inquiry has been ordered in the alleged negligence on the part of staff nurses at the trauma centre of Karnal civil hospital. The action was taken after patients and their attendees alleged that the nurses went to attend a retirement party of a fellow nurse. The patients and their attendees have accused the nurses of medical negligence.According to them, the nurses and other staff members of trauma centre left at 2.15pm and didn’t return for an hour. Hospital’s principal medical officer Dr Ashwani Ahuja said an inquiry has been ordered following the complaints and action will be taken as per the findings of the report.He said any conclusion will be made only after receiving the probe report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-s-trauma-centre-nurses-leave-duty-to-attend-party-inquiry-marked/story-0gwKlIVfuAqormMgwx0NwM.html
01-08-2020||City||Roof collapse claims one more life in Karnal||A seven-year-old girl died while her two siblings sustained injuries as the roof of their house collapsed in New Pritam Nagar locality of Karnal City on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Lakshmi and the injured are her sister Amisha, 14, and brother Rajnish, 10.As per the information, the children lived with their parents in the rented accommodation.Their father Daleep Singh told the police that the incident took place on Friday evening when the kids were alone at the house. Harjinder Singh, Karnal City police station in-charge, said the girl died on the spot and the injured have been hospitalised. He said the preliminary investigation revealed that the house was in a shambles. In a similar incident on Thursday, a six-year-old girl was killed while four members of her family were injured in Kairwali village of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/roof-collapse-claims-one-more-life-in-karnal/story-0uf2bbizTvm2nZPyxX4hiL.html
01-08-2020||City||BJP MLA Bhayana sends Rs 1 crore defamation notice to Hisar AAP leader||BJP legislator Vinod Bhayana from Hisar’s Hansi constituency on Friday sent a defamation notice of Rs 1 crore to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manoj Rathi for levelling corruption allegations on him.Addressing a press conference, AAP leader Rathi, who fought the 2019 assembly election against Bhayana, said he had received a defamation notice of Rs 1 crore from Hansi MLA’s lawyer Surender Rajpal for raising corruption issues against him.“The legal notice served to me by MLA’s lawyer demanded an apology and Rs 1 crore. I am reiterating my allegations that Bhayana is involved in corrupt practices and he has encroached upon government land. I have sufficient evidences against Bhayana to prove him guilty,” Rathi said.However, Bhayana’s lawyer Surender Rajpal said the MLA had served a defamation notice on Rathi as he had used indecent language against him on a YouTube channel while accusing him of indulging in corruption. “The language used by the AAP leader cannot be tolerated at any cost,” the lawyer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-mla-bhayana-sends-rs-1-crore-defamation-notice-to-hisar-aap-leader/story-Cf0waWxL5V9lajNPA7sqtO.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Power dept officials, Faridabad man booked for illegally supplying electricity to 45 farm houses in UP||Haryana government has imposed a Rs 1.04-crore fine and lodged a case against a Faridabad-based person who had been stealing electricity and supplying it through underground cables to 45 farmhouses in Uttar Pradesh, power minister Ranjit Singh said on Friday. A case has also been registered against six officers and employees of Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (DHBVNL) involved in this case, Ranjit Singh, who also holds the portfolio of jails and new and renewable energy, said during a press conference here. He said following a tip-off that some farmhouses located on the Uttar Pradesh border were involved in electricity theft, a raid was conducted at Kheri Kalan subdivision by a team led by executive engineer Shamsher Singh on July 16.The team discovered that a resident of Faridabad, Pradeep Tyagi, had taken an electricity connection and was illegally supplying power to 45 farmhouses across the state border in Uttar Pradesh through underground wiring. Ranjit Singh said during the investigation, it was also found that this illegal work was being carried out with the alleged collusion of some officers and employees of the corporation. He said a case has been registered in this matter at the Bhupani police station of Faridabad district, and further investigations are underway. Among the officials against whom the case has been registered are former SDO Sandeep Kundu and junior engineer Nishant Rohilla; present JE Jai Jitendra Singh; outsourced staff (ALM) Devi Ram, and Kanhaiya Lal. JAIL OFFICIAL ARRESTED The minister said the police have arrested two persons, including deputy superintendent Dharmbir Singh of Gurugam jail for allegedly supplying intoxicants inside the prison. The other person is Ravi, alias Goldie. He said the police also recovered intoxicants weighing 225 gram and 11 SIM cards. Dharmbir Singh used to supply these items in the jail, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/power-dept-officials-faridabad-man-booked-for-illegally-supplying-electricity-to-45-farm-houses-in-up/story-KjUCLi37SvONduftQt3lRL.html
01-08-2020||City||Protesting physical training instructors lathi-charged in Jind||Police on Friday resorted to mild lathi-charge in Jind to disperse the protesting physical training instructors and khap leaders who came out in their support. Khap leader Rangi Ram also tried to immolate himself, but his attempt was foiled. He was detained by the police.As many as 1,983 sacked physical training instructors have been protesting against the state government and seeking reinstatement. Jind DSP Kaptan Singh said they used force as the agitators were accompanying Rangi Ram, who attempted to kill himself. “In a bid to stop any untoward incident, we resorted to lathi-charging to disperse them. We have detained the khap leader,” he added.Condemning the incident, senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted, “Dictator Khattar government, give jobs to PTIs not lathis.” This comes a day after force was used to disperse people protesting against alleged police inaction in a ‘triple murder case’. The agitators had blocked the national highway 44 in Panipat on Thursday, forcing the police to resort to using water canons. Some protesters were also detained and their vehicles impounded as they pelted cops with stones.It is pertinent to mention here that bodies of three missing children were found in a drain in Panipat on July 8. An FIR was registered in the case and subsequently, an SIT was formed by Panipat superintendent of police Manisha Chaudhary. The protesters, led by members of Kashyap Samaj Sangharsh Samiti, cited police’s failure in arresting the accused and launched a stir at the Panipat mini-secretariat.SP Manisha Chaudhary had said, “Some people, including five cops, sustained minor injuries in the clash. A case was being registered against the people involved in the blocking the road and engaging in violence.”She said a probe was going on in the case and the police were waiting for forensic reports.“As of now, there is no evidence to prove charges of murder in this case, but an investigation is underway,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protesting-physical-training-instructors-lathi-charged-in-jind/story-o68yiy6jj6jZv4v0JSNsWJ.html
01-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Pecking at trash, making a livelihood||Though it is only early morning in this market lane, it is already midday as far as Raju is concerned. “I start working by 11 or 12 in the night,” he says. In his 20s, Raju makes a living by picking up reusable stuff people throw on the streets, which he sells to recyclers. Pointing at the huge sack he is standing next to, he says, “It has all the trash I have collected today.” The waste collector lives in nearby Yamuna Bazaar, a north Delhi locality that is snuggled on the banks of the Yamuna. His house is actually a shanty — “not a home of bricks!” he repeats twice, as if his life depended on making this point clear. Gesturing towards the sack (he has briefly kept it on the pavement table of a tea stall that hasn’t opened yet), Raju says it is filled up mostly with plastic bottles, plastic bags, plastic jars, paper bags, and discarded masks. He himself is not wearing a mask.Why?He responds by not making any comment.Raju’s shirt is slightly torn on the front. He shrugs. There’s also a safety pin clipped to the shirt. “It is for emergency,” he says, without detailing the kind of situations that might warrant the emergency use of such a thing.Whatever, he agrees to give a sense of his daily life. “I’m a very busy man,” he notes, explaining that when the city starts to fall asleep late at night, and streets begin to get empty, he launches into work. “I carry the sack on my shoulder and walk along the lanes of mohallas and bazaars, picking up things from the garbage and pavements that might be recycled.” He gets into action a couple of hours after his dinner. “ I started this work some years ago.... initially I would be scared of street dogs, who always tend to bark at us kabadi wallas.” For protection he would earlier arm himself with a lathi, but has put it away. “Now I am more experienced with the streets... I scare the dogs by barking back at them, in their own language,” he says in a serious tone.Raju says he’s a Delhi native, and that his father was a tea seller. “Both my parents are dead, and my older brother has been laapata (missing) for many years.” He has a younger sister who stays at home, he says. “She’s the one who cooks for me... I would have been a free man if I didn’t have to take care of her.”Now another waste collector arrives and both men get busy talking to each other in a low voice. They seem to be discussing their lunch plans. Soon afterwards, Raju turns his attention back to the huge sack. He spreads his arms around it, as if around a tree. He lifts it up and begins to walk further along the street. Now, he informs, he shall go all the way to Yamuna Bazaar to sell the collection to a recycler. “Afterwards, I’ll spend the rest of the day at home.” He starts to walk extremely fast and disappears from view within moments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-pecking-at-trash-making-a-livelihood/story-IKcQpkcwo8Ec8h1wamHjzK.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||High court notice to Centre on Khemka’s empanelment plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday put the Centre on notice on a plea of senior IAS officer, Ashok Khemka, who has challenged the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) order, wherein his plea seeking direction to the Centre to consider his empanelment was dismissed. The high court bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh has sought response by August 24. It was on July 23 that CAT, Chandigarh, had passed the order. Khemka was seeking direction to the Centre to consider his empanelment for holding additional secretary or equivalent post at the Centre. CAT had dismissed the plea observing that appointment of a person at the Centre cannot be a matter of right. Khemka has told court that he was empanelled as joint secretary in December 2010 and applied for central deputation in 2011, 2012 and 2014, but was not appointed. The petitioner cannot be penalised and debarred for life for ‘minister’s act’ of ignoring his name sent in almost 40 panels, he has claimed. Under Article 312, an all-India service officer has a right to serve at both the Centre as well as the state. There is a 40% central deputation reserve in each state cadre, he told the court, adding that the doors to the Centre cannot be shut upon the petitioner for no fault on his part. It has also been submitted that non-empanelment at this stage would lead to cascading effect and he will not be able to serve at the Centre permanently. He had also argued that the eligibility criteria for such empanelment required minimum three years of service at the Centre at the level of deputy secretary and above. He offered himself on a number of occasions, but was not appointed without any fault on his part, he had argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-court-notice-to-centre-on-khemka-s-empanelment-plea/story-ipjdmzNHaWkDHMgX1EYJ1I.html
01-08-2020||City||Special enquiry team submits report in Sonepat liquor scam||The special enquiry team constituted to investigate the alleged liquor scam in Sonepat that came to light in May has submitted its report to the home ministry.Talking to mediapersons on Friday, Haryana home minister Anil Vij said, “The report was submitted to ACS (home) Vijay Vardhan and is currently being checked. Whatever is the conclusion and the action needed to be taken would soon be made public.”The state government had constituted the special team under the leadership of TC Gupta that handed over its report almost after three months. The alleged scam had taken place in Sonepat’s Kharkhauda area where illegal liquor kept at a godown was found missing during the lockdown. The team has probed the involvement of liquor kingpins, police officials and excise officials in the scam.KARNAL SP TO PROBE PANIPAT LATHICHARGEA day after hundreds of locals protested near the Panipat mini-secretariat on NH-44, forcing the police to resort to lathicharging, Vij on Friday said action will be taken against those found guilty.“I came to know about the incident in Panipat through media reports and sought a report from area SP Manisha Choudhary,” he said. “I’ve received the report and handed over the investigation to Karnal SP Surinder Singh Bhoria. He would submit a report within two days. Action will be taken against those found guilty,” Vij said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-enquiry-team-submits-report-in-sonepat-liquor-scam/story-gSu8U9chINmDro3epOsxRJ.html
01-08-2020||City||Three volunteers get second dose of Covaxin at PGIMS||Three volunteers were administered the second dose of Covaxin at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) on Friday. Dr Savita Verma, principal investigator of the human trials at the Rohtak facility, said these three volunteers had completed the 14-day period after receiving the first dose of 0.5 ml intramuscular injection of the vaccine.“Today, we gave them the second dose in same quantity. All of them have tolerated the vaccine very well. We kept them under observation for three hours and they showed positive results. We will collect their blood samples on August 14 and send the same to National Institute of Virology, Pune, to check how many antibodies developed in their bodies,” she added.Dr Ramesh Verma, co-investigator of the trials, said, “Doctors will monitor the response of vaccination through immunogenicity testing.”“We are praying that this vaccine gets successful and India takes a lead in saving the world from the deadly virus,” one of the volunteers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-volunteers-get-second-dose-of-covaxin-at-pgims/story-OBQ5NHxDVTluF3SZ6UBjRI.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s recovery rate goes past 80%||Haryana on Friday saw for the first time Covid-19 recovery rate above 80% while the fatality rate came down to 1.20%, health officials said. The state registered 711 new infections and 887 recoveries. Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said it was also encouraging to see a drop in fatality rate. “The recovery rate in Gurugram is 88%, while in Faridabad it is 87%,” he added. Four persons, one each from Gurugram, Rohtak, Ambala and Panipat, succumbed to the viral illness on Friday, taking the death toll to 421. According to a medical bulletin, there were 6,317 active cases in the state on Friday. The cumulative number of positive cases was 34,965 and the number of total recovered patients stood at 28,227. Four NCR districts of Faridabad (176), Gurugram (78), Rewari (74) and Rohtak (62) accounted for 54% of the new infections on Friday. Many other districts in different parts of the state also reported substantial number of infections. These are Ambala (48), Panipat (44), Palwal (37), Hisar (36), Karnal (28) and Panchkula (29). Sonepat reported 21 fresh cases followed by Mahendergarh (19), Charkhi Dadri (13), Jind (12), Nuh (8), Kaithal, Bhiwani and Sirsa (6 each), Fatehabad and Jhajjar (4 each). No new infections were reported from Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra. A judicial officer, two CIA staffers and as many persons from the CMO office were among 48 people who tested positive in Ambala.A statement issued by the office of district and sessions judge said, “Since a judicial officer has tested positive, eight staff members are advised for self home quarantine.”Bhiwani civil surgeon Jitender Kadina said Chaudhary Bansi Lal University V-C RK Mittal’s cook and a clerk were among the patients who tested positive in the district on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-recovery-rate-goes-past-80/story-w49OVHRv1vYBWA3SylUcdN.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Malpractices in property registration: Criminal proceedings initiated against 6 Gurugram officials||Initiating punitive action against six serving and one retired Gurugram revenue official for executing registration of sale deeds of properties without obtaining no objection certificates (NoC) in notified urban areas of Gurugram district, the Haryana government on Friday ordered registration of first information reports (FIRs) against them. The six serving officials have also been placed under suspension.The requirement of an NoC stating that land transfer does not contravene any provision of the act was to prevent ill-planned and haphazard construction in urban areas notified by the town and country planning (TCP) department.The state government had last week halted the registration of transfer deeds across the state for a limited period citing alleged corrupt practices.Additional chief secretary (ACS), revenue, Vijai Vardhan in a July 31 communication to principal secretary, TCP, said that FIRs be registered against Sohna tehsildar Bansi Lal; Sohna naib tehsildar Dalbir Singh; Badshahpur naib tehsildar Hari Kishan; Wazirabad naib tehsildar Jai Prakash; former Gurugram and Harsaru naib tehsildar Desh Raj Kamboj; Manesar naib tehsildar Jagdish Chand and Kadarpur naib tehsildar Om Prakash (retired) as they have been found guilty of flagrant violations of Section 7-A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (HDRUA) Act during registration of sale deeds.These officials were indicted by Gurugram divisional commissioner.The HDRUA Act administered by the TCP department provides for criminal prosecution of the violators. “Any person who contravenes any provision of this Act or rules made thereunder or any conditions of a licence granted under section 3 shall be punishable with imprisonment of either inscription for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable for fine,” reads Section 10 the Act.Rampant corrupt practices detectedRevenue officials said registration of properties without NoC in notified urban area land under Section 7-A led to mushrooming of unauthorised settlements and corrupt practices.Gurugram divisional commissioner during an inquiry found that a number of naib tehsildars were executing sale deeds indiscriminately without the NoC.The stipulations in Section 7-A pertained to grant of an NoC by the TCP department before registration of land in notified urban areas.The government has also directed the divisional commissioner to submit a detailed inquiry report regarding the patwaris who have changed the entries of land in ‘khasra girdawari’ from agricultural land to uncultivable (gair mumkin) with malafide intent to facilitate the registration of deeds in violation of section 7-A, officials said.The revenue department which flagged the Section 7-A violations has also written to the TCP department to make appropriate changes in the law. An ordinance to amend the law again is likely to be promulgated soon, officials said.The TCP and urban local bodies departments have also been directed to conduct an internal inquiry regarding the NoCs issued by them. They have been asked to submit a report to the revenue department within two weeks to assess the extent of responsibility that can be ascribed to officers of these departments, officials said.How realtors took advantage of ‘17 amendmentHowever, following a 2017 amendment in Section 7-A, the law got watered down and real estate developers were able to circumvent the requirement of NoC by converting agricultural land into uncultivable in revenue records.Also, the reduction of size of land from less than a hectare to two kanals worked to the advantage of realtors, officials said.The revenue department which flagged the Section 7-A violations has also written to the TCP department to make appropriate changes in the law. An ordinance to amend the law again is likely to be promulgated soon, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/malpractices-in-property-registration-criminal-proceedings-initiated-against-6-gurugram-officials/story-KD6NH6mr29719H8Wxvzm1O.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s case count reaches 422k as toll nears 15,000||Maharashtra reported 10,320 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 422,118. So far, 14,993 people have died due to the coronavirus disease in the state. The total number of recovered cases in Maharashtra now stands at 256,158 after 7,543 patients were discharged on Friday. “By and large, we have the outbreak under control. The doubling rate in Maharashtra is 30 days; better than the country’s, which is around 22 days. The recovery rate is over 60% now. Our stress will remain on containing the death rate. A task force has been set up for that, which is working with districts, we have tele-ICUs, where doctors from rural areas can consult with the doctors on the task force via video calls, about a critical patient,” state health minister Rajesh Tope said. Mumbai recorded 1,085 fresh infections, taking the case tally in state’s capital to 114,284. The city has registered 6,353 fatalities after 53 new deaths were reported on Friday. Tope admitted that the cases were now increasing in rural areas but added that “...the outbreak has a pattern —peak, plateau and drop — it will come down. We have seen this in the case of Mumbai… In my assessment, the numbers will go up in August as well, but we are well placed in terms of availability of beds and other equipment [to tackle the cases]”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-case-count-reaches-422k-as-toll-nears-15-000/story-YCUoPtW6oiVcQVTS8i2WmJ.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||‘Fake Covid-19 reports’: HC stays arrest of two Amritsar doctors, seeks probe report||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday restrained the Punjab police from arresting two doctors and sought a probe report in the alleged incident of preparing fake Covid-19 reports in Amritsar in June.The high court acted on the plea of Dr Robin Tuli and Dr Mohinder Singh, who had approached high court seeking anticipatory bail in the FIR registered on June 23 by Punjab vigilance bureau.The state’s counsel, GS Dhuriwala had told court that a medical board, constituted on June 18, is examining the matter. During the investigation, 72 cases were declared positive by Tuli Diagnostic Centre, Majithia Road, Amritsar, and cycle threshold values were handwritten on test requisition slips, the court was informed. It was further stated that no printout from machine was available for examination and no raw data or graph was present to know whether the figures given by the lab match those generated by the machine.On the other hand, appearing for doctors, senior advocate RS Rai had contended that the reports are in fact computer generated and there might be a noting on the side of computerised reports regarding Covid-19 Virus Qualitative PCR.The high court bench of justice Jaishree Thakur sought a report from the medical board in a sealed cover along with a photocopy of 72 positive reports purported to have been handwritten. Apart from these reports, if there is other evidence available against the petitioners, that too is to be submitted, the court said while fixing August 17 as the next date of hearing and staying the arrest of both the doctors.As per reports, these doctors in collusion with others allegedly prepared fake Covid-19 positive reports at their laboratory to fleece patients. The alleged racket had surfaced in June when at least four patients, reported to be Covid-19 positive at the accused’s lab, turned out to be negative for the disease after a retest at the lab in Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, the reports had claimed. On June 23, Punjab vigilance bureau registered a case against the owner of TDC, Dr Tuli, and others for attempt to murder, fraud, criminal conspiracy and corruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fake-covid-19-reports-hc-stays-arrest-of-two-amritsar-doctors-seeks-probe-report/story-zOrJDR3EObpqAS8gXssnqN.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Stubble burning: ‘Toothless’ PPCB seeks powers to act against errant farmers||The Punjab pollution control board (PPCB) has decided to seek tougher directions and a policy decision from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to act against farmers who indulge in stubble burning. Like the previous kharif (paddy) harvest seasons, the state agencies are anticipating incessant stubble burning this time too, which is expected to cause smog in the northern states, particularly the National Capital Region. In 2019, 50,738 cases of stubble burning were reported in the kharif season while 2018 saw 59,684 cases. The state government is under tremendous pressure to control the menace as the NGT has asked the Punjab government to bring the cases down to zero. “How would that be possible when there is no mechanism for recovering environment compensation imposed on farmers who indulge in stubble burning,” asked a PPCB official. According to the official, errant farmers are given challan chits but the matter ends there as most of them don’t deposit the penalty. “Farmers don’t give penalty because law is silent on it, I have come to know that PPCB is moving NGT,” said secretary, agriculture, KS Pannu. PPCB member secretary Krunesh Garg said, “In 2018, Rs 1.37 crore penalty was imposed on at least 4,800 farmers, out of which about Rs 20 lakh was recovered. Similarly in 2019, a penalty of Rs 6 crore was imposed on 23,000 farmers but only Rs 15 lakh could be recovered.” “We have asked the department of science and technology to take up the matter with NGT so that a mechanism can be formulated in this regard,” he said. Until last year, PPCB was recovering penalty and the amount was going into the board’s account. “We want the penalty to be deducted at the level of crop payment to the farmers,” said Garg. Ahead of the harvest season, expected to begin from October 1, the PPCB and the remote sensing centre have decided to run a joint operation to check stubble burning. The Punjab remote sensing centre (PRSC) based in Ludhiana has developed an android application to provide end-to-end solution for reporting and action taken for each fire incident captured through satellite. Officials in PPCB and PRSC say during the previous kharif harvest season, the entire effort to stop stubble burning by different agencies didn’t have a common platform. What’s the penalty? NGT has asked the state government agencies to impose a penalty of Rs 2,500 on farmers who burn stubble on two acres; Rs 5,000 on 2 to 5 acres and Rs 15,000 on farmers who set ablaze stubble over more than 5 acres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stubble-burning-toothless-ppcb-seeks-powers-to-act-against-errant-farmers/story-J1Pwvk7G5TtYD2K3WGyfTJ.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Wadala TT custodial death case: Victim died of heart attack, says crime branch in affidavit submitted to Bombay HC||The crime branch in its affidavit filed in the Bombay high court (HC) in the alleged custodial death of 27-year-old Vijay Singh at Wadala TT police station last year averred that based on the post-mortem reports of Sir JJ and King Edward Memorial (KEM) hospitals, the victim died of a heart attack and hence there is no substance in the various contentions raised by his family in their petition. The affidavit says that as there was discrepancy in the post-mortem reports of both the hospitals, a clarification was sought and is awaited. The KEM Hospital report stated that Singh suffered “acute coronary insufficient precipitated by sudden panic attack”, indicating unnatural death, while the report from Sir JJ Hospital report stated that Singh died of “myocardial infraction.”The affidavit filed by senior inspector Ninad Sawant, from crime investigation department unit 4, Antop Hill, stated on October 27 around 11pm, a woman was on her way to meet her friend at Wadala RTO. Singh, who was on a motorcycle, pulled the woman’s hand and she fell. On hearing her cry, her friend rushed to the spot, accosted Singh and held him by the collar and questioned why he pulled the woman’s hand, the affidavit said. In the meantime, Singh’s two friends, Ankit Mishra and Nirmal Singh, reached the spot and assaulted the woman’s friend and he suffered head injuries. A police van, which was passing by, took the five people to the Wadala TT police station. After hearing the incident, station house officer Sandip Kadam filed a non-cognisable complaint against Singh and his friends and the woman and her friend to Sion Hospital for medical treatment, the affidavit stated. Singh was kept in the lock-up, while his two friends were made to sit outside. Around 12.30am, Kadam left for Sion hospital and returned with the complaint filed by the woman and her friend. At the time, Singh started complaining of chest pain and was brought out of the lock-up. But he continued to feel uneasy and so was allowed to go out of the police station for fresh air, the affidavit further stated. After going out, Singh collapsed and was taken to a hospital by his relatives, where he was declared dead. The body was first sent to KEM Hospital for post-mortem and later to Sir JJ Hospital. The affidavit avers that at the time of the post-mortem at KEM Hospital, Singh’s family did not raise any objection but later when there were protests, two officers and three constables were suspended and an inquiry by a special investigation team (SIT) was directed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wadala-tt-custodial-death-case-victim-died-of-heart-attack-says-crime-branch-in-affidavit-submitted-to-bombay-hc/story-ZLy4MeUi9yzEGHu3L4ksAK.html
01-08-2020||City||3 held with opium worth ₹5 lakh from Kalyan||In a major crackdown on the sale of drugs, the Bazarpeth police arrested three people at Durgadi fort premises in Kalyan (West) in the early hours of Thursday and seized 1.46kg opium worth ₹5.22 lakh from the trio.According to the police, the accused – Suresh Kumhar and Bharat Chaudhary, both 22 years, and Somaram Prajapati, 32, bought the drugs from Rajasthan. While Bhiwandi resident Kumhar works at a grocery store, Prajapati and Chaudhary are farmers from Rajasthan.On Wednesday, Bazarpeth police officers received a tip-off about the three accused arriving in the city to sell the drug. Following this, the police laid a trap at at Durgadi fort around 3am on Thursday and nabbed them when the trio reached the area on a two-wheeler. On searching their belongings, the police found the contraband.“One gram of the drug is sold for ₹500, the accused revealed,” said senior inspector Yashwant Chavan from Bazarpeth police station.The three are booked under the relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. A Kalyan court remanded them to police custody till August 1.“We will investigate how the racket is being operated in the city,” added Chavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-held-with-opium-worth-5-lakh-from-kalyan/story-pbAVeR0AuJlCrgMdlA9NzJ.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||1.6 crore sanitary pads sold at subsidised rates under Asmita Yojana: Maharashtra govt to HC||The Maharashtra government on Friday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that 19,78,140 packets containing more than 1.6 crore sanitary pads have been sold until now through 29,875 self-help groups at highly subsidised rates to adolescent girls studying in zilla parishad schools as well as rural women across the state since the launch of the Asmita Yojana in 2018. The government, in an affidavit, said that the Asmita Yojana has been designed and implemented through women self-help groups with the objective to ensure accessibility and availability of affordable sanitary pads across rural Maharashtra. Under the scheme, a pack of eight napkins is being sold to adolescent school girls for ₹5 and to rural women for ₹24. The affidavit was filed in reply to a public interest litigation (PIL) jointly filed by law graduate Nikita Gore, who is working as a research assistant at the Aurangabad bench of the HC, and law student Vaishnavi Gholave. The duo sought an order to declare sanitary napkins as an essential commodity and start its distribution through the public distribution system, along with other essential commodities. In the PIL filed through advocate Vinod Sangvikar, the petitioners have highlighted the need to easy access to sanitary napkins as women cannot predict when menstruation will start. It further stated that the supply of sanitary pads should also be made accessible at schools and workplaces. The PIL has also stated that hygienic menstrual absorbents help adolescent girls and women to “manage menstruation effectively, safely, comfortably and fearlessly” and increases their attendance at school or at workplace during menstruation. The petitioners have asserted that sanitary napkins are essential requirement of every woman and women have right to get them at cheaper rate as on an average every woman spends about 3,000 days of her life menstruating and the lack of cleanliness during this period may lead to infections. Therefore, they have also sought proper implementation of the national guidelines for menstrual hygiene management issued in 2015 by the Union ministry of drinking water and sanitation. The bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Sarang Kotwal on Friday adjourned the PIL for three weeks after a counsel for central government sought time to file an affidavit in response to the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-6-crore-sanitary-pads-sold-at-subsidised-rates-under-asmita-yojana-maharashtra-govt-to-hc/story-LeZzbsoLj4l8eODfgIQ3CK.html
01-08-2020||City||2 more arrested for threatening comedienne||The city cyber police on Thursday night arrested two more men, who in a video allegedly abused and issued rape threats to a city-based comedienne, from Virar. The comedienne had recently courted controversy after a video of her stand-up act performed last year went viral, in which she has been accused of insulting Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. She had later apologised on social media and deleted the video. The police had earlier arrested Umesh Dada alias Imtiyaz Shaikh in the same case on similar charges from Nallasopara on July 13. Shaikh’s friend, YouTuber Shubham Mishra, too, was arrested on July 12 from Vadodara on charges of threatening and abusing the woman. The arrested two, Ashraf Shaikh, 28, and Virat Sharma, are Virar residents. Both are Class 10 dropouts and run auto-rickshaw for living. The two are Shaikh’s friends. Investigations have revealed that Shaikh and these two were highly influenced by Hindustani Bhau, a popular YouTuber and former Big Boss contestant. “Influenced by the style of Hindustani Bhau who abused or roasted people in his videos, the three made similar videos to gain popularity in short time. In this attempt, they made videos on the comedienne,” said a police officer requesting anonymity. Their videos, too, had gone viral. They had switched off their phones and were underground. “After hunting them for over 15 days, we arrested them on Thursday night,” said Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (cyber). The two have been arrested under sections 294, 354A, 354B, 505, 506, 509 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 67A of Information Technology Act. They were produced in court on Friday. After being caught, the two made a video in which they apologised for their actions. The video was later shared on social media platforms. After the comedienne’s clip went viral, a Shiv Sena leader had complained to Maharashtra’s home minister. Later, activists from Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) vandalised the place in Khar where she had performed. After a video of MNS’s stunt was shared on social media, Mishra and Shaikh uploaded videos on social media, threatening to rape her for disrespecting Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. They also abused her mother and sister. After many prominent personalities such as Mallika Dua, Swara Bhasker, Kunal Kamra and journalists criticised the video and sought intervention, state home minister Anil Deshmukh asked police to take action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-more-arrested-for-threatening-comedienne/story-n8xfTHyxZLoEYInFAbP58N.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Ex-Union home secretary Ram Pradhan, who chaired 26/11 Mumbai attacks probe panel, dies at 92||Ram D Pradhan, who served as the Union home secretary in the Rajiv Gandhi government, passed away in Mumbai on Friday morning, owing to age-related ailments. He was 92 and is survived by his wife and three children. Pradhan had also served as the former chief secretary of Maharashtra and the Governor of Arunachal Pradesh. Pradhan was also instrumental in signing the Assam Accord and the Mizoram Peace Accord. After 36 years of service with the Government of India, Pradhan had also led a two-member inquiry team into the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks after his retirement, at the behest of the state government, and tabled a probe report on the incident within four months. Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and several political leaders, including Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, state public works department minister and former chief minister (CM) Ashok Chavan, expressed grief over Pradhan’s demise. Koshyari, in an official note from Raj Bhavan, called Pradhan “the most experienced statesmen, brilliant thinker and an eloquent commentator on national and international issues”. Pawar said that the former bureaucrat had “extraordinary intelligence” and “integrity”. In a series of tweets, Pawar wrote, “Besides Operation Blue Star, Ram Pradhan carried out work on Punjab issues with extreme patience, sensibility and studiously… Later, Punjab Accord was inked with efforts of many, but the credit goes to Ram Pradhan.” Pradhan had also served as the private secretary to Maharashtra’s first CM Yashwantrao Chavan and shared good relations with another former CM, Shankarrao Chavan. He could have headed for a possible political career as a parliamentarian from Rajya Sabha (RS) but the trajectory did not take off.In 1998, Pradhan, a seasoned administrator, had been handpicked by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to contest the RS polls as the party candidate from Maharashtra, but he lost the election after 13 legislators violated the party whip.Many in the political circles said that this defeat was a clear indication of the then strained and fraying relationship between party’s national leadership led by Gandhi and Maratha strongman Sharad Pawar. A year later in 1999, Pawar split the Congress to form the NCP. Ashok Chavan, who appointed Pradhan to probe the 2008 terror attacks, termed his demise as a personal loss and said he had lost a guide. In a statement, the PWD minister said, “I knew him since the time of Shankarrao Chavan [Ashok Chavan’s father]. I was regularly in touch with him for the past few years. He had contributed immensely during the Mumbai terrorist attack [probe]. He had a big role in several important national-level and state-related decisions.” For the 26/11 probe report, the Pradhan committee had interviewed 50 police officers and bureaucrats, scanned police control room data and intelligence inputs before finalising the report. In its report, the committee had praised the police’s response but had pointed to lack of overt leadership, apart from lapses in intelligence gathering, briefing, threat perception, crisis management etc. It had made several recommendations to modernise the state police force, set-up CCTV cameras for better surveillance in city and improve co-ordination with centre to tackle such attacks in the future. In one of his interviews to HT on the eve of the tenth anniversary of the 2008 terror attacks in 2018, at his Colaba residence, Pradhan had candidly admitted that the 26/11 attack was largely an intelligence failure on the part of central agencies. However, at the same time, he had cautioned that similar attacks on Mumbai were possible and stressed on the need for an elite marine force to protect our coastlines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ex-union-home-secretary-ram-pradhan-who-chaired-26-11-mumbai-attacks-probe-panel-dies-at-92/story-j4cFlIYlGHYyMZc189X2CO.html
01-08-2020||City||Maharashtra Congress questions appointment of chief electoral officer, he rubbishes claims||The Maharashtra Congress on Friday raised questions over the appointment of the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Maharashtra, Baldev Singh, alleging he was facing a probe over alleged irregularities in SEEPZ, when he was heading it at the direction of Central Vigilance Commission (CVC). Singh has rubbished the allegations saying the case being referred to is from the period before he took charge. Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant on Friday said Singh was facing an inquiry initiated by CVC and the ministry of industry and commerce in an alleged irregularity in SEEPZ SEZ. “The Comptroller and Auditor General of India had passed strictures in the case in its June 2018 report tabled in Parliament. The financial scam is related to an appointment of an ineligible agency for the works without having an authority. Despite the ongoing probe, the Fadnavis government appointed Singh as the CEO Maharashtra in July 2019, just ahead of the Assembly polls. This has raised serious questions about the role of the commission,” he alleged. Sawant questioned why the credentials of the CEO were not cross-checked while appointing him to the post and whether the Election Commission of India was working under pressure of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Singh said, “It is very sad, mischievous and misleading, the way facts are being tried to be presented by the Congress leader. These are absolutely false and incorrect allegations as the capital works mentioned in the letters were allotted to NFCD even before I joined SEEPZ. The allotment was done by an earlier development commissioner, who was the competent authority to do so during his tenure. All payments were released by my predecessor and the information about them has been given to the competent authorities in the government.” Singh said that the letter, dated July 3, 2020, by the ministry of industry and commerce and produced by Sawant clearly mentions the role of one IRS officer has emerged during the investigation of the case. “This clearly indicates that I had no role to play in this entire case and the allotment of works and appointment of the agency were done even before I joined SEEPZ,” he said. Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan had, earlier this week, raised questions over the appointment of an agency led by BJP leader and had written a letter to the ECI for action. The ECI in the letter to Chavan has said the CEO office did not choose the agency with BJP for the voter awareness campaign. Sawant said that the reply was dissatisfactory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-congress-questions-appointment-of-chief-electoral-officer-he-rubbishes-claims/story-XIN6wxKkDYiRMWctWLU50L.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Ram Mandir bhoomipujan should have been held later, says Raj Thackeray||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray questioned the timing of Ram Mandir bhoomipujan at Ayodhya which is scheduled on August 5, saying it is not an opportune time considering the Covid-19 pandemic.Thackeray said the event should have been a grand one and added, “There was no need to rush through the event. If it took place two months from now, people would have celebrated the event. Currently, people are not in that mindset to celebrate. The event should have been held when the situation is stable.”“I wonder why they have chosen this time for this event,” said Thackeray. He also shot down his cousin and Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray’s suggestion of conducting e-bhoomipujan citing that scores of people have given their lives for this temple and hence, the construction of the temple is inevitable.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple coming Wednesday.On Thursday, Dalit parties demanded that a grand Buddha Vihar be set up at Ayodhya. Union minister Ramdas Athawale raised the demand on the grounds that before the temple and Babri Masjid, there was a Buddha Vihar in the land citing that various Buddhist artefacts were discovered while levelling the ground for the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ram-mandir-bhoomipujan-should-have-been-held-later-says-raj-thackeray/story-1nXfgQvsNsdPdLjfmGejRI.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Relief for students in Mumbai awaiting documents for caste validity: Provisional admissions for FYJC quota seats||Providing relief to lakhs of first-year junior college (FYJC) aspirants in the state, the education department has allowed provisional admissions under various quotas.In a circular issued on Thursday, the department said that students who do not have the prerequisite documents to seek admissions to FYJC under various quotas can fill out an undertaking form stating they will submit them at a later date to confirm their admission. Until then, the students will be granted provisional admission.The portal for admissions for students to fill Part 1 of the form, which includes their basic details, will open on August 1. However, schools across the state are yet to receive the Class 10 mark-sheets. “Due to the current situation, students can upload an e-copy of the SSC results, which they can download from the board website at the time of application. Original mark-sheets, passing certificate, and leaving certificate can be verified at a later date,” states the circular.Several students and parents had requested the education department to grant an extension for submission of documents like caste validity certificates. The Maharashtra Navanirman Vidyarthi Sena had also written to the government, requesting that it not deny admission to a student if he/she does not have the document at the moment.The education department has now said that students who have applied for various certificates but have still not received them, can also upload a copy of the application receipt.In 2019, the department had decided to allot provisional admissions to students who fall under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) and Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) as the two reservations came in a few days before admissions. Students were asked to submit their documents within six months from the time of admission and were granted provisional admissions based on an undertaking signed by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/relief-for-students-in-mumbai-awaiting-documents-for-caste-validity-provisional-admissions-for-fyjc-quota-seats/story-SLSszx3ItmRkmZkpe7qQYJ.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh received heaviest rain since 2013||With the 302.6mm rain received in July, the total amount of rain received during the monsoon season this year in the city (till July 31) comes at 472.9mm, making 2020 the year with the heaviest rain in six years (since 2013), as per data available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Although the monsoon period was hit by a lull for a short time, it is likely to gain momentum again after the second week of August, as per the IMD officials.As per IMD, the monsoon season continues over four months, from June to September. Although there was marginally lesser rain in July this year as compared to last year (319.4mm), the total rain received during the monsoon period is still the highest since 2013 when 489.6mm of rain was recorded in the city. Normal monsoon rain for this period is 413.5mm. Of the 302.6mm precipitation received in July, only 60.5mm of it was recorded after July 15. This was mostly due to 49.9mm of rain received on July 30. Besides this instance of major downpour, the city only recorded a few drizzles here and there.Speaking about this, regional IMD director Surender Paul said, “Monsoon arrived early in the region and there were multiple western disturbances present as well. Their interaction with the north easterly winds led to an above average rainfall. However, now an anti-cyclonic movement is present over the city forming an airlock over it. Due to this, the city of Chandigarh hadn’t received rain even when stations in Punjab and Haryana had received a good amount of rainfall recently.”Paul added that the approximately 3-kilometre long airlock over the city is likely to continue till the second week of August, due to which spells of heavy rainfall will remain unlikely in the city. “Some heavy spells of rain can be expected in the city after that, but chances for light to moderate rain will continue till then,” he added.After 1.7mm of rain was recorded at the Sector 39 IMD observatory on Friday, the department has predicted light rain upto 20mm in the coming days along with cloudy weather and wind speeds up to 45 km/h.The maximum temperature in the city went up from 31.5 degree Celsius on Thursday to 34.4 degree Celsius on Friday. Minimum temperature went up from 24.9 degree Celsius on Thursday to 27 degree Celsius on Friday. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 33 degree Celsius and 35 degree Celsius, while minimum temperature will remain between 26 and 28 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-received-heaviest-rain-since-2013/story-5X0mwPNQA9rN2CofFDyvYI.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||20% water cut across Mumbai from August 5, says civic body||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a statement issued on Friday, announced a 20% cut in the city from August 5 until further notice, owing to low rainfall in catchment areas. The civic body the step is taken to ensure that there is enough water supply until July 31, 2021. “We decided to impose 20% water cut as a precaution. There are predictions of good rainfall in catchment areas from next week and we can always roll back the cut if there is enough water. Citizens should utilise water wisely but also ensure to use sufficient water for personal hygiene as we are amid the Covid-19 outbreak,” a BMC official said. Civic commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal also plans to bring water to Mumbai from Bhandardara dam in Ahmednagar, if required. The water level in the seven water-supplying lakes – Tulsi, Tansa, Vihar, Bhatsa, Modak Sagar, Upper Vaitarna and Middle Vaitarna – was 34%, as on Friday against the 85% level in 2019 and 83% in 2018. Although the 34% of water level is sufficient for supply for the next 100 days, the BMC imposed the water cuts as a precautionary step. According to data shared by BMC, the seven lakes have 4.99 lakh million litres of water against their full capacity of around 14.47 lakh million litres. The Bhatsa dam, which caters to 55% of the city’s total water requirement, has 38.68% water. It had 84.93% water during the same time in 2019. The BMC earlier decided to impose water cuts from August 1, but later decided to postpone the decision in the wake of the festivals on the first three days of the month. The civic body appealed to citizens to use water wisely, and to avoid any wastage. In 2014, the BMC imposed a 25% water cut, followed by 20% cut in 2015 and 2016. In 2018, the BMC imposed 10% water cut. In 2017 and 2019, owing to enough water in catchment areas, the civic body did not declare any cut. The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems: the Vaitarna system which supplies to the western suburbs and the island city, and the Bhatsa system which supplies to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-water-cut-across-mumbai-from-august-5-says-civic-body/story-L04hjVJppMvpd8VvnLqi4J.html
01-08-2020||City||86 labourers at Majiwada construction site test positive||Around 86 labourers from a construction site in Majiwada in Thane, tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) had conducted RT-PCR tests on 536 labourers from a popular realty developer’s construction site in Balkum Pada.“We had asked all construction site owners and developers within the jurisdiction of the civic body to conduct mandatory testing of all their labourers, to ensure there is no spread of the virus. As part of this testing, it was found out that 86 labourers had contracted the infection,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy commissioner, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/86-labourers-at-majiwada-construction-site-test-positive/story-wUPOq4EgxXZTDmTLHIHrlL.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Only ‘bada khana’ for Burail jail inmates on Eid, Raksha Bandhan||This year, the festivals of Eid al-Adha and Raksha Bandhan will be lacklustre affairs for the inmates of Burail jail as no visitors will be allowed.This is the first time when the sisters of the inmates will not be allowed to personally tie rakhis on the wrist of their brothers lodged at Burail jail. An exception, however, has been made for siblings lodged in the jail.Additional inspector general (AIG, prisons) Virat said, “Keeping in view the safety protocols, it has been decided that unlike the tradition no visitors will be allowed this year.” “The rakhis received by post will be passed on to the inmates, but only after proper sanitisation by the jail staff,” he added. However, the jail inmates will be served a special meal, or as jail authorities call it, ‘bada khana’. This meal will include sweets like halwa, kheer and a special vegetable dish, along with routine dal-chapati.Burail jail currently lodges around 750 male and 35 female prisoners. Since March, the jail authorities had suspended visits of the family members as part of the measures taken to save the inmates from being infected with coronavirus. No decision has been taken to resume the visits yet.AN EID SANS EMBRACEOn the occasion of Eid al Adha or Bakra Eid on August 1, “the inmates will not be allowed to meet and embrace each other to exchange Eid greetings. All safety protocols will be followed while celebrating the festivals in jail,” said Virat. The jail authorities have planned a ‘bada khana’ for Eid as well, which will include ‘seweyian’ or vermicelli as the special dessert.The UT administration has also declared August 1 as a public holiday on account of Eid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-only-bada-khana-for-burail-jail-inmates-on-eid-raksha-bandhan/story-qYrherDM62Iw2y9RnuzL4N.html
01-08-2020||City||Navi Mumbai welder dies after 400-kg iron rings fall on him||A 19-year-old welder died after iron rings, weighing 400kg, fell on him from a crane at a metal fabricating company in Rabale MIDC, Navi Mumbai. Following preliminary investigation, the police arrested the company’s manager for negligence on Thursday. The incident took place on Tuesday around 11am at Vishwakarma Udyog company. The victim, Rajesh Gautam, was a resident of Digha in Navi Mumbai. “The iron rings were being moved to another location using a crane. The metal rings, weighing around 400kg, were not fitted properly under the belt, causing them to fall off the crane on Gautam. He suffered severe injuries on stomach,” a police officer from Rabale MIDC said. His colleagues rushed him to the civic hospital in Vashi, where he died in the evening during treatment. After his death, the police recorded the statements of the workers at the factory and Gautam’s brother, following which a case was registered. “When we visited the factory for inspection after the worker’s death, we discovered that the labourers were not provided with any safety equipment. They alleged that the metal rings were not fixed properly and were loaded in a haphazard manner. We suspect that the belt, which was holding the iron rings, was not maintained, owing to which they fell,” said senior inspector Nitin Gite from Rabale MIDC police station. The police then arrested factory manager Preetpal Singh Saini, 25, as he looked after the daily operations at the site. He was later released on bail. The factory is owned by Saini’s father Hardip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-welder-dies-after-400-kg-iron-rings-fall-on-him/story-F9GHkPr6iAz8bykh2WOZoO.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||91% sowing in Maharashtra raises hope for bumper production||With satisfactory rainfall across Maharashtra, the sowing average for crops in the state has reached 91%. Agriculturists and officials say they are expecting bumper agriculture production this year.As per a report collated by the agriculture department on July 27, crops have been sown on 1.29 crore hectare (ha) of the 1.42 crore ha that comprises the average area under kharif crops.Last year, sowing was done on 1.15 crore ha on the corresponding day. The sowing for oilseed crops like groundnut and soybean has crossed its average area of 41.57 lakh ha to spread across 42.89 lakh ha. Pulses have reached 90%, with sowing completed on 19.98 lakh ha against its average area of 22.17 lakh ha. This year, farmers preferred urad (black gram) and tur (pigeon pea) as kharif crops and they have been sown on 101% and 94% of the land for their cultivation respectively. Sowing for cotton is at 99%. Significantly, eight districts in drought-prone Marathwada had received 128% of their average rainfall by July 31. Over the past two months, the region has already received 60.3% of its seasonal average. Marathwada’s water stock is at 36.03%, compared to 0.98% on the same day last year. Maharashtra has already recorded 51.6% of its average monsoon rainfall and water stock in its dams is at 38% of their total capacity.Agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse said that if the rest of monsoon goes well, the state can expect bumper crops this season. “Barring a few areas like parts of Nashik and Raigad, all areas are receiving good rainfall. Sowing for almost all crops has been over 90% and we expect bumper production of all the crops,” he said. Bhuse said there had been a sudden rise in the demand for urea because of the early onset of the monsoon, but his department has been able to ensure smooth supply. “We need to make certain changes in the crop loan system by making it available in May and it will be done from next season,” he said. SS Magar, former vice chancellor of Balasaheb Sawant Konkan Agriculture University, said production of food grains may go up to 18 million tonnes. “Marathwada may take a leap in agriculture production this year. There have been experiments of integrated and precision agriculture by young farmers even in Marathwada and it has resulted in good yield per acre,” he said. Farming expert Vijay Jawandhia said, “Major crops this year are cotton and soybean, which fetch farmers good prices. We can expect good agriculture production this year, but the rainfall will have to moderate throughout the season.” He added that people migrating from urban areas to rural parts during the pandemic had resulted in easy availability of agricultural labour. “However, farmers were forced to borrow money from private money lenders because sources of income dried up, owing to job losses in families. The government should implement an employment guarantee scheme for farm labourers,” Jawandhia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/91-sowing-in-maharashtra-raises-hope-for-bumper-production/story-z6fkH6iX3LRO99sUMjtIqO.html
01-08-2020||City||Four immigration firm owners booked for duping people of ₹11 lakh in Mohali||The police on Friday booked four owners of different immigration firms for allegedly duping people of over ₹11 lakh in four separate cases.The accused were identified as Rajvir Singh Sandhu, a resident of Cholta Khurd village, Mohali, Sandeep Singh of Ambala, Mohit Kumar of Landran, and Karan Kapoor, a resident of Phase 1 here.Phase 1 station house officer, inspector Manphul Singh, said Rajvir duped one Pankaj Kumar, a resident of Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh, of ₹2.7 lakh on the pretext of offering the latter a job in Australia. Rajvir was running an immigration firm named ‘Best Visa Consultancy’ in Phase 5 here, and around three cases of fraud were already registered against him in the past, said the SHO.In the second case, Sandeep duped one Jasveer Singh of Devi Nagar Abrawan village here, of ₹6 lakh on the pretext of providing a visa of Italy to his son, Tejinder Singh.Similarly, Vishal Singh of Shahi Majra village here alleged that Mohit Kumar had duped him of ₹2.5 lakh on the pretext of sending him to Canada.In the fourth case, Karan Kapoor was booked for duping a Kurali resident, Pankaj Bansal, of ₹60,000 on the pretext of sending him to Canada.The cases were registered against the four accused under Sections 406 (criminal break of trust), 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Immigration Act. “All the accused are at large and raids are being conducted at their locations. We will arrest them soon. Further investigation is on,” said Inspector Manphul Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-immigration-firm-owners-booked-for-duping-people-of-11-lakh-in-mohali/story-oBgDXldC4PJTq4sJrEQbBK.html
01-08-2020||City||Rakshabandhan amid Covid-19 outbreak: Mail services to operate even on Sunday as posts increase manifold||The rail mail services(RMS) of the Ambala division will be working this Sunday owing to the increasing number of Rakhi posts amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Most of the sisters are resorting to postal services to send Rakhis as siblings are refraining from visiting each other amid the pandemic outbreak. The Ambala division caters to Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat and Sonepat districts and as per official figures, the division had disbursed nearly 1.69 lakh Rakhi posts last year to the concerned post offices. Rohtash Singh, superintendent, RMS, said due to the pandemic fewer trains and buses are operating. As most of the people are avoiding travel amid the pandemic, they are sending Rakhi via couriers. “These are challenging times and we are expecting double to triple Rakhi posts this time,” he said. Talking about the increase in the load, Ram Nath, assistant superintendent, RMS said, “The load is so high that we have to deploy additional staff to make ends meet. We have also decided to run a special set at our RMS offices in five districts of the division on Sunday so that we can send every Rakhi in time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rakshabandhan-amid-covid-19-outbreak-mail-services-to-operate-even-on-sunday-as-posts-increase-manifold/story-yhZswGIEPS9amZdXrw8b7J.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: GMCH-32 panel finds new ventilators of satisfactory quality||A panel of doctors at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has found the quality of ventilators received under the PM Cares Fund to be satisfactory.The report submitted on Friday by the panel of experts from different departments of the medical college said that the ventilators were fit for use on adult patients.The UT administration had received 20 ventilators from the central government that were distributed among the two tertiary care institutes—Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and GMCH-32. GMCH has installed the ventilators at its south campus building in Sector 48, which is a designated facility for critically-ill patients.Earlier, PGIMER had reported faults in the ventilators provided by the UT administration under the PM Cares Fund, following which the latter had raised the issue with the Centre. However, the UT is yet to hear back from them.PGIMER had, however, alerted GMCH, citing their internal findings regarding quality of ventilators. Based on this communication, GMCH had formed a panel of its own for quality assessment.Professor BS Chavan, director and principal of GMCH, said, “I received the report on Friday afternoon and the ventilators installed at GMCH-32 have been found to be up to the mark for adult patients. The ventilators were put on trial for 10 days. The manufacturers of the ventilators installed here are different from the ones who provided the equipment to PGIMER and maybe that is the reason why PGIMER reported faults.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-gmch-32-panel-finds-new-ventilators-of-satisfactory-quality/story-IZYLylf1OHkm8SbmGRYypN.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Pre-nursery to Class 8: 843 apply on Day 1 of admissions in Chandigarh government schools||As many as 843 forms for admissions to pre-nursery to Class 8 in government schools were received on Friday. There are 17,867 seats up for grabs in 115 government schools as per data uploaded by the UT education department on their website. For admissions, the schools have been divided into 20 clusters. Separate forms are required to be filled for each cluster. Around 4,000 seats are available for entry-level admissions that will be held through a draw of lots. Director school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said that the first day passed without any glitch or confusion. The DSE informed that students can submit applications online till August 14. Allocation of seats for pre-primary classes will be done before August 21, primary classes before August 28 and upper primary classes before August 31. In accordance with the Right to Education (RTE) norms, the admission in government schools is done as per the neighborhood concept (school nearest to the residence). There are a total of 115 government schools in the city, including 40 senior secondary schools, 53 high schools, 13 middle schools, 8 primary schools, and one nursery school. Only those candidates who are presently not studying in any of these government schools will be eligible to apply for admission.14,028 FORMS RECEIVED FOR CLASS 11 A total of 14,028 forms have been received for admission to Class 11, for which online registration was extended till August 3. There are 12,815 seats available in government schools across the city. As many as 17,114 candidates got themselves registered online and 14,962 paid the registration fees of Rs 130 online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pre-nursery-to-class-8-843-apply-on-day-1-of-admissions-in-chandigarh-government-schools/story-UaN40L5liW9pSbxekp196I.html
01-08-2020||Lucknow||UP working to turn challenges into opportunities, says Sidharth Nath Singh||Uttar Pradesh has tackled several challenges in the fight against Covid-19. A focus on deft governance during the pandemic has helped the state deal with multifarious issues skillfully .One such challenge involved providing jobs to a large population of migrant workers, who came back to the state following the nationwide lockdown. Minister for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) Sidharth Nath Singh is an active member of chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s team that has been tasked with turning these challenges into an opportunity. Umesh Raghuvanshi spoke to Singh, who also holds the portfolios of khadi and village industries, sericulture industries, textile, export promotion, NRI and investment promotion, about these issues and his efforts to bring investment to the state. Excerpts:How are you facing the challenges?Many challenges are there. But the guidance to work amid these challenges is coming from chief minister Yogi Adityanath. He is leading from the front. How?The arrival of about 35 lakh migrant labourers could have turned into a crisis. But the chief minister did not think this way. He began working before the arrival of the migrant labourers. A committee was constituted to make recommendation about giving them jobs. I am a member of the committee. We have carried out skill mapping of 35 lakh migrant labourers.How far have you been able to give them employment? We have signed MoUs (memorandums of understanding) with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), Laghu Udyog Bharati, Indian Industry Association (IIA) and National Real Estate Development Council (NREDC) to provide 11 lakh jobs. About 85,000 tailors have been absorbed in Noida and Greater Noida. There was an opportunity because many garment manufacturers in countries like Bangladesh and China were not able to supply garments to buyers in Europe, the USA and Canada. The chief minister allowed export units to be opened. There was a requirement of about two lakh. But we only had 85,000 to offer. Over 1.25 crore mandays have been generated in MNREGA. What about efforts to attract investment?The chief minister wanted that we get in touch with ambassadors and high commissions. I had a personal discussion with minister for external affairs S Jaishankar. He said the best way will be to use industry or commerce forums. Ficci arranged the same through video conferencing. We have got in touch with the USA, the UK, Germany, Japan, South Korea, Thailand and Russia. We have completed the exercise with eight countries. Two more, France and Israel, are to be done. Uttar Pradesh has inherent strengths. A new industrial climate is being created here with reforms. We have given them information. It has helped. The Canadian ambassador (high commissioner) has sent us a proposal. There are proposals from the Indian Embassy in Japan. They have sent us five to six proposals. Americans say they have proposals. They are getting the proposals vetted. These proposals will be forwarded to us after vetting. Russia says there are certain investments that can flow due to the defence corridor coming up in the state.What about the new export policy?There is a huge disturbance in the supply chain from China. This is the time to fill in the space the China is leaving. This is a great opportunity. We are working on it. I have had discussions to take this forward. We are coming out with a new export policy. For example, China exports ceramics of about 8 billion US dollars. Uttar Pradesh has units of ceramics in Khurja. They are exporting. China will not be able to supply as much as they have been doing. They have about 80% of the global market. This is going to drop now. UP has to be ready. What about Microsoft?Microsoft’s north India campus is coming up in the Noida/Greater Noida region. We have identified land for them. They have to come and inspect the land. But unfortunately due to lockdown and Microsoft’s policy for this period, nobody is allowed to travel. These people have to travel from Hyderabad and Chennai. Once they come, we will finalise the land for them. How has this affected you on the personal front?There are restrictions on travelling. I have travelled to my constituency only on a few occasions. This gives you little time for yourself. My duration of exercises has gone up from 30 minutes to over an hour now. I have hooked on to some app-based yoga programmes. I never realised that I can cook so well. I have been cooking these days. I cook not only Indian food, but continental food as well. I have tried Teriyaki food too.Do virtual rallies or video conferences work?A: It’s always good to meet people. But some time a personal meeting may not be needed. Technology has come as a great help for such situations. We as a political party (the BJP) and the state government have been making use of technology to the optimum. On a day, I had to address a press conference in Kanpur and two political rallies in Prayagraj and Kaushambi. All the three were managed comfortably and the number of those who attended the virtual rallies was as good as it may have been if I had gone there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-working-to-turn-challenges-into-opportunities-says-sidharth-nath-singh/story-jqJLbIm1Yywtevf42RuA0I.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Inform Dr Teltumbde’s family of his Covid-19 report, Bombay HC tells Maharashtra government||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the state to inform the family about the result of the Covid-19 test done on Elgar Parishad accused Dr Anand Teltumbde. The counsel for the other accused, Vernon Gonsalves, informed the court that as Gonsalves had tested negative and he had spoken to his family and let them know of his well-being, his plea was satisfied and he was back in Taloja Jail, but the family of Dr Teltumbde was anxious as they had not spoken to him. The state submitted that Dr Teltumbde was tested on Thursday and his report would be available on Saturday, which would be submitted before the court on Tuesday. The court has posted the matter for hearing on August 4. A division bench of justices RD Dhanuka and justices VG Bisht while hearing the plea of Gonsalves and Dr Teltumbde, seeking directions to the jail authorities to test them for the virus, was informed by senior advocate Mihir Desai on Friday that Gonsalves had been tested for the infection and the results had come negative. Desai further submitted that as per the assurance given by the state, Gonsalves had been able to speak to his family over the phone and hence his plea was satisfied and he was back in the normal barracks at Taloja jail after completing the quarantine period. Desai, however, submitted that the family of Dr Teltumbde was anxious as they were unaware of his status vis-à-vis the Covid infection. He added that Dr Teltumbde had not spoken to his family as well, hence the state be directed to inform whether he had been tested for the Covid infection and its result. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare, for the state, informed the court that Dr Teltumbde had been tested on Thursday and the report would be available on Saturday. Thakare further added that the report would be submitted on Tuesday. After hearing the submissions, the court directed the state to inform Dr Teltumbde’s family about the outcome of the Covid test and also let the family speak to him, thereafter which the state agreed. The court has posted the matter for hearing on August 4. Both Gonsalves and Dr Teltumbde are accused in the Elgar Parishad-Bhima-Koregaon case and have been lodged in Taloja Jail along with other accused, P Varavara Rao. After Rao had tested positive for Covid-19, Gonsalves and Dr Teltumbde had approached HC , requesting to be tested for the infection, too, as they were in close proximity with Rao while he was in jail. Gonsalves was helping Rao with day-to-day activities, while Dr Teltumbde was in the same jail hospital where Rao had been kept after his health had deteriorated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-inform-dr-teltumbde-s-family-of-his-covid-19-report-bombay-hc-tells-maharashtra-government/story-kzoEkbafG9qpTaJfQKfpaI.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Eid al-Adha: Not even a 100 animals sold at Manimajra goat market this year due to Covid-19||Eid al-Adha, also known as Eid Qurban or Bakra-Eid, will be celebrated in the city on Saturday, but the goat market of Manimajra, the biggest one in the tricity, wore a deserted look a day before the festival.Hardly three to four traders were seen sitting inside a park behind the Manimajra cremation ground, which in previous years used to be filled with goat traders. Sales have also been minuscule and the traders said they hadn’t even sold a 100 goats among them.Mohammad Rashid, one of the biggest goat traders from Manimajra, said that from selling about 200 goats a day before Eid, this year they have sold only 20 goats since Wednesday. “Goats we would have sold for ₹15,000 now sell for under ₹10,000. Many people have lost their livelihoods due to the lockdown so they are not willing to shell out money to buy goats for Eid,” he said.Another trader Shaqil Mohammad said that some traders from the city had preferred to sell their goats in other cities: “We had bought special breeds of goats from Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, but due to zero demand, many traders from the city went to Malerkotla in Sangrur district of Punjab to sell their goats as the demand is still high there.”“Teams of the administration have been visiting every couple of hours to ensure that the market doesn’t get crowded and we wear our masks,” added another trader, Ashraf Ali.‘GABBAR SINGH’ PRICED AT ₹1.5 LAKHThe costliest goat for sale this year has beaten the previous year’s record. Although goats from Rajasthan are amongst the priciest, this year a goat from Amritsar in Punjab has fetched the highest price.Owned by Pintu of Manimajra, the black goat affectionately called Gabbar Singh, after the bandit leader in the film Sholay, is around 5 feet tall and weighs over 150 kilos. Last year, Sheru, an Alwari goat, sold for ₹80,000 at the market.MASJID HEADS URGE PEOPLE TO STAY HOMEThe religious heads of the major mosques of the city have urged people to offer namaz at home and avoid visiting mosques. Maulana Ajmal Khan of the Sector 20 Jama Masjid said that all devotees were further urged to follow social distancing while celebrating the festival. Maulana Imran of the Manimajra mosque added that the mosques will remain open, but devotees had been asked to pray from home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eid-al-adha-not-even-a-100-animals-sold-at-manimajra-goat-market-this-year-due-to-covid-19/story-2aru26WhnnotJpNYU1gBSI.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||MVA scraps pension scheme meant for the prisoners booked under MISA||In another reversal of the decisions taken by the previous Fadnavis government, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Friday scrapped the pension scheme meant for the prisoners booked under Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA) during emergency existed between June 1975 and March 1977. The state government was spending ₹42 crore annually on 3,452 beneficiaries since July 2018. The beneficiaries were getting ₹10,000 a month as pension as their due felicitation for their imprisonment during the emergency. The prisoners were treated at par with the freedom fighters in terms of the pension amount. “The pension was granted just on the self-declarations by the beneficiaries without any verification of the documents as decided by a committee under the then revenue minister Chandrakant Patil. There were complaints received from district collectors about the bogus beneficiaries reaping the benefits. Buldhana had a large number of beneficiaries, even while the district had no history of any movement during emergency,” said an official from the general administration department. Congress, while in opposition, had alleged that the Fadnavis government had introduced the scheme to benefit the prisoners who were mostly the activists of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Senior Congress leader and energy minister NItin Raut had, immediately after three party Maharashra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government came to power, had demanded scrapping of the scheme. Hindustan Times on March 1, 2020 had reported about the MVA government’s plan to scrap the scheme. State government issued a government resolution on Friday announcing that the in its bid of reducing unwarranted expenditure amid the financial crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the scheme is being scrapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mva-scraps-pension-scheme-meant-for-the-prisoners-booked-under-misa/story-0m17HtpIWIzVfxUaIz5ejO.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Online teaching: PU teachers seek option to conduct classes from home||The teachers of Panjab University (PU) have sought an option to conduct online classes from their homes. The online classes for the ongoing batches are scheduled to start from August 3 and the varsity has issued guidelines related to online teaching for its teaching departments and affiliated colleges. As per the guidelines, the teachers have been directed to conduct online classes from their respective departments. Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA), on Friday, wrote to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar seeking an option for teachers to conduct classes either from their respective departments or from their homes. PUTA president Rajesh Gill said, “Our teachers have several apprehensions regarding holding of online classes from departments like facilities at the departments, availability of Wifi, connectivity issues, and the observance of MHA guidelines on social distancing. Teachers should be given a choice to conduct online classes either from the departments or their homes. The objective should be effective online teaching rather than a mere formality.” PU has already decided that funds will be provided to departments if there is a need to buy equipment to support online teaching. PU senator Rajat Sandhir had also written a letter to the V-C seeking an option for the teachers to conduct online classes from home. He said, “The faculty members have appreciated the decision to start the academic programme through online mode, but are concerned about how social distancing guidelines will be followed when all of them will be teaching from their respective departments. The number of Covid-19 cases is increasing at an alarming rate across the tricity and the situation demands extreme caution.” “With over 800 faculty members using the campus internet network, there is a possibility that the connectivity will be compromised thereby making teaching less effective so I think the faculty should be given an option to conduct classes from home to reduce footfall and prevent the spread of Covid,” he added. Navdeep Goyal, who is heading the special panel of PU for taking decisions on online teaching and admissions, said, “We will certainly look into the matter and take necessary steps.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-teaching-pu-teachers-seek-option-to-conduct-classes-from-home/story-ks4nW3qI53JT3zXUEyH4bK.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||1,502mm rain in Mumbai in July, highest for the month since readings began||The month of July ended with the city recording 1,502.7mm rain, its highest for the month since readings began being collated by the weather bureau (1944). The city has so far recorded 84% of its average seasonal rainfall. However, deficient rain in catchment areas continued to be a concern. The first week of August, however, could change this as the weather bureau issued an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain) for Monday and Tuesday and yellow alert (heavy rain) for Sunday. No alert has been issued for Saturday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said July was also marked by a rare occurrence, the absence of a low pressure (LP) weather systems formed either over the Arabian Sea (AS) or Bay of Bengal (BoB). The LP system is a region of lower or reduced atmospheric pressure than normal causing weather disturbances including increased precipitation and cloud formation.“These low pressure systems are crucial for maintaining active monsoon conditions over central India, which witnessed deficit rain in July. The BoB was unusually quiet and thus country-wide rain was below expectation,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, Union earth sciences ministry. “However, Mumbai’s performance was exceptional with the formation of smaller weather systems that ensured good rainfall.”Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD, said, “Factors such as offshore trough, embedded vortex (localised circulation) and a mid-tropospheric cyclonic system over Gujarat region during different intervals in July led to this performance.”Independent meteorologists had a different view. “While no monsoon depression had a genesis over the BoB, AS or adjoining land areas, two LP circulations were observed over BoB and adjoining areas (around July 5 and July 14) and three others over AS (July 2, 9 and 17). The systems had strength equivalent to at least monsoon LP areas,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom.Mohapatra added that a latest LP system over BoB was expected to form over the next couple of days leading to heavy to very heavy rain for Mumbai and west coast between August 4 and 6. “Every monsoon is different. August and September should be good for entire season performance. Excess rain in July for Marathwada and parts of Vidarbha is a good indicator for farmers. The next one week, the west coast is likely to be active,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.On Friday, water stock at seven lakes supplying water to Mumbai was 34.4% against 85.6% last year. Professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay said, “Heavy to very heavy rain for the coming week will be good for catchment areas, but will come with inconvenience in form of heavy waterlogging and local flooding.”In June and July, Mumbai suburbs recorded excess rain (42%), which was the highest for any Konkan district, while south Mumbai recorded 40% excess for the period. However, neighbouring districts Palghar and Thane both recorded 29% and 17% deficient rain.Maharashtra recorded 5% excess rain with 563.9mm average for June and July, against the normal for the period of 538.5mm. Marathwada recorded 42% excess rain, the highest among the four subdivisions, while central Maharashtra recorded 11% excess rain, but 12% deficiency was recorded for Vidarbha. Overall, India recorded normal rainfall for June and July with 10 states recording deficient rain and Jammu and Kashmir recording large deficiency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-502mm-rain-in-mumbai-in-july-highest-for-the-month-since-readings-began/story-qUvIGEoBZtG8UsSyWGUwHI.html
01-08-2020||City||Rs 2 crore sanctioned for development works in Mohali||Health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that the state government has decided to undertake development works in all the residential societies of the district at its level. For this, the local government department has sanctioned a fund of Rs 2.1 crore. Giving details, Sidhu said that the local bodies department has issued necessary instructions to the municipal corporation in this regard and has approved the development works under Section 82 (3) of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976. He further said that after this decision, various development works will be carried out in Darshan Vihar Society, United Cooperative Society, Pancham Society, SBI Colony, Housefed, Guru Tegh Bahadur Complex, SCL Society, Joginder Vihar, Jalvayu Vihar Society, Commando Complex, Police Colonies, Army Flats, Ivory Tower, and Mayfair. The work estimates have been chalked out, he added. Sidhu said that the fund would be utilised for internal works of these societies like parks, internal roads, LED street lights, and paver blocks, etc. He said that this was the first time that the government was going to carry out the internal development work of residential societies at its level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-2-crore-sanctioned-for-development-works-in-mohali/story-Sf6DloDUQyf2cBfqCtSFQJ.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||IIT-B team first from India to win car design award in UK contest||The Formula student team of the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B) became the first Indian team to win an engineering design competition when it won the best-designed car award at the Formula Student (FSUK), a student engineering competition held in the United Kingdom . On Monday, the IIT-B racing team announced that its car E-12 had won multiple awards at FSUK, which saw 73 teams participate from around the world. The IIT-B racing team came first in the design category, third in the electronic vehicle category (domestic and internation), and fourth overall at FSUK.The IIT-B racing team is a consortium of over 80 members, who aim to conceive, design and fabricate a formula-style race car through innovation to compete in different Formula student events such as FSUK and Formula Bharat. This year, FSUK was held online between July 22 and 26, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Our car E-12 is the 12th version of the team which has been made in conjunction with industry giants such as NRB Bearings and Mahle. The car has a tubular steel chassis with carbon fibre body panels. It is a rear-view drive design and the car produces 800 Nm of torque and weighs 230 kgs. The car accelerates from 0-100 km/hr in 2.9 sec,” said Asit Karmakar, assistant team manager. “While static events such as design, cost and manufacturing, business and Formula student artificial intelligence (FS-AI) were conducted as usual, the traditional dynamic events did not take place owing to the lack of a live event. In turn, the ‘acceleration’ and ‘skid-pad’ events were replaced by lap-time simulations that used a multi-body dynamics model and recreations of the courses used at Silverstone [the venue]. Secondly, online multiplayer competitive simulation races in Assetto Corsa tested the skills of its drivers, which mirrors the current popularity of e-sports racing,” said Karmakar. “We look forward to competing in FSUK 2021 at Silverstone next year, where our sights will be fixated on a podium finish, which would better the current result achieved by us,” Aditya Shah, head of marketing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-b-team-first-from-india-to-win-car-design-award-in-uk-contest/story-CjqovjOpuJaeKdiij1kmDO.html
01-08-2020||City||200 kits with swab samples dumped on road in Virar||A plastic sack filled with around 200 viral transport medium (VTM) kits, which had swabs of suspected Covid-19 patients, which was found dumped on the road at Bolinj, Virar, since Monday, has been cleared, Vasai civic commissioner Gangatharan D claimed. “We have cleared the kits from the road and disposed them as per the protocol pertaining to bio-medical waste. We are going through the CCTV footages of the nearby areas to nab those who dumped the kits on the road and will register a complaint with the Arnala Coastal police against them under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and other offences for spreading infection,” he said.The civic body’s cleared the kits after a resident, Prasanjeet Ingle, informed the health department about it. “There are four hospitals and also a civic Covid care centre in the vicinity. We suspect one of these medical facilities may have dumped the kits on the road,” Ingle said. Earlier this month, a rag picker from Narangi, Virar, was seen wearing a used personal protection equipment (PPE) gear, creating panic among locals. On questioning, the man said a doctor from Narangi had given the PPE to use as a raincoat, said Ingle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/200-kits-with-swab-samples-dumped-on-road-in-virar/story-7ipW8XmifSfLT6YtxhUUZL.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||58.6% of state’s Covid-19 cases reported in July; tally 422,118||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 10,320 fresh Covid-19 cases to push the state’s tally to 422,118. It also recorded 265 fatalities on Friday, taking the state’s death toll to 14,993. July turned out to be the worst month for Maharashtra with respect to Covid-19 numbers, as the state recorded 247,357 cases or more than half of the total (58.6%), while also reporting 7,139 (47.62% of the state’s total) deaths due to the viral infection during the month.The state also crossed the landmark of 2.50 lakh recoveries with 7,543 patients discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 256,158. With fresh cases and recoveries recorded on Friday, the state now has 150,662 active cases. On Friday, the state tested 59,970 samples and recorded a positivity rate of 17.20%.Meanwhile, Mumbai continued to record around 1,000 cases as it reported 1,085 fresh infections, taking the tally to 114,284. It also recorded 53 fatalities, taking the city’s death toll to 6,353. Of the 53 deaths in the city, 45 patients had co-morbidities, three were below 40 years of age and 40 were above 60 years of age, and 10 were between 40 to 60 years.Active cases in Mumbai stood at 20,563 and so far, 87,074 patients have been discharged, with a recovery rate of 76%. The doubling rate of Mumbai, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, is now 76 days and the case growth rate is 0.92%. Dharavi, one of the most affected areas in Mumbai, reported five new cases, taking the tally to 2,556.An analysis of the data by the state health department showed that in June alone, the state had recorded 107,106 cases and 5,569 fatalities. The cases, though more in terms of absolute numbers than the previous months, have not shown an exponential rise despite the increase in the number of tests. The state government doubled the testing count from June to July, but the positivity rate remained almost the same. In July alone, the state tested 11,63,375 samples and had a positivity rate of 21.26%. while in June, the state had tested 504,547 samples and had a positivity rate of 21.22%.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that cases were expected to rise further in August before a downward trend could be seen. He added that the state is now focusing on bringing down the number of fatalities.Tope said the various parameters were showing positive signs for the state, including doubling rate, recovery rate, among others. “By and large, we have the outbreak under control. The doubling rate in Maharashtra is 30 days; better than the country’s, which is around 22 days. The recovery rate is over 60% now. Our stress will remain on containing the death rate. A task force has been set up for that, which is working with districts, we have tele-ICUs, where doctors from rural areas can consult with the doctors on the taskforce via video calls, about a critical patient,” Tope said.Pune city recorded the highest number of cases in the state with 1,635 fresh infections taking the city’s tally to 58,559. Pune city reported 30 deaths, taking its toll to 1440. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 919 new cases and 25 fatalities. The MMR, excluding Mumbai, reported 2,276 new cases, which accounted for 22.05% of the total cases on Friday. In MMR, Navi Mumbai reported 412 fresh infections, followed by 376 new cases in KalyanDombivli. Thane city, which breached the 20,000-mark on Thursday, reported 319 new cases on Friday. Vasai-Virar and Mira-Bhayander reported 200 and 140 new cases, respectively.The rural and semi-urban areas of the state continued to report more cases. Nashik city reported 313 new cases, taking the city’s tally closer to 10,000-mark. “The cases are going up in rural areas, but the outbreak has a pattern —peak, plateau and drop — it will come down. We have seen this in the case of Mumbai… In my assessment, the numbers will go up in August as well, but we are well placed in terms of availability of beds and other equipment [to tackle the cases],” Tope said.Meanwhile, Tope wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar asking for appointing “flying squads” on division level to ensure “effective” implementation of the state government notifications, including cashless treatment under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, capping of rates for private hospitals, and free ambulance services.“The decision on capping bills or insurance under MJPJAY was taken keeping the people in mind and therefore to see to it that they are followed completely, I have written to CM and Deputy CM. I have requested to form a flying squad on the division level to see if these schemes are followed. “Several complaints have come from people and elected representatives that they are not been followed in some cases. Another request that I have made in the letter is that district collector and municipal commissioners in cities should visit at least five Covid hospitals and the hospitals empanelled under MJPJAY to see if the schemes of the government are being implemented fully,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/58-6-of-state-s-covid-19-cases-reported-in-july-tally-422-118/story-yWsPoraFvYH0Qf7vFCVbeO.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||State categories of Covid warriors entitled to insurance, ex-gratia: HC to Govt||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the Maharashtra government to file an affidavit by Tuesday, disclosing the precise categories of Covid-19 warriors will be entitled to the insurance cover of ₹50 lakh or an ex-gratia of ₹50 lakh for their kin in case of their death from the virus. The bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Sarang Kotwal was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by former journalist Ketan Tirodkar, seeking the status of martyrs for doctors, health workers and police personnel who have died in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic as well as the compensation status. Responding to the PIL, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni pointed out that the Union home ministry clarified that such the status of martyr is not conferred upon those Covid-19 warriors who die in the line of duty. With regards to the compensation, Kumbhakoni said the Maharashtra government has covered the families of the frontline workers who died of the virus under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package to incorporate all categories of Covid-19 warriors who come directly in contact with the infected patients and their families will also get an additional amount of ₹50 lakh as ex-gratia from the state. He said such families will also be entitled to retain the service quarters allotted to them till the date of retirement of the deceased employee. Replying to a query posed by the bench, Kumbhakoni said that even the staff of private hospitals functioning as Covid centres will be covered under the central insurance scheme. The bench, however, found that the government resolutions issued by the Maharashtra public health department on the topic did not clearly spell out the precise categories of health and other workers entitled to the benefits. Therefore, it directed the government to file an affidavit, clearly stating the categories of workers entitled to the benefits. The bench said the family members of the deceased workers should not be made to run from pillar to post to get a clarification about their entitlement. The court posted the PIL for further hearing on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-categories-of-covid-warriors-entitled-to-insurance-ex-gratia-hc-to-govt/story-lFWb5dap4Yxk0CUa6g1guO.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||HC grants temporary bail to 65-year-old murder convict in view of Covid-19||The Bombay high court (HC) last week granted temporary bail to a murder convict on the grounds that he is 65 years of age and hence is at risk of contracting Covid-19 infection.The bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Surendra Tavade refused to grant regular bail to Sitaram Kamble, however, it took note of the fact that Kamble was 65 years of age and thus was “very vulnerable if he is infected with coronavirus”. “In such a condition, the applicant can be released on temporary bail for limited period,” said the bench while granting temporary bail to the Ratnagiri resident.Ratnagiri sessions court has in November 2014 convicted Kamble for murdering his neighbour on February 1, 2013 over an affair between the convict’s son and the wife of the deceased. He has been sentenced to life imprisonment.He had moved HC seeking regular bail during pendency of his appeal against the conviction. It was argued on his behalf that the conviction under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was not sustainable in law, as the convict had inflicted a single blow of scythe in a fit of rage. His lawyer, advocate Payoshi Roy, also pointed out that this showed that since the convict had no intention to cause death of the deceased, at best, it could be a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, attracting maximum punishment, and urged the court to release him on bail during pendency of his appeal, as he has already served seven years jail term.Additional public prosecutor FR Shaikh opposed the plea by pointing out that there are three eye witnesses to the incident and the trial court has rightly appreciated the evidence and recorded conviction for murder as the convict had inflicted a fatal blow with a deadly weapon on chest of the deceased.HC refused to consider the plea for regular bail on the grounds that it can be done only after scrutinising entire evidence on record. The bench, however, granted Kamble temporary bail till December 31, 2020. He has been ordered to surrender to concerned prison on Jan 1, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-grants-temporary-bail-to-65-year-old-murder-convict-in-view-of-covid-19/story-ZH2bwIyFDBP8lVU7GFcBfN.html
01-08-2020||City||Covid patient who escaped from Dombivli hospital found dead near creek||A 53-year-old patient who ran away from the Savlaram sports complex Covid hospital in Dombivli on Thursday morning and was found dead along the Dombivli creek the same evening. The patient had earlier been treated for Covid-19 and discharged from the hospital after testing negative. However, he was re-admitted after he suffered from breathlessness on July 29. Manpada police had earlier filed a missing person’s report, which was later registered as a suicide at Vishnunagar police station. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) informed that the deceased, a resident of Motagaon Thakurli, had been admitted to the hospital the first time on July 20 and was discharged on July 27. He was re-admitted on July 29.“The deceased suffered from breathlessness after being discharged and was re-admitted on Wednesday. On Thursday around 7am, he called up his friend and left the hospital. He left the phone at the hospital. Meanwhile, his family was trying to contact him,” said an officer from Manpada police station.When the family called the hospital, the staff were clueless as to the patient’s whereabouts. “A missing person’s case was registered, and the family told us that he often visited the creek, which is near his home. We found the body along the Dombivli creek and suspect he died by suicide,” said RN Munagekar, senior inspector, Vishnunagar police station. KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi said, “The doctors who were on duty on Thursday realised that he was missing, and his family too was unaware of his whereabouts. Police are investigating the matter.” Epidemic officer of KDMC Paan Patil said that a probe will be started to find out how the patient escaped from the hospital. “Patients admitted to Covid hospitals have uniforms to identify them. We will investigate how the patient escaped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-patient-who-escaped-from-dombivli-hospital-found-dead-near-creek/story-k84HW0xKls0WMgZCAfavII.html
01-08-2020||City||Mira Bhayander to get 366 more Covid beds||The twin cities of Mira and Bhayander will get 366 additional beds in two civic-run dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs) in view of a spike in Covid-19 cases. As on Thursday, around 8,187 people tested positive and 270 have succumbed to the disease, according to data from Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC).Meenatai Balasaheb Thackeray Community Hall and Pramod Mahajan Hall have been converted into DCHCs and will accommodate 160 and 206 beds respectively, Sachin Bachhav, assistant municipal commissioner said on Friday.Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik inspected both the centres and said the facilities will be made available within a week.With these beds, the total bed capacity in public and private DCHCs and dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHs) in the twin cities has reached 913, said Bachhav. Apart from this, there are 1,496 beds at two Covid care centres (CCCs) — 682 in Delta Garden at Kashimira and 814 at Ramdev Park, Bhayander.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mira-bhayander-to-get-366-more-covid-beds/story-j2fNU8pF7SsB5LEMEzdyzN.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||2 arrested for vandalising Rajgruh test positive for Covid-19||Two accused who were arrested recently for vandalising Rajgruh – the house of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar – have tested positive for Covid-19.After the police custody procedure was completed, the accused Umesh Jadhav, 35, and Vishal More, 20, were made to undergo mandatory Covid testing before they could be remanded in judicial custody.“On Wednesday, their test results revealed them to be Covid positive. Subsequently, they have been moved to a guarded quarantine facility. Both are asymptomatic,” said Viresh Prabhu, additional commissioner of police (central region).More was arrested by Matunga police on July 22, while Jadhav was arrested on July 9. The two were involved in the vandalism at Rajgruh, located at Hindu Colony, Dadar on July 7. The two-storeyed heritage house of Dr Ambedkar has a museum where his books, portrait, ashes, vessels, and other artifacts are kept on display.Both the accused were captured on footage from CCTV cameras installed inside the house. Jadhav was spotted standing outside Rajgruh, while More went inside the house and damaged glass windowpanes and pots in the compound, police said.“We have sufficient evidence to establish the role of the two accused in the crime,” Prabhu said.Jadhav and More were arrested under sections 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of ₹50 or more) and 447 (criminal trespass) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), based on the complaint of one of Dr Ambedkar’s three grandsons who reside in the house.The accused will be sent to jail from the quarantine facility after they recovered from Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-arrested-for-vandalising-rajgruh-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-ws9NRgOxOehi5ZcSYt9L6L.html
01-08-2020||City||Thane Mental Hospital offers place for staff to stay||After the death of two inmates at the Thane Mental Hospital due to Covid 19, the hospital has now given the staff an option to reside within the premises of the mental hospital. The two deceased, an 80-year-old woman and a 48-year-old man, tested positive for Covid-19 last week and were admitted to a Covid hospital in Thane. Hospital staffers who were in close contact have tested negative. However, hospital staffers are worried as they have to interact with each patient regularly even as some patients are not capable of maintaining basic hygiene on their own. “We are in close contact with patients; we help them with their hygiene and basic requirements. We along with the residents are constantly at high risk of contacting the infection. We are given PPE kits only in the OPD section or when we step out with inmates to visit the doctor,” said a staff member requesting anonymity.Dr Sanjay Bodade, superintendent of Thane Mental Hospital, said, “We are unsure of how they contracted the virus. More than a month ago, four staff members had tested positive. All the patients who were in touch with the infected staff were kept in isolation. Those who are newly admitted are also kept in isolation for 14 days. We have provided N-95 masks, shields and face covers to all staff for safety measures.” The hospital has claimed that they follow all ICMR rules and any patient or staff with symptoms is tested for Covid-19. “We have to be very sensitive while dealing with the inmates; wearing PPE kits and approaching them will be difficult for the inmates to accept. Making them wash their hands and wear masks at all times is also difficult, so we have to be careful while the staff interact with inmates. We have offered provision for stay and food within the premises for staff. However, some need to travel home due to personal reasons, but a few others continue to stay here,” added Bodade. On Friday, BJP leader and former MP Kirit Somaiya visited the hospital to check the situation.Currently, there are 853 patients and 713 staff in the Thane Mental Hospital. “With more than thousand people within the hospital premises at any given time, only around 35 to 40 have been tested so far. We shall complain to the human rights commission regarding the same,” Somaiya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-mental-hospital-offers-place-for-staff-to-stay/story-NpyzuoFHMfdh705DMg1GNI.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||SGNP capacity full as 5 of 9 leopards trapped in Nashik in July relocated||The Nashik forest department has trapped nine leopards this month from territorial forest areas in their attempt to address human-animal conflict in the district.Five of the nine leopards have been relocated to the leopard rescue centre in Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), Borivli. The forest officers said that the centre cannot accommodate any more rescued or captured leopards. The rescue centre currently has 18 leopards across 18 cages. “An adult male leopard reached SGNP on Friday afternoon. In case of any future captures, animals need to be sent either to Junnar or Gorewada, Nagpur rescue centres. Our capacity is full,” said Vijay Barabde, superintendent of safaris and range forest officer, SGNP.Nashik forest officials said they trapped an adult male leopard on Wednesday, a nine-month-old leopard on Thursday and another three-year-old leopard from Sinnar division on Friday. “While five leopards (two male and three female), possibly involved in the conflict, were trapped and sent to SGNP. Another female was rescued from a well last Friday and released in the same area. Three more leopards were trapped in cages in the Sinnar area over the past 10 days, taking the tally to nine in July,” said Vivek Bhadane range forest officer (RFO), Nashik adding, “Another 16 trap cages are set up in this region for the possibility of more captures. It has allowed us to reduce fear psychosis among villagers and potential conflict.”Wildlife activists said it was an unplanned and reckless approach to tackle conflict that forced wild animals to be confined to captivity.A 12-km stretch along the Darna river (between Sinnar and Eklahare) where leopard numbers have risen significantly has witnessed a surge in conflict with five deaths and five serious injuries reported between December and July. Forest officials said in all 17 leopards have been trapped over eight months with nine released back to the wild, three still in trap cages at Sinnar, and five sent to SGNP.Senior forest officials said they suspect that the animal responsible for the deaths and injuries may have been caught. “Based on the report received from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, an adult male leopard was responsible for conflict cases. The adult male trapped on Wednesday fits this description. However, swab samples have been collected and sent back to the institute for confirmation,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife west) adding, “Once we receive the response, a detailed plan would be prepared for the release of all other captured leopards at SGNP rescue centre. In the meantime, we are ensuring the least amount of human imprint in captivity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sgnp-capacity-full-as-5-of-9-leopards-trapped-in-nashik-in-july-relocated/story-mHZndJ1LCizShisDr7uRFM.html
01-08-2020||Mumbai||JJ hospital makes special chamber to transport Covid patients||To reduce the spread of Sars-CoV-2 among medical staff, state government-run JJ hospital has developed a first-of-its-kind dual-pressure mode transportation chamber for Covid-19 patients. It will also reduce the need for personal protective equipment (PPE) among hospital staff, the hospital claimed. More than 400 medical staff from civic and government-run hospitals in the city have contracted Covid-19 on duty. The department of surgery at JJ hospital, in association with the engineers of Kalbadevi-based Indomed Devices, has designed the chamber—Covid Kawach. “Covid-19 infected patients need to undergo CT scan, X-ray , among other diagnoses, in different departments. This increases the chances of spreading the infection to medical staff and bystanders. We have decided to use this Covid Kawach while shifting patients,” said Dr Ajay Bhandarwar, head of the surgery department at the hospital. “This indigenous transportation vehicle consists of negative and positive pressure sections, which is much safer in comparison to the traditional open stretchers,” said Dr Amol Wagh, from the surgery department. It is a cost-effective, easily assembled unit which can be made anywhere in India with readily available material, claimed the doctors. It consists of a HEPA filter (air filters) at the head-end, which filters out particles as small as 0.02 microns. The negative suction chamber helps remove the infected aerosols released by the patient. It helps release filtered air out of the chamber. Also, the sealed chamber prevents any leakage of air from the box. “We can also use the chamber to safely transport other non-Covid patients with compromised immunity to different departments,” said Dr Wagh. The hospital started the use of the prototype transportation chamber on Friday. Soon, it will be installed at the two other government-run hospitals— St George and GT Hospital. Each of them will cost around ₹50,000. “Dr Bhandarwar approached us to manufacture a portal where Covid-19 patients can be shifted safely with minimalist risk of spreading the virus. It took us around 10 days,” said Shrikant Mishra, CEO of Indomed Devices. The chamber can be upgraded further by incorporating UV-C lights which helps destroy the virus by altering the structure of its cell. HT had reported earlier how despite wearing PPE regularly, medical staffers contract the virus through hospital cross-transmission. “When patients are being taken in elevators, the enclosed environment exposes them to the virus. Even though they wear PPE, it is extremely risky for them. As this chamber doesn’t let viruses out, there is no need to wear PPE,” said Dr Bhandarwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jj-hospital-makes-special-chamber-to-transport-covid-patients/story-zAauKSrvVYkVWJjMesR1SL.html
01-08-2020||Noida||Four held for murder of teenager||Three minors were detained and another person was arrested by the Phase-2 police on Thursday in connection with a murder in Noida.Eighteen-year-old Rubaid Alam, a resident of Kakrala village, was found dead in a drain in sector 80 on July 29, five days after he had gone missing.“His family had filed a missing person’s complaint on July 26 and a search had been on for him since then,” said Farmood Ali Pundir, station house officer, Phase 2 police station.Police said the a passerby spotted the body .“The clothes matched the description of those given by Rubaid’s father, Mustaqeem who identified the body as that of his son based on the clothes, footwear and body identifiers,” said the SHO.Mustaqeem’s complaint had said that Alam was last seen with four of his friends --the three minors and a 22-year-old man identified by his first name Shahrukh-- on July 24. Police later picked them up for questioning from near Kulesra border on Thursday night.“It seems that Shahrukh was seeing a woman and he suspected that Rubaid Alam was involved with her too. He them came up with the plan to murder him. On July 24, around 11 pm, the minor boys took the victim to a secluded spot near sector 112 where Shahrukh was already present. They strangled him and threw his body in the drain nearby,” said Pundir.A case was registered at the Phase 2 police station against the four under sections 302 (punishment for murder), 201 (Causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender,) and 120B (Punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.They were produced before a magistrate on Friday from where they were later sent to jail and juvenile detention centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/four-held-for-murder-of-teenager/story-bA0OjBT7W8XEbarHwTfPoM.html
01-08-2020||Noida||Unlock 3.0: Ghaziabad, Noida remove Delhi border curbs||The Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad administrations on Friday have decided to open their borders with Delhi beginning Saturday. Movement in containment zones, however, will continue to be restricted.The two Uttar Pradesh border districts had restricted movement with the national capital in an effort to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. While Ghaziabad had implemented it since April 20, Gautam Budh Nagar had done so since the first phase of the lockdown in March.The latest orders were passed following the Union home minister’s announcement of further easing restrictions under its “Unlock 3.0” plan that will come into effect from August 1. The guidelines state that while states were free to prohibit certain activities based on their assessment of the situation, there would be no restriction on inter and intra state movement of persons and goods. Both districts will continue closing markets during the weekends from 10pm on Friday to 5am on Monday, as per the Uttar Pradesh government orders.“The will be no restriction on movement of commuters to Delhi but we will not allow commuters from containment zones to move out. The cops will remain deployed at the border for their routine checks. Shops and markets in Ghaziabad, outside the containment zones, will continue to operate between 9am to 9pm,” said Ghaziabad district magistrate (DM) Ajay Shankar Pandey. Gautam Budh Nagar DM Suhas LY said, “The lockdown in containment zones will continue till August 31, with only essential services allowed in such areas. All the educational institutions, including schools, colleges, and coaching centres will also remain closed till August 31. Besides, cinema halls, swimming pools, amusement parks, theatres, bars and assembly halls have been asked to remain shut till further orders.”Keeping in mind the upcoming festivals like Eid-ul-Juha and Rakshabandhan, the district administration has allowed shops selling sweets and Rakhis to open on August 1 and 2. “However, everyone going to markets on these dates will have to adhere to the health protocols while maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. The shopkeepers are also to take up required measures as directed earlier,” said the DM. Ghaziabad had earlier announced that such shops could open on Sunday.Although restrictions on movement at the border were eased, commuters will be required to follow health safety protocols. “Checking the spread of Covid-19 is the most important issue in this situation. All safety measures will be taken at the border points. Commuters will have to follow the safety protocols. There will be no inter-state or intra-state restrictions on the transport of goods, except in containment zones,” Suhas said. Independence Day programmes too will have to follow such protocols.G B Nagar on Friday declared fresh list of 486 containment zones, including 435 in category-1 (where there is only one case) and other 51 in category-2 (more than one case). Under category-1, a containment zone in urban areas will be 250 metre radius or the entire mohalla (floor, in case the patient resides in a society), while for category-2, there will be an added 250 metre buffer zone (tower and common facilities, in case of society). “In rural areas the village will be taken as containment zone if there is one case, if there is more than one case the adjoining village will be a buffer zone,” Suhas said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/unlock-3-0-delhi-up-borders-open-relaxation-in-weekend-lockdown-due-to-raksha-bandhan/story-0JNVhVURtrVh6CBwp4YyQI.html
01-08-2020||Delhi||Debris dumped on plains altering Yamuna’s flow||An inspection of the Yamuna floodplains earlier this week by teams of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), accompanied by NGO South Asian Network on Dams, Rivers and People (SANDRP), to check for construction debris dumping has found that the violation has been going on for years and the dumped debris has been “flattened”, thereby raising the level of the plains. The sites inspected included areas underneath the bridges at Sarai Kale Khan, Mayur Vihar and the Signature Bridge. The SANDRP has made a report of its findings and has said that continuous debris dumping and levelling may affect the flooding pattern of the river. Also read: New central vista set to be expanded to Yamuna bankAccording to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order of 2015, any dumping of waste or debris on the Yamuna floodplains is banned and violators could be fined up to Rs50,000. Earlier this week, the NGT-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee had asked the DPCC to conduct an inspection after receiving complaints of debris dumping. “The floodplain patch of 8,000 square metres underneath the Mayur Vihar bridge, have been raised by two-four feet as a result of dumping of debris, which has been levelled over time by the agencies carrying out construction work along the site,” said Bhim Singh Rawat of SANDRP, who has put together the report. He added that large pieces of concrete waste, about 70 of them, can be seen on the floodplains. “The debris has been levelled in such a way that it has created a cross-sectional embankment extending up to an active river water channel and this will adversely impact the flow of the river,” he said. Similarly, at the Sarai Kale Khan site, about 20,000 square metres of the floodplains have been raised and levelled by contractors supplying concrete slabs and other construction material, it said. “We have used Google Earth images to asses the plains, which reveal significant damages to the original floodplain on account of continuous dumping of construction debris,” said Rawat. The report further said the Signature Bridge construction company is still occupying about 40,000 square metres of the floodplains for parking and storing equipment. Officials of the public works department, which is managing Signature Bridge, said some work on the bridge is still pending. “Work is still going on and once it is complete, the equipment it will be removed,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be named. The Yamuna Monitoring Committee said it has asked the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), which is the primary custodian of the floodplains, to give a status report on dumping activities. “We have asked the DDA to submit a response on the complaints received. We are yet to receive the DPCC inspection report,” said a committee member. A senior DPCC official, who did not wish to be named, said, “We are preparing a report based on the inspection. It will take a day or two to submit it.”A DDA spokesperson said, “Underneath Signature Bridge, used personal protective equipment kits were found dumped and were removed. At the Sarai Kale Khan site, we found no debris. In order to stop the violation, a permanent barrier has been erected at the entry of the approach road.” “So far, 190 fines have been issued to violators. CCTV cameras are being installed at different entry/exit points of floodplains from Wazirabad to Jaitpur. Thirty-four cameras have already been installed,” said a senior DDA official, not wishing to be named. According to experts, continuous dumping and levelling of debris could affect the flow of the river. A K Gosain, professor of civil engineering at IIT-Delhi, said, “Continuous dumping could have huge implications on the river. The river needs a path to flow and when more water comes during the monsoon, if the path is not available, it has a tendency to cut through wherever it finds loose soil. Hence,the path of the river should not be blocked even at a minimal level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/construction-debris-dumped-levelled-on-floodplain-raising-its-height-says-ngo-after-inspection/story-mShpu2ooVfA4DXmukCSzeJ.html
01-08-2020||Delhi||Gangster on Delhi’s most wanted list arrested from Gujarat||A 31-year-old suspected gangster, who figures on the list of Delhi’s most wanted, was arrested from Surat in Gujarat, where he was being sheltered by a local liquor mafia allegedly on the directions of his counterparts in Haryana, the police said Friday. A life convict and parole jumper, Jyoti Prakash alias Baba was involved in a dozen crimes, including murder, kidnapping, and robbery in Delhi and Haryana, police said. Baba was fleeing to another city in Gujarat in an Audi Q7, allegedly provided to him by the liquor don Dhirenbhai Karia, when the Delhi Police’s counter intelligence team caught him. Karia, who had contested the 2019 Parliamentary elections from Gujarat’s Junagarh as an independent candidate and lost, is presently lodged in Surat jail in connection with bootlegging cases, said deputy commissioner of police (counter intelligence) Manishi Chandra. Originally from Delhi’s Najafgarh, Baba is the elder brother of fugitive gangster Kapil Sangwan alias Nandu, who carries a ₹50,000 reward on his arrest. Together, the brothers helm the Baba-Nandu gang, which has a longstanding rivalry with another gang led by jailed gangster Manjeet Mahal. Their rivalry led to a dozen bloodbaths, including the killings of their relatives, in the south-western outskirts of Delhi and bordering areas of Haryana, the DCP said. DCP Chandra said his team had received intelligence that Baba-Nandu gang had joined ranks with liquor mafias in Haryana and Gujarat and Baba was being provided luxurious shelters in these states. The team prepared a list of major liquor mafias in these states and started infiltrating them, while also carrying out technical surveillance, he said. “Our efforts paid off when we learnt that Baba, who had fled to Nepal, had returned some three or four months ago and was hiding in Gujarat. A team was dispatched and it kept a patient watch on him for nearly a week. Baba was caught on Thursday while trying to flee to another city,” Chandra said. Baba was brought to Delhi on Friday and his interrogation led to the recovery of two pistols, including a sophisticated US Army make gun, and four rounds of ammunition from his hideout in Najafgarh. Baba was carrying a reward of ₹1 lakh on his arrest after he jumped parole in August 2019 in Haryana. He was also wanted in a case of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gangster-on-delhi-s-most-wanted-list-arrested-from-gujarat/story-CktodVUF0JRJA4FonlzUaI.html
01-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi prepares for Covid-safe Eid-ul-Zuha festivities||With a majority of the lockdown restrictions eased in the last few weeks, several mosques across the capital—including Jama Masjid and Fatehpuri Masjid —will hold prayers for Eid-ul-Adha, the second most important Islamic festival for Muslims across the world, on Saturday.Eid-ul-Zuha, more commonly known as Bakr-Eid, is the festival of sacrifice observed on the tenth day of the Dhu al-Hijjah which is the twelfth month of the Islamic calendar. Most Muslims sacrifice animals—cattle, goats, or sheep—and distribute the meat among the needy and their own family members on this day.Sabiullah Khan, the public relations officer of Jama Masjid, said, “We will be following all the government guidelines for the congregation. Visitors without masks will not be allowed. They will have to carry their own prayer mats and sanitise themselves before entering the premises. The time for the congregation has also been advanced by an hour and will be held at 6.05 am to ensure there is no rush.”Due to the Covid-19 lockdown and the subsequent closure of religious places, Muslim devotees were unable to pray in mosques on Eid-ul-Fitr in May. However, as per Unlock 1 guidelines, the Centre had allowed religious places to reopen from June 8 while maintaining social distancing norms. According to Unlock 3 guidelines, religious functions and other large congregations continue to be prohibited.Mufti Mukarram Ahmed, the Shahi Imam of Fatehpuri Masjid, said they were grateful for the relaxation of norms. “People were not able to pray in mosques during Eid-ul-Fitr due to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. We have made repeated announcements that people should offer their prayers at home this time as well. However, if they want to visit the mosque, they must sanitise themselves, bring their own prayer mats and maintain social distancing norms. Those with symptoms will not be allowed. If Eidgahs could be reopened across the capital, the load on mosques would reduce substantially.”Several mosques in pockets of Okhla, old Delhi, and north-east Delhi will also hold Eid prayers while maintaining social distancing norms. Mosque-goers see this as a ray of hope.“Eid feels incomplete without praying at the mosque or meeting our elders. Since there is no restriction over movement like there was in May [when Eid-ul-Fitr was celebrated], we will meet our family and friends. We have not earned much in the past few months and barely have had enough to eat. But we can’t let that dampen our spirit,” said Mohammad Imran, a street-vendor near Jama Masjid, who will not be sacrificing any animal this year due to financial constraints.On Friday afternoon, the Meena Bazaar, usually bustling with customers, wore a deserted look due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mohammad Saood, who sells women’s apparel for a living, said that unlike previous years, there has been no business this year.“The shops couldn’t open during Eid in May. But now that they have, we barely have any customers. We go days without selling even one salwar suit. Many businesses in the market shut down because shopkeepers could no longer afford the rent. We had two shops and ultimately had to let go of one,” said the 25-year-old. He also pointed out that the lack of livestock markets in the nearby Urdu Park has also added to the misery of shopkeepers. Saood, himself, bought one sacrificial animal this year, instead of three or four like previous years.Mohammad Sirajuddin, who sold 34 goats last year, has only been able to sell one this year. “Generally the rates are as high as ₹70,000-₹80,000 for one goat. But I had to sell a goat for ₹42,000 this year,” he said while waiting for customers on Friday.Many residents also expressed concerns over butchers visiting different families the same day to sacrifice the animals. “We have an arrangement with our butcher who will only come to our house this year. Besides, a substantial number of people will not be sacrificing any animal this year which means butchers may not be as busy as in previous years. It reduces the chance of infection spreading,” said Mohammad Yasir, another shopkeeper in Meena Bazaar.Elaborating on the spirit of the festival, author Rana Safvi said that the essence of sacrifice is obedience to God. “We won’t be having any guests over because of the pandemic. Praying at the cost of everything is the supreme sacrifice this festival aims to celebrate. Prayers and obedience include more than just fasting or namaaz. It also means helping others in need and this is what we are doing this year and following the spirit of the festival.”Sohail Hashmi, a heritage enthusiast, said, “Every year my siblings and some friends would come over for dinner. That’s not the case this year due to the pandemic. I don’t want to expose myself or them to the infection. So it will just be four of my family members and a quiet Eid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-prepares-for-covid-safe-eid-ul-zuha-festivities/story-e4uz3j0CKFoz4417qTzpWM.html
01-08-2020||Delhi||Parenting challenges in the times of pandemic||Nidhi Jaiswal, a resident of west Delhi’s Paschim Vihar, got worried when her six-year-old son, who has been confined to home since March, started throwing (sometimes violent) tantrums every time she refused to take him to the neighbourhood park. Unable to deal with the situation, last month, the 31-year-old software professional ordered a few parenting books online but they did not help. She then started following several mommy blogs and social media accounts dedicated to parenting.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“I wanted practical advice from moms with children as old as mine,” says Jaiswal. “How can you possibly explain social distancing to a six-year-old?”She is not the only one faced with the tricky question. The Covid-19 pandemic has emerged as a major challenge for parents, who are struggling to help their children adapt to the “new normal”. During the initial phases of lockdown, which continued from late March till late May, parents suddenly found themselves locked in their houses with children. Continued school closure, work-from-home protocols and social distancing norms turned homes into classrooms and playgrounds, and parents into teachers and playmates. Several parents, unable to juggle multiple roles, are turning to parenting experts and bloggers for counsel.Deepali Soam, who runs My Teeny Tot, an online parenting advice platform, is getting messages from parents struggling to figure out how to keep their children busy and deal with their mood swings. “Earlier, most queries used to be about children’s food and sleep patterns, but now most parents want to know how to keep them gainfully engaged. Children have a lot of energy, and with little to no interaction with their friends or outdoor activities, many tend to become edgy,” says Soam, who has a five-year-old son and a two-and-a-half-year-old daughter. “I recommend preparing a schedule for children, dividing different activities throughout the day,” says Soam.Soam, a former school teacher, has over 52,000 followers on Instagram. She gained about 12,000 of them in the last four months.The challenge to keep children engaged, healthy and safe has been recognised by various international organisations. The United Nations Children’s Fund has also released a series of parenting tips. The agency recommends talking to children about the disease, setting aside one-on-one time with a child, doing activities together, playing, and ensuring children are safe from online risks.Vidhi Hatwal, a homemaker who lives in Noida, says, “One of my biggest worries is that my eight-year-old is becoming addicted to the iPad. Attending classes, watching movies and video calling friends might affect her eyes and personality.” Hatwal often turns to online platforms for parenting advice.Nora Bali, who offers parenting advice to over 10,000 followers on Instagram,says, “Since there has been a massive increase in the use of laptops and iPads, parents must monitor the content their children are exposed to. I ask parents to introduce digital detoxes,” says Bali, the mother of an eight-year-old.The pandemic poses a challenge to the mental well-being as well as healthy physical development of children. According to the World Obesity Federation, the pandemic makes obesity prevention more challenging due to increased sedentary time and reduced physical activity.“Children often lack the power to articulate what they are feeling. Since these are uncertain times, my four-year-old often turns to food when he is upset,” says Saru Mukherjee of Gurugram. Mukherjee has over 68,000 followers on Instagram (about 8,000 of them followed her during the lockdown). “I tell parents to involve kids in small household chores to give them some diversion and participation in physical activity.”Soam says the crisis has its positive sides too. “It has allowed children to spend more quality time with their family. It has helped many parents understand them better,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/parenting-challenges-in-the-times-of-pandemic/story-2Gh01oaLYyCifHDJb1MH8L.html
01-08-2020||Delhi||Sisodia says L-G ‘misusing’ powers in lawyers matter||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday described the L-G’s decision to refer the issue of appointment of a panel of prosecutors to argue north-east Delhi riots cases to the President as “misuse of power”.“The L-G has certain powers but the Supreme Court had said it should be used in rarest of the rare cases. Choice of advocates to argue the north-east Delhi violence cases shows misuse of power,” Sisodia told reporters.The L-G’s office did not comment on the reaction by the deputy chief minister.L-G Anil Baijal had referred the matter to the President on Thursday. Earlier this week, the Delhi Cabinet had rejected the panel of lawyers proposed by the Delhi Police, saying it would not help a “free and fair” trial of the cases related to the riots in north-east Delhi. On Thursday, Baijal also issued an interim order, saying till the matter is resolved, the panel of lawyers appointed by the Delhi Police and approved by his office will continue to argue cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lawyers-panel-l-g-misusing-power-says-sisodia/story-QigZxxusaerAVecRavcOBJ.html
01-08-2020||Delhi||Four Israeli technologies to detect Covid-19 in 30 seconds to be tested in Delhi||Four technologies to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in 30 seconds developed by scientists from Israel are being evaluated at Delhi’s Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital. About 10,000 people will be tested twice; once using the gold standard molecular RT-PCR test and then the four Israeli technologies to evaluate whether these innovations will work in a field setting. Unlike the swab sample collection method, for this test, people will have to blow into or speak in front of a breathalyser sort of an instrument which will collect a sample for testing.If successful, these technologies can pave the way for the safe opening of businesses and people will be able to coexist with the virus till a vaccine is developed, researchers said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The diagnostics are being tested in a collaboration between the Israeli Defence R&D, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). The first technology attempts to detect the virus by a technique called terahertz spectroscopy. In this, a sample is taken, deposited on a chip and then examined in a manner that specifically detects SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19. This does not involve any chemistry or reagents as it does in the current standard tests. The results will come in less than a minute,” said professor K Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific advisor to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Raghavan said the second approach is called an isothermal test, and it amplifies the genetic material of the virus rapidly. “The third approach detects what are called poly amino acids specific to the virus. The fourth approach is to study speech samples from asymptomatic and presymptomatic patients, compare them with others and see if the tools of artificial intelligence can be used to identify those who are Covid-19 positive. All these approaches are working well in the laboratory setting, but the challenge is to see how they will work in a field setting,” he said. The final product can be a combination of two or more technologies as well. “We will see which of the four technologies works better at detecting Covid-19 afflicted people. It could be a combination of two of these technologies as well. We hope to see a very robust diagnostic test finally,” said Israeli ambassador to India Ron Malka. India’s manufacturing capacity, the ambassador said, made India a natural fit for these trials. “We are a small country and do not have the manufacturing capability like India. By combining advanced Israeli and Indian technology and India’s manufacturing prowess, we can find a way to resume our lives and exist alongside the virus till a vaccine is developed,” he said. Prof Raghavan said, “What was yesterday considered esoteric research in now being tested for implementation. Science is about such rigorous tests. If the technologies pass the test, the collaborators will roll them out in India and elsewhere.” Apart from the extremely rapid tests that the countries are collaborating on, the Israeli delegation has shared with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences some of the most innovative technologies that were developed in Israel to combat Covid-19. “The flight also carried on-board 83 hi-tech respirators for those with severe disease. The export of respirators is banned in Israel, which is now experiencing a second wave of Covid-19 infections, but these were brought to India on a special waiver,” Malka said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-israeli-technologies-to-detect-covid-19-in-30-seconds-to-be-tested-in-delhi/story-2RCpya8Pix6PViPAd1YfUL.html
01-08-2020||Delhi||L-G overturns govt decision; hotels, banquets to stay shut||Hotels, banquets and weekly markets will continue to remain closed for business in Delhi with the lieutenant governor Anil Baijal overturning the Delhi government’s Thursday’s order issued under the Centre’s Unlock 3 plan, the third phase of the gradual lifting of curbs announced to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). A statement issued by the L-G’s office on Friday said, “The matter was discussed with chief minister and it was agreed that while there has been improvement, pandemic situation in the capital continues to be fragile and the threat is still far from over.”Besides hotels and banquet halls, the Delhi government had also allowed street hawkers to operate after the prolonged Covid lockdown. A decision on gymnasiums and yoga centres, however, was deferred. “A cautious and conservative approach is required. While the proposal to allow Rehari Patriwallahs (street hawkers) to operate for longer hours with effect from August 1 was approved, the proposals of the opening of hotels and hospitality services and opening of weekly bazaars are deferred for the time being and would be reviewed later by the SDMA,” it said.The L-G is the chairperson of the SDMA (State Disaster Management Authority) while chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is the vice-chairperson.However, a Delhi government spokesperson denied there was any agreement between the CM and L-G regarding the overturning of Thursday’s decision.“The statement from Raj Niwas is incorrect. Without getting into the details, we want to say that if the L-G agrees, we can send the proposal again for reconsideration. The revival of Delhi’s economy, while containing Covid-19, is the topmost priority of the Delhi government. The chief minister has always been a strong votary of reopening economy,” the spokesperson said.The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national spokesperson Raghav Chadha criticised the move.“We demand the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] change its decision and allow hotels and weekly local markets in the city to operate. The hotel industry and weekly markets are a source of employment for around two million in the city. The Delhi government’s decision was aimed at reviving the city’s economy, which would help these people. It looks like the BJP-led central government derives pleasure by undermining the democratically elected government of Delhi.”“The central government themselves allowed hotels and weekly markets to be allowed to operate since June 8 [as part of the Unlock 1.0 guidelines]. We could not allow it then, but we are in a position to do it now. So, why is the BJP taking a U-turn on the matter? Why don’t they object to hotels and weekly markets in BJP-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, where the Covid situation is getting worse every day? In Delhi’s satellite towns such as Noida and Gurugram, which come under BJP-ruled states, hotels are functional. Why not Delhi then?” Chadha said.Sandeep Khandelwal, president of Delhi Hotel and Restaurant Owners’ Association, said, “We don’t want to get into the politics of lockdown and relaxations but want to tell the concerned governments that hotel owners in Delhi are under immense stress. The industry engages thousands of people in different roles and they are all jobless.”HT contacted several prominent hotels in the city but they refused to comment on the matter.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the Delhi government is in no position to question the central government. “The central government has helped control the spread of Covid in Delhi. The Delhi government had failed to control Covid. Economic activities are essential but they cannot be allowed at the cost of health and life of people. The AAP is making a pointless political issue out of it, which reflects frustration over their own failure in Covid management,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/l-g-overturns-govt-decision-hotels-banquets-to-stay-shut/story-EsUh4seAHffFQHmH3YkO6L.html
01-08-2020||Delhi||15k samples to form basis of Delhi’s 2nd sero survey||Around 15,000 blood samples – half of which will be from people between the ages of 18 and 49 -- will be collected from across Delhi between August 1 and 5, according to guidelines released by the state government that detail how the city’s second serological survey for Covid-19 will be carried out, setting a target that is slightly lower than the previous such study.The exercise is an epidemiological survey covering a representative population – the number of people, where they reside, their age and gender is meant to reflect the city’s demographics and who the outbreak affects. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe findings will help determine how much closer Delhi has gotten to the herd immunity threshold after the first serological survey in Delhi covering close to 21,800 people between June 27 and July 10, showed 22.86% of those tested had antibodies and we thus possibly immune to the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19. “On the first day (Aug 1), tests will be conducted in four revenue districts. From the second day (Aug 2), it will be done in all 11 revenue districts. The sample size has been set at 15,000 in adherence to recommendations of experts working with the health department,” said a spokesperson from the chief minister’s office.According to the standard operating procedures released to district-level health staff, the remaining of the samples will be collected evenly from people in two remaining age groups: those under 18 and those above 49. As per the document, a copy of which is with the HT, the highest number of samples has to be collected by the Northwest district (2,200), followed by West (2,145), and Central (1,548). The fewest has to be collected from New Delhi district, from where 885 have to be collected. Unlike the first round of the surveillance, where all of the samples had been collected door-to-door, the government has also allowed collection at selected spots and health centre. “Sample collection may be undertaken in community (through visits of teams) of at the designated spot/ health facility appropriate for public and the team. In both cases sample of only the identified persons (as per the age group) from the identified household will be collected,” said the SOP accessed by HT. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had on July 22 announced that a sero-surveillance will be undertaken in Delhi during the first week of every month will be conducted to determine the silent spread of the infection in the city. HT reported on July 29 that more than a hundred teams of three-four members each will be involved in the exercise. According to the SOP that will now be followed, households included during the first round of surveillance will be excluded in order to eliminate selection bias. The district and ward-wise sample distribution for the August survey has been planned by researchers from Maulana Azad Medical College. For the first round, this was done by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Each team, which can collect 25 to 40 samples a day, will consist of ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers, an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), a phlebotomist or a lab technician, and a community volunteer. Samples will be processed in 18 laboratories across the Capital, in Delhi government and central government hospitals, including the NCDC laboratory.“If you consider a prevalence of 23% — and I expect the number must have gone up by now — we need as few as 5,000 samples to estimate the population-level presence of antibodies statistically. A smaller sample would make analysing results quicker as well. However, a large sample size such as 15,000 would be beneficial to establish the prevalence in different groups such as children or vegetable vendors, provided it is a representative sample,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, who was also consulted by the Delhi government for the upcoming survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-outlines-sample-collection-plan-for-sero-survey-round-2/story-c5125GsIJb6C0g7AgppTqN.html
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor trade booms in Majha despite crackdown||Even as the Punjab Police and the excise department launched a crackdown, illicit liquor trade continues to be rampant in Majha. The lockdown has seen a spike in trade with the excise department recovering more than 6 lakh litres of lahan (raw material used for making illicit liquor) in four districts — Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot — during the past four months. The number of cases registered have been 1,196 in 120-odd days or around 10 cases a day. “I haven’t seen such huge recoveries during my three decades with the department,” said a senior officer of the department in Amritsar, on the condition of anonymity. He added the spurt in illicit liquor trade resulted with the liquor in shops getting dearer and increase in unemployment due to the lockdown.Amritsar’s rural areas and Tarn Taran’s Mand areas, situated near the river beds of Sutlej and Beas, are major locations where illicit liquor is made. In July, an excise department team had recovered 2.5 lakh litres of lahan kept in 18 drums and 1,600 bottles of illicit liquor in the Mand area.Roshan Lal, sarpanch of Harike village, said, “There are some villages on the Sutlej and Beas riverbeds, where the mafia still produce illicit liquor. These villages include Marad, Kirian, Gharka, Chamba and Kambo.” Mohinder Singh of Chamba village said, “Mafia men stop producing illicit liquor only police conduct raids, and that too for a day or two.”Harikrishan Arora, a social activist in Tarn Taran, said, “One can purchase country-made illicit liquor from any locality of the city. Police started acting only after May, when the Punjab CM ordered a crackdown on illicit liquor mafia.” Patti deputy superintendent of police Kuljeet Singh said, “Liquor mafia men dig a pit along the riverbed, spread a tarpaulin and mix raw ingredients of illicit liquor in it. Our area is free of the menace.” 50% CASES REGISTERED IN AMRITSARData that HT has accessed from the department shows 590 cases were registered in Amritsar, with the recovery of 75,500 litres of Lahan, 7,500 bottles of illicit liquor and 1,300 bottles of PML (Punjab made liquor) and IMFL (Indian made foreign liquor).The department registered 29 cases in Tarn Taran district and recovered around 4.6 lakh litre of Lahan and 2,000 litre of illicit liquor. In Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts, the department has recovered 70,907 litres of Lahan, 9,638 litres of illicit liquor and 1,496 litres of illicit liquor.“The recovery during the lockdown this year is more than the recovery made during the last one year,” said excise and taxation officer (ETO), Gurdaspur, Lavinder Singh Brar, adding, “People were sitting idle at home and decided to produce home-made liquor than purchasing it from liquor shops. We had strict instructions to check the trade.”The cases of the excise department are different from those which have been registered by the police on its own. Joint operations are also carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-crackdown-illicit-liquor-trade-rampant-in-majha-spiked-in-lockdown/story-iT0f6GCFDH4YZljVIPBjzN.html
01-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s civic hospital welcomes first twins from a Covid-19 positive mother||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) run Sonawane hospital dedicated to Covid-19 pregnant women welcomed its first twin babies on Friday from a Covid-19 positive mother. In the past, multiple twins have been reported born from Sassoon’s paediatric ward from infected mothers who are healthy; however, this is the first case at the civic hospital. The 29-year old woman, a resident of Bhavani peth, was pregnant for the third time with twins and was asymptomatic. Dr Madhuri Rokade, a resident medical officer at the Sonawane hospital said, “The patient was tested for Covid-19 a day before the C-section delivery for which the date was fixed earlier. She was tested using the rapid antigen test which turned positive. This was the third pregnancy of the woman. The twins are healthy and both are girls. The mother has no comorbidities and had two caesareans earlier too. The babies were born at 10:30am on Friday and will be tested for Covid-19 on the fifth day. We needed six doctors, two paediatricians, two gynaecologists and two anaesthesiologists for this delivery.” Till date the Sonawane hospital has seen about 50-60 babies delivered from Covid-19 positive mothers and none of the babies have tested positive for the infection, added Rokade. “The PMC welcomes healthy twins of Covid patient. Today, Dr Rokade operated LSCS in Sonawane Hospital helped by Dr Chopade, Dr Agarwal, Dr Arati, Dr Anita Bhosale and Dr Shrujan and SN Chaure. Thanks to the team at Sonawane hospital,” said additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sonawane-hospital-welcomes-first-twins-from-a-covid-19-positive-mother/story-aRtBxMOlgDdTa0LE4MKD0H.html
01-08-2020||Pune||100-year-old survives virus, dies of old age in Pune||Bai Darade, a 100-year-old woman from Chandan Nagar passed away on July 31 after being the oldest person in Maharashtra to successfully defeat Covid-19. She died of old age. According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department officials, the woman was admitted along with four other members of the family in Covid Care Centre at Yerawada on July 20. “Her health deteriorated on July 24 through after subsequent treatment she showed remarkable recovery. She was responding to the treatment given by the doctors. The woman was completely on a liquid diet for eight days,” said Madhav Jagtap , deputy commissioner of PMC on Tuesday. According to Dr Sangita Bharati, one of the doctors who treated her, due to worsening of health after her saturation levels went down, there were plans to shift her to another hospital. However, the woman eventually overcame the virus. Harishchandra Ghuge, Darade’s son-in-law, said “She stopped eating or drinking for the past two days. We tried to feed her, but she was weak and would not even take fluids as she was on a liquid diet. We tried our best to save her but she couldn’t survive. Our whole family was affected by Covid-19 and we all are now cured and healthy.” Darade was admitted to the Covid centre in Yerawada though she did not show any symptoms and even the oxygen saturation was normal. At the age of 100, Darade also did not have any pre-existing infirmities apart from blood pressure. However, she had started experiencing breathing problems, and a reduction in oxygen saturation was observed. On July 28 she fully recovered from Covid-19 and hence, was discharged the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/100-year-old-who-recovered-from-covid-dies-of-old-age/story-KP6Kj0cxHNdWmJJBEqkG2I.html
01-08-2020||Pune||Government’s lucrative offers lead to staff crunch at private hospitals in Pune||The private hospitals in the city are facing a huge staff crunch not just because of extending duty hours or staff being infected with Covid-19, but also because of the high remunerations offered by the district administration. The revised salary offering by government hospitals are almost double the salary in comparison to the private hospitals. The state government hospitals are offering higher remunerations even to fresh and inexperienced doctors who are hired on contractual basis. Dr Sunil Rao group chief operating officer, Sahyadri hospitals said, “Yes it is true that most of our staff are leaving because of lucrative offers by state government hospitals not just in Pune but also in Thane. For example, nurses are offered almost Rs 45,000 per month for a contractual period of 3 or 6 months which is almost double of what we pay, a round of Rs 20,000 to 25,000 per month. These sudden recruitments by the government are leading to a huge staff crunch in private sectors. Almost 50 of our nurses have left our hospitals in just two months to join government hospitals in Pune and Thane.” While nurses are leaving in huge numbers, freshly passed MBBS, BAMS and BHMS doctors also prefer to join government hospitals because of the higher cost offered for the same job. An MBBS intern who is otherwise offered close to Rs 40,000 per month in a private hospital in a normal situation is now being offered Rs 70,000 per month. Similarly, the BAMS doctors who are paid close to Rs 20,000 per month in private hospitals are paid Rs 40,000 now by government hospitals and BHMS doctors are also paid almost double the remuneration. Dr Rao added, “Young intensivists who have freshly completed their speciality course are also offered close to Rs 2.25 lakh per month which was earlier close to Rs 1.50 lakh at private hospitals.” Along with the state government, the PMC has also hiked up its offer after it failed to get response for its previous recruitment drive and increased the offer for intensivists at par with what the state government is offering. Dr HK Sale, executive director at Noble Hospital said, “We are also losing a lot of our staff which has joined government services. New recruits are scared to join due to the Covid situation and the existing staff is leaving as the government is offering more. With capped prices and most surgeries cancelled, we are reporting losses and now we are also losing our staff.” Saurabh Rao, the new divisional commissioner who took over after Deepak Mhaisekar retired on Friday, said, “We are well aware of this problem and many private hospitals are raising this issue. What we are offering is as per the government norms, but the idea is not to poach on any of their staff. Most of the posts opened by the government are all on contractual basis and the requirement is too low and we have asked the private hospitals to brief their staff about this. We definitely need the help of private hospitals and their staff during this pandemic situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/government-s-lucrative-offers-leads-to-staff-crunch-at-private-hospitals/story-aB9V7ht0KvaFvy2eu2VmrO.html
01-08-2020||Pune||Doctors, IMA blast CM over ignoring demands||A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s visit to Pune for the first time in the past five months, since the first Covid-19 positive patient was reported in the city and the state, the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Maharashtra chapter has expressed its disappointment over the state government ignoring their demands and problems, especially those of private hospitals so much so that doctors have even expressed their willingness to go on a protest. The association has also expressed displeasure over the district administration’s decision to include small nursing homes as Covid-19 hospitals which might affect non-Covid patients. The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra president Dr Avinash Bhondwe tweeted on Friday noon, “Maha CM visited Pune for supervising Corona pandemic control measures. We thought he would meet a few doctors as well. How foolish we were. As per the govt view, doctors are doing nothing. Just, extracting money. All the work is done by ministers and administrators.” Bhondwe further stated that the IMA has conveyed its objections on hospital rates which the government has, unilaterally, fixed the charges of private hospitals without taking into consideration the actual expenses. The private hospitals do not receive any grants or financial help or any concession in govt. taxes. Rather, some extra taxes are applied to the hospitals. The private hospitals do not receive any concession in electricity bills, water bills, staff salary, EMI, etc. The ICU needs 6-7 types of doctors per shift for three shifts per day. They all need a huge number of PPE kits and disposables. In addition, sanitization is a continuous process in Covid-19 hospitals. Hospitals have to bear this expense. The disposal of biomedical waste is also becoming an additional expense. He further said, “The staff has to be compulsorily quarantined for seven days after a duty of seven days. So, hospitals have to employ double the number of staff required. Also, they are paid 25 - 30 per cent more for working in Covid-19 pandemic. Sometimes, hospitals have to arrange for accommodation/travel/food for the staff. In addition to this, the government has threatened to apply ‘MESMA’ for the staff of private hospitals also.” Bhondwe further added, “Despite communicating multiple times with the government there has been no response. The members of the Indian medical association and other doctors’ associations are extremely frustrated because of all problems discussed above and the attitude of the government, media, police and public. They are expressing a willingness to go for collective protest in our meetings. But the IMA is deferring any such proposal.” The IMA’s stand has been reiterated by the association of hospitals in Pune in its letter to the new divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. The letter states, “We, private hospitals are still receiving notices on each and every day to increase our bed capacity for Covid-19 patients but no one is looking at the main reason for not being able to increase the patient base. Also, accommodation through the hostel is a major requirement which you had agreed to give us from colleges which are closed and hotels to accommodate staffs who go on periodical quarantine.” The letter also complains about the dashboard which is not reflecting all hospitals and also does not provide timely updates as it takes a lot of time of the staff which is otherwise busy treating patients wearing PPE kits. Dr Sanjay Patil, who chairs the hospital board of India’s Pune chapter said, “The decision to include small nursing hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients will leave the non-Covid19 patients with no medical help. Also, it takes a lot of staff to continuously sanitize the hospital premises. The hospital must have separate entry and exit for covid19 and non-Covid patients and also for the staff treating those patients. Rather the administration can include hotels into isolating asymptomatic and those with mild symptoms and the smaller hospitals can provide medical assistance when needed.” Saurabh Rao, the divisional commissioner said, “Maharashtra is probably the first state in the country which devised a task force for every district which includes representatives from private hospitals too. The meeting on Thursday with the CM was purely for administrative purposes; however, the CM is in constant touch with the medical fraternity through video calls too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/doctors-ima-blast-cm-over-ignoring-demands/story-2V2OcwSJcZ7szhmzEKKYyH.html
01-08-2020||Pune||NCP corporator Javed Shaikh dies||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) ruling corporator from Akurdi, Javed Shaikh, 59, died after testing positive for the Covid-19 infection at the Ruby Clinic hospital on Friday. On July 15, Shaikh tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to a private hospital in Akurdi the following day. Since his health was not improving, he was shifted to Ruby hospital. Shaikh was admitted to the hospital after testing positive for Covid-19, however, he tested negative on Thursday. “While undergoing further treatment, he died today,” said a statement from the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation health department. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar expressed his grief in a tweet on Friday.Pawar said, “With the demise of Javed Sheikh, a senior corporator of Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, we have lost an activist and a true colleague who worked hard for the questions of common people. His work in the social field and through the corporation will always be remembered. A heartfelt tribute to him.” PCMC mayor Usha Dhore and civic body commissioner Shravan Hardikar expressed condolences on his death. Shaikh was serving a third term from Akurdi. In 2007, he won the election unopposed and he also did not face any problems in 2012 and 2017. Shaikh is survived by his wife, parents, two brothers, 2 children, and a daughter-in-law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ncp-corporator-javed-shaikh-dies/story-syzuvDJe1xPEMF8GETp8eN.html
01-08-2020||Pune||No Sat-Sun lockdown in Pune; P1, P2 norm to stay||The district administration will not be enforcing the weekend lockdown demanded by traders in the city until the P1, P2 rule is intact, according to newly appointed divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. As per the state government’s guidelines, shops are allowed to open as per the P1 and P2 rule in Pune. The PMC order on P1, P2 rule that has been enforced states, on even dates shops on one side of the road will be open while those on the other side will be operational on odd days. Rao said, “Right now we do not have any plan to introduce lockdown two days a week. It was demanded from the traders to introduce lockdown two days in a week. But as the existing P1 and P2 rule is enforced, the district administration does not have any plan to introduce the lockdown.” According to Rao, the new guidelines for Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad will be the same as the state government’s guidelines.” While responding about jumbo facilities in the city, Rao said, “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked to erect jumbo facilities on an urgent basis. We are issuing the work order by late night on Friday or on Saturday morning.”BOXTwo jumbo hospitals at COEP and AISSMDivisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “Places have been finalised for jumbo facilities. They would come at College of Engineering Pune’s campus and another one is at AISSM college premises. These facilities would get ready by August 20. Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation will have a jumbo facility as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-weekend-lockdown-until-p1-and-p2-rule-intact-rao/story-WfpJQWzfcdjIOFdoSNpRhN.html
01-08-2020||Pune||Malls in Pune allowed to open from Aug 5 from 9am-7pm||The Pune Municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar, on Friday, extended the lockdown for the city till August 31, but has allowed malls to open from August 5.Malls and commercial complex can open for business from 9 am to 7 pm, following all the norms set by the state government, the order stated.Vikram Kumar said, “All employees in malls need to wear masks and the administration must ensure social distancing. The floors need to be cleaned repeatedly. Cinema halls, however, cannot open.”Restaurants in malls can only operate take-away services, as per the new guidelines.The municipal commissioner has not a decision about gymnasiums as yet.Pune’s new divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, who took over from Deepak Mhaisekar on Friday, said, “All the guidelines are similar to those issued by the state government.”What is allowed- Commercial complexes and malls- Exercise in public grounds- Hawkers- Saloons and parlours- Vegetable markets- Non-essential shops- Construction activity- e-commerce- food delivery and takeaway- Domestic help- Industry-IT offices with 50 per cent staff- Private offices with 10 per cent staffWhat is not allowed- Cinemas- Gymnasiums- Marriage halls- Restaurants- SpasPrecautions needed to be taken- Mandatory masks- No spitting- Thermal screens at work places- Social distance within the work environment- Senior citizens and children not allowed to roam unnecessarily- P1 and P2 rule for shops- Maids and employees from containment zones not allowed to leave the area||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malls-in-pune-allowed-to-open-from-aug-5-from-9am-7pm/story-FhwTSoW0hOgVSFTdjLwvVJ.html
01-08-2020||Pune||SPPU students run classes for their school-going kids in villages||Pune: A group of students from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has decided to address the digital limitations faced by pupils pursuing school education at rural parts because of coronavirus situation. Under the “‘My Education in My Village” initiative, the varsity students have started teaching their youngsters, from nursery to Class 9 goers, of their hometown villages, in batches since the past one month. “When we came to know that schools in our villages were closed due to the virus situation, we decided to teach the students for free. We started the initiative from July 20 and follow all precautions laid by authorities regarding virus prevention,” said Kamlakar Shete, SPPU student from Khednagaar village, Karjat taluka, Ahmednagar district. “We give classroom lectures on all subjects, including English, Marathi and Hindi, and also conduct sports activities. The students’ parents have also appreciated our efforts.” added Shete. Another SPPU student Vinod Pawar from Pimpalgav village in Washim district said, “We use the Diksha- Balbharati mobile application and also educational videos sent by schools. We teach the concepts behind each chapter in simple language. Our initiative is getting good response from students across the state.” Prabhakar Desai, director, SPPU National Service Scheme (NSS), said, “Students have started this project on their own. It shows their sense of social responsibility. Our students, who come from across the state, are teaching the school-going juniors in their neighbourhood with whatever facilities and technology available, and they must be encouraged and praised for this initiative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sppu-students-run-classes-for-their-school-going-kids-in-villages/story-P66TMdhAprVfj2QJBYFIGP.html
01-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s public transport use shifts to better gear: ESR draft||Though the total number of vehicles in Pune city is increasing per annum, since the last two years, 2018-2020, the number of private vehicles is decreasing and use of public transport in the city is on the rise. This was the main draw from the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) draft Environment status report (ESR) for 2019-20, published on Friday. The PMC’s environment department collects data from various agencies in the city to collate the city’s present environment status. PMC environment officer Mangesh Dighe said, “The important finding of the ESR is, public transport service is improving. The registration of private vehicles, mainly two-wheelers and cars, has been dropping for the last two years. PMC obtained this data from the RTO office.” Dighe said, “Till March 2020, Pune city has a total of 41,35,915 vehicles. The vehicle number is more than the population in the city.” Though two-wheelers still form the largest number of vehicles, its registration has been dropping. As per the ESR, in 2017-18, the total number of two-wheelers sold in the city are 2,05,804. Total sale dropped in 2018-19 to 1,76,314 and in 2019-20 it is at 1,67,406. For cars, in 2018, 56,401 cars were sold in the city. But in 2019 the number is at 47,617, and in 2019 it is 46,150. One of the observations of the ESR is that as cab services increase, more taxi-cabs are getting registered, with residents preferring to hire a cab instead of purchasing a car. Dighe said, “During the lockdown, the city’s overall environment improved drastically. River water quality, air pollution and noise pollution all are near the standard norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-s-public-transport-use-shifts-to-better-gear-esr/story-VLn0hYwMOAh6SoFUoKIviK.html
01-08-2020||Pune||Tenants return to hometowns leaving commercial property owners count losses in Pimpri-Chinchwad||Pune: Three months of restrictions imposed due to Covid situation have left many sellers who run shops on rent to return to their hometowns leaving the commercial property owners to put “on rent” boards again. Many of those who run ice-creams parlours, sweet marts and small hotels in Pimpri-Chinchwad hail from Rajasthan. “I had rented out two shops to run a hotel, but the lockdowns have left my tenants to keep it closed for three months. They left for their hometown in Rajasthan and have not given rent since the past two months. After they informed me of not reopening the hotel, I placed a “on rent” notice at the shop last week,” said Dattaray Chinchwade, owner of two shops in Tanajinagar in Chinchwad. “Profit has gone down by 50 per cent as only parcel service is allowed. I am finding it difficult to pay the rent and have decided to return to my native place in Rajasthan,” said Omprakash Jangid who runs Om Sai Snacks centre at Kalewadi Phata. Cloth shop merchants have also not seen many customers. “The recent 10-day lockdown left me with no choice but to shut shop as my business was badly hit by four months of restrictions. I could only be able to pay rent to my owner till July,” said the owner of Shivam Collection, Thergaon, on condition of anonymity. Pratik Pol, who had given his shop to run an ice cream parlour, has not found a tenant in the last 15 days. “It was my source of income. I am unable to get a tenant after the previous one left,” said Pol, who owns a shop at Link Road, Chinchwad. Federation of Traders Association, Pune, secretary, Mahendra Pitaliya, said that closing shops and returning to hometowns will affect the business and earnings of both owners and tenants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tenants-return-to-hometowns-leaving-commercial-property-owners-count-losses-in-pimpri-chinchwad/story-DCFlCALLXoQNyn5BmiABKJ.html
01-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s SPPU opts for web proctored entrance exams||Pune: Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), for the first time, will log on to remote-proctored online entrance test for its courses this year due to the coronavirus situation. “We will be using the proctored test method for graduate courses entrance exams after the trials carried out were successful. The online entrance exams of graduate courses are scheduled for August 16. We plan to use the method for post graduate courses also,” said SPPU vice-chancellor professor Nitin Karmalkar. “Students can give exams by using electronic gadgets like smartphone, tablet, laptop, desktop computers and cyber cafes at the place of their choosing. SPPU will be the first government university in the state to use this method for entrance exams. IITs have been using this online method extensively.” he said. According to a varsity official, applicants will be given login details and the exam process will be closely monitored by the system to check if any unfair means is used by the student. The proctor system will invigilate candidates through video. Suspicious test-takers will be warned three times, before being disqualified from using unfair means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sppu-opts-for-web-proctored-entrance-exams/story-tzlM5KrwhiAHSLUIkQrOWP.html
01-08-2020||Lifestyle||An Eid in spirit: No lavish feasts or gatherings amid Covid precautions||The festival calendar has been rendered dull this year, thanks to the Covid crisis. The days of thriving festivities have come and gone by in a state of lacklustre haze. Eid-ul-adha, which begins on July 31 this year, and culminates on August 1 in India as per moon sighting, is a day that will also go by without the usual daawats and family feasts. Eid-ul-adha marks some important rituals in Islam, but this year, due to the Covid19 scare, celebrations will be low-key for many. Some have chosen to donate money in place of distributing meat of the sacrificial lamb, while others will let go of family gatherings.Author Sadia Dehlvi, known for her lavish lunches and soirees, says, “We used to have nice lunches, but this year, it will be very quiet. My brother and his wife will come over and we will have dinner, but that’s about it.”Any festival is an excuse for extended family and friends to get together. People you might not otherwise see all year round visit and partake in the celebrations. Author Rakhshanda Jalil, who would make elaborate meals consisting of sewaiyan, biryani, kebabs and kaleji, will be letting go of this tradition. “We would usually have an open house, but this year, there will be no gathering. The whole point of a feast is that you cook for family and friends, and all of you celebrate together,” she says.Another aspect of Eid-ul-adha is charity. In case a practising Muslim is unable to distribute meat to the needy, then they donate money. Author Rana Safvi has also been doing that. “This year, we will be celebrating it in spirit. Even my daughter, who lives in Delhi, won’t be able to visit as I live in Greater NOIDA and there are restrictions on movement,” she says.Read: Eid al-Adah 2020: Traditional and unconventional recipes for BakridVisiting relatives and exchanging gifts is an intrinsic part of festivals, but with the current impositions, this ritual has also been compromised for some. “Our family has this rule: No meeting, no Eidi. So that’s a bit sad,” says chef Sadaf Hussain, adding, “We would go to our mama’s (maternal uncle) house in Ghaziabad and the day would begin with eating kaleji. For the first time in nine years we would not be visiting his house.” There were some problems with getting a goat this year, he says. “We have now asked our neighbour to buy some kaleji so that a part of our tradition remains intact. At home, we will be making biryani and kebabs. Iss baar ek khaalipan toh hai, but we are getting used to this way of life now,” he says.Here are some easy to make, traditional recipes you can make at home. Bihari Kebab Masala by chef Sadaf HussainDry roast 2 tbsp chanal dal, 1 tbsp each of cumin seeds, poppy seeds and black pepper, ½ tbsp kabab cheni powder, 2 black cardamoms, ½ inch cinnamon stick and 8-10 cloves. Once the spices release their aroma, transfer to a mortar-pestle or a grinder and grind it to a fine powder. In another bowl, mix 2 tbsp raw papaya paste, 1 ½ tbsp salt, 1 ½ tsp red chilli powder and 1 tsp degi mirch. Mix these two masalas and your marinade is ready. This masala can be used to make any kind meat dishes. Read: Eid al-Adah 2020: History and significance of Bakrid, and date of celebration in IndiaChana Dal Halwa by author Rakhshanda JalilSoak some chana dal and boil in milk ( just enough milk that will get absorbed and make the dal soft). Grind to a smooth paste when cool. In a pan, heat some ghee or oil . Add a couple of green cardamoms and roast dal paste. Keep stirring for 10-15 minutes. In another pan, make syrup of sugar, water and a little ghee. Cook till syrup thickens to dropping consistency. Add the sugar-ghee mixture to the dal mixture. Stir and cook for another 10-15 minutes. Add water a little at a time. Transfer in a greased plate and cut in diamond shapes. Sprinkle desiccated coconut and finely chopped almonds. Cool and serve.Kathhal ke Kebab by author Rana SafviPeel ½ kg kathhal cubes and boil with ½ kg chana dal, one diced potato, one chopped onion, ½ piece ginger, 2 bay leaves, ½ tsp garam masala and add salt to taste. Use minimal amount of water; in case of excess water, open the cooker till it dries. Make a paste in stone sil-batta or blender. Add finely chopped onion, green coriander and chilli. Shape into cutlets and shallow fry till evenly done.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/an-eid-in-spirit-no-lavish-feasts-or-gatherings-amid-covid-precautions/story-jvMuQme9I2TYk5GfoOAr1I.html
