03-08-2020||City||Nearly 82% Covid-19 positive cases covered under contact tracing in Gurugram||Gurugram: The district health department has achieved contact tracing of nearly 82% of Covid-19 positive cases in the city, up from 50% about two weeks ago, according to state government data. Health officials said investigation of positive cases improved in the last two weeks in the district, increasing from 50% to more than the desirable limit of 80%. The overall contact tracing percentage for Haryana is 88%. By August 2, contacts of 7,559 Covid-19 patients were traced in Gurugram while that of 1,700 is yet to be located, the data shows. “Contact tracing has remarkably improved in the last two weeks. It was nearly 50%, which has now exceeded to 82%. It is above the desirable limit of 80%. Thorough contact tracing and testing is a part of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guideline,” Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said. The official said the curve had flattened in Gurugram due to aggressive testing and contact tracing. The city on Monday reported 43 positive cases. The total count of confirmed cases is now 9,288, out of which 826 are active and 8,338 have recovered. The Covid-19 death toll stands at 124.Contact tracing, a crucial public health strategy, involves health staff interviewing confirmed Covid-19 positive patients and find out others who have been in contact with them.In case there is a possibility of exposure, the health team asks the contacts to quarantine for almost a week. “In case the patient has symptoms or is a high-risk contact with underlining health conditions such as hypertension or diabetes, then their nasal swabs are taken for the antigen detection test or Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test. Our ASHAs and ANMs reach out to the contacts who have been exposed and give them instructions about the possible symptoms and the measures to be adopted for safety,” said Dr Hardeep Kaur Saluja, medical officer, Primary Health Care Centre, Tigra. According to the district epidemiologist, the situation improved after the team switched from paper forms to mobile applications for collecting details for contact tracing. “The process is streamlined as details of contacts are collected through a mobile application for the department’s internal use. The ground team can directly upload the details of the person who has been in contact with an already infected person. It makes verification process easy as suspected cases can be easily contacted and isolated. It saves time,” said Ram Prakash, epidemiologist, district health department. COMPLETE CONTACT TRACING Others districts such as Sonepat, Fatehabad and Kurukshetra are also conducting more than 80% contact tracing of positive cases. Districts such as Palwal, Panchkula, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak and Sirsa are conducting investigation in nearly 71% -77% of positive Covid-19 cases. Faridabad, Charkhi Dadri and Faridaba are doing 100% contact tracing, according to the state data. Experts, however, question this claim. “Contact tracing helps in early detection of cases. But it is not possible to have 100% contact tracing because there are chances of wrong addresses or delayed sampling. It can maximum exceed up to 95%. Complete contact tracing is possible if there cases are on the lower side,” said Ram Prakash. Lalit Kant, scientist and former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR, said, “Theoretically, 100% contact tracing is possible but it depends upon the infrastructure available, workforce and the way it is being conducted. It is seen that an infected person can transmit the virus to at least 10 people. If all the suspected cases are covered, then the infectivity curve should flatten. The case load should show stagnation and decline.”Faridabad has the highest number of active cases and Covid-19 death toll. Out of the 9,002 cases there, 1174 are active while 7,694 have recovered. The death count stands at 134. Health officials of Faridabad were unavailable for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nearly-82-covid-19-positive-cases-covered-under-contact-tracing-in-gurugram/story-ONVl1CvwQD9brL6JmtNKhP.html
03-08-2020||Gurugram||25 Bhondsi inmates under scanner for connection with tainted jail official||The police have identified 25 drug peddlers lodged inside Bhondsi Jail to verify their connection with the deputy jail superintendent(DJS) and his son, who were earlier arrested for allegedly smuggling drugs and mobile phones to the jail inmates. The station house officer(SHO) of Bhondsi Jail was also sent to police lines on administrative grounds on Sunday, said the police. The police said that they will start questioning the 25 inmates as they suspect that some of them were regularly in touch with DJS Dharambir Chautala and his son Ravi Chautala. The police said Dharambir was allegedly friendly with the some of the gangsters and was often spotted with them in their barracks. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that their arrest may have scared the criminals as he used to provide support to them. Sangwan said they have received the call details of Chautala’s phone to verify the names to whom calls were made. However, most of the calls were made from WhatsApp, due to which they could not be traced, said the police. Dharambir Chautala was arrested on July 23 for allegedly smuggling drugs and supplying SIM cards to inmates for over the last two years. According to officers, 240 grams of a narcotics substance, called Sulfa, and 11 SIM cards were recovered from his government accommodation inside the jail premises. His son, Ravi Chautala, was arrested from Sirsa on Saturday and charged with sedition for allegedly threatening prison officials. Hewas arrested after he allegedly threatened to “blast Bhondsi Jail” in a purported audio clip, which was widely shared across social media. Earlier, on July 23, the police had also arrested drug peddler Ravi Kumar for supplying Chautala with drugs and mobile phones. While questioning Kumar, it was revealed that drugs and mobile phones were easily available inside Bhondsi Jail at a high price. He also allegedly told the police that an inmate could use a smartphone inside a jail by paying at least ₹50,000 a month. However, no one was allowed to click any pictures or make a video inside the premises to ensure that the identity of the place was not leaked in the public domain, said the police. According to police officials, privy to the matter, there are four barracks inside Bhondsi Jail, where only hardcore criminals are lodged. Access to these barracks have been denied to all the staff. They all are under scanner and the movement of these criminals is being closely monitored. Regular updates are being shared with the superintendent of the jail, said the police. Sangwan said they have also deployed a team of the crime investigation unit at the outskirts of Bhondsi Jail in plain clothes since the arrest of Ravi Chautala. “The safety of officials and inmates are of great importance to us. We are in touch with the jail officials and a PCR van along with three riders have been deployed outside the jail premises for safety and security of the officials. No one is being allowed to loiter in the area outside the jail,” he said. The police said more arrests are likely to take place once they have completed questioning all the suspects involved in the case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/25-bhondsi-inmates-under-scanner-for-connection-with-tainted-jail-official/story-KdYCNYuDDwZ8Kfm63aZyPM.html
03-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram municipality distributes GPS hand bands among its sanitation employees||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has distributed around a dozen hand bands to sanitation workers to keep a tab on them, after a large number of residents complained that such workers were either absent or not cleaning and sanitising locations inside containment zones. The bands have been distributed on an experimental basis. Officials said the hand bands will be enabled with GPS to help MCG track the movement of its workers. It will also enable workers to log the total number of hours they have worked for, and the locations they covered. If the pilot project is successful, MCG officials said they will distribute hand bands among all its 2,200 sanitation workers, and around 6,000 contractual workers.“Similar trials have been held by various municipal corporations across the country recently. For example, Municipal Corporations in Chandigarh and Nagpur have introduced hand bands in the form of smartwatches to track their sanitation workers. Inspired by them, we wanted to see if hand bands would work in in Gurugram as well. If the pilot project succeeds, then we will distribute the same to all sanitation workers,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.The official further said that the tracking system will ensure that all sanitation employees report to work and also carry out the necessary cleaning and sanitizing measures at their designated areas.As per MCG officials, a hand band costs less than Rs 500 and due to its low cost, it can be mass-produced and distributed at a short-notice.The bands were distributed to sanitation workers on the direction of Ashish Singla, medical officer, health wing of MCG. Singla is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 for the MCG.“We are looking at various ways to improve our efficiency, especially as the Covid-19 crisis rages on. We realise that waste collection and proper sanitisation is of utmost importance during this period and hence, we are looking at ways to ensure proper monitoring that can be carried out,” said Singla.Singla added that the first batch of nearly 10 bands have been distributed to sanitation workers engaged in containment zones.“We are prioritising sanitisation and cleaning in those areas where cases of Covid are high in number or have been recently detected. Hence, bands have been accordingly distributed to those workers that are deployed in such areas,” said Singla.Currently, there are 64 containment zones in the city.“There have been instances when MCG sanitation workers have been found to be absent. As a result sanitation and cleaning work have been affected. We have had to call up officials to bring in sanitation workers. Having hand bands will keep workers on their toes and ensure that they arrive for work and execute it properly. Such an initiative was very much needed,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, DLF Phase-1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-municipality-distributes-gps-hand-bands-among-its-sanitation-employees/story-AqRcMlgtAFGKRUDvsyRnwN.html
03-08-2020||Gurugram||Revenue officials booked for illegal registration of properties||Six revenue department officials, who were earlier suspended by the state government for alleged irregularities in registration of property deeds in the Gurugram district, were booked by the police on Saturday for cheating and violating rules of the Haryana Urban Development Act, said the police on Monday. A case has also been registered against a retired revenue department official in connection with the same offence, said the police. The cases against the seven accused were registered under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 10 and 11 of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act 1975 at different police stations of the city on the basis of a complaint filed by the district town planner (enforcement). The officials against whom cases have been registered are Bansi Lal (tehsildar), Sohna; Dalbir Singh Duggal (naib tehsildar), Sohna; Hari Krishan (naib tehsildar), Badshahpur; Jai Prakash (naib tehsildar) Wazirabad; Deshraj Kamboj (naib tehsildar), Gurugram, and Jagdish (naib tehsildar), Manesar, said the police. Additionally, the retired revenue official, who has also been booked in the same case is Om Prakash (naib tehsildar), Qadipur. The cases have been registered at various police stations across the city, namely Sohna city, Sector 10, Shivaji Nagar police station, Sector 56 police station, Badshahpur police station and the Manesar police station, said the police. As per the department of town and country planning (DTCP), an inquiry conducted by the divisional commissioner of Gurugram found that these officials were allegedly engaged in registering property deeds without obtaining no-objection certificates from the town planning body. The complaint submitted to the city police commissioner by district town planner (enforcement), states that as per the letter/email received from financial commissioner of Haryana, the above-mentioned officials have been found to be guilty of violating Section 7A of the Haryana Urban Development Act of 1975 while registering property documents.RS Bhath, district town planner, in-charge of the enforcement wing, said that the complaint was filed after directions were received from the headquarters in Chandigarh. “A complaint was lodged with the police as per the directions received from the headquarters. The DTCP has been raising the issue of illegal registration of properties in Gurugram for the last one year,” said Bhath. Meanwhile, Ramesh Yadav, an RTI activist, who had application regarding these illegal deeds, alleged that over 1,000 such registrations have been carried out during the lockdown. “The police probe will further reveal the violations,” he said. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The cases have been registered and a probe has been initiated as per the law.” Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala has also taken a keen interest in the matter. Last Thurday, he had said that officials involved in such illegal registries would not only be suspended but criminal action would also be taken against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/revenue-officials-booked-for-illegal-registration-of-properties/story-oYWwYBOFtNnnp2S6sT93lJ.html
03-08-2020||City||Container falls in to creek, driver rescued||A container headed towards to Nhava Sheva in Thane from Bhiwandi fell into the creek from Retibunder bridge, on Monday morning. The Narpoli and Kalwa police officers, regional disaster management cell, Thane Municipal Corporation team and fire brigade officers reached the site and rescued the driver.According to Narpoli police, on Monday, at around 5.30am a container which was moving towards Navi Mumbai area met with an accident. The driver lost control on his vehicle and rammed into the edge of the bridge it fell off into the creek along with the container. The driver was identified as Ramesh Yadav, 47. Narpoli police said, “The container fell off near Kharegaon, Retibandelur bridge and swept away till Kasheli bridge which is 3 km distance. The driver somehow managed to take hold of the container, then he stood on it and shouted for help. A Kasheli resident saw him and some fishermen entered the creek to rescue the driver. After we reached on the spot, fire brigade and RDMC team try to lift the container from the creek but due to water flow, it moved till Mumbra. It is not yet removed from the water. The driver was immediately taken to Param Hospital, Rabodi. He is recovering from the incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/container-falls-in-to-creek-driver-rescued/story-2dndfnUE4FuWjyFuVCOtcL.html
03-08-2020||City||Had complained to Mum cops in Feb, says Sushant Singh Rajput’s father||Sushant Singh Rajput’s father alleged on Monday that the Mumbai Police were warned about threat to the actor’s in February but they failed to take note of it and also did not act on complaints after his death on June 14.Krishna Kishore Singh, who issued a video statement, recounted the sequence of events that led to his lodging a complaint with Patna police. “I had told the Mumbai Police in February that my son faced a threat to his life but it did nothing. When my son died on June 14, I requested them to take action against named persons. Nothing came of it even after 40 days. Left with no other option, I lodged a case here in Patna,” he said.Patna police swung into action immediately, Singh said. He thanked chief minister Nitish Kumar and state minister Sanjay Jha who came forward to “stand for the truth”.Rejecting Singh’s claim, the Mumbai Police said they did not receive any written complaint about threat to the actor’s life. Shahji Umap, deputy commissioner of police (operations), in a statement said, “KK Singh, father of late Sushant Singh Rajput has released a statement saying that the family had made written complaint to the Bandra police station on February 25. It must be clarified that no written complaint has been addressed to Bandra police station on that date. However, one IPS OP Singh, the brother-in-law of late Sushant Singh Rajput had sent some WhatsApp messages to the then deputy commissioner of police Paramjit Singh Dahiya of zone 9 regarding this matter. The then DCP zone 9 had called OP Singh and requested him that a written complaint is mandatory for any enquiry or action. However, Singh wanted this to be resolved informally, to which the then DCP Zone 9 clearly told him that it was not possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/had-complained-to-mum-cops-in-feb-says-actor-s-father/story-MENXuBv8EOVhQblovJN3ML.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||St Stephen’s to take online interviews for postgraduate admissions||Delhi University’s (DU) St Stephens’ College on Monday said that it will switch to online interviews for admissions to postgraduate courses this year to maintain social distancing norms amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The college had earlier announced a similar decision for admission to undergraduate courses, along with doing away with the written test component for this year.In a notification issued on Monday, the college said that admissions in postgraduate courses will be “entirely online”.“In order to be considered at St. Stephen’s College the candidate must register using the official St Stephen’s College online application form, clearly indicating their DU Registration Number. At the time of admission and registration, St Stephen’s College will only consider applications of those candidates who have been shortlisted on the basis of merit or entrance exam of the University of Delhi,” the notification read.Explaining the procedure for postgraduation admissions to St Stephen’s, the college’s admission tutor Mahesh Gopalan said, “The candidates are first selected by Delhi University based on merit or the entrance exam results. Then the college conducts interviews of those who applied for admission to St Stephen’s. They are eligible for admission to St Stephen’s only after clearing the interview.”“Given the prevailing situation, the college has decided to switch to online mode for postgraduate admissions as well. The interviews for admissions in all masters courses will be held online. All details will be outlined in the prospectus that will be released in a day or two,” he said.The College offers nine postgraduate courses —MA in Economics, English, History, Philosophy and Sanskrit; and MSc in Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics and Operational Research.St Stephen’s College is a religious minority institute, has its own process for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate courses and reserves 50% seats for Christian students.While the college has already started registrations for undergraduate admissions, the application forms for postgraduate courses are yet to be made available on its website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/st-stephen-s-to-take-online-interviews-for-postgraduate-admissions/story-0UFM4KEA8VGxMRhinBfs8N.html
03-08-2020||Noida||Call centre owner nabbed for routing international calls illegally||The Noida police on Monday arrested the owner of a call centre in Sector 2 for allegedly routing international calls illegally. The police said the 30-year-old suspect had bypassed international subscriber dialling (ISD) licences and the illegal operations at the call centre were causing revenue losses to the department of telecommunications(DoT).The suspect was identified as Sumit Kumar Bisdah, a native of Banda who was living in Laxmi Nagar, Delhi.According to Noida police, DoT officials had given inputs to the Sector 20 police alleging an illegal telecom setup was being operated by the suspect from Sector 2. “The suspect was using a false gateway to route international voice calls to mobile phones directly bypassing ISD licences, thus leading to major revenue losses to the DoT, as he made profits himself. These licenses are issued after following several compliance and the fees can go up to crores,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.The additional DCP added that the suspects was placing calls through voice over internet protocol (VOIP), and these are harder to trace and in turn can become a major national security threat as the callers can’t be identified at all. The call centre was also using more calling channels than they were authorized to, and there were several lapses in their licensing documents, the police said.A raid was conducted at the call centre in a joint operation of the DoT and Noida police on Monday afternoon following which the suspect was arrested. “The employees were unaware the call centre operations were running illegally. So far, role of any other accomplices has not come to the fore, but a probe in the matter is underway and it appears that a huge network was involved,” said Singh.Police officers said the suspect had previously worked with a national telecom service provider and was familiar with the technical know-how of international calling processes. He was also planning to set another unit in Sector 8.The suspect was booked under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Indian Telegraph Act 1885. Multiple laptops, phones, session initiation protocol (SIP) servers and trunks, routers and other electronics were recovered from the spot.Police officers said they are verifying the total revenue losses that might have been incurred in the seven months for which the illegal operation had been going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/call-centre-owner-nabbed-for-routing-international-calls-illegally/story-avZQmwBGbDwoWvigQVhrdI.html
03-08-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad gets ₹5 crore, Noida ₹3 crore as state grant to check Covid-19 spread||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued an order according to which all 75 districts will be provided contingency funds in order to meet the Covid-19 expenses. For the purpose, the districts have been divided into two categories -- A (having population more than 2.5 million) and B (those having population less than 2.5 million). The state finance commission has allotted ₹5 crore for category A districts, while category B districts will get ₹3 crore to check the spread of Covid-19. The Ghaziabad district has been categorised under category A and will receive ₹5 crore, while Gautam Budh Nagar will be given ₹3 crore. The government order mentions that a district level committee, headed by the district magistrate, will take decision about the expenses. The committee will have five other members, including chief medical officer and chief development officer. While Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey could not be reached for comments on the issue, GB Nagar DM Suhas LY said surveillance and sample collection drives in the district will be intensified with the allotment of the additional fund. “This fund can also be used in an emergency if we face a financial crunch with the normal budget. It can also be used for contractual appointments,” he said.The government order has clarified that with the grant, category A district can hire a maximum of 15 vehicles while category B district can hire a maximum of 10 vehicles for the purpose of ferrying staff engaged in surveillance, testing and rapid response, among others. The funds can also be used for purchase of required consumables as well as hiring of manpower on contractual basis, said the government order that was issued on August 1.Overall, the state government has given nod for ₹299 crore to different districts under categories A and B. As many as 37 districts have been put under category A and 38 others under category B. GB Nagar DM also said that a meeting of the district health committee (DHC) will be held on Tuesday where the distribution of this fund will be discussed. “I’ve asked the members of the committee to give the requisition for allocation of this fund for their respective jurisdictions. This fund will definitely smoothen the functioning of all measures undertaken in the district for checking Covid-19 spread,” the DM said.While the DM is the ex-officio chairman of the DHC, the CMO is its member secretary. Other members of the DHC are chief development officer, district panchayati raj officer, district treasury officer, and executive officer of the municipal bodies.GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri, said that the funds will be directly credited in the account of the DHC. “The DHC can spend this amount on appointment of contractual doctors, paramedics and sanitation workers in different Covid-dedicated facilities. This fund can also be used roping in around 10 vehicles for the purpose of mobile surveillance and sample collection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-gets-5-crore-noida-3-crore-as-state-grant-to-check-covid-19-spread/story-etPYyBikQKtWdFxEPq7KpJ.html
03-08-2020||City||Woman, daughter killed as heavy vehicle hits car on Eastern Peripheral Expressway||Greater Noida A 36-year-old woman and her 14-year-old daughter were killed on Monday evening when the car they were travelling in was hit by an unidentified heavy vehicle from behind on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in the Dadri area. The police said that the woman’s son and nephew were severely injured in the incident.According to the police, the accident was reported around 5pm. A team was rushed to the spot and the victims were pulled out of their vehicle. The deceased have been identified as Shashi and her daughter Bhumi, natives of Bodaki village who were on their way back home from Ghaziabad following rakshabandhan celebrations, the police said.“The two died on the spot, and their bodies are being sent for autopsy. Her son, Himanshu, and nephew, Mohit, were severely injured and were rushed for treatment to a private hospital,” said Dinesh Singh, station house officer (SHO), Dadri police station.He said that the hatchback the victims were travelling in was hit on the left side by an unidentified vehicle. “It is a hit-and-run case. Efforts are on to identify the heavy vehicle that hit the car. The rescue operation was the priority for us. Now, teams will be formed to identify the vehicle,” said Singh.Police officials said that they will scan the CCTV footage of the expressway to identify the vehicle. The SHO also said that a case will be registered against the unidentified driver as soon as the victims’ family files a complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-daughter-killed-as-heavy-vehicle-hits-car-on-eastern-peripheral-expressway/story-sC0bNwzov2syFjw1pFQh4K.html
03-08-2020||City||Decision on syllabus of four courses in DU likely on Thursday||New Delhi: Delhi University (DU) teachers and students will have to wait for a few more days for the third and fifth semester syllabus of four undergraduate courses as the varsity’s syllabi committee could not reach a conclusion on Monday. The university had last year revised the syllabi of 54 undergraduate courses. While the syllabi of other courses were approved by DU’s academic council (AC), that of four courses -- English, Political Science, History and Sociology -- were sent back to their departments for a review after a section of teachers and students raised objections over some topics and termed them as “pro-Left”. The university administration had in July last year formed an oversight committee to address matters related to the revision of courses. While the committee had passed the syllabi of other semesters of these four courses, it is yet to take a call on that of the third and fifth semesters. Maharaj K Pandit, chairperson of the committee said, “During Monday meeting, some members of the committee had some queries and said they needed more time to go through the revised syllabus sent by the departments. So, it was decided to adjourn the meeting till Thursday. We are hoping to take a final call on Thursday.”Teachers and students raised concerns over the further delay as online classes for all continuing year students are scheduled to begin from August 10.Officials in the English, Political Science, History and Sociology departments said it will be difficult for them to chalk out the plan for online classes if the syllabus does not reach the colleges beforehand. A senior official in the English Department said, “We have been constantly writing to the university, requesting them to approve the syllabus so that we can send it to colleges and they can plan their schedule for online classes. Just a few days are left for the session to begin and we are still waiting.”Balaram Pani, dean of colleges and a member of the oversight committee, said, “The committee will approve the syllabus before the session begins.”Sakshi Mishra, a third semester BA (Hons in English) student at Lakshmibai College said, “Our semester had already been delayed by over a month now and if the university takes more time to approve the syllabus, it will get further delayed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/decision-on-syllabus-of-four-courses-in-du-likely-on-thursday/story-kQv27asr5cVeUsMv6CSDtK.html
03-08-2020||Noida||40-year-old man poses as doctor in Greater Noida, arrested||A 40-year-old man was arrested by Noida police Sunday night from a private hospital in Greater Noida for allegedly working as a doctor without a license and issuing fake medical certificates.The suspect was identified as Rakesh Kumar Thakur, a resident of Crossing Republik, who had been posing as a doctor without a license and running the private hospital illegally for the past few years, the police said. The matter had come to light when a complaint was filed against the suspect by a retired colonel.“My son and daughter-in-law were involved in a domestic dispute in 2017. My daughter-in-law had produced a medical certificate signed by Thakur from a private hospital in Sector 68 alleging that she had been assaulted and suffered injuries. My son even went to prison for four months because of the assault allegations as well. However, when we checked with the health department at that time, we found that there was no such registered hospital in that area,” said Colonel (retd) JR Sharma, in his complaint to the police.Sharma said that his family then registered a complaint with the Medical Council of India (MCI), and it was later found that the medico-legal certificate produced in the case was forged.A complaint was then lodged with the police and based on Sharma’s complaint a case was registered at the Phase 3 police station on Sunday against the suspect and his compounder (who worked with him in 2017) under sections 419 (impersonation), 465 (punishment for forgery), 195 (giving or fabricating false evidence with intent to procure conviction of offence punishable with imprisonment for life or imprisonment), 196 (using evidence known to be false), 197 (Issuing or signing false certificate) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Indian Medical Council Act.Police officers said that their initial probe found Thakur to be a quack. “ He is not a registered doctor and was arrested from a hospital in Greater Noida which he was running illegally. We checked with the MCI and he was not registered with them. He had also issued a fake medical certificate in an ongoing case,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Ankur Aggarwal.The police said they are identifying other cases wherein the suspect may have issued fake medical certificates. A police officer, who did not wish to be identified, also said that action will also be taken against the woman who used the fake medical documents, and any other persons involved in the issuing of forged certificates.The suspect was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/40-year-old-man-poses-as-doctor-in-greater-noida-arrested/story-sQxwuUYrbrZOGrAZpIzOMO.html
03-08-2020||City||DTU students in a fix as fee deadline ends on Aug 5||New Delhi: Students of Delhi Technological University (DTU) are in a fix as their fee submission deadline for the upcoming academic session ends in just two days, forcing many to appeal for an extension or some kind of relaxation in payment. The students had got a week’s notice on July 29 to submit fees or pay a hefty late charge for any delay.According to the university’s directives, if students are not able to pay their fee by August 5, they will be charged a fine in a staggered way, ranging between Rs 2,000 and Rs 10,000 for a delay of one week.B.Tech students have to pay their annual fee of Rs 1,90,000 by August 5 while BBA and BA students have to pay Rs 90,000. If they fail to pay up by August 27, they may have their names struck off the university’s rolls.Maheep Bhardwaj, general secretary of DTU students’ association, said, “We got a fee submission notice on July 29, asking us to submit the money by August 5. Out of the five days, three were bank holidays. While the notice is the same as previous years, this year is not the same due to the Covid-19 crisis. So many families lost their jobs or suffered pay cuts. This is why we asked for some concession or at least let students pay their fee in installments. We have also appealed to the government to form a viable solution.”Ram Kumar, a fourth-year student, said he would not be able to pay the fee since his father’s business had “collapsed” during the pandemic. “My family is entirely dependent on the agricultural income of less than Rs 10,000 per month. There should be some extension to help students like me or concession in tuition fees since we are not even using the college infrastructure.”Deepak Pal, a first-generation learner whose father is a gardener, said his family had no source of income for five months since his father wasn’t allowed to enter residential societies. “All our savings were used up in these months and it is not possible for me to pay the fee by August 5. The university should understand this and allow us to pay in installments at least,” said the second-year student.Anup Lather, public relations officer of the university, said that the deadline won’t be extended. “The fee structure was mentioned in the prospectus at the time of the admission and students were aware of the amount as well as the time frame for the payment. While the deadline won’t be extended, the university has always helped students in need. Even last year, we provided assistance through various schemes to marginalised students and around Rs 5 crore was allotted for this purpose. Deserving students can sent an application this year, explaining their circumstances and we will forward it to the committee, which can recommend making some consideration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dtu-students-in-a-fix-as-fee-deadline-ends-on-aug-5/story-kwrQZUgaCkdUfT4ja77JOM.html
03-08-2020||City||Two foreign nationals among seven of gang arrested for armed robbery in Ghaziabad||In a major crackdown on Sunday night, the Ghaziabad police arrested seven members, including two foreign nationals, of a robber’s gang which had allegedly looted a house in Sector 8, Chiranjeev Vihar, on July 27 and fled with cash and jewellery worth ₹13 lakh after holding hostage the family on gunpoint.The police said the suspects included three women who were tasked to conduct recce of the house before the gang gave way to the incident. The police identified the arrested suspects as Alam Salaam, Razzak Halim, Mohammad Raees, Rubel Sheikh, Sonia Khan, Nazma and Mukta (both single names). Razzak and Rubel are from Bangladesh and their documents will be verified, the police said.The police added the arrested suspects were staying in different areas of Delhi and Loni in Ghaziabad and many of them have criminal records.“About six months ago, some of the gang members were lodged in a jail at Palwal, Haryana where they came in touch with an inmate who tipped them about the Ghaziabad house. The identity of the inmate is being kept secret pending investigation. The suspects then roped in their women relatives for conducting recces of the house and then robbed the house on July 27,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police (SSP).The gang had held 11 family members, including children, hostage at gunpoint for three-and-a-half hours. The family later gave a complaint to the police and also mentioned the suspected role of one of their relatives.“As of now, we have not established any role of their relative. The gang performed the robbery and some of their members are still on the run. We had traced them with the help of information gathered locally, electronic surveillance and other means. The suspect had come to Ghaziabad again on the night of August 2 and their movement came under the radar of the police teams near Lal Kuan,” the SSP added.The police said the gang members gave them a chase, and some of them fled in an autorickshaw and others on a scooty. One of them had opened fire and was hit on the leg in retaliatory fire near Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Park in Kavi Nagar Industrial Area late Sunday night. The man was identified as Alam Salaam who was nabbed along with others, later on, the police said.“We have recovered around 70% of the valuables looted on July 27. The family has also identified some of the robbers who were in the house that day,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city).The family said that the recovered jewellery will be identified later on as the owner of the house, Kanchan Sharma, was not in town. “After the arrests were made, we went to the police station and identified one of the robbers. My cousin Kanchan is not in Ghaziabad, and once she comes back will identify the jewellery,” said Rohit Sharma, relative of Kanchan whose house was looted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-foreign-nationals-among-seven-of-gang-arrested-for-armed-robbery-in-ghaziabad/story-antYI4CL8WOMKCnuzRJvoO.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||Man finds lizard in bowl of sambar||A case of negligence has been registered against Saravana Bhavan restaurant in Connaught Place after a customer alleged that he found a dead lizard in a bowl of sambar on Saturday night, police said on Monday. According to the police, the complainant Pankaj Agarwal, a resident of Chandni Chowk who visited the restaurant with two friends on Saturday, said that they ordered dosa and sambar for dinner.“He said when they started eating, Agarwal spotted a dead lizard in his bowl of sambar. He took a picture and made a video of the lizard using his phone and complained about it to the manager,” said a senior police officer who wished not to be named. Aggarwal, who works with a private firm, said when he complained to the management, they apologised to him and tried to hide the lizards. He said it was then that he reported the matter to the police.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said based on the complaint, the police have registered an FIR against the restaurant.“We have registered a case under IPC Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and section 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others). The matter is further being investigated,” he said.On Sunday a video of the incident was also widely shared on social media in which a lizard was seen in the bowl of sambar.Singhal said the video of the incident surfaced later and they were yet to get it from the person who filmed it on his cellphone.The police have also asked the restaurant to share with them CCTV camera footage of the incident and details of the cook who prepared the sambar.When contacted, Saravana Bhavan did not respond for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-finds-lizard-in-bowl-of-sambar/story-kO8LGO9uTRoBY5tXUr4Q4I.html
03-08-2020||City||Civil defence volunteer held for extortion bid||New Delhi: A 37-year-old Delhi civil defence volunteer, said to be an associate of jailed gangster Jitender alias Gogi, has been arrested for allegedly attempting to extort R5 lakh from a businessman running a grocery store in outer Delhi’s Alipur, police said on Monday. A countrymade pistol and two cartridges were recovered from him, they said. Deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Gaurav Sharma said the volunteer, Devender Kumar Verma, was arrested on Sunday following investigation into a case filed on the businessman’s complaint. The businessman alleged that on July 29 noon, he was at his shop with four-five customers when a man arrived and gave him a white envelope. The man said a bike-borne man had asked him to hand over the envelope. “The businessman found a letter along with a route map inside. The letter said he and his family members will be killed if R5 lakh was not paid within 20-25 minutes at the place mentioned in the map. The businessman informed the police and a case was registered,” the DCP said. Sharma said CCTV footage of areas around the businessman’s shop were examined. “Our efforts led to the identification and arrest of the suspect, Devender Kumar Verma, with a pistol and two bullets,” he said. Verma was arrested on Sunday near the Budhpur drain in outer Delhi after a tip-off regarding his presence in the area, the DCP said.Police said Verma told them he was a close aide and a local informer of Jitender alias Gogi. Since Gogi is in jail, Verma wanted to prove his loyalty by arranging money for him through extortions by using his name to scare victims, the officer said. The Civil Defence is under the Delhi government and Kumar was stationed at the Rohini Sector-18 cluster bus depot.The Delhi government did not respond the queries regarding Verma’s arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civil-defence-volunteer-held-for-extortion-bid/story-ahIX6pWfsOhUEzPakphreP.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||Man files fake case to settle a score, held||To settle a score with four men with whom he allegedly fought over giving right of way, a 25-year-old private tutor filed a false complaint at the Alipur police station on Saturday. The tutor alleged that the four men robbed him of ₹5 lakh, and diamond and gold jewellery worth several lakhs of rupees, after involving him in an altercation to make to look like a road rage incident.However, his plan failed and the tutor, identified as Pankaj Lakra, was arrested as his story fell flat when the police checked his movements of that day. They found that he mortgaged the jewellery he claimed the four men stole to a bank the same day. The police also identified and questioned the four men, who told them that it was actually the complainant who impersonated a Delhi Police inspector and thrashed two of them.“We have arrested Lakra on charges of impersonation and filing a fake complaint, and registered a first information report (FIR). Lakra, while driving on the wrong side of the road, fought with the four men and assaulted two of them after claiming to be a police inspector. Lakra filed the false complaint only to take revenge from the four men, whom he did not even know,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Gaurav Sharma. On Saturday evening, DCP Sharma said the Alipur police received a call regarding a robbery at a traffic signal near Singhola village in Alipur. A police team went there and met the caller, Lakra, who alleged that he was driving his i10 car when four occupants of a Santro car came driving from the wrong side and asked him to stop. Lakra said that when he did not stop and continued driving, the four men took a U-turn and intercepted his car, forcing him to stop.“They fought over giving each other the right of way. Lakra alleged that two of them overpowered him from behind while the other two picked up his bag containing jewellery and ₹5 lakh from the rear seat. They also snatched his gold chain before fleeing,” a police officer said, quoting Lakra’s complaint.A robbery case was registered and the police initially suspected the role of a gang that deliberately picks up a fight with commuters and them robs them. However, when Lakra’s allegations were verified, his cellphone details checked and his movements of the day examined, the police found some contradictions.“His cellphone details revealed that he had already mortgaged the jewellery in a bank before the alleged robbery. Through the Santro’s registration number, we also found the four men whose statement confirmed that they were indeed victims. Accordingly, we interrogated Lakra who broke down and confessed to filing a false case. We arrested him,” said DCP said.Lakra’s car, empty jewellery boxes and two receipts of the mortgaged jewellery were seized, the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-files-fake-case-to-settle-a-score-held/story-caymIud2Uw4tgyUlgrV6vO.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||Provide man accused of being Khalistan sympathiser with copy of FIR: Delhi court||A Delhi court has directed the city police to provide a man with a copy of an FIR registered against him. The man is accused of being a Khalistan sympathiser who, along with others, was planning to execute people and extort others for money in various north Indian states on the directions of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)-sponsored Khalistan leaders.On July 30, additional sessions judge Dharmendra Rana said that an accused person is entitled to a copy of the FIR at an earlier stage, even before (s)he moves the court under Section 207 of the CrPC.The court’s order came while hearing a plea moved by Rajkumar alias Lovepreet Singh, also known as Lovely, who was arrested in June for being a Khalistan sympathiser. The police had claimed that he was planning to kill one person who works for Saamna, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, because he had allegedly disrespected the Guru Granth Sahib. The police had also said that he planned to target a Shiv Sena leader in Punjab for similar reasons as well as the Sarpanch of his village.While directing the police to supply the soft copy of the document, the judge cited an earlier Supreme Court judgment and said that a copy of any FIR, unless of a sensitive nature (like a sexual offence), pertaining to insurgency, terrorism, etc is to be uploaded on the police website within 24 hours of registration, and within 48 hours in case of connectivity problems or any other unavoidable difficulty.On June 27, the police’s Special Cell claimed to have busted a module of Sikh separatist group Khalistan Liberation Front (KLF) and arrested three sympathisers. According to the police, at least four persons in Punjab, including a politician, a follower of the jailed chief of a religious cult, and a person who had once slapped jailed Babbar Khalsa militant Jagtar Singh Hawara, were the prime targets of the arrested men.The police had said that Lovely, one of the three arrested persons, worked at a computer repair shop and became inclined towards the Khalistan movement three or four years ago. It said that, in 2017, he met two persons who were part of the 21-member Hawara Committee.“They called him to pro-Khalistan rallies where he met Gurtez Singh of Mansa, Punjab. Gurtez Singh enticed him to join the Khalistan movement under the guidance of Jagtar Singh Hawara and promised to send him to Pakistan for weapons training. Together, they added a few more men to their group,” DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said.The Special Cell had also said that Lovely was very active on social media and had created a Facebook Page under the name ‘Khalsa Bhindrewalaji’. On this page, he called himself ‘Lovepreet Singh 1984’, and ‘Lovepreet Singh Khalistani’ while sharing several incriminating videos with posters/photos and songs supporting Khalistan leaders and the Khalistan movement, it added.Appearing for the police, additional public prosecutor Irfan Ahmed opposed the application seeking a copy of the FIR, arguing that the investigation in the matter was at an initial stage and was yet to be completed. He had also contended that the matter required a high level of secrecy in investigation due to which the FIR was not shown in the public domain by the orders of DCP (Special Cell).A senior police officer, who preferred anonymity, said that in cases like these, FIRS are not made public. “However, now that the court has ordered us to, we will give the copy,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/provide-man-accused-of-being-khalistan-sympathiser-with-copy-of-fir-delhi-court/story-mZFz7zYshvZmVjTdQ5L2eP.html
03-08-2020||City||Kejriwal meets Hardeep Puri, discusses development, resumption of Delhi Metro||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday held a meeting with Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri and discussed issues related to the development of the Capital, the Delhi government said.The chief minister, accompanied by Delhi urban development minister Satyendar Jain, discussed a range of issues with Puri in the meeting. Officials said ways to resume the Delhi Metro also figured in the meeting.“Had a very fruitful meeting with Hon’’ble Union UD Minister Shri Hardeep Puri Ji. A range of issues related to the development of Delhi were discussed in the meeting,” Kejriwal tweeted.Puri said both sides looked forward to working together for the welfare of the Delhi people. “Very happy to receive Delhi CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal Ji & Shri @SatyendarJain ji in my office,” Puri tweeted after the meeting.“We discussed several ongoing and pending projects for development of Delhi & look forward to working together for the welfare of citizens of Delhi,” he added. Rs 1 crore for family of Corona warrior Chief Kejriwal on Monday met the family of corona warrior Dr. Joginder Chaudhary and handed over a cheque of Rs. 1 crore as financial assistance. After a month-long struggle with Covid-19, Chaudhary, 27, succumbed to the deadly novel coronavirus disease last week. Chaudhary had been battling the infection since June 28 after he was tested positive a day earlier.“Our Corona warrior Dr. Joginder Chaudhary, posted in Delhi Government hospital, served the patients by putting his life at stake. Dr. Chaudhary had passed away recently due to corona infection, today I met his family and handed over a cheque of Rs. 1 crore as financial assistance. Will help the family in every possible way,” tweeted Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.Chaudhary was a junior resident and worked on an ad hoc basis at the Delhi government-run Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar (BSA) Medical Hospital and College since October 2019. He worked in the flu clinic and then in its casualty ward until he developed a fever on June 23. Four days later, he also tested positive and was admitted to a hospital, where he complained about the difficulty in breathing. A day later, he was admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital (LNH).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-meets-hardeep-puri-discusses-development-resumption-of-delhi-metro/story-CPzYVSFgwAYnqavESxLF5J.html
03-08-2020||City||‘Denatured spirit most likely culprit behind killer brew’||Due to curbs during the lockdown and extra vigil on stocks of extra neutral alcohol (ENA), bootleggers seems to have opted for denatured spirit which led to the recent hooch tragedy, excise officials say. The death toll in the hooch tragedy that unfolded last Thursday has gone up to 110. According to an excise official, denatured spirit contains 70-99% ethanol and most often denatured with at least 5-10% methanol and additives. Police said it was still being investigated how the bootleggers were diluting the methanol from the denatured spirit. The liquor available in shops contains only 50-70% of alcohol.Excise officials say despite their best efforts to check smuggling of extra neutral alcohol (ENA), pilferage in small quantity does take place. A top official in the excise department said as the operations of the distilleries came to halt during the lockdown, bootleggers were short of raw material and they seem to have opted for denatured spirit to fill the gap. “Due to fall in quantity of ENA pilferage, bootleggers started using denatured spirit which is used in paint industry and is poisonous,” said an excise department officer who didn’t want to be quoted. The official, however, refused to divulge more saying police investigations were on. There are 14 distilleries in Punjab which produce extra neutral alcohol and ethanol and sell it to liquor manufacturers and petroleum companies. Financial commissioner taxation A Venu Prasad accepted that the administration stepped up the vigil on distilleries and denatured spirit could have led to deaths. “The operations at the distilleries are air tight, our excise inspectors locks every facility in the evening daily and opens the next morning. Even the owners and top managers are not allowed to go inside without permission,” said an officer in the excise department. RECORD SOUGHT FROM DISTILLERIES To rule out possibility of pilferage of ENA from distilleries, the state excise department has summoned record of the two previous months. “We want to make sure that there is no foul play at the level of distilleries,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/denatured-spirit-most-likely-culprit-behind-killer-brew/story-Gb88Plh2055sw9JuiFKRvO.html
03-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad receives ‘missing’ 20,000 RT-PCR test reports from private labs||Ghaziabad The district health department is now in possession of 20,000 ‘missing’ Covid-19 test reports which, officials say, were held up by different private laboratories in Delhi since March. The health officials said that the reports were finally received after they had sent notices for initiating action. According to the officials, all the reports are negative, and the tests were taken up with the help of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique. The reports are now being compiled which will be uploaded on the state portal. “The absence of reports came to fore about a fortnight ago when we were searching our records and found that tests conducted by the private labs were low in numbers. Upon inquiring, we found that the specified labs had uploaded only the positive reports of patients. They are supposed to upload all the reports, positive as well as negative, as soon as the test results are received,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “After this we sent notices for lodging FIRs against the erring labs. Thereafter the labs in Delhi who collected samples in Ghaziabad for Covid-19 test started sending the reports which were pending since March. Once the reports get fully uploaded, they will bring up the number of tests conducted through RT-PCR and will also help us reduce our positivity rate by almost 1%,” Dr Gupta added. Till July 31, the Ghaziabad district conducted 105,099 tests for Covid-19. Of these, 61,258 tests were done using the rapid antigen kits. The district’s test positivity rate till July 31 was about 4.69% based on 4,937 Covid-19 cases. The officials said if the pending reports had been timely updated, the positivity rate would have stood at about 3.94% till July 31 and the RT-PCR testing would have gone up to 63,841. According to official records, since June 26 when the district started with rapid antigen test, the health department also conducted about 21,177 RT-PCR tests of patients (till August 1) who were initially detected negative with the rapid test. As per guidelines issued by the Indian Council for Medical Research, the testing of symptomatic patients who are found negative in rapid antigen test should be done through RT-PCR. Out of the 16,755 subsequent RT-PCR tests, 933 persons have tested positive while reports of 4,422 are awaited, the officials said. The positivity rate of tests through rapid kits (from June 26 to August 1) is about 2.44% while the positivity rate through RT-PCR during the same period is about 5.56%, the records show. At present, the testing in Ghaziabad is primarily done though rapid antigen kits. “We have decided to ramp up rapid antigen testing, and have given about 400-500 kits each to 10 private hospitals in the district. The hospitals will conduct the rapid tests on their premises, but such tests will be free of cost . In case the hospitals are found charging anything for rapid tests, we will initiate action,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-receives-missing-20-000-rt-pcr-test-reports-from-private-labs/story-oEGfCDcu2QqQzudaIPGcKO.html
03-08-2020||Noida||Noida authority expedites underpass work in Kondli||The Noida authority said it has expedited work on the new underpass in Kondli— which will run between sectors 148 and 150—on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. The authority plans to finish the construction work on the underpass by March next year and once ready it will be used by at least 30,000 motorists easing traffic congestion in the area, said officials.“Our target is to finish the construction work on this underpass by March 2021 as we have expedited work on this project last month. The work is in full swing on all sides of the expressway. We are building the underpass with a push-box technology that helps in building such underpasses without disturbing the traffic on the busy e-way,” said Rajeev Tyagi, chief engineer, Noida authority.The 840-metre long four-lane underpass is being built at a budget of ₹44.51 crore. The authority started construction work on June 1, 2020 with a deadline to complete the project by November 30, 2021. However, work on the project has picked pace so that the project can be completed before the deadline, said officials.The underpass is being built at a distance of 19.4 km from the zero-point at Mahamaya flyover in Noida. As per the survey conducted by the Noida authority, around 30,000 motorists will use this underpass once it is ready. The project will benefit the thousands of motorists, who travel between sectors 148 and 150 which are located on two sides of the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway.Sector 150 is home to newly-built group housing complexes and dozens of new condominiums are being built in there and neighbouring Sector 151. In the next three or four years, at least 3.5 lakh new families are expected to move into the upcoming housing projects in the two sectors. The authority wants to build this underpass well before its deadline so that the motorists using this stretch do not face any congestion in the future, said officials.Apart from these sectors 154, 155, 156, 157, 158, and other adjoining areas can bring huge traffic inflow in the future in Kondli making the underpass’s utility more important. “This underpass will benefit the thousands of commuters in these sectors. We aim to finish it as early as possible,” Tyagi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-expedites-underpass-work-in-kondli/story-C7FG1I8F550nCp95Vr9VTI.html
03-08-2020||City||Greater Noida: All households will have water meters by March next year||GREATER NOIDA The Greater Noida authority has decided to install water meters at each household by the end of March next year. The move is aimed at checking the wastage of drinking water and collecting the charges on the basis of consumption, officials said, adding that the installation cost will be borne by the consumers.Once the water meters are installed at each house, the authority will change the way it collects charges for the water supply. At present, it collects the water supply charges in fixed rates. After the new system comes into effect, the authority will collect the charges in two components -- fixed and variable. Once the plan is put into effect, it is likely to end up increasing the water supply charges. However, the exact hike in rates will only be decided next year once the meters are installed, the officials said.“We wanted to start collecting water supply charges in fixed and variable beginning April 1 this year, but the project could not be executed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, we plan to start this practice from April 1, 2021, as we will be able to install water meters by then at each household,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.The authority said that in most of the big cities, the water supply charges are collected in the two components.“We want to implement the system, which is common in almost all cities. It will help us contain the leakages and also collect the charges on the basis of consumption of the water supply. The cost of installation of water meter will also be borne by the consumer,” said Bhooshan.In its 117th board meeting held in February this year, the authority had approved a proposal seeking installation of water meters at each household with an aim to stop wastage and also increase revenue. According to the officials, the authority has planned to install ‘smart’ water meters in households, industrial units, schools, colleges and government or private offices in the next two years. The installation work will be done in a phased manner.At present, Greater Noida needs 210 million litres daily (MLD) water for its around 12 lakh population. The Greater Noida authority charges ₹1,284 per year for plots up to 60 square metre (sqm), ₹2,124 for plots from 61 to 120 sqm, ₹3,840 for plots from 120 to 200 sqm, ₹6,372 for plots from 200 sqm to 350 sqm, ₹8,496 for plots from 350 to 500 sqm, ₹12,768 for plots from 500 to 1,000 sqm and ₹14,892 for plots from 1000 to 1100 sqm. Besides, it charges ₹6,372 to ₹13.39 lakh per annum from consumers, who have industrial, institutional, commercial or group housing plots from 1000 sqm to 10 acres. After the 10% hike effective from April 1, 2020, the authority will charge an additional amount of ₹250 to ₹1,500 annually for residential plot size of 120 sqm to 500 sqm. The authority will charge ₹52,500 additional annually from the bulk consumers, who have plot sizes above the 10000 square metres. This annual charge will be divided among consumers living in group housing societies.“We increase water charges annually as per an old order approved in 2013,” said Bhooshan.According to the officials, the authority spends ₹50 crore annually on supplying drinking water, but recovers only ₹10 crore in charges. It has 40,000 consumers in residential areas and 5,000 in industrial, institutional and commercial areas.However, residents are not happy with the 10% hike this year amid the pandemic.“We have demanded that the authority should not increase the water supply charges because many people have lost jobs and suffered a lot due to the pandemic. We have registered our protest against the annual hike,” said Alok Singh, founder member of Active Citizen Team and former vice-president of Sector Alpha-I residents’ welfare association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-all-households-will-have-water-meters-by-march-next-year/story-4w41vIq7GJTVbnpn9Q7A1L.html
03-08-2020||City||Bootleggers operating on Ghaggar banks got tip of raids beforehand, claim locals||Local residents and members of panchayats of the villages located on the banks of the Ghaggar river in the Patiala district have accused the police of informing the bootleggers well before conducting raids on their illicit distilleries as not even a single arrest was made. Nearly 3,100 litres of lahan (raw material used for making liquor) was recovered on Sunday from Achral Khurd and Marouri villages, notorious for bootlegging, in the Patiala district’s Samana sub-division. On Monday also, the police confiscated 900 litre of lahan and booked five persons with no arrest. The locals alleged that the bootleggers got information about the raids from nearby police stations. “This has become a routine affair. The bootleggers left their houses well before the police conducted raids in the villages. Even as the recoveries are made, the culprits roam freely due to lack of action,” said Marouri sarpanch Gurmeet Singh,.His son Palwinder said the bootleggers openly threatened even panchayat members with dire consequences if they informed police about manufacturing of illicit liquor.Ranjit Singh, a resident of Achral Khurd, said same is the case with their village as the business goes on unabated as the bootleggers enjoy patronage of influential people.Mavi Kala police station in-charge Swaran Singh, under whose jurisdiction Marouri falls, said the accused manage to flee when police conduct raids near the Ghaggar banks every time.“Even their residences were found locked. Even on Sunday, they were present at the spot, but gave the slip to the police team taking advantage of the river,” he said.Superintendent of police Harmeet Singh Hundal said they are keeping close tabs on these villages. “We will not let anyone carry out the illegal activity. The police officers concerned have been directed to take strict action against the accused,” he said.NOT THE FIRST TIMEIn January 2019, two cops posted at the Samana and Mavi Kalan police stations were suspended for allegedly working in connivance with bootleggers.The then SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu had ordered a departmental inquiry against then Samana and Mavi Kalan police station in-charges Narayan Singh and Chhaju Singh for being hand in glove with those into illegal business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bootleggers-operating-on-ghaggar-banks-got-tip-of-raids-beforehand-claim-locals/story-CFMH0kTR8IyMsFrPpytpwN.html
03-08-2020||City||PGIMS to send blood samples of 9 volunteers who got 2nd dose of Covaxin to Pune today||The blood samples of nine volunteers, who were administered the second dose of Covaxin at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here, will be sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune on Tuesday to check how many antibodies were developed in their bodies.Dr Savita Verma, principal investigator of the human trials at the Rohtak facility, said they had collected blood samples of nine subjects who received the second dose of 0.5 ml intramuscular injection of the vaccine so far and the same will be sent to NIV on Tuesday. The samples report will be known by the end of this week, she added. “Safety of the subjects and immunogenicity are two important parameters for the success of Covaxin’s trials. We have enrolled 80 subjects, of whom nine already got their first and second doses. All volunteers are healthy and they did not show any adverse impact,” Dr Verma said.“As per the WHO guidelines, four-fold antibodies are required to be developed in subjects’ bodies after the first dose. If it has happened, then the second phase of human trials would be started in the first week of September. And, the vaccine would be launched in the market by mid-October,” the principal investigator said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pgims-to-send-blood-samples-of-9-volunteers-who-got-2nd-dose-of-covaxin-to-pune-today/story-8Ca8nweOOYQC2ph2IA0NYI.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab ministers defend their govt over hooch tragedy||Punjab cabinet ministers on Monday defended their government over death of more than 100 people due to consumption of hooch in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts. Ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu (health), Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi (sports and youth affairs), Bharat Bhushan Ashu (food and civil supplies) and Sunder Sham Arora (industries) reacted to the criticism by the opposition Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and demand of resignation of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who also holds the excise and taxation minister portfolio. “Did you step down when the Guru Granth Sahib was desecrated. The then deputy CM (Sukhbir Badal) didn’t sack his brother-in-law Bikram Singh Majithia from the cabinet despite being in full knowledge of the latter’s dealings with drug peddlers,” said Sidhu in a press release. Rana Sodhi said hooch incidents occurred in 2012 and 2016 in Gurdaspur and Batala during the SAD-BJP tenure. “A recent statement by Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal accusing the Congress government of cover-up to save the skin of the ruling party MLAs is in bad taste and smacks of the eagerness of the Akalis to settle political scores to regain their lost ground,” said Arora. “How come the Akalis developed sudden love for the people of Punjab when they themselves were involved in drug trade,” asked Ashu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-ministers-defend-their-govt-over-hooch-tragedy/story-UQLiGIvS122H3MOKfzcTTL.html
03-08-2020||City||Delhi govt bans use of hookahs to check spread of Covid-19||New DelhiThe Delhi government on Monday banned the use of hookahs under the Epidemic Disease Act, saying sharing of pipes may further lead to a spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Bars, pubs and discotheques in the city presently remain closed as part of efforts to contain the disease.The order by principal health secretary Vikram Dev Dutt cites four reasons for increased transmission through hookahs -- smokers are likely to touch their lips more often; smokers are likely to already have lung diseases or reduced lung capacity; smoking hookahs involves sharing mouth pieces; and conditions that are likely to increase oxygen needs or reduces the ability of the body to use it properly will put patients at a higher risk of developing complications of Covid-19.“It is observed that in public places, use and sharing of hookah, with and without tobacco, may further increase spread of Sars-CoV-2. Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred ... under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the use of Hookah (with and without tobacco in all public places including Hotels, Restaurants, Eatery Houses, Bars, Pubs, Discotheques is strictly prohibited with immediate effect,” the order reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-bans-use-of-hookahs-to-check-spread-of-covid-19/story-wq3bCyp9nGLHgk5BQYg0rL.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Burglars target temple opposite police post in Ludhiana||A gang of burglars targeted a temple located opposite the Kailash Nagar police post and escaped with cash early of Monday. The matter came to light when the priest opened the doors of the temple and found it ransacked. However, the police were unaware about the incident till the priest raised an alarm.Harshit Sharma, the priest’s son said when his father Bhuvneshwar Sharma opened the locks of the gate he found both cash boxes empty. The thieves used the trishul (trident) to break open the cash boxes and removed the bells. CCTV cameras installed at the temple were not working.Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at the division number 8 police station, said a case had been registered against unidentified men.CCTV cameras installed near the spot are being scanned by the police.Sharma said burglars had targeted the temple two years ago and decamped with cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/burglars-target-temple-opposite-police-post-in-ludhiana/story-oWvTjzhbAxPXXbu0jsisXK.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Cong govt in panic mode over hooch tragedy: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday said the Congress government has gone into panic mode over the hooch tragedy as the roots of the episode lead to the chief minister’s office and the cabinet ministers were roped in to cover up the sins of the ruling party. In a statement, SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said the parroting of old lies indicated that CM Amarinder Singh had become jittery given the scale of the tragedy and only an independent inquiry by a sitting judge of the high court or the CBI would nail the culprits. “The Akali Dal would not rest till justice was done to the victims of the state’s biggest hooch tragedy. No amount of damage control by even the entire cabinet can save the Congressmen who have played with the lives of innocent people by supplying poisonous liquor to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-govt-in-panic-mode-over-hooch-tragedy-sad/story-evmnPd2bQZ8jmSwemf6ScM.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||43 test positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh, count reaches 1,160||The number of active Covid-19 cases rose to 433 with 43 fresh infections being reported in Chandigarh on Monday. The total count has reached 1,160, of which 19 have succumbed so far. Meanwhile, eight patients have been discharged, taking the number of those cured to 706.The fresh cases have been reported from across the city, including Sectors 7, 8, 10, 20, 22, 23, 25, 34, 35, 38, 41, 45, 51 and 56 besides Khuda Lahora, Raipur Khurd, Bapu Dham Colony, Burail, Maloya, Kajheri, Manimajra, Ram Darbar, Butrela and Dhanas. While 27 people are contacts of the previous positive cases, the source of infection in the remaining 16 cases is not known yet. Four of a family, including a five-month-old boy, from Sector 51 and five members of a Sector-35 family are among those who tested positive. Two residents of Sector 20 who work in an immigration firm, three workplace contacts of a patient from Mohali and two contacts of infected PGIMER employees are also among the fresh cases.Reports of 75 people are awaited. ANTIGEN TESTING BEGINSThe UT administration has started antigen testing. As many as 37 tests were conducted on the first day, of which two turned out to be positive. One of the patients is a Chandigarh resident while the other is from Punjab, said the health department.During the review meeting, the UT administrator was told that Chandigarh has received 5,500 kits for antigen testing. Dr G Dewan, director health services, said these kits will be utilised for extensive Covid testing, particularly among health officials, police personnel, municipal officials and vendors in the vegetable and grain market.20 INFECTED, 20 CURED IN MOHALIWhile 20 people tested positive for Covid-19, an equal number of patients were discharged after being cured in Mohali district on Monday. At 13, maximum cases were reported from Kharar subdivision, while five were tested positive from Mohali and two from Dera Bassi subdivision. With this, the total number of cases reported from the district has reached 959, of which 389 are active. As many as 553 patients have been cured so far while 17 have died. Of the 20 discharged on Monday, 11 are from Dera Bassi, five from Mohali and two from Kharar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/43-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-chandigarh-count-reaches-1-160/story-KN6jRtTWi6KSjuzQDfojwK.html
03-08-2020||City||19 deaths, 664 fresh cases in Punjab||The surge in Covid-19 cases and fatalities in Punjab continues as 19 people lost their lives due to the virus while 664 fresh infections were recorded across the state in the last 24 hours. With this, the virus has claimed 442 lives in Punjab while the number of total infections stands at18,527 of which 11,882 have cured.Ludhiana district took the lead with nine Covid-related fatalities and 211 fresh infections on Monday. The killer virus has claimed 63 lives in the past 11 days in the district, taking the toll to 114.Among the deceased were a 57-year-old jail inmate, 47-year-old woman from Jattana village, 60-year-old woman from Giaspura, 35-year-old man from New Vijay Nagar in Haibowal, 45-year-old man from Divala village in Samrala, 60-year-old male resident of Gill Chowk, 35-year-old man from Jandiala village near Sahnewal, 60-year-old male who died at Fortis Hospital, and a 50-year-old from Urban Estate, Dugri.Two Covid patients died while 63 patients surfaced in Jalandhar district on Monday. In Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district, a 73-year-old woman of Balachaur died of Covid-19. 75 INFECTIONS IN BATHINDASeventy-five people tested positive for Covid-19 in Bathinda on Monday. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said most of the patients were the migrant workers. He said these workers from Raman Mandi were in quarantine since their arrival in the district.In Ferozepur, 52 people, including three cops and one health worker, tested positive. As per the official bulletin, 18 were new cases whereas 27 are the primary contacts of the infected persons.Fourteen people tested positive in Fazilka whereas one person contracted the virus in Muktsar district.In Patiala, 51 Covid infections were recorded on Monday, taking the count to 1,967. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said out of 51 patients, 26 are from Patiala, seven from Rajpura, four from Nabha, and eight from Samana. He said a 66-year-old woman of Urban Estate, Patiala, died at Rajindra Hospital due to Covid-19.Sangrur district recorded one death and eight fresh infections. A 34-year-old woman from Dhuri town died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Ludhiana on Monday. AMRITSAR CROSSES 2,000 MARK With 47 fresh Covid cases, Amritsar district crossed the 2,000 mark on Monday, health officials said. “On Monday, 47 people in the district tested positive for the virus, taking the district’s total to 2,005. Of the total, 1,435 have recovered and 84 died. The active patients have been admitted to the isolation wards of the hospitals,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh.Also, 27 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Gurdaspur district.Twenty-nine people tested positive for Covid-19 in Moga and Faridkot districts.In Mohali, 20 people tested positive for Covid on Monday. Maximum 13 cases were reported from different parts of Kharar sub-division, while 5 people tested positive in Mohali and two in Dera Bassi sub-division.Kapurthala district recorded 16 patients, including the reader of additional deputy commissioner, on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-deaths-664-fresh-cases-in-punjab/story-E6K1yoa275uMvXj2ZCgS8J.html
03-08-2020||City||Thane MNS chief Avinash Jadhav’s bail plea rejected||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena president from Thane district, Avinash Jadhav’s bail plea was rejected by the Thane court on Monday afternoon. The Kapurbawdi police had detained Jadhav and two other party members on Friday for staging a protest over non-payment of dues to the nursing staff at Thane’s Covid hospital.“Jadhav’s bail application was rejected; we shall now appeal to the session’s court,” said Rajendra Shirodkar, Jadhav’s lawyer. There was heavy police security outside the court premises as MNS party workers and supporters had gathered in huge numbers in the vicinity. On Friday, he was given two days of police custody, now he has been given judicial custody and hence taken to Taloja prison.Moreover, Jadhav has been given an externment show cause notice for two years on Friday; this is for alleged constant protests during the pandemic. He was given externment notice from five districts including Thane, Palghar, Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Raigad.MNS had made allegations against the Thane Municipal Corporation on Sunday. Abhijit Panse, MNS, said, “The company that has been given the responsibility of the Balkum Covid centre is Chembur-based and relatively new. Despite having a rule that three years’ experience in the medical field is mandatory this was not ensured while hiring this company. The PPE kits used within Thane are discarded ones from Mumbai.” They also made allegations that the nursing staff were given transfer orders without payment of dues.Thane Municipal Commissioner responded to these allegations on Monday in a press conference, “We have hired services of a company that is already associated with 20 other hospitals in Mumbai. Covid is a novel virus and it would be difficult to get a company with three years of experience in this field. The PPE kits are freshly made and have been tested by the medical staff at Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa before it was finalized for use. Moreover the nurses were recruited only for Covid duties and hence when their duties were finished they were transferred to other places,” said Dr Vipin Sharma, Commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-mns-chief-avinash-jadhav-s-bail-plea-rejected/story-M0pbtKWdcazcwdzJ9UsxeN.html
03-08-2020||City||Toll rises to 111 in hooch tragedy; police looking for Ludhiana bizman, 7 others||Chandigarh Punjab Police on Monday apprehended 12 more persons, including two businessmen, and have launched a manhunt for a Ludhiana-based paint business owner, Rajesh Joshi. Joshi supplied the initial three drums of spurious liquor triggering the wave of deaths last week, where the toll is now 111, with seven deaths reported on Monday. Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts on Monday reported the deaths of two, two and three more persons respectively. The total number of arrests in the case has gone up to 37, including five kingpins of the illicit liquor mafia that spanned several districts of the state. A manhunt has been launched for eight more identified accused, said DGP Dinkar Gupta. With Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh asking the police not to spare anyone, the state police have launched a departmental inquiry against two DSPs and four SHOs suspended for negligence. The magisterial inquiry ordered by the CM is also probing the involvement of all suspects, as well as six police and seven excise and taxation officers who were already suspended. Among the arrests made is Ravinder Singh Anand of Moga. Anand, who runs a factory manufacturing jacks, had bought three cans of 200 litres each of the spurious liquor at Rs 11,000 a drum from Joshi, as he had started manufacturing hand sanitisers.From Anand, the three drums went to Avtar Singh, also of Moga, who sold it to Harjit Singh and his two sons, residents of village Pandori Gola in Tarn Taran, for Rs 28,000 a drum. Harjit and his sons paid Rs 50,000, with balance still pending, and hid the drums in bushes near their village. Anand’s questioning led to Joshi, who is evading arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/toll-110-police-looking-for-ludhiana-bizman-7-others/story-gsiCfqHbtmUTSXxiDyY8xM.html
03-08-2020||Mumbai||38 including four women arrested for gambling||The Mumbai police busted a gambling den in Vikhroli (East) area on Monday and arrested 38 people including four women and seized cash ₹3.62 lakh from them. The arrested people are from Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan area.Deputy Commissioner of police Prashant Kadam said, “The raid was conducted on the specific information that the gambling is running in ground plus one structure in Tagore Nagar area in Vikroli (east)”. A police team was formed from the DCP squad and they conducted raids and found people gambling cards and were not following social distancing. During check we found 27 people and four women came from outside like Navi Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan while others are owner, manager and staff members, said Kadam.The suspects were taken into custody and police have been conducting panchnama. The FIR will register against them under the charges of gambling act, violating lockdown norms and for maintaining social distancing, said Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/38-including-four-women-arrested-for-gambling/story-YY4jH1SEoTubGB1ZhBj05L.html
03-08-2020||City||HC dismisses bail plea of man accused of distilling illicit liquor at home||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed the bail plea of a Tarn Taran resident, accused of distillation of illicit liquor at his home. The FIR against accused Balwinder Singh was registered on July 14 at Khalra police station of the district. Police said they raided his home on a tip-off, but Singh fled away from the scene. The police had recovered nine can-fills of illicit liquor, which is around 535 bottles. Police had also told court that he was habitual of these kind of offences. The petitioner is having five more cases of the same nature against him. The last case before the present FIR was in May 2020 only, the police had told court adding that they required custodial interrogation to unearth the dimensions of the trade and also wanted to recover distillation equipment and other material. Hence, anticipatory bail not be granted to him.The high court dismissed the bail plea taking note of the submission he had fled away from the spot and the police are yet to recover the distillation equipment . If granted protection against arrest, free and fair investigation by the police would be hampered, the court observed also taking note of the fact that there are five more cases of similar nature against him. He had argued that the case against him was fabricated and that nothing was recovered from his premise. He had alleged that illicit liquor was planted as no local resident was joined as a witness during the recovery.The court observed that an accused as a citizen also has a right to life and liberty. However, this right can very well be curtailed in accordance with the procedure established by law. In case of criminal investigation, the normal procedure prescribed for curtailing the right to life and liberty, is that the investigating officer can arrest the accused even without warrant. The court has extraordinary power to protect an innocent person. However, this power has to be exercised by the courts with due circumspection, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-man-accused-of-distilling-illicit-liquor-at-home/story-yvnAUiwqyHhOKpeD5kOpON.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||Festive sales in Old Delhi’s Sadar Bazar get hit by Covid-19 too||No one thought that there would be a time when shops in Asia’s biggest wholesale market would be empty amid the festive time! But that’s what pandemic has done to us - made us experience the unbelievable. The business in Old Delhi’s Sadar Bazar has certainly affected. During Raksha Bandhan, a market that used to be overcrowded had a different look this year. A dip in the sales have been reported by the shopkeepers, who took different routes to manage their losses. Ansh from Ansh Rakhi Bhandar says, “We used to get rakhi from Rajkot and Gujarat every year, but this time neither could we go there nor they came here aur upar se Chinese samaan pe ban lag gaya tha. So, I decided to not sell rakhis this year. Based on the situation in 2021, I will decide my future plans, but right now, we are not focusing on our main business. Our entire focus is on Diwali and we are busy in manufacturing items for it right now.”There are some who were selling rakhis like every year and even managed to convince their customers to visit their shops by assuring that they were taking all the necessary safety precautions. Mahavir Gupta, from a rakhi store in Sadar, says, “We had thought of taking virtual route but it’s not possible. If we made a PDF of rakhis to help our customers choose from home, the PDF would be a never-ending one! If one rakhi costs ₹30, then there are about 40 designs in it; and we sell rakhis from ₹30 to ₹300! That’s why we advised our regular customers to come to the shop taking a cab, and we helped them in every way we could so that they don’t face difficulty in finding a transport back home since Delhi Metro is still not operating.”A lot of shops that were completely shut in Old Delhi. “It’s hard to say who sold rakhi this year and who didn’t because half of the market was shut and half was open. Those who came here, I suggested them to check with the shopkeeper once if they came to shop from a particular shop,” adds Ansh.The whole situation slowed down the sale of rakhi this year and affected the wholesale business badly. Anuj Gupta, a shopkeeper, says, “Due to the pandemic, we didn’t have many new items this year. Also, the number of customers reduced drastically. Most of the people took to buying rakhis online as they were trying to avoid visiting the market, no matter how much we tried to ensure them that we are taking all precautions at our end.”Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/festive-sales-in-old-delhi-s-sadar-bazar-get-hit-by-covid-19-too/story-sBOnmtp9SkoUgQGSB4lJDN.html
03-08-2020||City||CM enquires about TikTok fame Noor’s health; sends Rakhi shagun||Moga Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday enquired over phone about the health of five-year-old TikTok sensation, Noorpreet Kaur, better known as Noor, who became a star during the lockdown period with over 1.5 million followers. Noor and her father had tested positive for covid-19 on Sunday. Noor wanted to tie a ‘rakhi’ to the CM on Raksha Bandhan and was tested ahead of a meeting, which is now a norm. The CM told Noor that it was through social media that he got to know of her desire to meet him on Rakhi. Noor thanked him for the Rakhi Shagun. Noor told the CM she was feeling OK. “Get well soon, I am watching your videos every day,” the Capt said, telling her, “Contact me directly if you need anything.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cm-enquires-about-tiktok-fame-noor-s-health-sends-rakhi-shagun/story-qtmnyTwwBfjEMYOQeh2KDM.html
03-08-2020||City||Man dies of suspected overdose, 2 friends booked||A 35-year-old man died of suspected drug overdose in Bhajeri village of Kharar following which his family members lodged a complaint against two of his friends -- Babloo and Guggu. The deceased was identified as Gurdarshan Singh, 35. His wife and five-year-old daughter stay in Australia. Neighbours had taken Gurdarshan to the hospital on Sunday after finding him in an unconscious state but he was declared brought dead. His brother, Gurpreet Singh, who stays in Ambala, said the accused had administered drugs to Gurdarshan and then beaten him to death. He alleged that injury marks were found on Gurdarshan’s legs, which seemed to suggest that he was dragged around on the road. The two accused, however, told the police that they had only dropped him home after finding him in a highly drugged state. The case has been registered under Section 304 (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Man’s decomposed body found in his house in Kharar The decomposed body of a 31-year-old man, hailing from Delhi, was found in his rented accommodation in Fatehullapur village of Kharar on Monday evening. Neighbours had sounded the police after foul smell began emanating from the house. As per information, the deceased used to work at a private company in Mohali and had been working from home since the Covid-19 outbreak. He had been last spotted by neighbours on Saturday. No suicide note was found. Inquest proceedings have been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-dies-of-suspected-overdose-2-friends-booked/story-el59uQrVBewA0JiOCjZ9IK.html
03-08-2020||City||115 more test positive in Himachal, virus count mounts to 2,818||Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded 115 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state tally to 2,818, officials said. Of the new cases, 32 were reported in Solan, 30 in Mandi, 26 in Una, nine in Bilaspur, six in Kangra, four each in Chamba and Sirmaur and two each in Hamirpur and Shimla. Active cases in the state stand at 1,128 while 1,658 patients have recovered so far. Till date, 1,51,574 people have been tested for the virus in Himachal. BIGGEST SINGLE-DAY SPIKE IN MANDI Mandi deputy commissioner Rugved Milind Thakur said of the 30 new cases, 22 infections have been reported in Khunagi village of Thunag sub-division in Seraj area. They are primary contacts of two mutton sellers, who are brothers and tested positive on July 26. A shopkeeper tested positive in Bagshad village in the same area. Four cases were reported in the Palace Colony locality of Mandi town. Two primary contacts of Covid positive general manager of District Industries Centre (DIC) have also tested positive. In Solan, 32 people tested positive for the virus. Most of the cases have been reported in Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial belt and three in Solan town. Solan deputy commissioner KC Chaman said 15 people were in quarantine while 10 are primary contacts of Covid-19 patients. All the patients have been shifted to Covid-care centres in the respective areas. THREE WEST BENGAL NATIVES AMONG SIX NEW CASES IN KANGRA Six people, including three West Bengal residents and paramilitary personnel have tested positive in Kangra. The West Bengal residents came to the state on July 26 and were currently staying at Bhogran village of Indora. One of the six cases is a primary contact of Covid-19 patients while others have a travel history. The four people tested positive in Chamba also have a travel history. Nine labourers who were working at the AIIMS site in Bilaspur have also tested positive. In Paonta Sahib of Sirmaur district, three members of a family have tested positive. Two cases each have been reported in Hamirpur and Shimla. Solan is the worst-hit district with 722 cases followed by Kangra with 482 cases. Sirmaur has 350 cases, Hamirpur 315, Una 243, Mandi 213, Shimla 180, Chamba 117, Bilaspur 110, Kinnaur 45, Kullu 37 and Lahaul-Spiti||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/115-more-test-positive-in-himachal-virus-count-mounts-to-2-818/story-yJ8Wp4IUUSemEMOHZvajWJ.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Six more die due to spurious liquor in Punjab; death toll 110||The death toll in the Punjab hooch tragedy rose to 110 with six more people reported dead after drinking spurious liquor, officials said on Monday. Three fatalities were reported from Tarn Taran, two from Gurdaspur’s Batala and one from Amritsar, they said. So far, the maximum 83 deaths have taken place in Tarn Taran district, followed by 14 in Batala and 13 in Amritsar. The tragedy has been unfolding since Wednesday evening in the three districts. Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said two people are critical while the condition of eight others is stable. Gurdaspur Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq said one person died on Monday afternoon while another on Sunday. Amritsar Deputy Commissioner G S Khaira said the death toll in Amritsar reached 13 as one more person died on Sunday night. Meanwhile, the Punjab Police arrested 12 more people, including two businessmen, in a crackdown against the illegal liquor trade. So far, police have arrested 37 people in this regard. A manhunt has been launched for eight more accused, including a Ludhiana-based paint shop owner, believed to be a key player in the illegal liquor trade, said Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta. Two Congress MPs on Monday met Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore, seeking a probe by the CBI and ED into the alleged illegal liquor in the state. Attacking their own government in Punjab, Rajya Sabha members Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo claimed that the “liquor mafia” existed in the state and sought immediate action against them. Both MPs said the tragedy was “bound to happen” in the “absence” of timely action by the Congress government against illegal liquor racket. Meanwhile, BJP’s national secretary Tarun Chugh slammed the Congress government in the state, holding it responsible for the tragedy. Chugh sought a probe by a sitting judge of the high court while rejecting the magisterial inquiry ordered by the state government. He also met families of the victims in Batala. Lambasting the state government, the BJP leader said the tragedy has “exposed” the anti-drug drive of the state government. “The government waited for the tragedy to happen rather than taking timely acting against culprits,” he told mediapersons in Batala. Activists of the SAD’s Youth Akali Dal also staged a dharna in Tarn Taran against the government. Led by YAD chief Parambans Singh Romana, they alleged that some Congress MLAs were “patronising the illicit liquor trade”. Romana sought the registration of an FIR against them and said the Shiromani Akali Dal will continue its protest till action was taken against the culprits. “We request the government to take heed or we will be forced to launch an agitation against the legislators as well as the chief minister,” he said. The protesters demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh for each of the families of the deceased. Meanwhile, Punjab Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said some “bad elements” got a chance to start the illegal trade of spurious liquor as the attention of police was on the coronavirus situation. However, he said the culprits won’t be spared. Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi too ridiculed the SAD for blaming the state government for the hooch tragedy. “It was nothing but pot calling the kettle black as similar incidents had occurred in 2012 and 2016 in Gurdaspur and Batala, respectively, during their regime,” said Sodhi in an official statement. Sodhi said in the Batala case, neither a FIR was registered nor any action taken against the main accused. Sensing the gravity of the matter, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh immediately ordered a magisterial inquiry by a divisional commissioner, who has been asked to submit his report within a month, the minister said. The chief minister had earlier suspended seven excise officials and six policemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-more-die-due-to-spurious-liquor-in-punjab-death-toll-110/story-s893A45AKnwkLAK5JDIJtI.html
03-08-2020||City||Covid cases mount in Haryana’s Panchkula district||The count of Covid-19 infections has crossed the 700 mark in Haryana’s Panchkula district, with 60 fresh cases surfacing on Monday, in one of the biggest single-day spike yet.The total has reached 710, with 382 (54%) cases still active. The first case in the district was reported on March 20 and the numbers remained low during the lockdown period. It was during the Unlock phase in June that there was a sudden surge in cases with interstate travellers testing positive in large numbers. In fact, within 122 days from March 20 to July 20, only 280 cases were reported. Since July 21, when the biggest surge of 65 was recorded, 430 cases (60%) have been added to the tally in just 14 days, leading to over 150% spike.REASONS APLENTYThe recent spike is being attributed to the spread of the disease in rural belts of the district. On Monday, 19 of the cases were reported from Raipur Rani, 10 from Kalka, four from Hangola village and three from Pinjore. Within Panchkula city, Sector 21 accounted for nine cases, followed by five in Sector 20. The remaining cases were spread across Sectors 9, 10 and 15 besides Mansa Devi Complex, Chandimandir and Maheshpur.“The surge was expected owing to regular influx of people from red zones,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula. “Being a state headquarters for many department offices, Panchkula sees many regular commuters from outside. The district also has training centres of paramilitary forces, which are getting recruits from all states.” It was in the beginning of July that the first positive case was reported among paramilitary forces stationed in Panchkula. Since then, at least 40 personnel of the ITBP and CRPF have tested positive.The Baddi industrial area in Himachal Pradesh which shares border with Panchkula is another hot spot, said Kaur, adding that regular influx of migrants across the border also adds to the number of infections.On initiatives being taken by the health department, she said: “The capacity and number of Covid care centres are being increased. Contact tracing and screening in containment zones has been enhanced. Senior doctors have been given areas to monitor activities on the ground.”Meanwhile, with 326 patients cured so far and two succumbing to the disease, recovery rate and case fatality rate stand at 46% and 0.3%, respectively, in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-cases-mount-in-haryana-s-panchkula-district/story-GTMEsE166qNDrrtdkvJJ8M.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||These corona warriors didn’t celebrate Rakhi with their families, so that we could||While most of us had a blast celebrating Raksha Bandhan, the cops in the city couldn’t get their share of joy. Engaged in their duties all day long, they only focussed on work to ensure that the festival doesn’t end up becoming a bummer for the still prevalent rule of social distancing, and too many people don’t gather in one place. Though most of them havd e received their rakhis via courier and were able to tie the threads from their sisters, but still missed the joy of being with their families. “The festival is virtual this year,” laughs Sanjeev Kumar Vohra, Delhi Police, Head Constable (HC) whose family lives in Himachal Pradesh. “It’s not new for us, we are quite habitual of not celebrating festivals with our families. But, this year we were also scared to visit them. Bas subah WhatsApp call kar lenge aur sabse baat karke waise hi celebrate ho jayega. In fact I haven’t been able to visit my family since past five months, and I miss my kids the most,” adds Vohra.Some of the cops who used to get rakhis tied by their colleagues’ families, feel nostalgic about the sweet gesture that has enabled them to extend their family. “We either tie rakhi to each other and eat sweets together or some school students visit us every year. But this year due to the corona virus, there weren’t any visitors. Families of other policemen who lives in Delhi are also like family to us... Last year one of my colleagues’ daughter tied rakhi on my wrist, and it strengthened my bond with my colleague,” says HC Dharanveer whose family lives in Uttar Pradesh. Another reason that many couldn’t celebrate this festival with their families is the shortage of staff. “Many of my colleagues were corona positive, and we are also prone to the virus since we had maximum exposure to it while on the job. So, since there was less staff on ground, it was difficult to get an off. And to be honest, it gave us immense joy to see others being able to celebrate happily. It felt that we are a part of their celebrations, and so we didn’t mind being away from our families. Duty sabse pehle hai nai ji,” says constable Rajeev Saroha whose family lives in Uttar Pradesh.Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/these-corona-warriors-didn-t-celebrate-rakhi-with-their-families-so-that-we-could/story-GmV8bMiNKgPRZe3Yb9FRfI.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man booked for issuing fake Covid-19 certificates to migrants||A man alleged to be a quack has been booked for issuing fake Covid-19 test reports to migrant labourers for ₹1,500.  PS Gulati of Field Gunj was booked after a local resident recorded conversations with him and tipped off the Division Number 2 police.He was issuing fake Covid-19 test reports to migrant labourers wanting to travel to other states.After being booked he also handed over to police documents certifying negative Covid status which were believed to be fake.Assistant commissioner of police (central) Waryam Singh said a case had been registered against Gulati after investigations.The police also informed the health department about the quack and asked that his degrees be checked and action taken against him.The certificates issued by the accused were fake, Waryam Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-man-booked-for-issuing-fake-covid-19-certificates-to-migrants/story-CzZOsJbRSfpygxUvGbWscO.html
03-08-2020||City||Stricter curbs imposed in Kashmir, markets shut||Restrictions were imposed in the Kashmir valley on Monday, with officials saying that the curbs have been enforced as part of efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19. The restrictions come two days ahead of the first anniversary of the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. While officials maintained that restrictions were in view of the pandemic, residents say it has more to do with the completion of one year of the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, last year.Business establishments, markets and shops were closed while public transport remained off the roads in the Valley. The movement of people was strictly regulated and there was heavy development of security forces on roads.Concertina wires and road blocks sealed roads at many places and police were seen asking people in private cars to return. However, government employees and banks have been exempted from the restrictions on producing valid identity cards or movement passes. Construction and developmental activities have also been exempted, officials added. District magistrates said strict implementation of the lockdown restrictions was ordered in view of the spike in the number of coronavirus cases. Security forces have been deployed in strength at several places across the valley to enforce the lockdown, the officials said, adding any violation will invite strict action. Shaeena Akhtar, 42, a resident of Old City, said the severity of restrictions which used to be associated with Covid-19 pandemic suddenly intensified from Monday. She said the security forces on roads were harsher and even manhandled people.“My young daughter who was pillion riding behind a close relative was chased by baton-wielding security men at Hawal. They were really scared,” Akhtar said. “Since August 5 is coming, they are forcing people to stay indoors,” she added.The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Saturday informed that it was extending its Covid-19 lockdown restrictions till August 5. The earlier order had stated that the lockdown will continue till July 31. The administration noted that in the light of escalating virus infections, it was safest to extend lockdown restrictions till August 5. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter Iltija Mufti said the heightened security arrangements in the valley were being undertaken to ensure that “anger and frustration felt by people” against the Centre’s decision “remain hidden”. She tweeted: “Not like non-discriminatory Covid virus will be more active in the days approaching August 5, so clearly this is being done to ensure that anger and frustration felt by people here remain hidden.”Javaid Khaliq, a netizen said: “Preparations of August 5 and nothing else. It is their only option to hide the situation on ground and pretend everything is ok.”Political analyst Noor Ahmad Baba said the lockdown in Kashmir was different from the rest of the country. “There is an element of politics here. In the name of lockdown due to coronavirus, it is also conveniently used for political motives,” he said.He said there were smarter ways of enforcing lockdown without impacting the economy, which the authorities were not attempting to give a try. “I am certain the lockdown is going to continue because August 5 and August 15 is coming,” he said.Curfew in Srinagar Fearing protests by separatists on August 5, the Srinagar administration on Monday decided to impose a curfew till Wednesday with immediate effect. The Covid-19 restrictions, which were imposed from July 31 till August 5, have been extended upto August 8.Srinagar district magistrate Shahid Chaudhary, in an order, while quoting a report of SSP, stated that Separatists and Pakistan-sponsored groups are planning to observe August 5 as a black day, thereby raising apprehensions of violence. “There are specific inputs about violent protests endangering public life and property,” he said, adding that such gatherings will also be detrimental to the efforts of containing the spread of virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stricter-curbs-imposed-in-kashmir-markets-shut/story-4210BhzQMGVJkcN9oOOadO.html
03-08-2020||Patna||BJP MLA raises Sushant’s death matter in Bihar Assembly, demands CBI probe||Raising the issue of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in Bihar Legislative Assembly on Monday, BJP MLA Niraj Kumar Singh, a relative of the deceased actor, demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav also supported his demand. Meanwhile, MLC Nutan Singh, wife of Niraj Kumar Singh, also raised the same demand in the Legislative Council.Singh had earlier said that the Maharashtra Police are just doing “formality” in the case of Rajput’s death.An FIR has been registered in Patna, based on a complaint filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh, against actor Rhea Chakraborty under several sections including abetment to suicide. A team of Bihar Police is in Mumbai to probe the matter.However, the Patna Superintendent of Police (SP) Vinay Tiwari, who is heading a police team from Patna in the case, was quarantined under what the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said was state government guidelines to prevent Covid-19 spread.Earlier today, Bihar Minister Sanjay Jha termed the “forced quarantine” of Tiwari in Mumbai as “shameful and absolutely wrong” and added that the state government will look into the matter and take action in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bjp-mla-raises-sushant-s-death-matter-in-bihar-assembly-demands-cbi-probe/story-w23gtkRfh5bQR0mAhINRQJ.html
03-08-2020||City||Akal Takht jathedar invited to Ram Temple bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya||Amritsar The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust on Monday invited Giani Harpreet Singh, the acting jathedar of the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs, to the bhoomi pujan ceremony being organised in Ayodhya on August 5 for the construction of the Ram Temple. Rashtriya Sikh Sangat, the Sikh wing of pro-Hindutva organisation, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), delivered the invitation to the Takht secretariat. The jathedar’s assistants received it from Sanjeev Singh, general secretary of the wing, and his colleagues. The trust plans to ensure the presence of jathedars of all five Sikh Takhts at the event. The invitation carries the name of Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust, and requests the jathedar to reach Ayodhya on August 4 evening. Sanjeev said, “The jathedar is among select personalities from Punjab, who have been invited. We are also organising an Akhand Path of the Guru Granth Sahib at a gurdwara in Ayodhya to offer thanks for the construction of the temple. Its bhog ceremony is on August 7. We want the jathedar sahib to be present on the occasion and address the sangat.”“This temple is a big symbol of Hindu-Sikh unity. We are also taking the holy water of five sarovars (holy tanks of gurdwaras) to Ayodhya for the event,” he added.The jathedar, who is known for his anti-RSS stance, has refused comment. Sources, however, said he would not attend the event in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be present. ENSURE NO SIKH ATTENDS AS COMMUNITY REPRESENTATIVE: DAL KHALSA TO JATHEDARSeparatist Sikh body Dal Khalsa has written a letter to the Akal Takht jathedar saying that no Sikh must attend the event as a community representative. The letter from general secretary Parmjit Singh Tanda says, “Sikhs are a third religio-political entity in this sub-continent. They should not become part of any celebrations of one religion at the cost of other’s sentiments, especially in an event that has a history of controversy. For us, keeping cordial relations with both the communities (Hindus and Muslims) on equal grounds is in our quami (community) interests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akal-takht-jathedar-invited-to-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-in-ayodhya/story-MsDaw8DijJ2GCnzkqsiwDM.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Couple nabbed while trying to kidnap girl for trafficking||A couple was arrested for human trafficking after they tried to kidnap a five-year-old girl to sell her to an unidentified person for a sum of Rs 1 lakh.The accused were identified as Sajan, 50, and Kiran, 45. During interrogation, the duo told the police that they had gone to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) for the check-up of their son, when they met a man who asked them to kidnap a child. He allegedly promised to pay them Rs 1 lakh for the job. They claimed that the man did not provide them any number or address but told them that he would meet them at PGIMER. ALERT BYSTANDER FOILS BIDThe couple’s plan, however, failed as an alert bystander intervened when the couple was trying to whisk away the girl from her locality in Daria village. The man, identified as Sunil Kumar, questioned the couple, who told him that they were taking the child to her father. But since Kumar was familiar with the girl, who lived in the same locality, he got suspicious and raised an alarm. A case under Sections 370 (buying or disposing of any person as a slave) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/couple-nabbed-while-trying-to-kidnap-girl-for-trafficking/story-iXh9g33KEleCenJE1ONb6J.html
03-08-2020||City||Covid-19 claims nine lives in Ludhiana, 211 test positive||Nine Covid-19 related fatalities were reported in the district on Monday, while 211 persons tested positive for the deadly infection.With this, the death toll has reached 114, while 3,738 persons have contracted the infection till date.Among the deceased were a 57-year-old jail inmate, 47-year-old woman from Jattana village, 60-year-old woman from Giaspura, 35-year-old man from New Vijay Nagar in Haibowal, 45-year-old man from Divala village in Samrala, 60-year-old male resident of Gill Chowk, 35-year-old man from Jandiala village near Sahnewal, 60-year-old male who died at Fortis Hospital, and a 50-year-old from Urban Estate, Dugri.SENIOR CONGRESS LEADER INFECTEDSenior Congress leader Gurdev Singh Lapran, six health care workers, 11 police officers and 11 pregnant women were among the 211 who were tested postivie on Monday. Lapran (63) is suffering from symptoms including shortness of breath, cough and fever. Soon after he tested positive, his councillor son Parvinder Lapran, family members and the persons who had come in contact with the leader were quarantined.The city reported its first Covid-19 casualty on March 29. July witnessed the most deaths as 67 succumbed to the virus. In August, the contagion has claimed 26 lives in just three days. Nine patients had died while 193 tested positive on August 1. The virus consumed eight lives Sunday.63 SUCCUMBED TO VIRUS IN 11 DAYSIn the past 11 days, the infection has claimed 63 lives in Ludhiana. The city reported seven deaths on July 25, while two were reported on July 26. Five patients succumbed to the virus on July 27, while six suffering from it died on July 28. Nine died of the disease on July 29, whereas two persons succumbed to it on July 30. Six died due to Covid-19 on July 31, and nine deaths were reported on August 1 and eight on August 2.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said total 228 patients (211 patients from the district and 17 from other states/districts) have tested positive in the last 24 hours.He added that till date, 65,721 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 62,761 samples has been received, with 58,545 turning out negative. Result of 2,960 samples is pending.Now, the infection toll of Ludhiana residents is 3,728, while 488 persons who have tested positive till date are from other districts/states.The DC informed that till date, 22,760 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 4,573. On Monday, 320 persons were sent to home quarantine. Similarly, 640 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly.Sharma appealed to the residents to follow all directions of the Punjab government and stay indoors to keep themselves and others safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-claims-nine-lives-in-ludhiana-211-test-positive/story-4unTsBsgQFPc0cTigpY8WM.html
03-08-2020||Kolkata||Lockdown dates changed in West Bengal for the second time||The West Bengal government on Monday changed for the second time the dates for the complete lockdown in the state to check the spread of Covid-19.As per the new changes the lockdown will be enforced on August 20 and 21 and August 27 and 28, instead of August 16, 17, 23 and 24 as announced earlier, the government order said.The other lockdown dates - i.e August 5, 8 and 31 are unchanged.The state government had on July 28 withdrawn the complete lockdown on August 2 and 9 paring down the number of lockdown days from nine to seven.The step had then been taken after receiving requests from different communities since the dates coincided with festivals, officials had said.This time too requests and appeals have been received from different quarters to relax the lockdown on certain dates as they are coinciding with some festivals and days marked for observance of local customs.The order issued by state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said, “We have taken this decision to partially modify the order keeping in view of the requests received and in due consideration of the public sentiment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/lockdown-dates-changed-in-west-bengal-for-the-second-time/story-652aSkcbHrBXsFnyuzkO4O.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to start Oxford Covid vaccine trials by end of August||The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is among 17 institutes across the country chosen for trials of the Oxford University-Astra Zeneca – Covid-19 vaccine (Covishield), which it’s likely to start by the end of August.The institute has been selected for the trials after the Drugs Controller General of India granted approvals to the Serum Institute of India in Pune for conducting phase 2 and 3 of the Covishield trials.Dr Madhu Gupta, Principal Investigator of the trials and professor, Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, says the protocol has just been finalised and clearance for trials will be sought by the ethics committee of the institute.“Things are going at a really fast pace. The ethics committee will now review the protocol because the patient’s safety is the utmost priority. They will see the harms and the benefits and once they approve it, we will look for a site, recruit staff and start the trial. I think by the end of this month we will be able to start the recruitment of individuals for six-month long trials,” Dr Gupta said. The institute will advertise for participants who are above 18-years of age, healthy, have not contracted the infection and are not in contact with any Covid-19 positive patient. “Around 2,000 people will be examined and about 1,600 persons will be selected. Out of them we have committed around 250 people from PGIMER. Recruitment will be done in the first month and it will be a competitive process among the sites. We will see whether participants develop protection against the virus,” Dr Gupta said.Prof Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said, “The results of the trials will have far-reaching impact. We will strengthen our capacities, wherever required, to come out with tangible outcomes. A core group will be constituted to work out the modalities and comprehensive plan with timelines to meet the desired expectations of the Drugs Controller General of India and contribute towards containing the pandemic to the best of our abilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-to-start-oxford-covid-vaccine-trials-by-end-of-august/story-kopn1PquncVJhjKj6heFyH.html
03-08-2020||City||Laud state’s farmers for increased diversification: Capt||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday lauded the state’s farmers for successful diversification of nearly 2.3 lakh hectare (5.5 lakh acre) area that otherwise went to traditional paddy cultivation in this kharif season. The success of the farmers in their diversification efforts, even amid the covid-19 pandemic, has also been recognised by the Union ministry of agriculture, the CM said, while reviewing the sowing activities in the state on Monday. This diversification will help save nearly 2.7 billion cubic metre of ground water and about Rs 200 crore in power consumption, thus supporting the Punjab government’s efforts to preserve scarce water resources, added Amarinder Despite migratory labour shortage in the ongoing kharif season, the state has not only completed its sowing but has also continued to fulfil its objective of diversification even in these difficult times, he added. Additional chief secretary (development) Anirudh Tiwari informed the CM that basmati sowing had been completed across 6.5 lakh hectares (16 lakh acre). “It is expected that acreage under basmati will touch about 17.5 lakh acre in Punjab this year. The state government’s concerted push to use Direct Seeding of Rice (DSR) technology is expected to save both ground water and power consumption,” Tiwari said, adding that the acreage under maize and cotton had also increased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/laud-state-s-farmers-for-increased-diversification-capt/story-oCVbJGpmUXcoLjgENldbcM.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||No heavy rain in Chandigarh till mid-August: IMD||Even as Chandigarh has received no rain for two days, chances of light showers, though low, will continue in the coming days, said the weatherman on Monday.“An anticyclonic movement is present over the city which has formed an air lock. Chances of light rain (up to 20mm) remain, though on the lower side. Heavy rain (over 60mm) is not likely. The situation is likely to improve around mid-August,” said Surender Paul, director, India Meteorological Department, Chandigarh.Meanwhile, maximum temperature went up from 34.5°C on Sunday to 36.0°C on Monday and minimum temperature went up from 25.8°C to 27.8°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 34°C and 36°C while minimum temperature will remain between 28°C and 29°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-heavy-rain-in-chandigarh-till-mid-august-imd/story-c85tV4DMAal67qpXMM3enI.html
03-08-2020||City||Ludhiana admin deploys medical officers to set up helpdesk for Covid-19 patients at DMCH||A day after principal sectary (health) Anurag Agarwal urged private hospitals to reserve 50% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, Ludhiana civil surgeon on Monday deployed four rural medical officers at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) for setting up a helpdesk there.The rural medical officers will maintain a record of coronavirus patients, help them if they face any inconvenience and keep track of availability of beds at the hospital.The move has come following the reports of Covid-19 patients being referred to the civil hospital due to unavailability of beds at DMCH.Sharing details Deputy Commission (DC) Varinder Sharma said, “There have been reports of Covid-19 patients being referred to the civil hospital by DMCH. This was leading to a negative impression in the minds of residents. In some cases it was observed that patients needing level-one medical care were also rushing to the private hospital for treatment. So, it was decided to set up a helpdesk at DMCH to direct such patients to government facilities and reserve the ICU beds for patients with severe symptoms.”He added that similar helpdesks will be established at other private hospitals, including Christian Medical College and Hospital and SPS Hospital.The administration came under sharp criticism after the death of a 49-year-old Covid-19 patient Sanjeev Nagapal. Nagpal had died on July 24 after DMCH had referred him to the civil hospital, citing unavailability of beds there.Similar complaints were made by the kin of other Covid-19 patients.The duty roster for the rural medical officers — Dr Manpreet Kaur, Dr Basant Ram, Dr Harpreet Kaur and Dr Dipika Goyal — was also prepared on Monday.As per the orders, these doctors will remain in touch with the DC through telephone and WhatsApp. The rural medical officer will collect all the details of patients and update the officials about the same every day.The district administration has also developed a mobile application that will show the availability of beds at the hospital and the information provided by the doctors will help in updating the app data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-admin-deploys-medical-officers-to-set-up-helpdesk-for-covid-19-patients-at-dmch/story-4q1BFAsJ9SSnIEwdHwjaKI.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||60-year-old man dies in hit and run case in Ludhiana, son hurt||A 60-year-old man died and his son was injured when their motorcycle was hit by a speeding car near the bus stand of Dhaipai village on Sunday evening. The driver of the car hit another vehicle before escaping towards Raikot.Nirmal Singh Jodhan was going towards Pakhowal Road from Jodhan on his motorcycle with his son Sarbjot Singh, 32, riding pillion when the Maruti Suzuki Swift hit them, Jodhan’s nephew Chamkaur Singh said in his police complaint.So severe was the collision that Jodha was tossed in the air before falling. He died on the spot while Sarbjot Singh was injured.Assistant sub-inspector Paramjit Singh who is investigating the case said an FIR under sections 279 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code had been lodged against the driver of the car, identified as Jagdev Singh of Basraon village of Raikot. He is likely to be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/60-year-old-man-dies-in-hit-and-run-case-in-ludhiana-son-hurt/story-ejWiVavReP4ewU8JVooAVP.html
03-08-2020||Lucknow||‘It’s Lord Ram’s wish’: Ayodhya dispute litigant Iqbal Ansari gets first invite for Ram Temple ‘bhoomi pujan’||The first invitation card for the ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ of Ram temple in Ayodhya was received by Iqbal Ansari, who was one of the litigants in Ayodhya land dispute case.“I believe it was Lord Ram’s wish that I receive the first invitation. I accept it. Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in Ayodhya. The temple’s land is being worshipped and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is coming for the event to Ayodhya,” Ansari told ANI.“When the temple will be built, the fate of Ayodhya will also change. Ayodhya will become more beautiful and employment opportunities for the local population will come up as pilgrims from across the world will visit the town in the future,” he added.Ansari further said that people of Ayodhya follow the Ganga-Jamuni civilisation and there is no ill-feeling amongst anyone.“The world rests on hope. I had said earlier that if there is a religious program and if they call me then I will go. There are Gods and Goddesses of every religion and every sect in Ayodhya. It is a land of saints and we are happy that the Ram temple is being built,” he said.The Prime Minister is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5.The construction of the Ram temple will begin after the ceremony to lay the foundation stone in which Chief Ministers of several states, Ministers from the Union Cabinet and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat are also likely to participate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/it-s-lord-ram-s-wish-ayodhya-dispute-litigant-iqbal-ansari-gets-first-invite-for-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/story-69WtEaZIMrwKDaTb1MY17N.html
03-08-2020||City||UGC’s decision on fixing examinations by Sept demands rationality and logic||The prevailing Covid-19 pandemic has affected every sphere of our lives; the education sector is no exception. Students who wanted to travel abroad are stuck here due to suspension of commercial international flights. Those who could make it to their destinations abroad are facing various challenges; though US President Donald Trump fortunately withdrew planned visa restrictions that would have forced international students to leave the country if their schools held classes online.In fact, the behaviour of the virus is highly unpredictable, impacting our ability to put effective measures in place to control it. Someone predicted its peak during July-August; but there are others who say the month of September would be crucial. Scientists of Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) have warned that India will be the worst affected country with 2.87 lakh cases per day by February 2021.With such gloomy predictions of the pandemic, one could question the rationale behind the University Grants Commission (UGC) fixing the final year examination in universities by September end this year.The UGC defended the decision by quoting that top ranking institutes of the world such as University of Cambridge, Princeton, MIT and Imperial College of London have adopted the online mode of examination. But in India the situation is quite different; access to internet connectivity in every part of the country is not the same with many not having the required electronic gadgets to facilitate access to affordable and uninterrupted internet connectivity.This is likely to make situation more complicated instead of solving it. Further, delayed conduct of examination till the end of September will delay the commencement of the following semester, may be till October or November, even if the situation is conducive to conduct the examination. Would that not mean that an academic semester will have to be scrapped? This would be a serious academic deficiency that will delay degrees of the students at least by another six months with an academic year likely to be dropped in some instances.Moreover, the decision of conduct of the examination by September end has not gone well with any section of the society. Students and their patents have protested; several state governments have opposed it and educationists term it a hasty decision given to the unpredictable behaviour of the virus.The chief minister of Punjab has rightly termed the situation in the state totally non-conducive to the conduct of examinations. There are many other states where the situation is worse than Punjab; how could they afford the conduct of any sort of examination?There is another dimension to the current situation in our education system which has not received the required attention of the education providers. Though private institutes had charged full semester fee till May-June from the students, many of these institutes curtailed salaries drastically. Others have not paid salaries since implementation of the lockdown till date. The faculty and staff of these institutes are under great financial stress apart from facing the uncertainty over retaining their jobs. Delaying conduct of the examination till September end and subsequent delayed commencement of the next semester is likely to keep them deprived of their salaries.This is the time when politicians, bureaucrats and technocrats need to put their heads together to find an indigenous solution suited to our requirements, feasibilities and capabilities rather than following the institutes in advanced countries which are far ahead of India in effective curricula delivery and students’ academic evaluation system.The best option in the given situation seems to be promotion of the students based on their previous academic performance. This would end the uncertainty and students who are passing out will be able to focus on future academic endeavours. Further, those continuing education in various teaching programmes should be facilitated to commence the new semester through electronic mode of curricula delivery. Online classes could be continued till the situation improves for on-campus education; something is better than nothing.This is a very unusual situation and sometimes difficult decisions have to be taken. The government should also ensure that no faculty is deprived of salary, particularly by private education providers, for the work done by them from home during the pandemic.The writer is former dean of postgraduate studies at Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. Views expressed are personal. He can be reached at gursharansinghpau@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ugc-s-decision-on-fixing-examinations-by-sept-demands-rationality-and-logic/story-cgPnPVqjOxUYWverv6w7qK.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Shopkeeper held for outraging modesty of woman constable||A shopkeeper was arrested for allegedly outraging the modesty of a woman constable in Behlana area of Chandigarh on the eve of Raksha Bandhan.As per information, the cop and her colleagues were patrolling in the area when they saw a few shops open after 8pm. They made announcements, asking the shopkeepers to bring the shutters down, however, one cosmetics shop owner did not pay heed. Following this, the woman constable walked into the shop and asked the owner, Kulbir Singh, to close it. He told her that there were a few customers left and that he will close after they leave. Before she could respond, Kulbir’s brother Gurpreet came charging towards her and started misbehaving with her. He allegedly dragged her out of the shop and even touched her inappropriately.Based on her complaint, police have registered a complaint against Gurpreet under Section 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to public servant), 353 (assaulting or using criminal force on public servant with the intention of preventing him or her from discharging duty), 354 (assaulting or using criminal force on woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 186 (voluntarily obstructing a public servant in the discharge of public functions) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. As per the deputy commissioner’s orders, all shops in Chandigarh, except eateries, have to bring their shutters down after 8pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shopkeeper-held-for-outraging-modesty-of-woman-constable/story-0cHDTihif8em7Npos1QeYM.html
03-08-2020||City||Man killed for intervening in fight, wife injured||Tulinj police have booked two unknown persons for assaulting and killing a 34-year-old man with razor blades on July 28. The two unidentified accused were arguing near the victim Dinesh Hate’s house. The victim tried to pacify the duo, but the two assaulted him with razor blades and also punched and kicked him. His wife Anita who tried to intervene, also received head injuries and is undergoing treatment, said inspector DS Patil. According to police, the victim Hate was a resident of Moregaon, Nallasopara.Police have registered case of murder under section 302 and Section 324 (causing hurt) of Indian Penal Code against two unidentified accused who are absconding. “We are investigating further,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-killed-for-intervening-in-fight-wife-injured/story-EKQKQXo7iQ8tAdBIvR5FFO.html
03-08-2020||City||Ludhiana police seize 50,000 litres of lahan on Day 2 of special drive||Continuing the crackdown on bootleggers, the police here recovered 50,000 litres of lahan, a viscous solution used to make illicit liquor, near the banks of Sutlej river on Sunday night.Police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal said during the action, the police also confiscated drums, plastic cans and utensils used for making illicit liquor. He said the area where this illegal business was going on was very difficult to approach, but police obtained pinpoint information and struck at the right time.Agrawal added that an FIR under the Excise Act has been registered at the Ladhowal police station. The accused have been identified as Rajjapur village residents Jogga Singh, Makahn Singh, Jagmeet Singh and Gurdeep Singh; AjitSingh, Raj Singh alias Kalu alias Kali, Satnam Singh, Babu, Nanak Singh, Sawarn Singh alias Babbi, Balbir Singh alias Billu, all residents of Bholewal Jadid village.He informed that in the last 48 hours, 519 cases under the Excise Act have been registered at the Ludhiana police commissionerate and 590 persons have been arrested. The police have recovered 40,779 litres of liquor and over 2.5 lakh litres of lahan.Between May 18 and August 1, a total of 270 FIRs under the Excise Act had been registered, 301 persons arrested, 2 lakh litres of lahan confiscated and destroyed, 1,612 litres of illicit liquor and 4,606 litres of English wine seized, the police commissioner stated, adding that a boat and divers have been pressed into service as part of the drive against bootleggers.He said such raids would continue in the coming days and no person would be allowed to make illicit liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-seize-50-000-litres-of-lahan-on-day-2-of-special-drive/story-evO7E31HzRZOMGGBej3HOM.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||UG admissions: PU issues revised schedule, Chandigarh colleges extend deadline||Panjab University on Monday issued a revised schedule for admission to its undergraduate courses this year.The varsity has scrapped the common entrance test and will be admitting students on the basis of their merit in Class-12 exams.Students wanting to pursue BSc (Hons) and BPharm have to register themselves on the admissions website (http://cetug.puchd.ac.in) by August 9 and have to deposit the fee by 4pm on August 10.It can be deposited in any branch of the State Bank of India using website-generated challan or through online mode.The online forms will be available on the website from August 14 and the last date to apply is August 24.Apply in colleges by August 5Meanwhile, the last date to apply for admission to undergraduate courses at government and aided colleges in Chandigarh has been extended till August 5.Till the end of the previous deadline (August 3), 35,521 applications have been received. As many as 10,745 of these are for admission to BA course in four government colleges of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ug-admissions-pu-issues-revised-schedule-chandigarh-colleges-extend-deadline/story-SnvGqyLim6VIrMzOlPuSOM.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Kangra authorities tighten home-quarantine norms||With the Covid-19 tally steadily rising in the district, authorities have tightened home-quarantine norms in Kangra. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said a three-tier surveillance system had been put in place to keep a vigil on people in home-quarantine.He said a 14-day home quarantine was mandatory for people returning from other states. “Those coming from high case load cities are being kept in institutional quarantine,” he said. “However, several incidents of quarantine jumping have been reported from across the district necessitating the new surveillance system,” Prajapati said.At the first level, the sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) will ensure proper identification of people returning from outside the state. A notice will be placed outside the residence of such returnees.Anganwadi workers will pay a visit to ensure that they don’t violate quarantine.In case quarantined persons show flu-like symptoms, the Anganwadi worker will inform the authority concerned.In the second tier, a panel comprising panchayat president, vice-president and ward members will ensure the enforcement of home quarantine.In urban areas the task has been entrusted to panel comprising the tehsildar of the area, an officer nominated by municipal commissioner or executive officers of Municipal Council and Nagar panchayats and the ward members concerned.These committees will submit a daily report to the block development officer or the district revenue officer about the status of quarantined persons.The third level of the surveillance system includes flying squads, which have been formed at block and sub-divisional level to keep vigil on quarantined persons.These squads will carry out surprise checks to ensure that no one jumps the quarantine. If someone is found jumping quarantine, an FIR will be lodged against the offender under different sections of the (IPC) and Disaster Management Act.He said surveillance committees may also face action if they fail to report people returning in their area or the quarantine violators.Members of surveillance committees will follow social distancing norms, use facemasks and sanitisers and avoid touching hard surface or any other object that may cause infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kangra-authorities-tighten-home-quarantine-norms/story-uzGeinlS7wyUq6abIv91FJ.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Denatured spirit mixed with water without following process could have led to Punjab’s worst hooch tragedy||At least 104 people have died after consuming hooch or country-made illicit liquor in the three Majha districts of Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur since July 29. While 80 deaths have been reported from Tarn Taran city and its adjoining villages, Amritsar’s Muchhal village and Gurdaspur’s Batala town have seen 12 deaths each so far. WHAT IS HOOCHHooch is a spurious alcoholic preparation that can be harmful and fatal. Cases of hooch poisoning are common and have been reported from time to time in different parts of India. HOW IT’S MADEIllicit liquor made by adding denatured alcohol is an unauthorised preparation, which is meant for industrial use not human consumption. Though the chemical analysis report of the material seized in raids from Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts is awaited, a check by the police and excise department shows denatured spirit used in the paint and hardware industry went into the making of the hooch. Denatured spirit is ethanol that has additives to make it poisonous, bad-tasting, foul-smelling, or nauseating to discourage recreational consumption. Ethanol is a clear, colourless liquid and the principal ingredient in alcoholic beverages such as beer, wine or brandy. Denatured spirit is also called methylated spirit (alcohol for general use that is unfit for drinking by the addition of 10% methanol). Due to the diversity of industrial use for denatured alcohol, hundreds of additives and denaturing methods have been used. Denatured spirit is also used as a solvent and as fuel for alcohol burners and camping stoves. A senior police official said the accused were mixing equal amounts of water and denatured spirit to produce illicit liquor. The spirit was being smuggled by them from Patiala and Zirakpur. Normally, the spirit is sent to factories and there is a proper way to prepare liquor by heating it at 150 degrees Celsius. The accused were not following the process and making illicit liquor by sitting in a room. WHAT WENT WRONG Preliminary probe suggests that the amount of water used was in lesser quantity than the denatured spirit, which may have proved fatal. Improper dilution of methanol from the spirit and the use of the drums for storing the spirit could have led to fatalities. It is reported that the drums were earlier used for storing pesticide. CONTENT OF THE SPIRIT Denatured spirit contains 70% to 99% ethanol and is most often denatured with at least 5% to 10% methanol, besides additives. Police are investigating how the accused were diluting the methanol from denatured spirit. However, the illicit liquor sold at wine shops contains only 50 to 70 degrees of alcohol strength. Most government-approved distilleries use extra neutral alcohol (ENA), the primary raw material for making alcoholic beverages. ENA contains 168 degrees of alcohol strength, but its strength is diluted to 50 to 75 degrees, according to the requirement in distilleries, by heating it at a certain temperature and adding water. WHY PEOPLE BUY HOOCH Illicit liquor or countrymade liquor or ‘ghar di kadi sharaab’ is cheaper than liquor sold at shops. Country-made liquor is also made in distilleries. It is considered illicit when the makers sell it without paying excise duty. The poor prefer countrymade liquor as a bottle of two litres of illicit liquor can be bought for Rs 200 to Rs 250. However, the price of the cheapest brand of a liquor bottle (750ml) being sold in shops costs Rs 230. Moreover, one can buy a small glass or a peg for Rs 10 to Rs 30. HOW IT KILLS Denatured spirit is unfit for human consumption. Experts suspect less water was used while diluting the strength of denatured spirit. A senior police official said investigation suggested the presence of methanol in the liquor consumed by the victims. Many victims complained of blurring of vision before breathing their last. This is a key symptom of methanol consumption. Ranbir Singh of Rataul village, who became blind after consuming illicit liquor, says he lost his sight within hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/denatured-spirit-mixed-with-water-without-following-process-could-have-led-to-punjab-s-worst-hooch-tragedy/story-2zIyjV2yJZZNao02zXVYyH.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s Guru Angad Dev Vet Varsity gets nod for Covid-19 testing||Given the need to make testing facilities available to as many people as possible given the increasing Covid-19 cases, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) has got permissions from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to start tests. The lab will be operational by the second week of August.As many as four new Covid-19 testing labs are being set up by the state government including the one at the College of Animal Biotechnology, GADVASU, Ludhiana.The college’s lab will be the first one out of the four to get necessary approvals from ICMR for the tests, a prerequisite step before opening a Covid-19 lab, said Dr JPS Gill, director of research cum nodal officer of the lab. ‘University has the experts and research labs’Diagnostic tests are highly skill-oriented and GADVASU has the expertise and well established research labs in the field of animal biotechnology, virology, cell culture and disease epidemiology, he said. University vice-chancellor (V-C), Dr Inderjeet Singh, meanwhile, visited the lab on Monday to oversee operations before the first samples came in. Veterinarians were an important component of health services and contributed to make the community safe, he said.The V-C also thanked the state government for its confidence in the capabilities of the university to designate it as a centre for Covid-19 testing. GADVASU would go the extra mile in the fight against coronavirus, he said.Dr Inderjeet Singh also said he was grateful to the state government and Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, for providing the necessary equipment, logistics and supporting staff for the lab.He also urged the team of scientists at the university to work fearlessly, assuring them of all help.Samples will be processed once the necessary kits were received from BFUHS, he said. Sample processing in two shiftsTo begin with, 20 scientists and lab personnel will be working in two shifts and processing approximately 100 to 250 samples per day, which will be increased to 1,000 a day once lab facilities are upgraded.To conduct Covid-19 tests, the university had sent 10 scientists: Six to Government Medical College, Amritsar, and four to Government Medical College, Patiala, for training in May. Among them, Dr Rajnish Sharma, Dr Mudit Chandra, Dr JS Arora, Dr Neeraj Singh, Dr Harsh Pawar and Dr Omar Khaleel Baba went to Patiala and Dr Mohan Jairath, Dr Deepali, Dr Jaspreet Kaur and Dr Astha Sharma went to Amritsar. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had in May sanctioned Rs12 crore to six such institutions to purchase required equipment. Besides GADVASU, Ludhiana, these are — Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab (RDDL), North Zone Jalandhar; Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; Punjabi University, Patiala; Punjab Biotech Incubator, Mohali; and Punjab Forensic Lab, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-s-guru-angad-dev-vet-varsity-gets-nod-for-covid-19-testing/story-SlgLUcnVvPT9W3raJkYW8O.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal to be stray cattle-free in 18 months: CM||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday said efforts are on to make the state free of stray cattle within the next 18 months. He was speaking at the launch of the ‘Assistance to gausadan/gaushala/cow sanctuary scheme’ and National Artificial Insemination Programme Phase-II.The CM said that under the scheme cow shelters housing at least 30 cattle will be provided ₹500 per cow per month as maintenance allowance. This will be done after complete tagging under the information network for Animal Productivity and Health (INAPH) and National Animal Disease Control Programme (NADCP). He said that cow shelters being run by panchayats, mahila mandals, local bodies and NGOs will benefit from the scheme.The CM said that the government had decided to levy ₹ 1.50 per cattle cess on the sale every bottle of liquor. The income thus generated will be spent on cow shelters and to develop new sanctuaries.He said that under the National Artificial Insemination Programme Phase-II, the facility of artificial insemination will be provided to improve the breed of cattle. The scheme will benefit over eight lakh farmers of the state.Thakur also interacted with the farmers and members of the managing committee of gausadans and gaushalas. Agriculture and animal husbandry minister Virender Kanwar said, “Efforts would be made to bring all the abandoned cattle into gausadans and cow sanctuaries for which active cooperation of every section of the society is required,” he said.Additional chief secretary, animal husbandry, Nisha Singh said the National Artificial Insemination Programme Phase-II will go a longway to improve the breed of the cattle in the state . She said efforts were on to make Himachal Pradesh the ‘Milk Bowl’ of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-to-be-stray-cattle-free-in-18-months-cm/story-IG3XTVO5XcBfOXRiru4G5K.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Excommunicated by Akal Takht, Langah pardoned by panj pyaras at Gurdaspur gurdwara||Amritsar: Excommunicated by Akal Takht, the highest Sikh temporal seat, after a video allegedly showing him in an objectionable position with a woman was widely shared on social media in 2017, former Akali minister Sucha Singh Langah was pardoned by the panj pyaras (five beloved ones of the Guru) at Gurdwara Baba Banda Singh Bahadar in Gurdaspur district on Monday. Langah, who also served as a member of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), was excommunicated in October 2017 as the Sikh clergy found him guilty of misconduct and violation of the Sikh tenets on the basis of the video. After being acquitted by the court, he pleaded for pardon before the Takht thrice but was not entertained. TO SWEEP FLOOR OF GURDWARA FOR 21 DAYS On Monday, he along with other family appeared before panj pyaras to apologise for the immoral act. Considering his request, the panj pyaras awarded him tankhah (religious punishment) under which he was asked to sweep floors of the gurdwara for 21 days for an hour daily. After Langah accepted this punishment, the panj pyaras granted him ‘amrit’ (nectar) to re-include him into the community. “After completing the tankhah, I will do ardas to offer thanks at the gurdwara for correcting my act”, Langah said. The amrit sanchar (a Sikh ceremony meant to grant amrit to aspirants) was organised by a nihang singh organization led by Baba Tarsem Singh, considered close to Langah. SIKH OUTFITS OPPOSED TO PARDON When contacted, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said, “By doing so, he (Langah) cannot be acquitted by Akal Takht Sahib. The order against him remains intact.” In his last apology letter on March 13, Langah sought “forgiveness” for his “misconduct” even as he claimed that the court had absolved him of rape charges. However, Sikh organisations are opposed to the revocation of the excommunication of the former Akali leader. Acting on the complaint of the woman, who is a Punjab Police constable, a case was registered against Langah under Sections 376 (rape), 384 (extortion), 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. In 2018, Langah was acquitted by a Gurdaspur court after the woman said that she had filed the complaint under pressure. Sources said Langah is keen to rejoin politics and has organised public gatherings in Dera Baba Nanak assembly constituency. However, the Akal Takht order remains his biggest hurdle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/excommunicated-by-akal-takht-langah-pardoned-by-panj-pyaras-at-gurdaspur-gurdwara/story-exZU1PCfxDnIue6j20PiEJ.html
03-08-2020||Pune||No water cuts in the city for now; dams at 31.27% capacity||Lack of consistent rains in July has led to water storage in the four dams that service Pune – Panshet, Warasgaon, Khadakvasla and Temghar - to its lowest level in the last three years for this time of the year. So far, the four dams are at 31.27 per cent capacity, while on the same date in 2019 and 2018, it was 88.0725 per cent and 86.1275 per cent, respectively. The dam stock has raised concerns about water cuts in the city, although Pune Municipal Corporation has said there will be no cuts to water supply. “There are no such plans for water cuts right now. One should not panic as the monsoon will be very good in the coming days. After the second week of August it is forecast to rain heavily,” said Aniruddha Pawaskar, superintending engineer, water supply and pumping department. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said he will conduct a meeting with the PMC water department to know the details about water storage on Tuesday. “Every year in June and July, catchment areas are expected to receive good rains, but this time, rains were not as heavy as compared to the past couple of years. Good rains are expected in August,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of India Meteorological Department, Pune. On Sunday as well, Pune did received sporadic rains with the maximum temperature at 31.1 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature at 21.6 degrees Celsius. “In case it does not rain for one more month then there can be a discussion on water cuts, but the India Meteorological Department has confirmed there is nothing to worry about,” added Pawaskar. Since the last few days, the maximum temperature has been above 30 degrees Celsius giving people a pinch of summer in the monsoon season. The IMD has forecast moderate to isolated heavy rains in the city from August 3-5. The ghat regions will continue to receive heavy rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-water-cuts-in-the-city-for-now-dams-at-31-27-capacity/story-UNrnVnR5mayawB9Exn1A0O.html
03-08-2020||Pune||Virtual meet-ups, couriered rakhis the new normal on a Covid-hit Raksha Bandhan||Raksha Bandhan, the celebration of the bond between a sister and her brother will be observed on August 3 this year. Annually, on this day, the brother visits his sister’s home to tie a rakhi and exchange gifts, however, with the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic siblings are making use of technology to celebrate the occasion and convey their blessings and good wishes. Anjali Joshi, an IT professional working for a company in Tathawade is at her home in Amravati, and because everything is online, the rakhi will be a virtual meet on Google Meet between all cousins. “We are all meeting a day before on google meet remembering all the good memories when we met in reality, but the feeling of meeting in real is missing this year. We never miss this and yet we are feeling very far away,” she said. Ravi Oswal, a merchant in Aundh usually has his sister who lives on Shankar sheth road come to his home to tie a Rakhi, but due to Covid-19, she has couriered the Rakhi and sweets this year. “My daughter will tie me the rakhi tomorrow and we will speak over the video call. We all have to take precautions and use new methods to celebrate functions like this,” Oswal said. Akhilesh Singh, a resident of NIBM usually waits for this day because it is time for a family get together, however, this year due to the ongoing pandemic, his family has opted for a group video call. “Our family is spread over Pune, Mumbai, Jaipur, Melbourne Seattle, Dublin and all sisters have couriered their rakhis and sweets like chocolates and Indian sweets. Earlier, we used to meet up in Mumbai, now we have arranged a Zoom rakhi meet with virtual rakhi, songs, and mithai. We have created videos of earlier year’s get together to be played followed by online games,” said Akhilesh. Every year, Nivedita Bicchu, a business professional from Kothrud makes it a point to travel to Goa for Rakhi Pournima. “It is one of the occasions I get to meet not just my brothers, cousins but my entire family, but this year with the ongoing pandemic, Raksha Bandhan is on Zoom call. I have sent Rakhis and gifts through courier,” she said. Rajesh Ranawade, owner of Shree general stores in Aundh said that the market was closed and Rakhis came in late hence we bought less stock, however a lot of women bought the do-it-yourself kits for making homemade Rakhis. “We sold a lot of lace, silk threads and colourful patches which are easy to stick to make Rakhis. On Sunday, we had a lot of buyers for Rakhi, but we’re unsure how people will be celebrating Raksha Bandhan,” Ranawade said. The siblings who live in close proximity to each other have planned a physical visit on Monday for Raksha Bandhan. “My brother and I live in the same area in Lohegaon, I will be visiting his house, with complete precautions wearing a mask, using sanitizer and also have made a packet of Rakhi, sweets which I will hand over. We will share a meal together while maintaining social distance as his house is very big and they’re a small family,” said Archana Mane, a working professional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/virtual-meet-ups-couriered-rakhis-the-new-normal-on-a-covid-hit-raksha-bandhan/story-4piG85Tm6SHyG0I6fdrfnM.html
03-08-2020||Pune||Cut-off lists for colleges released, online forms ‘live’||After the State Secondary Certificate (SSC) Class 10 results were declared last week, students are now hooked on to the admission process for Class 11, or first-year junior college (FYJC). The deputy director of education, Pune, has released the 2019 cut-off list for all colleges in Pune. Students will now be able to fill up Part two of the admission form, in which they have to state their college of preference for admission. Meanwhile, since the part two form was released on Saturday, 19,044 students have filled the form so far. A detailed schedule of the Class 11 centralised online admission process is to be declared by the deputy director of education. “This year due to the pandemic, the entire admission process will be online and after the SSC results we opened part two of the admission form for students. It is a crucial part of the admission process as students need to give their college preferences. And while giving the preferences if they know the last year’s cut off list of those colleges it will help them. So the cut off list is shared on our website,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune. Until August 2, a total of 76,598 students have registered for admission and 19,044 students have completed filling the part one form. Among these, 10,190 students’ forms have been verified. Students on Saturday and Sunday have complained about problems with the website, including hanging and technical glitches while filling up the form. “I have scored 88 per cent marks in the SSC exam and when I sat to fill up the admission form the website was not starting for over an hour. Initially, I thought it was a connectivity issue, but then I realised that the website had technical issues as thousands of students are using it at the same time,” said Sameer Nimbalkar, a student applying for admission to class 11. “There were some technical issues on the first day as many students logged in to fill up the form. We are continuously monitoring the system and the process is smooth now. There will be no problem now onwards,” said Shendkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cut-off-list-for-all-colleges-released-students-begin-fyjc-admission-process/story-yCckeCHBoI1NgAYwKtApbJ.html
03-08-2020||Pune||Courts to function on single shift in August||The Pune district court will function on a single shift in August due to the rising number of Covid-19 patients. During the initial phase of the Covid pandemic, the court only entertained important applications related to bails and emergency cases. The courts functioned for emergency cases during the lockdown period, from March until May. After lockdown restrictions were eased, the court functioned in two shifts, however, the rising number of Covid-19 patients led to the court working for only one shift in July. Pune bar association president Satish Mulik said, “The court will be working for only one shift during August as the number of Covid-19 cases is rising in the city.” Mulik added, the lawyers and the defence counsel must come to court only if it is essential. Once in court, all the lawyers have been appealed to strictly follow social distancing norms, with the use of masks and sanitisers. “The litigants and lawyers must also exercise self-control during their visit to the court and keep themselves safe by adhering to the guidelines of the state government,” he said. According to the PBA, the numbers of court visitors including lawyers have drastically reduced due to the Covid-19 infection in the city as only the most emergency-related cases are heard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/courts-to-function-on-single-shift-in-august/story-oxKI3KRRlhX1NiMBkwTM9H.html
03-08-2020||Pune||FIR against former MP Sanjay Kakade for threatening brother-in-law||The Pune police on Sunday filed a First Information Report against former Rajya Sabha MP and Pune businessman Sanjay Kakade and his wife for allegedly threatening his brother-in-law with dire consequences over family disputes. The FIR registered at Chatuhshrungi police based on the complaint filed by Yuvraj Dhamale, a developer and brother of Kakade’s wife Usha Kakade, states that alleged life threats were given to him by Kakades in 2018. Kakade issued a statement denying all the allegations. “I have not spoken to Dhamale since 2018 even my wife is not on talking terms with him since the past one year. This seems to be a political conspiracy against me by someone who is using Dhamale as a proxy. I will take legal advice and file defamation case against him,” said Kakade in a statement. Dhamale in his complaint said that before 2012, he and Kakade were partners in a construction business. In 2010, Dhamale started his independent construction business and since then both developed differences that led to family disputes.Anil Shewale, senior police inspector at Chatuhshrungi police station said as per the complaint registered by Dhamale, he was given life threats by Kakade and his wife in August and September 2018 when he had gone to their house.“The complainant alleged that when he had gone to their house, Kakade’s wife and his sister told him that though he started his own business and earned fame, he should always remember that whatever he has achieved, it was because of her husband,” said the officer.He added that in the complaint, Dhamale also alleged that Kakade used abusive language and gave him life threats.Dhamale in his statement said that he was afraid to file a complaint against Kakades as Sanjay Kakade was MP.“In the statement, Dhamale said that since the last two weeks, he was feeling insecure, he approached the police and registered a complaint,” said the officer. A complaint under section relevant sections of IPC was registered on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fir-against-former-mp-sanjay-kakade-for-threatening-brother-in-law/story-wt6I83rJw9sU5IUOjWN2iP.html
03-08-2020||Pune||Motorist assaulted after car collision in Undri, Pune||A motorist was attacked up by eight people in Undri after his vehicle was hit by another car in a rear-end collision on Saturday. According to police, the incident took place in front of Nyati highland society in Undri. The victim identified as Veer Fand, 35, was in his four-wheeler when another car crashed into his. Fand got down to inquire about the collision and was physically assaulted by the attackers with a key. The accused fled after the assault, police are examining the CCTV footage in the area to nab the accused. The Kondhwa police have booked eight accused under IPC 324 ( voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means),143 ( unlawful assembly ),279 ( rash driving or riding on a public way ),427( mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 323 ( voluntarily causing hurt ) and 504( intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/motorist-assaulted-after-car-collision-in-undri-pune/story-MtrYWtdIunDpr3q24myu3N.html
03-08-2020||Pune||Pune resident held with Rs 2.17 lakh worth of illegal tobacco products||A 48-year old resident of Chandannagar has been arrested for selling banned tobacco products, like paan masala and gutkha, estimated to be worth Rs 2.17 lakh. The anti-narcotics cell and the anti-extortion cell of the crime branch made the arrest on Saturday. Acting on a tip-off that a person identified as Rajendra Zumbarlal Surapuriya, 48, a resident of Chandannagar was engaged in the illegal sale of banned tobacco products, a team of crime branch officials conducted a raid and seized the banned products from his possession. A case under section 188 ( disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant ), 269 ( Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life, 270 ( Whoever malignantly does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life ),272 ( Adulteration of food or drink intended for sale ),273 ( Sale of noxious food or drink ) and 328 ( Causing hurt by means of poison, etc., with intent to commit an offence ) has been lodged against the accused. Besides, he has also been booked under relevant sections of the National Disaster Management Act and the Maharashtra Covid-19 regulation act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-resident-held-with-rs-2-17-lakh-worth-of-illegal-tobacco-products/story-IlmZhCDNJmw3IwD0qNkgsO.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab warned of locust attack; Ferozepur on high alert, Jalandhar among five districts on threat list||Jalandhar: The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) has warned that locust groups in Pakistan and Rajasthan will move to areas alongside Punjab in the coming three days due winds flowing in the state’s direction. Ferozepur district has been put on the danger list, while Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Mansa, Moga and Tarn Taran districts are on the threat list of a locust attack that may harm vegetable crops and pulses, the FAO said. The district administrations of Amritsar, Fazilka, Ludhiana, Sangrur, Faridkot, Muktsar, Bathinda and Barnala have been advised to stay alert. The state agriculture department has asked district officials to alert farmers and prepare for a possible locust attack in the coming days. In its circular to Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan, the FAO warned the state of an attack between August 1 and 6. Jalandhar district agriculture officer Surinder Singh said, “We have formed WhatsApp a group of farmers and the deputy commissioner has set up committees at the sub-divisional level to take swift action. We will act in a specific area after the locust attack.” Punjab was put on the threat list after the Regional Remote Sensing Centre (West) issued a warning in its weekly locust surveillance using geospatial technology, which monitors the weather and ecology to provide an early warning based on the survey and control results from the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO). The survey states that summer breeding is underway along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border. In India, numerous adult groups and swarms are laying eggs over a wide area of Rajasthan between Jodhpur and Churu, while hatching and band formation from earlier laying has occurred further south from Phalodi to Gujarat. In Pakistan, hopper groups and bands are present in the Nagarparkar area in Tharparkar of southeast Sindh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-warned-of-locust-attack-ferozepur-on-high-alert-jalandhar-among-six-districts-on-threat-list/story-k0diZUEecl9p9sbmcTaa0O.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two dead, one injured as pick-up truck rolls down gorge in Shimla||Shimla: Two persons were killed and one injured when a pick-up truck fell into a 150-foot-deep gorge in Sunni tehsil of Shimla district on Monday morning. The deceased were identified as Deepak Chauhan, 20, of Karsog in Mandi, and Dimple Kumar, 23, of Thunag, also in Mandi district. The injured was identified as Kehar Singh, 27 of Karsog. The accident took place at 6am on Monday when they were going from Parwanoo to Sunni and the driver lost control of the vehicle near Sunni. The accident was noticed by local residents who informed the police. The injured person was referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla. Shimla superintendent of police (SP) Omapati Jamwal said investigation was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-dead-one-injured-as-pick-up-truck-rolls-down-gorge-in-shimla/story-yHX4zCvSdqxDFDhdDymWvK.html
03-08-2020||Ranchi||With 371 new Covid-19 cases, Jharkhand reports total 12,559 cases||Jharkhand reported 371 new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 12,559, said State Health Department.The death toll has reached 118 after three deaths were reported on Sunday, the State Health Department informed. With 54,736 positive cases, India’s COVID-19 tally on Sunday crossed the 17 lakh-mark, while the recoveries crossed the 11-lakh mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/with-371-new-covid-19-cases-jharkhand-reports-total-12-559-cases/story-QICTJUKeH2Hpgxg6nDCx8L.html
03-08-2020||Pune||3,017 new Covid-19 cases in Pune; tally crosses 90,000-mark||Pune district in Maharashtra reported 3,017 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking its count to 90,393, a health official said on Sunday.The death toll in the district reached 2,041 with 49 persons succumbing to the infection on Sunday.“Of the 3,017 cases, 1,762 were reported from areas within the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, where the tally has grown to 57,523,” the official said.A total of 1,203 patients were discharged from the hospitals during the day in the district, he added.With 871 new cases in the neighbouring industrial township of Pimpri Chinchwad, the COVID-19 count there increased to 22,445.The rural parts of the district, the civil hospital and areas in the Pune Cantonment Board have collectively reported 10,425 cases so far, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/3-017-new-covid-19-cases-in-pune-tally-crosses-90-000-mark/story-yXT0nNJHgoUJ2lgPSLQCZI.html
03-08-2020||Lucknow||Search on for Covid-19 patients who gave false information in Lucknow||About 2,300 people, who tested positive for COVID-19 here, had given false information pertaining to their names, mobile numbers and addresses, a health official said on Monday.While 1,171 people out of those who gave false information have been tracked, a hunt is on for the others.“2,290 people who had undergone COVID-19 tests at various private and government laboratories between July 23 and July 31 had given false names, mobile numbers and addresses. This came to the fore when our department could not contact them.We have informed the police about it,” a senior health official said.These people are not only from Lucknow but other cities also who were tested in the state capital, he said. Lucknow Police Commissioner Sujit Pandey said that police immediately swung into action and “we have tracked 1,171 of these people and informed authorities and integrated COVID-19 command and control room.” “Attempts are on to trace the remaining ones,” Pandey said, adding that directives have been issued to hospitals and laboratories to verify mobile numbers before taking samples so that they remain under the vigil of the Health department. The state capital had witnessed 8,686 cases, which included 4.012 active cases, 4,559 patients who are discharged and 115 deaths till Sunday. While state minister Kamla Rani Varun died due to the virus, BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh and minister Mahendra Singh tested positive for the virus on Sunday. PTI ABN  DV DV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/search-on-for-covid-19-patients-who-gave-false-information-in-lucknow/story-0Q5XiJXA6A7U2eYF411j7H.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, cancels entrance exam for UG courses||Shimla: Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, in Solan district has cancelled entrance exams for admission to its undergraduate courses and will now be admitting candidates on the basis of the Class 12 merit. Merit will be drawn on the basis of marks obtained in the Class 12 board exam in English, physics, chemistry and biology/math plus weightage of participation in sports/National Cadet Corps (NCC)/National Service Scheme (NSS)/ scouting and co-curricular activities. A university notification says that candidates are required to prepare a single pdf file, containing the scanned counselling form along with documents sought in the prospectus. In case a candidate wishes to be considered for both self-financing and normal seats, then they need to fill and submit two counselling proformas. For normal seats, a scanned pdf file must be sent to uhf.ugnormal20@gmail.com by 11.59pm on August 18 and for self-financing seats, the scanned pdf file must be sent to uhf.ugselffin20@gmail.com by 11.59pm on August 20. Counselling proformas for normal and self-financing seats will be uploaded on August 3 and 5, respectively. Candidates can download the proforma from university’s official website: www.yspuniversity.ac.in. The candidates are advised to check the university’s offiical website daily and follow guidelines being issued from time to time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dr-ys-parmar-university-of-horticulture-and-forestry-nauni-cancels-entrance-exam-for-ug-courses/story-a1UGjgZTPQrlUimRu63fQJ.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||Tahir Hussain was given task of collecting glass bottles during Delhi violence: Report||Suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain has told the Delhi Police that ask was to collect as much glass bottle, petrol, acid, stones as possible during the violence in Northeast Delhi in February this year, according to news agency ANI.The Delhi Police have prepared an Interrogation Report (IR), ANI reported, in which they have mentioned that one of Hussain’s acquaintance, Khalid Saifi, was given the task to gather people on the streets for protest.“Khalid Saifi, along with his friend Ishrat Jahan, first started a dharna demonstration in Khureji on the lines of Shaheen Bagh. On February 4, in Abu Fazal Enclave, I met Khalid Saifi for planning the riots,” the police have quoted Hussain as saying in their Interrogation Report, according to ANI.“On February 4, in Abu Fazal Enclave, I met Khalid Saifi for planning the riots. It was decided to provoke people sitting on the anti-CAA strike. Khalif Saifi said that something big has to be done at the time of Donald Trump’s visit so that the government kneel,” the Delhi Police’s IR further mentioned.The Delhi Police’s Crime Branch had earlier filed a charge sheet against 15 people, including Hussain and his younger brother Shah Alam. The police had contended that there was recovery of crates containing glass bottles having some liquid filled in them and their necks stuffed with pieces of cloth.The police said these were as “Molotov cocktails” while adding that a large number of bricks, stone pieces and three catapults were also seized from Hussain’s house. They said that this point towards the conspiracy and the extent of preparation for causing riots in the area.The police said that Hussain met former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid at Popular Front of India (PFI) office in Shaheen Bagh on January 8. Hussain is one of the prime accused in the killing of Intelligence Bureau (IB) staffer Ankit Sharma, whose body was recovered from a drain in Chand Bagh on February 26, during the violence in Northeast Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tahir-hussain-was-given-task-of-collecting-glass-bottles-during-delhi-violence-report/story-kQ3EXKnjAjKdsq3P7rdvaK.html
03-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 565 new Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths||A total of 565 new Covid-19 cases and nine deaths were reported in Rajasthan, as of Monday morning.This took the state’s count of coronavirus cases to 44,975, according to the data released by the State Health Department on Monday.The data released also said that nine deaths were reported.The total Covid-19 cases in India, now stand at 18,03,696 including 5,79,357 active cases, 11,86,203 cured/discharged/migrated, and 38,135 deaths,” said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-reports-565-new-covid-19-cases-9-deaths/story-yZan5iRq6q3KtVCJexW4DK.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||India’s Covid-19 testing crosses 2 crore mark: ICMR||India has crossed the 2 crore mark of Covid-19 testing across the country on Sunday after 3,81,027 samples were tested yesterday. A total of 2,02,02,858 samples for Covid-19 were tested across the country as of Sunday, said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) today.“The total number of Covid-19 samples tested up to August 02 is 2,02,02,858 including 3,81,027 samples tested yesterday,” said the ICMR in a bulletin shared on Twitter. India’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 18 lakh mark with 52,972 positive cases and 771 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.The total Covid-19 cases stand at 18,03,696 including 5,79,357 active cases, 11,86,203 cured/discharged/migrated, and 38,135 deaths,” said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Monday. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/india-s-covid-19-testing-crosses-2-crore-mark-icmr/story-SBk4o31C4LUHw6MBqWBFKL.html
03-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case probe in right direction, says Maharashtra home minister||Maharashtra’s home minister, Anil Deshmukh, has said the investigation into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput by Mumbai Police is heading in the right direction as a turf war with the team from Patna Police over the case raged on.“Mumbai Police investigation is progressing in the right direction in a professional manner,” Deshmukh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on Monday.Before this, the minister had condemned the demand for a transfer of the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and also questioned the jurisdiction of the Bihar police.“@MumbaiPolice already began investigating allegations about @itsSSR's unfortunate alleged suicide. Even if Bihar Police registered an offence in Patna, under Ch. 12 & 13 of the #CrPC it has to be investigated,inquired & tried by police & courts within whose jurisdiction the offence is committed. I condemn the demand for the @itsSSR case to be handed to #CBI,” Deshmukh tweeted on Sunday.“The case is now being politcised for political gains. #MaharashtraPolice is inquiring into the case professionally & are competent in digging out the truth, leaving no stone unturned!” he said.“If Mumbai Police are already investigating the case, so anyone not related to Maharashtra government and not related to the case should not comment on it as Mumbai Police is capable of conducting the probe on its own,” Sanjay Raut, senior Shiv Sena leader, also said, according to ANI.Deshmukh has rejected demands for a CBI probe into the actor’s death more than once, saying Mumbai Police are doing their job.In his Sunday tweets, the minister was referring to the parallel investigation being conducted by a four-member team special investigation team (SIT) from Patna Police into the complaint lodged by Rajput’s father, KK Singh.The actor’s father lodged a police complaint against actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family members and the department registered a first information report (FIR) under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including abetment to suicide. Authorities in Bihar sent Vinay Tiwari, a superintendent of police, to Mumbai on Sunday, amid reports that the Mumbai Police were not cooperating with the team from Patna, which arrived in the Maharashtra capital on July 27.Then Bihar’s director general of police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey alleged late on Sunday that Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, who had taken a flight to Mumbai, was “forcibly quarantined” by civic authorities in the city.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar also said on Monday the “forcible quarantine” of the Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, who was sent to Mumbai lead the probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, was not right and that the force is just doing their duty.A minister from Bihar also questioned the civic body’s decision to quarantine Tiwari. “Four Bihar police officers are already in Mumbai. They also went there on a flight but were not quarantined. We sent an IPS officer to speed up the probe but he was quarantined when he started his investigation,” Sanjay Jha said, according to ANI.Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. Mumbai Police have said the actor died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-probe-in-right-direction-says-maharashtra-home-minister/story-IaRrYUhPOn1VIcVhF6kyFM.html
03-08-2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Nitish Kumar says quarantine of Bihar IPS officer not right||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Monday the “forcible quarantine” of the Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, who was sent to Mumbai lead the probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, was not right and that the force is just doing their duty.Kumar’s comments came after Bihar’s director general of police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey said Mumbai Police had “forcibly" quarantined Vinay Tiwari in tweets late on Sunday night amid a turf war between Bihar police and Mumbai Police over the probe into Rajput’s death.“The DGP has informed me about the developments. He will speak with the authorities there. Whatever happened with him is not right,” Kumar said while speaking to reporters.“This is not political. This a legal responsibility of Bihar Police and they are carrying out their duty,” he added.Pandey had put out the allegation again the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in his tweets.“IPS officer Vinay Tiwari reached Mumbai today from Patna on official duty to lead the police team there but he has been forcibly quarantined by BMC officials at 11 PM today,” Pandey had tweeted.“He was not provided accommodation in the IPS mess, despite request, and was staying in a Guest House in Goregaw,” he said.The top police official also tweeted a 40-second video of Tiwari in a blue t-shirt and quarantine stamp on the back of his left hand. The Mumbai civic authority, on its part, said Tiwari had been quarantined "as per the present guidelines for domestic arrivals at Mumbai Airport".The four-member team from Patna Police started a parallel investigation into Rajput’s death after the 34-year-old actor's father filed a complaint in Patna against actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family membersPatna Police registered a first information report (FIR) under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including abetment to suicide. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/not-right-nitish-kumar-says-after-bihar-ips-officer-probing-sushant-singh-rajput-case-quarantined/story-UIlvYR4d7LEcj3L2HJTpBK.html
03-08-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa’s daughter tests positive for Covid-19||BY Padmavati, one of Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s daughters, has tested positive for the coronavirus disease, a day after the senior BJP leader said he has contracted Covid-19.Yediyurappa’s daughter has been admitted to Manipal Hospital in the state capital of Bengaluru. The Bharatiya Janata Party leader is also in the same hospital. Padmavati in the hospital suite next to that of her father’s and is monitoring his treatment.The 77-year-old Yediyurappa had said on Twitter that he had tested positive for the viral disease.“I have tested positive for coronavirus. Whilst I am fine, I am being hospitalised as a precaution on the recommendation of doctors. I request those who have come in contact with me recently to be observant and exercise self-quarantine,” Yediyurappa tweeted.Manipal Hospital, according to ANI, said on Monday that Yediyurappa is stable and being monitored closely by doctors. “Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa has been admitted to the hospital for observation. He is doing well, is clinically stable and will be monitored closely by our team,” the Manipal Hospital said.Yediyurappa is the second chief minister in India to be infected by Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on July 25 he had tested positive for Covid-19.Yediyurappa’s announcement on the social media platform also came hours after Union home minister Amit Shah said that he too had tested positive. Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit also tested positive on Sunday.Karnataka has reported 134,819 Covid-19 cases, including 74,590 active cases and 57,725 discharged patients. The state has also seen 2,496 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-s-daughter-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-skVZf51fcppuIMkStYiPON.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||To make or not to make: Pandemic leaves idol makers in a dilemma as festive season nears||Two piles of mud in the parking lot of the defunct Chandralok Cinema in south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park are the only discernible signs of the space serving as the workplace for idol makers over five months every year.The festive season is around the corner, but the customary idol makers are missing in action, as are their Ganesha idols — many of which would have been receiving the final touches by this time of the year, if not for Covid-19.“Beginning June every year, about a dozen idol makers from West Bengal would camp here for five months. No one has turned up this time,” says Zulfikar Malik, the caretaker of the lonely parking lot.With the outbreak of the coronavirus disease forcing authorities to restrict public gatherings, most idol makers in the city returned to their hometowns during the lockdown. With the uncertainty surrounding upcoming festivals, and Delhi still recording an average of over 1,000 new cases of the infection every day, the idol makers who stayed back in the Capital face a dilemma — to begin work for grand festivities or not.Also read: Durga Puja organisers frame norms on how to hold week-long festival amid Covid-19“I am making small Ganesha idols for people who want to put them up in their homes during Ganesh Chaturthi. But I don’t know if I should make a few big ones for the pandals (stages),” says 48-year-old Govind Nath, who has been making idols of deities at a shed in CR Park Kali Mandir for decades now.It takes Nath around a month to ready a 12-feet-tall idol. He says it’s easier when he works on several idols simultaneously. But he isn’t sure if he should proceed with the plan when he has got no orders, and much still up in the air.Ganesh Chaturthi is due to be held on August 22, and Durga Puja will be celebrated between October 22 and 26.While religious places in the Capital were thrown open for the public in early June, the relaxation came with a host of rules — such as maintaining a six-feet distance between each devotee, not touching idols and not making any offerings. Religious congregations are still not permitted, even under the Centre’s Unlock 3 guidelines.Meanwhile, enthusiasm has steadily dampened among idol makers and devotees.Sunil Pal, vice-president of CR Park Mela Ground Durga Puja Samiti says he doesn’t expect the government to grant permission even for Durga Puja. “Usually, we place orders for Mata idols by June-end, but this time we are yet to decide,” Pal says.The Bengali-dominated south Delhi locality is the hub of Durga Puja festivities in Delhi every year.Even if they are permitted to set up pandals on a small scale, the association will settle for smaller idols that can be readied at short notice, Pal says.Idol makers say given the volume of idols required for Durga Puja every year, they begin work in June itself.But Kheta Ram, a 26-year-old idol maker in Tughlaqabad village in South Delhi says he is yet to begin work. “I am not sure people will want to spend money on idols this time. Those organising pandals are unlikely to receive donations. So I have been postponing the work every day. I have lost the enthusiasm to pursue such hard work,” he says.For Ganesh Chaturthi, there will be far fewer pandals in Delhi this year, says Mahendra Ladda, president of the 18-year-old Shri Gant Sewa Mandal Delhi, an association in Laxmi Nagar.“There will be little work for the artisans this time, as celebrations will be muted, but our pandal will still go ahead with celebrations, even if it means shortening the period to three days instead of the usual 10, and having only the core members perform the puja,” he says.He says pandals are usually set up a month before the celebrations, but everything is on hold this year. “We have never missed the celebrations in the last 18 years, and the puja will be streamed online for the devotees this year,” he added.While the association has already placed an order for a two-feet-tall statue, idol makers aren’t sure they’ll be able to deliver large idols if orders are placed late.“I had about 20 people working for me, who have all returned to their home towns and villages in Bengal. They don’t want to come back, and even if some do, I don’t know if I can pay them the usual wages,” Govind Nath says.Working alone for now, Nath is readying a couple of large Ganesha and Durga idols — each of them about half the usual size he prepares for CR Park’s major pandals, but he isn’t sure they’ll find buyers.Nath and other idol makers had received a jolt early on in the lockdown itself. They had made Durga and Annapurna Devi idols for Ram Navami, but the lockdown was announced before they could be sold out for the festival on April 2.“Not one of the 70 idols I had prepared were sold. Now I have packed them in plastic covers and stored them to sell during Durga Puja, and hope people will buy them for their homes. I’ll be selling them for much less than usual,” says Ram Rawat, an idol maker in Yamuna Pushta, near Akshardham Mandir.“I am making just around 200 small Ganesha idols this time,” says Rawat, who made 1,000 idols last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/to-make-or-not-to-make-pandemic-leaves-idol-makers-in-a-dilemma-as-festive-season-nears/story-P0xpn34gIse49rZLaZoBaJ.html
03-08-2020||City||INLD aims to enrol 10 lakh members in Haryana in next two weeks: Abhay Chautala||After facing humiliating defeat in the 2019 parliamentary and assembly polls, OP Chautala’s Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) started a fresh membership drive across the state with a target of having 10 lakh active members by August 15. The INLD, which was the main opposition party in Haryana in the 2014 assembly elections, has been reduced to only one seat secured by its general secretary Abhay Chautala in Ellenabad constituency.Talking to HT in Rohtak, Ellenabad legislator and senior INLD leader Abhay Chautala said they had started the membership drive last week from Panchkula and aimed to enrol 10 lakh new members in the state by August 15.“We have started a membership drive in 20 districts, which will also commence in Faridabad and Palwal districts tomorrow. I have taken charge of these drives in 10 districts while party president Nafe Singh Rathi and senior leader Parkash Bharti are looking after the initiative in six districts each,” he added.He further said that his party was focusing on bringing back old workers into the fold, who had shifted to other parties after the emergence of the JJP.‘JJP dissolved national, state units after many of its office bearers joins INLD’INLD general secretary Abhay Chautala said that the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) had dissolved its units after many of its leaders switched over to the INLD.“I am waiting when the JJP will revamp its units and then many of its office bearers will join our party. Don’t be surprised if any member of my brother Ajay Chautala’s family joins the INLD in coming days. Many people enjoyed the moment when our party was divided into two parts and they thought that INLD’s game was over in Haryana. But, they failed to realise the attachment of Chautala sahab’s supporters,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inld-aims-to-enrol-10-lakh-members-in-haryana-in-next-two-weeks-abhay-chautala/story-0ziVJZcW8G6jWHEnGuzONN.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Providing equal opportunities to women a priority: Haryana CM||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday interacted with 650 women from various fields during a webinar ‘Mhari Baat, Mhare Manohar Ke Sath’ on the eve of Raksha Bandhan, an official spokesperson said. Women from various fields, including renowned singer Himani Kapoor, Class 12 toppers, vice-chancellors of various universities, lawyers, doctors and panchayat representatives participated in the webinar. Khattar also spelled out the initiatives taken by his government for the empowerment of women, saying providing equal opportunities to them was a priority. During the interaction, Khattar was asked a question on women safety by Archana Chaudhary from Karnal’s Shamgarh village, who said he has been living in California for five years and driving a truck there.“I drive a truck in the United States. When I drive at night, I feel equally safe as I do during the day. Can women get such an atmosphere in Haryana? Can they feel equally safe if they go out during late nights? What steps the state government have taken to make sure that women feel safe and secure,” she asked.Responding to it, the CM said his government has opened 31 women police stations in the state and claimed of making tough laws with zero tolerance towards crimes against women. He said the government has been laying a lot of emphasis on women’s education and providing them equal opportunities to progress.“We hope that situation is created (when women across the state can freely go out during late night hours), let us see how it goes,” he said.A student from Mewat’s Nuh, Shaheen Khan, drew Khattar’s attention towards the need for doing more towards women education in the district.Khattar said the state government has taken several steps to uplift education standards in Mewat, identified as among 115 districts lagging on specific development parameters by the Centre.“Education, health and employment have been our focus for the district for the past few years,” he said.Khattar said if the coronavirus situation prolongs, the government will contemplate giving smartphones or tablets to some schoolchildren. Khattar said on Monday, he will lay the foundation stone of 10 colleges through video conferencing on Raksha Bandhan, which will be set up in far flung areas of various districts.Ensure sufficient buses operate on Raksha Bandhan: Haryana transport minister to roadwaysHaryana transport minister Mool Chand Sharma on Sunday directed the roadways authorities to ensure that the buses in sufficient numbers operate as per the demand of the passengers in view of Raksha Bandhan so that the public doesn’t face any inconvenience. “A passenger without a mask will not be allowed to board the bus,” the minister said. Sharma said in view of Covid-19, presently buses were operating with 50% passenger strength while adhering to the social distancing norms. However, on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, to ensure hassle-free travel for people of the state, all depot general managers have been instructed to operate sufficient numbers of buses as per the demand. He said during the movement of buses, it will be ensured that social distancing norms are being followed and sanitisers are available. ‘For the 1st time in 14 yrs, govt will collect bus fare from women on such auspicious day’ Former chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday asked the state government to allow women travel free of cost in the roadways buses on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. Asking the state government to reconsider its decision of stopping free bus service for women on the day of Raksha Bandhan, Hooda said. “This will be for the first time in 14 years that the state government will collect bus fare from women on the auspicious day of Raksha Bandhan.” He said the Congress government had started this free bus service for women of the state on Raksha Bandhan. The former chief minister said instead of providing relief to women, the BJP-JJP coalition government has taken back whatever concessions were given to them.Demanding that the government should run more buses to avoid crowding and ensure social distancing, he said there could be no justification for removing a one-day waiver for women on one of the most important festivals of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/providing-equal-opportunities-to-women-a-priority-haryana-cm/story-E9ZSaf8jIW2LlrIs9CAHPM.html
03-08-2020||City||Haryana’s Sarv Khap demands withdrawal of Jat agitation cases||Leaders of as many as 120 khaps under the banner of Sarv Khap panchayat on Sunday demanded the withdrawal of all cases registered against youths of all communities during the Jat agitation in 2016.The Sarv Khap had called a meeting of khap bodies at Chhichhrana village in Sonepat’s Baroda constituency.Convener of the meeting, Kuldeep Singh Malik, said they had discussed nine agendas in the meeting.“We have opposed marriages in the same sub-caste, neighbouring villages and three agriculture-related ordinances passed by the central government. The other demands are reduction in diesel prices, reinstation of sacked employees, purchase of farmers’ crops at the minimum support price,” he added.He added that the Khap has welcomed the government’s move to give 50 percent women reservation in panchayat level elections.“If the government would not withdraw the cases filed during the Jat agitation, we will launch a stir from September 13”, Malik said.PITCH KHAP CANDIDATE IN BYPOLL: MEHAM MLAIndependent legislator from Meham, Balraj Kundu also reached at the panchayat and extended his support to them.Kundu said the khaps will have to join active politics otherwise farmers’ rights will be buried under a hatchet.“Without joining politics, the system cannot be changed. I urge you to pitch a farmer in the Baroda byelection and ensure his win from the constituency. CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Congress’s Bhupinder Singh Hooda failed to understand the plight of farmers and used them as a voting tool,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-s-sarv-khap-demands-withdrawal-of-jat-agitation-cases/story-ohGU4qkaTaoq2LspRnq7UL.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees 5 deaths, 761 fresh cases||Two patients in Sirsa and one each in Sonepat, Karnal and Ambala succumbed to the Covid-19 on Sunday in Haryana where 761 fresh infections were also detected in the past 24 hours, according to the health bulletin. While the death toll has now mounted to 433, the cumulative Covid-19 positive cases tally stands at 36,519. On July 2, there were total 15,509 positive cases in the state, while till July 2 as many as 251 people had died of the disease in Haryana. On Sunday, Haryana’s doubling rate stood at 25 days and the recovery rate was 81.30%, while total active patients count was 6,396. Of the total 761 new cases reported from across 19 districts, Faridabad saw the highest 172 new cases, Gurugram 79 followed by Ambala where 75 fresh cases were detected. Another district with a large number of positive cases was Rohtak where 65 infections were reported, while Sonepat saw 60 cases. Other districts with fresh cases were Panchkula (51), Kurukshetra (50), Rewari (40), Sirsa (38), Palwal (31), Jind (21), Kaithal and Jhajjar (17 each), Karnal (15), Hisar (11), Nuh and Fatehabad (6 each), Bhiwani (5), and Mahendergarh (2). As per the data, in the past three months, Haryana has shown many fold increase in the number of samples taken. For example, till May 2, the state had sent 32,329 samples and up to June 2 the state had collected 1,24,564 samples. Between June 2 and July 2, Haryana collected 1,52,467 samples in a month and this tally of the total samples collected on August 2 reached 6,46,286. And, the tests per million figure climbed to 25,495 on Sunday. The number of active cases has been on the rise also as from 1,560 active cases on June 2, there were 4,239 active cases on July 2 against 6,396 on August 2. Hookah banned in Jind village The Jind administration has banned hookah smoking in Shadipur village after large number of Covid-19 positive cases were detected. Senior medical officer Gopal Goyal of Jind civil hospital said a youth was tested positive after he returned from a wedding in Gurugram. “When we collected samples of his friends, with whom he was enjoying hookah, all of them were found positive. Then, we had to ban use of hookah in the village”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-sees-5-deaths-761-fresh-cases/story-YTnYBgHnH2xbNjt5aRSzCO.html
03-08-2020||City||Two NREGA workers buried alive in Karnal village||Two women working under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) or the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Act (MNREGA) were buried alive while two others sustained injuries when a mound of soil fell on them at Biana village of Karnal on Sunday, police said.The incident occurred around 11.30am when at least 50 labourers were engaged in digging exercise at a plot. As per the eyewitnesses, the mound they were digging suddenly collapsed and at least seven labourers were trapped under it. They were extracted by fellow labourers and rushed to a hospital, where two of them were declared brought dead, police officials said.The deceased were identified as Suraiya Begam, 45, and Giano Devi, 55. Two labourers, Hansraj and Amit, are undergoing treatment at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital where their condition is said to the stable. As per the police complaint filed by Suraiya’s husband Mehboob Khan, the incident took place due to the negligence of MGNREGA mate Sonia and contractor Sethpal as they engaged the workers in the digging process without taking any safety measures. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the workers were engaged in earth-filling work of a ‘Baarat Ghar’ being constructed under the government scheme. He said an inquiry has been handed over to Indri SDM and those who died and injured will be given claims as per the Act and labour laws. Jai Narayan, in-charge, Biana police post, said the bodies have been sent for autopsy and an investigation was on. The police have registered an FIR under sections 304 A, 336 and 337 of the Indian Penal Code against Sonia Rani and Sethpal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-nrega-workers-buried-alive-in-karnal-village/story-e82CvOrpISnRcmczN734SL.html
03-08-2020||Lucknow||UP uses rapid antigen tests to boost testing||Amid a surge in new Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, a data analysis by HT shows that the state government has relied on rapid antigen tests to improve testing numbers — an area in which India’s most populous state has been a laggard so far.In the week ending on Saturday, an average 93,770 samples were tested in Uttar Pradesh every day — the highest in the country in absolute numbers. The next closest state in terms of daily tests was Tamil Nadu with 61,626 samples tested on average every day in the last week — 34% fewer than UP.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA month ago, for the week ending July 1, UP was testing 22,218 samples a day on average, while Tamil Nadu was testing 32,338 (45% more). In fact, two other states – Maharashtra (24,135 daily tests) and Andhra Pradesh (24,028) – tested more than UP as well. This shows how testing has been ramped up in UP over the past few weeks (Chart 1).To be sure, this increase in testing was much needed in UP, in the backdrop of the state’s massive population of 225 million. A month ago, the state conducted 3,373 tests per million residents, the lowest in the country after Bihar (2,493 tests per million) and Telangana (1,913) against the then national average of 6,794 tests per million. Since then the state has climbed two spots and has tested 10,571 sampled per million; though it remains significantly lower than the national average of 14,871 (Chart 2). Much of the increase can be attributed to the state’s decision to start using antigen tests. An antigen is a protein that induces an immune response in the form of production of antibodies against a disease, and detecting its presence through an antigen-based test determines a present infection. Since these tests can possibly lead to false negatives, several cases can slide under the radar. But experts say it can be used in small areas of hot spots to test every resident and quickly isolate as many patients as possible.In contrast, the real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test is the gold-standard for Covid-19 testing. It is used for the qualitative detection of nucleic acid from the Sars-CoV-2 in upper and lower respiratory specimens and is primarily based on PCR, a process that duplicates and amplifies genetic fragments of the virus, so that it becomes easily detectable. Experts say this is the most definitive test currently available and should be used as often as possible.On July 20, when the state tested 40,659 samples, only 7,780 or 19.1% of tests were antigen tests (Chart 3). This share of antigen tests in the total samples tested in the state has been increasing daily since. As of August 1, nearly 69% of the 114,844 samples tested in the state were antigen-based.In the same time period, while RT-PCR tests have largely remained the same (in the 30,000-a-day range), antigen tests have grown 10-fold (from 7,700 tests a day on July 10 to 78,000 tests a day on August 1). The strategy applied by the UP government is not unheard of. Nearly one in four Covid-19 tests conducted across the country currently uses a rapid antigen test kit, HT reported on Saturday. Delhi, which is perhaps the only region in the country that has managed to control the outbreak, has also relied heavily on antigen tests to scale its testing – on July 30, for instance, 71.6% of all tests performed in the capital were antigen-based.A senior doctor with the core team of Kanpur’s chief medical officer (CMO), who did not wish to be identified, said the decision to rely on antigen tests so heavily was based on the limited number of RT-PCR labs and machines. The target for daily tests was not achievable without ramping up the scale of rapid antigen tests, the doctor said, adding that the number of machines available as of now was “clearly not enough”. Experts say the lack of infrastructure related to RT-PCR tests remains a major challenge for the UP government, especially with he monsoon, which sees a massive spike in infections, underway. “Monsoon is favourable for the spread of infection. RT-PCR is the gold standard to test and identify cases early and accurately. Satellite testing centres should be made and RT-PCR machines should be placed for a population of every two lakh. In a city such as Lucknow, there should be at least 100 RT-PCR machines placed in different areas,” said professor TN Dhol, ex-head of the department of microbiology at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-uses-rapid-antigen-tests-to-boost-testing/story-rqrnIgiSwhqAfctzI8FlTN.html
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Opposition calls for CM’s resignation, CBI probe in Punjab hooch case||Opposition parties in Punjab on Sunday attacked the state government over the hooch tragedy that has killed 104 people, with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) asking chief minister Amarinder Singh to step down and demanding action against “Congress leaders patronising spurious liquor trade.”The SAD also rejected the magisterial inquiry ordered by the state government and sought a probe either by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a sitting judge of the high court. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also demanded an investigation by the CBI, with its state chief Bhagwant Mann indicating that political leaders might be involved in it.Also read: ‘Mind your business’: Punjab CM to Kejriwal on demand for CBI probe into hooch deathsAAP also held a statewide agitation against the government.Both parties demanded that a murder case be registered against those behind it. “There should be a probe by the CBI or a sitting judge of the high court into this incident,” SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said, describing the investigation ordered by the state government as “farce and mere eyewash”.He accused the state government of suppressing the actual number of casualties. He also demanded that former Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya be booked for murder. He claimed that many people in the area had approached the then SSP about bootleggers and their alleged Congress “kingpins”, but the official had turned a blind eye.AAP MP Bhagwant Mann said, “Nothing will happen with the transfer of some officers. The problem is deep rooted and there is a big nexus. People are openly taking names of leaders. There should be a probe by the CBI.”Survivors of the tragedy have complained of low vision and uneasiness after consuming spurious liquor. Fifty-year-old Tilak Raj, a contractual employee of the Batala Municipal Corporation, says he felt uneasy after drinking the liquor, which he had bought for ₹60 from Triveni Chauhan and Darshana Rani, alias Faujan, outside the Hathi Gate locality in Batala. Both accused have been arrested. “After I drank it, I was not able to see properly and felt uneasiness,” said Raj. He survived as his family immediately took him to a doctor. “Now, I am feeling slightly better but my vision has not improved and I am feeling giddy,” said Raj. According to a senior excise official, although the chemical analysis reports of the material seized in police raids were awaited, a superficial check showed that the material was denatured spirit, generally used in paint or hardware industry. Meanwhile, some families of the deceased in Amritsar flayed the police for not taking any action against those culpable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/opposition-calls-for-cm-s-resignation-cbi-probe-in-punjab-hooch-case/story-LAoCzmXKajTP1hEe9CwvFJ.html
03-08-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 count rises to 7,593; over 1.75 lakh samples tested so far||Uttarakhand on Sunday reported 146 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 7,593. The state also recorded three deaths due to the disease. Maximum 51 infections were reported from Dehradun district, according to the bulletin released by the state health department. The rest of the cases were reported from Nainital (33), Haridwar (28), Uttarkashi (12), US Nagar (10), Chamoli (5), Pauri (2), Rudraprayag (2), Tehri (2), and Almora (1). Many among Sunday’s cases were those who had travel history from Uttar Pradesh, Chandigarh, Saudi Arab, Karnataka and Bihar, while 86 were contacts of earlier positive cases which included three army personnel from Chamoli district. Of the three deaths, one was a 77-year-old female Covid-19 positive patient who died at Sushila Tiwari Hospital in Haldwani on July 31 due to type 1 respiratory failure, ARDS, bilateral pneumonitis and shock.A 68-year-old man died at Government Doon Medical College on August 1 due to Covid-19 pneumonia, ARDS, Type 2 diabetes mellitus while a 44-year-old positive man died at the same hospital on Sunday due to Covid-19 pneumonitis, ARDS and type 1 respiratory failure, said the release.In all, 86 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now with 15 patients dying due to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The rest of the positive patients died due to comorbidities and other causes, added health officials. Also, 107 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Sunday with a maximum of 53 from Haridwar district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 26.58 days, while the infection rate is 4.61%. The state has so far tested over 1.75 lakh samples of which results of over 8,000 are awaited. Meanwhile, days after plasma therapy treatment was started in Haldwani’s Sushila Tiwari Hospital, the process was stopped on Sunday due to issues related to approval. Dr. Saloni Upadhyay, in-charge of the blood bank at the hospital, informed that the plasma therapy treatment process has been stopped at present as the hospital awaits approval from the Food and Drug Administration. In another development, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday evening announced that Rs 1000 will be given to all aaganwadi and ASHA workers in the state, the frontline warriors in the state’s fight against Covid-19 epidemic, on the occasion of Rakshabandhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-s-covid-19-count-rises-to-7-593-over-1-75-lakh-samples-tested-so-far/story-AX7cKlZ0KBjqX19O9KJFtK.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||SC to hear Franco Mulakkal’s plea seeking discharge on Aug 5||The Supreme Court will hear the plea of former Bishop Franco Mulakkal, seeking direction to discharge him from the nun rape case, on August 5. A bench headed by Justice AS Bopanna will hear Mulakkal’s plea for dropping of rape charges against him. Mulakkal had filed the plea in the top court where he claimed to be innocent and said he was implicated after he questioned the financial dealings of the victim nun. He approached the top court after the Kerala high court rejected his plea for discharge from the case. The prosecution in the high court had contended that there was strong evidence against him and he was moving pleas frequently to delay the trial. He had approached the Kerala High Court after a trial court in Kottayam had dismissed the plea to discharge him from the case in March. In June 2018, the nun, who is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab, had complained to the police in Kottayam that Jalandhar Bishop had raped her several times between 2014 and 2016. After several rounds of questioning, the special investigation team (SIT) of Kerala Police arrested him in September 2018. The SIT had filed the chargesheet against him last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sc-to-hear-franco-mulakkal-s-plea-seeking-discharge-on-aug-5/story-O3Fu1x71XP9ub4uT4qVEhO.html
03-08-2020||City||Punjab police yet to share details of illegal liquor trade cases with ED||Almost a month before the hooch tragedy struck, the Enforcement Directorate had shot off a letter to the Punjab Police, seeking details of illicit liquor trade cases registered at various police stations of the state.The move had come days after an illegal liquor bottling plant was busted in Ghanaur constituency of Patiala, in which a Congress sarpanch and an aide of the ruling party MLA were booked.Sources in the ED, on the condition of anonymity, revealed that the Punjab Police has so far not provided them any information, due to which the probe is getting delayed. The officials said that they are focusing on 11 FIRs registered at police stations in Patiala, Khanna and Ludhiana and have also asked the police to share details of the accused in the Hooch tragedy as prima-facie, there seems to be a nexus. “We have written to the Punjab police but if they don’t share the details with us soon, we will move court,” said an official privy to the investigation.The central agency officials are also suspecting the role of distilleries in the state. An illegal distillery busted in Khanna and another one in Khadur village of Ludhiana is also under ED lens.“As per a conservative estimate, the accused in the Ghanaur illegal distillery case had earned Rs 100 crore in the last five months,” said an excise official, pleading anonymity. Congress sarpanch Amrik Singh and Dipesh Kumar of Rajpura, an aide of a ruling party MLA, were booked in the case. Dipesh, who is believed to be the kingpin of the racket, has been arrested. The agency has also asked the excise and taxation department about the details of ENA manufacturing and supply chain. When contacted, Khanna senior superintendent of police Harpreet Singh said that he has to check the records and only then can he comment on the matter. Similarly, Patiala’s new SSP Vikramjit Singh Duggal said that he will ask his SP (investigation) to give details on the matter.Ludhiana-based RTI activist Kuldeep Singh Khaira who also filed complaint with ED demanding probe into nexus said that it has created doubt over intentions of the Punjab government and police seems to be dragging their feet to share the details . “They must share it if they really want to curb the menace,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-police-yet-to-share-details-of-illegal-liquor-trade-cases-with-ed/story-Qw35z8YIltfyNPtI0BmvuK.html
03-08-2020||Mumbai||Transferred ₹1 crore to temple trust on Thackeray’s birthday: Sena||The Shiv Sena on Sunday issued a clarification saying it has honoured its commitment to contribute ₹1 crore to the trust overseeing the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The clarification came after the head of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, Mahant Nritya Gopaldas, told TV channels the Sena has not given a single penny. Sena MP and party secretary Anil Desai in a statement said, “The amount was transferred in the bank account of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra on July 27, the birthday of Maharashtra chief minister and Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. We have received confirmation and acknowledgement of the amount from the trustee and treasurer (of the trust).” Desai further added that they were surprised to see reports that the trust’s chief said no money has been received from the Shiv Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/transferred-1-crore-to-temple-trust-on-thackeray-s-birthday-sena/story-l100eYRxTuGB7B80CPGxRM.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||Key governance issues return to focus in Delhi as Covid-19 cases drop||New Delhi:  With the Covid-19 recovery rate in Delhi now 89.56% and active cases down to 7.52% of the total tally of 137,677, the Delhi government has started to focus on key governance issues that have been on the back burner in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Last week, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal spoke about reviving the Capital’s economy, completing pending projects, implementing schemes that have been stuck and allowing hotels and weekly markets to resume operations, though it was later turned down by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTo pump in more resources for non-Covid works, senior officials in the finance department said the government, this time, has lifted the restriction on not considering any non-Covid proposal — a decision taken in June which was valid till July 31, when the cases in the city were peaking. There have been several signs of this shift in focus —and a gradual return to business as usual—over the past three weeks.Since July 21, the government cleared the decks for its flagship doorstep delivery of rations scheme, inspected infrastructure projects such as the redevelopment of Chandni Chowk and flyovers in north-east Delhi’s Seelampur and Shastri Park, and on July 27 Kejriwal launched an employment portal to facilitate job seekers and employers who have been hit by the lockdown.In June, Kejriwal had no appointment connected to a non-Covid issue. In July, he made two non-Covid visits—to the Shastri Park flyover and Chandni Chowk.To be sure, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also the city’s finance minister, issued a caveat that the government will not launch any new projects just yet given the financial crisis that the city faces. “We are struggling to pay salaries. It is impossible to think of investing in new projects now, unless we get some financial help from the central government. We had sought ₹5,000 crore from the Centre but we have not got any money till date,” Sisodia said. The government has also consistently warned against complacency and the need to adhere to safety and distancing norms.Also read: Railways to create over 1.1mn man-days work for migrants in 6 statesBut the administration, once the unlock guidelines were in place, started delivering day-to-day essential services gradually—including meter readings for power bills that started July 1, and issuing important documents such as income certificates, disability certificates, caste certificates, mutation of property and works related to stamp duty—highlighting that Delhi, which is the only place in India where cases are consistently reducing, is starting to look at life beyond the pandemic from a governance perspective. Debolina Kundu, a professor at the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), emphasised three points that the government should consider as it gets back to regular non-Covid affairs.“First, workplaces must adhere to social distancing. For that, offices can chalk out plans such as staggered timings and encourage work from home in departments where possible. Second, while drafting welfare policies, the government must consider that a large chunk of people who were borderline above the poverty line (APL) have now dropped below the poverty line (BPL) after the lockdown. All targeted benefit schemes have to be re-assessed and expanded, if needed. Third, while designing habitation schemes for the poor, the government must ensure that houses are capable of isolation of the residents. The policymakers should use Covid management as a learning experience. At this juncture, it is very important to ensure closed drains, toilets and access to clean water for each such household.” Here is a look at some of the areas that the administration had started gradually reopening.INFRASTRUCTURE & DEVELOPMENTOver the past two weeks, the chief minister has reviewed the Shastri Park flyover project and the plan for redevelopment of Chandni Chowk, which are scheduled to be opened to the public in August and November respectively. Both the projects have been delayed due to labour shortages owing to the pandemic. While the Shastri Park road project consists of two flyovers and is aimed at decongesting northeast Delhi’s traffic, the Chandni Chowk project aims to establish a decongested and pedestrianised heritage market on the 1.5km road stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid.Senior officials from different government departments who spoke to HT on condition of anonymity said a funding crunch had forced the government to prioritise a handful of incomplete works over several flagship projects. For instance, the plan to start the second phase of the government’s CCTV camera scheme, which involved installing 140,000 cameras across the city, is still on hold. There has been no talk on when it will be revived. POWERDue to the Covid-19 lockdown, consumers in Delhi were getting provisional power bills in the months of March, April and May because private power distribution companies (Discoms) had stopped meter readings over safety concerns. The state power department said all discoms had resumed meter readings last week, except in containment zones.A spokesperson for BSES said the pandemic pushed up online payments of power bills. “As per our data, in the pre-Covid times, 72% of the consumers of BYPL and BRPL, which constitute around 85% of Delhi’s total 5.5 million domestic consumers, used to pay their electricity bills online. Until last week, we found that this has now increased to 90%,” a BSES spokesperson said. WATERThe Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has opened all its offices, said Raghav Chadha, DJB vice-chairperson and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Rajendra Nagar.He said that all the zonal revenue offices (ZROs) of DJB in each of the 11 districts have opened, but very few people are turning up owing to the pandemic. “The zonal revenue offices are the offices where the real public dealing used to happen, but despite the unlocking, very few people are coming due to the pandemic. Another reason for fewer people turning up is that the Delhi government has now extended its water bill waiver scheme till September 30,” he said. TRANSPORT SERVICES The state transport department said that it is witnessing a deluge of queries regarding driving license, fitness certificates and permit renewals. Services such as making a licence now entails a long wait which can go up to two months at regional transport offices (RTOs) such as Rohini, Sarai Kale Khan and Dwarka. The RTO at Sarai Kale Khan, for example, which is also one of the busiest in Delhi, 200 driving tests used to be conducted every day till March. At the moment, around 80 tests are conducted in a day. The number of online tests for a learners’ license is now down to around 100 from 250 daily tests conducted before the pandemic. “Due to social distancing norms, which cannot be compromised with, we have capped the number of daily driving tests being conducted in every RTO. Hence, demand is much higher. We are also trying to make people aware of the Central government’s latest relaxed rule under which expired transport documents such as a licence, fitness certificates and other permits are valid till September 30. So, there is no need to panic,” said a senior transport official who asked not to be named.Apart from routine services, the Delhi government has also floated tenders for acquiring 300 e-buses for the Delhi Transport Corporation’s fleet and also released an instalment of its share to the DMRC to resume work on the Janakpuri West – R K Ashram corridor under Delhi Metro’s phase 4, said a second senior transport official.REVENUE SERVICES More than 23 revenue services that were categorised as “non-essential” were shut in Delhi on March 20. From June 8, when the first unlocking guidelines were issued, Delhi government’s revenue department slowly opened its public services — including issuing income, domicile, marriage, caste and solvency certificates, mutation of properties, enrolment of Aadhaar and civil defence volunteers, and registration of documents in sub-registrar offices. Government data seen by HT shows that earnings through revenue services in June this year dropped by almost 44% compared to the same period last year. Various district revenue offices in June 2019 processed and approved 24,709 documents compared to 14,165 in June 2020. In the same month last year, the government earned ₹49 crore in registration fees and ₹238 crore in stamp duty. This June, the two collections were ₹28 crore and ₹135 crore respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/key-governance-issues-return-to-focus-in-delhi-as-covid-19-cases-drop/story-cdU42VjBk9T1ThIDEK8o2J.html
03-08-2020||Mumbai||MMR’s Covid toll nears 10K; state tally is 441,228||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 9,509 fresh Covid-19 cases and 260 deaths, taking the tally to 441,228 and toll to 15,576, as the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) inched closer to the 10,000 mark for fatalities. MMR has reported 9,887 Covid-19 deaths.The tally of active cases in the state stood at 148,537 as 9,926 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the number of recoveries to 276,809.Mumbai recorded 1,105 new cases, taking the city tally to 116,436, while 49 fatalities on Sunday took the death toll to 6,447. The state, on Sunday, tested 60,758 samples and had a positivity rate of 15.65%.MMR and the Pune division, which comprises Pune city, Pune district, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Solapur, Solapur district, have contributed to 73% of the fatalities recorded on Sunday. MMR and Pune division has reported 190 of the 260 fatalities. The Pune division is expected to breach the 3,000 mark in a couple of days. So far, Pune division has reported 2,899 deaths.MMR, excluding Mumbai, which saw a surge in fresh cases in July, also saw a chunk of its fatalities in the previous month. From July 1 to August 2, MMR alone has reported 2,274 deaths and 81,976 cases. MMR, excluding Mumbai, has nearly reported 3,500 fatalities since the outbreak. Of the total deaths, 66.10% of the fatalities were reported in the last 33 days.The state health department is concerned over the case fatality rate (CFR) in the state and particularly in MMR, which is densely populated. Municipal bodies, including Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation, have reported a high mortality rate. As per the data of the state health department, Bhiwandi-Nizampur had the highest CFR in MMR of 6.05%, followed by Mumbai at 5.53%. Thane city had a CFR of 3.49%.Pankaj Ashiya, municipal commissioner of Bhiwandi-Nizampur, said that the CFR in the city is on a downward trend now and fatalities that were recorded were in June due to unavailability of a dedicated COVID facility. “The doubling rate here is now 86 days, only the mortality rate is high, but we have it under control now. Earlier, we did not have a dedicated Covid facility. Patients chose to go to Thane and Mumbai, but then the situation in these cities was also bad. Now, the daily cases and deaths have reduced,” he said.“The Thane district is a huge region and barring Thane city and parts of Navi Mumbai, the health infrastructure is weak. A central command centre in Thane is in the works to manage the availability of beds. With a central command centre, the cases that need beds urgently will get assistance and thereby helping in reducing deaths. The local civic bodies in the areas have been working aggressively to track suspected cased, people with co-morbidities are being identified to start treatment, like it was done in Mumbai,” said a senior health department official, who did not wish to be named.The death toll in Pune city has touched 1,507 with 25 new fatalities, while the death toll in Pimpri-Chinchwad has touched 401 with 15 deaths on Sunday. Solapur city, in Pune division, has the highest CFR in the state at 7.47%. Solapur city has 387 deaths so far. On Sunday, Pune reported 1,762 new cases, while Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 734 new cases.In other parts of Maharashtra, Nanded city and district reported 129 new cases each. Nanded district now has 1,077 cases. Nagpur city reported 144 new cases, taking city’s tally to 3674. Nagpur district reported 101 new cases. Amravati reported 72 cases, while Yavatmal and Buldhana reported 63 and 41 new cases respectively on Sunday. Beed and Osmandabad in Marathwada region reported 85 and 88 cases respectively. Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts in Konkan region saw 94 and 25 cases respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmr-s-covid-toll-nears-10k-state-tally-is-441-228/story-kLuf1WRjozGAgIJp29DN9K.html
03-08-2020||City||Three teens detained after escape from juvenile detention centre||Noida: Three teenagers who had escaped the isolation ward of the juvenile detention centre located in Phase 2 on early Saturday morning were detained once again by the Noida police.Due to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, fresh detainees are isolated to reduce the chance of infection. So far 24 children in the juvenile home had tested positive for Covid-19, most of whom were asymptomatic.“We have three isolation centres and the children are moved through them in stages before they are shifted to the main home. The whole process takes around a month. These children had come in on July 29,” said Dharmendra Maurya, in-charge of the juvenile home.He said that the shift in-charge at the time had dozed off and the teenagers used the opportunity to escape. The home authorities, soon noticed that the three were missing and reported it to the police helpline at 3.18 am.Three more children too tried to escape but were caught almost immediately.Based on Maurya’s complaint, a case was registered at the Phase 2 police station against the children under sections 223 (escape from confinement) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“One of the kids was apprehended from near the NSEZ metro station on Saturday night and the other from Bhangel today. They have both been returned to judicial custody,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.An official said that the third teenager has been traced to Shamli district (his home-town) and will be brought back to Gautam Budh Nagar soon.All three undertrials are between the ages 15-17. One was detained for rape and the others for kidnapping from Dadri and Badalpur police jurisdictions, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-teens-detained-after-escape-from-juvenile-detention-centre/story-jQGOgJLd3vfsaacBImYQnK.html
03-08-2020||Noida||Greater Noida’s annual budget will remain unaffected despite Covid-19 pandemic: CEO||The Greater Noida authority is likely to organise a board meeting on August 4 to approve important proposals that may include the annual budget, housing projects and water meters scheme.The authority’s chief executive officer (CEO) said that the civic body’s finances were stretched due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but the annual budget will not be hit.“Our budget remains in the range of ₹1,500 crore to ₹2,000 crore every year for past couple of years. And it will remain almost the same this year. However, our revenue has dropped drastically upto 70% since April,” said Narendra Bhooshan, the CEO.Between April and June the authority had expected to collect ₹200 crore in revenue, but ended up with only ₹80 crore, with nil in April. The authority had spent ₹180 crore in the last four months. The authority hoped that the earnings would improve as and when the market are opened completely, said officials. That, however, may have to wait longer as the threat of Covid-19 is still high.The authority is also likely to discuss the interest rate issue related with the developers in the board meeting. The Supreme Court on July 10 had directed the Greater Noida and Noida authorities to charge only 8.5% interest rate on housing land thereby impacting the financial conditions of two industrial bodies.“The board will take appropriate decision as per rules,” said Bhooshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-s-annual-budget-will-remain-unaffected-despite-covid-19-pandemic-ceo/story-etMyFOf562gIbwexeiFbxO.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||Chandni Chowk redevelopment to ease traffic on adjacent roads: Traffic Police||Regulating vehicular movement on the Chandni Chowk main road as part of the redevelopment project will not only ease traffic chaos in the neighbourhood but is also expected to have a positive effect on adjoining arterial roads, says a detailed traffic assessment of the area conducted by Delhi traffic police.The assessment focused on how traffic movement and vehicular volume will affect adjoining areas after the redevelopment plan is implemented. According to the assessment, streamlining of vehicles in Chandni Chowk is likely to smoothen traffic on key roads such as Netaji Subhash Marg, Jama Masjid Road, Shanti Van Marg, Kasturba Hospital Marg and Ansari Road. Traffic volume on Netaji Subhash Marg and Jama Masjid Road is likely to reduce by 10% to 12%, while on other roads, the same traffic is estimated move more smoothly as bottlenecks are expected to ease. The 1.3-km stretch between Fatehpuri Masjid and Red Fort in Chandni Chowk is on its way to becoming car-free by October end -- replete with beautified sandstone pathway, greenery on both sides and dedicated lanes for e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws . The redevelopment project was supposed to have been completed by May this year but was delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Only allow pedestrians and non-motorised vehicles will be allowed between 9 am and 9 pm, after which loading and off-loading of goods will be permitted for the benefit of traders. Chandni Chowk is a wholesale hub.During an inspection on July 23, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said most of the work was over and the stretch was expected to be opened for the public by October-end. Beautification work on 400 metres, of the total 1.3-km stretch, has been completed. Traffic officials also expect that the promised 2,300-car multi-level parking facility being built by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation can tackle the problem of roadside parking. “A major chokepoint during peak morning and evening rush hours is the Chandni Chowk-Netaji Subhash Marg crossing. Vehicles turning towards Chandni Chowk, near Jain temple, create chaos and the spillover is seen till Delhi Gate. Once the stretch is closed for traffic, we will see a visible difference,” a senior traffic official explained. The assessment says that before the redevelopment project started, the Chandni Chowk main road had a vehicular movement of nearly 23,721 (only passenger vehicles) on both sides of the carriageway, which is quite low for a four-lane road. This shows the snarls were caused not by traffic volume but by chaotic parking and mismanaged movement of non-motorised vehicles such as cycle and battery-operated rickshaws. On a weekday, about 172 cars and 196 two-wheelers would be parked at a time on the Chandni Chowk road. Even though these would be parked for 30 minutes or less, this affected the movement of vehicles on the road, where the effective carriageway was as narrow as 4.5 metres to 5 metres -- dropping to 4 metres at places. “With pedestrianisation, we expect shoppers not coming for wholesale purchase to prefer Delhi Metro to commute. There was also shortage of parking space, and the multilevel parking would help,” the traffic official said. A similar traffic assessment conducted around Karol Bagh after Ajmal Khan Road was made a pedestrian-only stretch observed that traffic movement had eased in the area. Anuj Malhotra, knowledge partner with the union ministry of home affairs, who was also behind the Karol Bagh and Kamla Nagar pedestrianisation projects, said when a street is made car-free, traffic in adjacent areas readjust and jams eventually ease. “For instance, if a street that was revamped had more goods vehicles, that load is likely to shift to the neighbouring streets but then the volume of private vehicles will automatically reduce,” Malhotra said. He said a comprehensive traffic plan for entire Chandni Chowk is being worked out with the north corporation, which is delayed because of Covid-19. Though it is in a nascent stage, it will ease traffic snarls in the entire area. The traffic assessment report of the Chandni Chowk main road said, “The composition of traffic on Esplanade Road, Deewan Hall Road, Dariba Kalan Road, Bhagirath Palace Road, Nai Sadak, Bali Maran Road, Khari Baoli Road and Naya Bazar Road mainly consists of cycle rickshaws, two-wheelers, cycles and small tempos. The rush on these roads is likely to continue. A separate traffic plan for these areas could yield better results.” Pralad Singh Sawhney, Chandni Chowk MLA, said the area has been the centre of the Capital’s heritage and such a plan will help people visit the neighbourhood with ease. “Surely, we will see a major difference. We are conducting regular meetings with stakeholders to look at the progress,” Sawhney said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandni-chowk-redevelopment-to-ease-traffic-on-adjacent-roads-traffic-police/story-GNeewkl4pI0Hl9lqnLX3eP.html
03-08-2020||City||Yamuna E-way authority gets ₹5,000 crore to develop four cities near Jewar airport||GREATER NOIDA: With a sanction of ₹5,000, the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) is all set to procure land needed to develop four new cities on the periphery of the Noida International Greenfield Airport site at Jewar, along the 165km Yamuna Expressway. The funds have come from Housing and Urban Development Corporation Limited (HUDCO), a state-owned technical and financing agency, as a loan. “A lot of investors, both domestic and international, are ready to invest in projects which are interlinked with the airport project. We want to develop a city meant for maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) of aircraft, two cities for electronic clusters, and an aviation hub. For these four new cities, we have started preparations on a war footing,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida and Noida international airport Limited (NIAL). The latter is the nodal agency for development of the airport.The authority has decided to spend the ₹5,000 crore funds on development of drainage and sewage systems, apart from roads and parks, and land acquisition for these four new cities, said officials of Yeida. The authority will procure land and develop it for investors who want to buy land and set up manufacturing units there. As per rules, the Yeida buys agricultural land directly from farmers, develops it and then allots the same to investors or manufacturing units. In total, Yeida will directly buy 3,200 acres of agricultural land from willing farmers and then start development of basic facilities before floating the plot scheme. “HUDCO has given us three years’ time to utilise the ₹5,000 crore on developing these four projects in the agreement that we together signed on July 30. We aim to begin the procurement of land in a month from now,” said Singh.The Yeida has made detailed project reports of these four projects and also made drawings. It has sent the project details to the National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) that is likely to approve the same and make necessary changes in the master plan meant for NCR.“We hope NCRPB gives its approval in a month paving the way for the land purchase,” said Singh. These four cities are planned in sectors 7, 8, 30 and 31. “These four ambitious projects will create huge job opportunities to professionals and boost growth in this region,” said Singh.The work on ₹30,000 crore airport project will begin onsite once the Covid-19 pandemic is over and air travel restrictions are eased, as the state government is likely to complete legal formalities with Switzerland-based company Zurich International Airport AG that will develop the airport. The Yeida wants to start the development of urban zones in this region so that the catchment area of the airport is developed well on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamuna-e-way-authority-gets-5-000-crore-to-develop-four-cities-near-jewar-airport/story-ePhSqHOPPTUSx8vibDxGYK.html
03-08-2020||Noida||With most deaths in July, increased recoveries bring some relief to Noida||Out of the total Covid-19 cases reported in Gautam Budh Nagar so far, more than half of the people had tested positive for the infection in the month of July alone. According to the data provided by the district health department, with 2,901 people testing positive for the coronavirus disease and 20 people succumbing to it last month, July recorded the maximum number of cases and deaths in a month.However, among the rising numbers of infections in July, Gautam Budh Nagar found a silver lining with about 2,859 patients being cured/discharged last month—the maximum in a month so far. As many as 5, 531 cases of Covid-19 cases have been reported in the district so far, as per the data by the state control room, out of which as many as 4,502 patients have recovered.In March this year, the district reported 38 Covid-19 positive cases, which indicates that more than one patient tested positive for the disease per day in a month. According to the district’s health department data, with 100 positive cases reported in April, the daily average rose to more than three patients in that month. As 315 positive cases were reported in May, it was over 10 patients per day. In June, it went to nearly 62 patients per day, with 1,851 positive cases reported in that month. But in July, the average daily positives climbed up to nearly 94 cases.The district administration said the rising numbers can be attributed to an increase in testing. “We are focusing on containing the infection as well as early treatment of patients. We have increased our testing manifold. Till July 31, samples of over one lakh people were tested, which is one of the highest testing figures for a district in north India,” Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said. Till April, sample collection figures in the district were not very huge, he added. “But ever since the number of positive cases started mounting up and the government allotted an adequate number of sampling kits, particularly the rapid antigen kits, the speed of sample collection has accelerated. While in June, we tested around 30,000 samples, nearly 50,000 samples were tested in July,” said the DM.The DM added that with the increase in testing, the number of infections has definitely gone up, but the positivity rate has come down to nearly 5% in July (from nearly 6.17 in June), which had reached up to 20% in June one day,” he said.With the case-fatality rate still below 1% in the district, the DM said, the administration has been largely successful in its fight against Covid-19. Till July 31, with a total of 42 deaths (out of 5,205 cases), the fatality ratio stood at nearly 0.80% which came down to 0.77%on August 2 (total 43 deaths).About the sampling rate, the DM said it is around 1,500 per million per day in the district, which is much higher than other districts in Delhi-NCR. “We shall continue with the intensive screening and testing till the spread of deadly virus ends,” he said.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said over 1,500 teams of health department and other volunteers have been conducting surveys in households and identifying high-risk groups, persons with symptoms of Covid-19. “These teams are carrying thermal screening equipment and pulse oximeters for oxygen saturation monitoring. The better we become at comorbidity monitoring and management, the lesser will be our mortality rate,” he said.Dr Ashutosh Niranjan, the medical superintendent of Sharda hospital also agreed that the surveillance in the district has been ramped up since the beginning of July. “If screening and testing are increased, the number of cases rise initially. But after a certain span of time, the graph of positivity rate starts moving downward and that is why, the district now has a very low fatality rate and a moderate positivity rate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-most-deaths-in-july-increased-recoveries-bring-some-relief-to-noida/story-4CGFXr9zIMbqMkyyegpD2M.html
03-08-2020||City||Gurugram: Higher education dept asks colleges on options for holding classes||Gurugram: The department of higher education on Sunday invited suggestions from colleges on the delivery of online and offline lectures during the new academic session. Colleges have been asked to share their inputs by Wednesday. A final decision in this regard would be taken by the department by August 15.In a written directive shared with principals of all colleges, Hemant Verma, the deputy director of higher education department, asked colleges to share their suggestions on delivery of online lectures that would be initiated after completion of the admission process and physical classes in a post-Covid scenario. The decision comes a day after the department asked teaching and non-teaching staff to report back to colleges from Tuesday. Colleges have also been asked to conduct 70% of the yearly lectures online, while the remaining lectures can be conducted physically once the situation improves. Pooja Khullar, principal of the Dronacharya Government College, said that the staff would be reporting to work from Tuesday ahead of initiation of admissions and the new academic session. “The college has been sanitised once again ahead of the reopening of colleges for all staff. We expect guidelines regarding the online admission process by this week. Work is already being carried out in full swing as we prepare for admissions,” said Khullar.Ahead of the reopening of colleges, principals of the colleges that are being used in different capacities by the district administration have sought clarity from the admin on the way forward.Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, which was being used as a quarantine facility, said he has written to the district administration asking them to handover the college premises. “We have informed the admin that colleges need to open from Tuesday in line with the directions from the department of higher education. Accordingly, they should either handover the college premises after sanitisation or make an alternative site available to us,” said Yadav. Vijay Adlakha, principal, Government Girls’ College, Sector 14, which was being used as a neighbourhood shelter, said that he had written to the administration apprising them about the development regarding the opening of colleges and had sought assistance. “We have requested the administration to let us know if the college premises can be handed back to us. If not, we will have to make other arrangements,” said Adlakha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-higher-education-dept-asks-colleges-on-options-for-holding-classes/story-vM7rqUCXW1JDBbVTr5mt1J.html
03-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram case tally touches 9,200, but doubling rate now 74 days||Gurugram reported 79 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total tally of known infections to 9,245. A week ago, on July 26, the count was 8,612 cases, indicating an average growth of 90 new cases per day over the past week (as opposed to 123 cases per day in the week prior). On July 1, the district had 5,463 cases.Of the current tally, 883 patients were classified as ‘active cases’ on Sunday, down from Saturday’s tally of 919. While 89 of them are currently hospitalised, the majority (685 people) of patients are under home isolation, while 109 patients are under observation at district covid centres. In the past week, Gurugram reduced its active patient load by close to 18 per cent (from 1084 on July 26 to 883 on August 2).Gurugram on Sunday also recorded 115 new recoveries (down from 140 the previous day), taking the district’s cumulative recovery rate to 89 percent (from 86 percent a week ago). Sunday marked the fifth straight day when daily recoveries exceeded new positive cases. No new deaths were recorded on Sunday either.The mortality rate in the district, thus far, is 1.34 percent (down from 1.39 percent a week ago), with 124 fatalities so far.Gurugram on Sunday also collected 1,217 new samples for testing, down from 1,890 samples collected on Saturday. Of these, 364 samples were taken by private labs for RT-PCR tests, while the majority of the remaining samples are those that will be tested by the health department.Gurugram’s daily growth rate of new cases, on Sunday, was 1.1 percent. The doubling-rate stood at 74 days (up from 47 days a week ago), while active cases make up only 9.5 percent of the reported case load (down from 13 percent a week ago).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-case-tally-touches-9-200-but-doubling-rate-now-74-days/story-hfKEucPaEtHWIdo1jVKXOM.html
03-08-2020||Gurugram||Assault over beef suspicion: 3policemen suspended; case transferred to crime branch||Three policemen were suspended on Sunday for failing to take action on the spot against a group of men who had allegedly stopped and beaten up a 25-year-old man with rods and hammer in Badshahpur area on the alleged suspicion that he was ferrying beef.On Saturday, the station house officer (SHO) of Badshahpur police station, under whose jurisdiction the incident took place, was transferred to police lines for negligence of duty and for failing to control the situation. The case has now been transferred from Badshahpur police station to the crime branch, police said. Investigators added that ten to 11 other suspects, who were involved in the incident, have been identified and several teams were conducting raids to arrest them. On Sunday, the crime branch of sector 10 nabbed a second suspect, Mahesh, 30, from his house in Rithoj village after a tip-off. Police said prima facie, Mahesh did not have a criminal record and works with a brick dealer. The police had earlier arrested one Pradeep Yadav, 28, a resident of Rajeev Nagar in the case. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “Three police officials, who were present at the spot while the victim was being assaulted, have been suspended and a departmental enquiry will be conducted against them. The action was taken for negligence of duty and failing to take action. An attempt to murder charge (section 307of Indian Penal Code) was added to the FIR and the suspect have been booked.” In several videos that started floating online on Friday, the suspects could be seen assaulting and kicking the victim, identified as Lukman, 25, as more than a dozen policemen looked on and tried to disperse a crowd. In a video, the victim is seen sitting cross legged while a man repeatedly kicks him in the face. In another video, as police are trying to push back a crowd from the truck, a man in a brown t-shirt could be seen lunging and hitting a rock on the truck’s windshield while some policemen lead the victim to a police car. The suspects are even spotted trying to force the victim out of the police vehicle. Meanwhile, the family of Lukman on Sunday alleged that the suspects continued to beat him up despite repeated pleas stating that he was transporting buffalo meat. Lukman’s father, Bilal, said, “Lukman pleaded with them to let him go and told them that he was ferrying buffalo meat. He even told them that if it was proved that he had beef in his truck, they would be free to hit him. But no one listened. They continued to beat him with rods and a hammer. He started praying but the suspects forced him to chant ‘Jai Siya Ram’. The suspects also threatened to burn him alive.” His family said that after initial check up at the civil hospital, Lukman was taken to a private hospital in Gurugram but they got him discharged since they could not afford the treatment there. Lukman has now been admitted to a hospital in Nuh. Lukman’s first cousin, Ehsan, said, He was beaten up by a group of people at two spots, in front of several policemen . Yet the suspects managed to get away. In the videos, it can be seen that the armed suspects were trying to push him out of the vehicle, abusing him and hitting him repeatedly while policemen just stood by and watched.” Responding to the allegations, the Gurugram police in a statement, said, “It has been made clear that such illegal activities will not be tolerated in the city by district administration and strict action would be taken against anyone who takes law into their own hands. The timely intervention by Gurugram police saved the life of the victim. We took him to a hospital too, from where he was treated and discharged after two hours. We are further taking care of him.” The incident took place around 9.30 am on Friday when Lukman, a native of Ghasera village in Nuh, was transporting buffalo in his pick-up truck to a shop near Jama Masjid. In the FIR registered at Badshahpur police station on Friday, Lukman had said, “ As I reached near a traffic signal in Badshahpur, several men on 4-5 motorcycles started following me. They tried to stop my vehicle but I sped towards Jama Masjid. A few lanes away from the mosque, near the Trunk Market, the men cornered me and assaulted me with rods. They broke the window panes of the truck. They took me to Jail road in Badshahpur and assaulted me, before a police team rescued me.” Police said that the arrested suspect, Mahesh, told the police that he and his aides suspected that the complainant was carrying cow meat in his pick-up truck and tried to stop him. A police official from crime branch, requesting anonymity, said, “The meat recovered from the truck was sent to the laboratory for testing and the results are still awaited.” KK Rao, police commissioner, Gurugram, said, “Strict action would be taken against anyone who tries to disrupt harmony. If any negligent conduct is found on part of the police, action will be duly taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/assault-over-beef-suspicion-3policemen-suspended-case-transferred-to-crime-branch/story-hnieExaI4E756Cyn2a38NO.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A mask in the crowd||So much has changed in just a few months. Auto rickshaw driver Shah Hasan barely manages to register the individuality of his customers anymore. “They’re always in masks.... a series of masks getting in and out of my auto,” he says, shaking his head. The gentleman is actually referring to masks as naqab, which means veil in Urdu.In his late 50s, Mr Hasan himself is in a mask. All one sees is his long unwieldy white beard, spreading out from under his “naqab” like a king’s rebellious subjects too stubborn to do his bidding.This time of the year tends to be very hot and also very humid, and the sweaty-faced Mr Hasan often struggles with the temptation of getting rid of his mask, he confesses. But then he remembers his promise to Hamsareen, his wife. After the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, she let him go out into the virus-ridden world under the condition that he would be wearing the mask at all times. “Poor woman, she was silently shedding tears when I first left home to drive the auto,” says Mr Hasan, recalling that just before he stepped out of their home in Northeast Delhi’s Bhalswa Dairy neighbourhood, his wife made a quick prayer while standing in the doorway. But the lady didn’t leave her husband’s protection to the higher power alone. “Every morning she herself re-fixes this plastic,” says Mr Hasan, gesturing towards the plastic sheet that separates him from the auto’s passenger seat. “It was her idea... she says that this way, even if a customer has corona and sneezes or coughs, the bimari (sickness) won’t reach me.”Initially, Hamsareen herself would stitch masks by the dozens for him as well as for her three sons, but later she turned to buying masks from chemist shops, once a relative told her on phone of their “double-proof safety”.To be sure, his wife had implored him to give up the profession until the world gets a teeka (vaccine) against corona. They could live off the earnings of their sons—this was her argument. “But I’m khuddar,” Mr Hasan says, insisting on the sanctity of his self-respect. “As long as I’m able to stand on my two feet, I should be able to feed at least myself and my woman.”He pauses before speaking up again: “The world cannot stop because of a bimari... one has to live, to earn, to keep having self-respect. One also has to take risks.”Every night, as the auto driver reaches home, he goes straight to wash himself, and changes into a clean ironed set of white salwar kurta and a clean white topi. His wife washes his grey uniform and the white topi he had been wearing during the day so that it is ready to be worn the next morning.Now the auto driver makes a revelation: “At times, I’m desperate to air the lips (he uses the Hindi phrase “hawa dena”)... so when there’s no one around, I take off the mask for a minute.” Mr Hasan’s bearded cheeks seem to expand under the mask, perhaps he is smiling. “And then it feels like AC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-mask-in-the-crowd/story-pJFI6ObW1vbZ36CUzb3mtO.html
03-08-2020||City||Gurugram: 30,000 city residents get water bills for the first time||Gurugram: For more than 30,000 people of the city, this week was the first time they received water bills from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), said officials Sunday. These 30,000 consumers are part of a list of 3.3 lakh residents that the civic body is aiming to start sending bills to, MCG officials said.Since June, however, using its property tax records, which has 3.97 lakh residents registered, MCG has tried to regularise water connections in the city.Officials said that 30,000 were sent quarterly water bills in the first phase of this process, and their bills were tabulated based on flat rates.As per officials privy to the matter, another reason for sending water bills was to encourage residents to get water metres installed in their households.“On an average, water bills on flat rates are usually 20-30% higher than the actual consumption. As residents are paying at a higher rate than their usage, it will encourage them to get their connections metered,” said an MCG official privy to the matter, asking not to be named.Under the flat rates, consumption of the first 20 kilolitres is charged at Rs 8 per kilolitre and for every kilolitre thereafter, the charges are Rs 10.In January 2018, MCG started taking over more than 40 residential sectors of Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). As part of the process, HSVP’s water connections were also transferred to MCG. Until last month, the MCG’s water supply wing had water connection records of only 67,000 consumers.“Regulating water connections and installing water meters are of utmost importance as it will not only encourage residents to conserve water, thus ensuring lower bills, but will also help us keep a check on illegal water connections. This will further help us analyse the exact amount of water required for the city, and see if there is a surplus or deficit in supply,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.In ten years the demand for water is projected to increase by four times in the city.As per a July 2019 estimate by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), the city’s daily demand will increase from 400 million litres per day (MLD) to 1,650 MLD.Gurugram gets its water supply from the Yamuna River through a 71 km canal from Kakroi, located near Sonipat.GMDA is currently working on increasing the existing length of the canal by another 3.5 kilometre by building a concrete canal that will further augment the city’s water supply by another 60%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-30-000-city-residents-get-water-bills-for-the-first-time/story-rw8S4nWRq1kzjHhWZs2vmO.html
03-08-2020||City||DHBVN officials, farm house owner booked illegal supply of electricity||The Faridabad Police has booked six people, including the owner of a farm house, for allegedly stealing electricity from a high-tension wire of Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (DHBVNL) and supplying it through underground cables to 45 farmhouses in Uttar Pradesh. No arrests have been made so far, said the police. As per the police, Illegal supply of electricity was provided to the farm houses in Greater Noida from Sector 66 of Faridabad. Police said, 11,000 lines were supplied and 24 transformers were running on these connections. The DHBVN has imposed a fine of ₹1.04 crore against the main accused, Pradeep Tyagi, owner of the Faridabad farm house, who had been stealing electricity. A case under sections 136 and 137 of the Electricity Act 2003; sections 120 B (conspiracy), 204 (destruction of document ) and 463(forgery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 7 and 8 of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 was registered at Bhupani Police station in Faridabad. The suspects have been identified as former sub-divisional officer (SDO) Sandeep Kundu, ex-junior engineer (JE) Nishant Rohilla, JE Jai Jitendra Singh, outsourced staff Devi Ram and Kanhaiya Lal, and Pradeep Tyagi, a resident of village Dadasiya. The commissioner of police of Faridabad, O P Singh, said that a raid was conducted by the DHBVN officials on July 16, 19 and 22 in village Kirawali situated across Yamuna river, after the authority received a tip-off. “On July 14, director of operations of DHBVN received information about the theft of electricity, following which a team was formed under the leadership of XEN (energy audit) Shamsher Singh, along with SDO (energy audit) Ajit Kumar, SDO Upendera Kumar, and other officials from the department,” he said. Singh said according to the inspection team a spot check conducted at the site revealed that high tension line erected by DHBVN across the banks of Yamuna for supply of electricity to Pradeep Tyagi was being illegally tapped beneath a 100-KVA transformer installed at the site by using an underground three-core 11 KV XLPE 70mm cable. The line was connected to an alien parallel distribution network of iron and tubular poles spread outside the licence area or the jurisdiction of DHBVN into Uttar Pradesh . “The electricity connection issued to Tyagi was for 15-KW load, which could be catered through a 25-KVA transformer. The 25-KVA transformer had been illegally changed into a 100-KVA transformer to increase the capacity that would enable the supply of stolen electricity to more premises. The alien distribution network, among other infrastructure, consisted of 24 step-down transformers of 100-KVA and 25-KVA capacities,” he said. The police said it was also discovered later that out of these transformers, 23 step-down transformers did not bear any identification plate recording the ownership details, make, or the year of manufacturing. All these transformers were used to provide supply of electricity to the occupants of at least 45 farm houses in Uttar Pradesh, said the police. The electricity meter installed at the premises of Tyagi was lying disconnected beneath the 100-KVA transformer and his premises were directly connected to the distribution network bypassing the meter. The DHBVN officials recovered the meter and the original LT cable that was installed to connect the meter. “The recovery shows that the poles were DHBVN’s property and were stolen by the suspects in connivance with DHVBN officers and employees, who have been booked for the conspiracy. This fraud not only leads to revenue loss but is also against the law,” he said Singh said neither Tyagi’s farm house nor the 45 other farm houses have any legal electricity connection from the concerned distribution licensee of Uttar Pradesh. In fact, the distribution licensee of Uttar Pradesh had disconnected the supply of electricity to the 45 farm houses sometime in 2013-2014, after which the owners of these farm houses arranged for the installation of the high tension line and associated infrastructure across the Yamuna river for the illegal supply of electricity. The police have formed teams who are investigating the matter further.Shamsher Singh, XEN (energy audit) of DHBVN of Hisar said that they have estimated that the amount of electricity stolen was around 220 KV and during preliminary investigation they have found that three former and two present employees were involved in the theft. “After taking the stock of the situation, a case was registered against the farm house owner and officials,” he said . Subhash Chand, SHO, irrigation and electricity police station, said that they have served notice to owners of 44 farm houses of Greater Noida and have given them ultimatum of seven days to pay a fine of ₹1.04 crore, failing which they would be arrested. Police said that the fraud came in notice after an employee of one of the farm houses, whose salary was deducted , informed DHBVN office (Hisar range) and narrated the entire matter, following which a team from the Hisar office conducted an initial probe on July 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dhbvn-officials-farm-house-owner-booked-illegal-supply-of-electricity/story-bmtvCJtkBkaGjGXx24TIAP.html
03-08-2020||City||Delhi govt-funded colleges in DU struggle to pay staff salaries, bills||Twelve Delhi University (DU) colleges fully funded by the Delhi government are struggling to pay salaries to teaching and non-teaching staff, and electricity and other bills, for the last three months due to the shortage of funds. Officials at Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College (DDU) said their phone and internet connections were disconnected as they could not pay the dues for four months. While some of these colleges have paid salaries to their teaching staff for the month of May by diverting funds from other accounts, majority of them are yet to pay salaries for the last three months. Although the Delhi government said it has released funds for salaries, officials at these colleges said the money is “insufficient”. A senior official in the government’s finance department said there is a major shortage of funds because of the pandemic.“Revenues have dropped. The Capital recorded revenue collections of less than 40% for the first four months of the financial year 2020-21 compared to the corresponding period in the previous year. Till June, the government was facing difficulties even in paying salaries of employees. Large portions of funds were utilised in Covid management. The government has sought financial assistance of Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre but it is yet to receive any amount,” the official quoted above said. Hem Chand Jain, principal of DDU, said their phone and internet connections were disconnected and electricity connection will be snapped soon. “The college has Rs 17.6 crore deficit of which Rs 8 crore is required for the payment of salaries. The Delhi government has already paid Rs 2.3 crore twice in March and April but it was not sufficient. Our monthly expenditure on salary payment is Rs 2.7 crore. We could not pay salaries to our teaching and non-teaching staff since May. How can the government think we would be able to meet all expenditures with such an insufficient fund?” he said.Jain said the college could not pay electricity bills, property tax and other pending expenditures since April. “We are getting repeated calls from the electricity board. We could not pay the electricity bill for the last four months and now we have to pay Rs 40 lakh together. We are soon going to lose the connection if the amount is not paid at the earliest. It will be a big issue since we have staff and some international students living at the campus,” he said.Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said, “We have already released the salary funds but the government is also short of funds.”A similar situation prevails in other 11 colleges, including Keshav Mahavidyalaya, Shaheed Rajguru College for Applied Sciences for Women, Maharaja Agrasen College and Acharya Narendra Dev College. There are around 1,200 teaching and 900 non-teaching staff members employed on a permanent basis in these colleges, other than the contractual staff.DU’s Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said the university had written to the Delhi government several times in the last three months over the issue. “In April, the colleges had a backlog of previous months. The funds received were also insufficient. If the college required Rs 7 crore, only Rs 2 crore was transferred to them. How is it even possible for the colleges to function in such circumstances,” he said.Ravi Toteja, principal of Acharya Narendra Dev College, said, “We could not pay salaries to our teaching and non-teaching staff members since April. We are yet to pay our electricity and other bills. Our connection can be disconnected anytime soon.”Beside salaries and bills, these colleges are struggling to maintain infrastructure and other facilities. Payal Mago, principal of Shaheed Rajguru College for Applied Sciences for Women, said, “The college has a sewage treatment plant at its campus. Due to the non-payment of salaries, the PWD removed the technician looking after the plant and now sewer water is flowing all over the campus. But we do not have funds to fix it.” The college paid electricity bills till last month, diverting funds from students’ funds.DU Teachers’ Association president Rajib Ray said, “It’s absolutely inhuman that our colleagues working in these colleges are unpaid for the last three months. The government should immediately release all pending funds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-funded-colleges-in-du-struggle-to-pay-staff-salaries-bills/story-swkF8YqCuOQJ2ah6wLoG4J.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 deaths in Delhi cross 4k-mark, 961 new infections||The Covid-19 death toll in the Capital crossed the 4,000-mark on Tuesday, with the city recording 15 new deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the Delhi government’s health bulletin.The cumulative death toll in the city stands at 4,004.Sunday’s toll is the lowest daily toll in the city since May 12, when Delhi recorded 13 Covid-19 deaths in the 24-hours corresponding to the bulletin, Delhi health department records showed.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs on Sunday, Delhi had recorded 137,677 total cases of the infection, of whom, 123,317 persons have recovered.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a tweet said, “Deaths in Delhi come down to 15.  Less than 1,000 cases. Lets all keep working hard to ensure that the downward trend continues.”The CM’s office said he was referring to the 961 new daily cases that were added to Delhi’s total infection count over the last 24 hours. The first death of the infectious disease in Delhi took place on March 13. The death toll touched 1,000 in 29 days. The next thousand deaths (1000 to 2000) were recorded in eight days. The following thousand deaths (2000 to 3000) took place in 15 days. The latest thousand deaths (3000 to 4000) took 29 days, government records showed.The most deaths in a 24-hour period — 101 – were recorded on June 11.In May, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had set up a death audit committee that analysed records pertaining to all Covid-19 deaths, including suspected ones, a panel that is still functional.Data shared by the chief minister’s office last week showed that Covid-19 deaths in the Capital had dropped 44.50% in the first 12 days of July compared to the corresponding period in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-deaths-in-delhi-cross-4k-mark-961-new-infections/story-8GfrcT7pVXxrfBxp2bsk3M.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||Two men held for posing as DSIIDC staffers, duping people of over Rs8 crore||The Delhi Police have arrested two men who allegedly posed as employees of the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (DSIIDC) and duped several people on the pretext of allotting them industrial land at steep costs. Police said the men have so far duped people of at least Rs8 crore. Luxury cars and a flat they bought with the cheated money have been seized, the police said.The two arrested men are Vikram Saxena, 34, who has also been involved in a case of cheating in Delhi previously, and Saxena’s brother-in-law Mudit Kumar, 38. Kumar is a law graduate and was enrolled as a member at the Allahabad bar council. Two years ago, he came to Delhi and started practising law at Patiala house court. He has no previous criminal involvements, police said.DSIIDC is an agency responsible for several major infrastructure projects in the national capital.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said that in March and February this year, the law-enforcement agency had received multiple complaints at the Connaught Place police station, all of them alleging they were duped by two men from DSIIDC who took hefty sums from them, promising to allot industrial land in the city. “A core team was set up to probe the fraud. An initial probe revealed that the two suspects met all the targets at coffee shops in Connaught Place near the DSIIDC office. By showing them fake allotment papers, the duo took money in demand drafts and cash. People had even paid up to Rs1.8 crore,” Singhal said. He added, following months of enquiry and technical surveillance, the teams succeeded in locating Saxena in Dehradun. “Our team raided his Dehradun hideout on July 20, and arrested him. Based on information he provided us, we arrested Mudit Kumar from Saharanpur on July 27,” he said.The two used to provide receipts against the payments received. “The two have confessed to have duped people of at least Rs8 crore,” Singhal added.“The DSIIDC itself suggested the victims approach the police, and have ourselves lodged a complaint with the Connaught Place police station,” a senior DSIIDC official said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-held-for-posing-as-dsiidc-staffers-duping-people-of-over-8-crore/story-E6nLOWS7o5qz1m3ECWJ4UO.html
03-08-2020||Delhi||Man who killed taxi driver to sell his vehicle nabbed, hunt on for others||Delhi Police on Sunday arrested a man and claimed to have busted a gang that booked outstation cabs from Delhi before murdering the driver and fleeing with his vehicle and other valuables.Police said the arrested suspect, identified as Vikas Tomar, killed a taxi driver in June this year and might have been involved in a similar murder in 2008. Investigators said they had launched efforts to arrest other members of the gang and were trying to ascertain if they were involved in multiple murders. Tomar, police said, is a resident of Baghpat in UP. He is a graduate and is married two kids.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) PK Mishra said that on June 15 a missing persons report was lodged by the family members of a cab driver Pradeep Singhal, 35, of Vijay Vihar, Rohini. the family alleged that Singhal had gone missing on June 12 along with his taxi.“A search operation was started and after checking call details and a number of CCTV footages, we received information about a body that was recovered in Rabupura district of Gautam Buddha Nagar, which resembled Singhal. The body was later positively identified as that of Singhal by his family. A case of murder was registered and investigations started,” Mishra said.During preliminary probe, when police teams scanned through Singhal’s call details, they zeroed down on three suspicious mobile phone numbers. “Following days of surveillance we managed to identify the prime suspect as VikasTomar, who may have been previously involved in a murder case of a taxi driver in 2008 and is currently out on bail. His hideouts were raided and we finally managed to arrest him on July 26,” Mishra said.The DCP said Tomar led the police team to the spot where he had dumped Singhal’s body. Further, on Tomar’s instance, we also recovered the taxi from Kaushambi, Uttar Pradesh that he was trying to sell through his associates in UP but failed, Mishra said.The officer said, during interrogation Tomar confessed to having killed Singhal. “He said he and his associates booked the taxi for Meerut through an app based cab service provider on June 12. On their way they befriended the cab driver Singhal and got him drunk. When Singhal was inebriated, they bludgeoned him to death and dumped his body in a canal. They then took the taxi to Kanpur to sell it for Rs 2 lakh. He also confessed that he had looted a taxi in a similar way by murdering a taxi driver in 2008,” the DCP said, adding that they’re also probing if Tomar is involved in multiple murders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-who-killed-taxi-driver-to-sell-his-vehicle-nabbed-hunt-on-for-others/story-azQ6fjIIBVR5f7cIi9g4vN.html
03-08-2020||City||Palghar villagers climb trees in search of mobile network||Residents of Ujjaini, Akhada, Mangrol, Ogdha, Panchghar and other hamlets in Wada taluka of Palghar district are coping with a communication nightmare. The villagers are forced to climb on top of the trees in search of mobile network to talk to their near and dear ones. “The students of Class 10 and 12 also had to climb trees to check their results online,” said Ramesh Patil, a resident of Wada. The village gram panchayats have written to all service providers regarding the network issues, but so far none of the companies has responded, said Vasant Bhoir, another resident.“The villagers are compelled to climb tall trees. There is a risk of falling, losing life or inviting fractures, especially during the monsoon. But there is no other way,” said Patil. The villagers, however, choose only those trees that have strong branches and are tall so that there is less risk, he added. Pravin Kuwara, a resident of Akhada village, said that while the young can climb trees, senior citizens in the village are helpless. “Youngsters risk their lives and climb the trees to talk over phones, but for senior citizens these phones are merely used as a torch to traverse through the forest,” he said.Another resident who travels 6 kms everyday to access network said, “We are being cheated by the big mobile service providers. They are ignoring the rural areas and are not installing towers here. Everyday is a struggle for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-villagers-climb-trees-in-search-of-mobile-network/story-SGAVyBUMVaucDJZp3G9tXN.html
03-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case: Patna SP in Mumbai to supervise probe||For the investigation into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, Vinay Kumar Tiwari, superintendent of police of Patna city, arrived in Mumbai on Sunday, amid reports that the Mumbai police was not cooperating with the four-member special investigation team (SIT) from Bihar which arrived five days ago. The SIT was formed after Rajput’s father filed a case of abetment to suicide against Sushant’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty.Tiwari said, “It is not right to say that there is no coordination between the Bihar and Mumbai police. This investigation requires supervision of a senior officer, which is why I have been sent. So far, there are no plans to arrest Chakraborty. When we feel the need to question Chakraborty, we will do it.”He said the Patna police had not received case-related documents from the Mumbai Police yet and he would try and get access to the documents.Anil Deshmukh, home minister of Maharashtra on Sunday, tweeted, “Mumbai Police already began investigating allegations about Sushant’s unfortunate alleged suicide. Even if Bihar Police registered an offence in Patna, under Chapter 12 (information to the police and their powers to investigate) and 13 (jurisdiction of criminal courts in inquiries and trials) of the CrPC, it has to be investigated, inquired & tried by police & courts within whose jurisdiction the offence is committed. I condemn the demand for the Sushant case to be handed to CBI. The case is now being politcised for political gains. Maharashtra Police is inquiring into the case professionally & are competent in digging out the truth, leaving no stone unturned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/patna-sp-in-mumbai-to-supervise-probe/story-V50TXagdVnXXvpKOnu9RMK.html
03-08-2020||India||Raksha Bandhan 2020: Denizens prefer online rakhis for variety and quirk factor||Great variety, quirky themes, no hassle of going to the market — more so considering the social distancing norms put in place — online rakhis are a hit this season. And given that there’s something for everyone in the online world, why wouldn’t they be! So ahead of Raksha Bandhan (August 3), here’s your guide to which rakhi to choose for your sibling:Gurugram-based Upasana Mahatani, shares, “I have bought rakhi online for the first time for my brother in New York, USA. One of our entrepreneur moms was selling some adorable food rakhis, so we ordered those.” Pawan Gadia, CEO, Retail & Online, Ferns N Petals, India, UAE & Singapore, shares, “We have come up with 1,000 plus trendy designs of rakhis this year, and some of the unique offerings are agate rakhi, food trails rakhi, etc. We get over 10k orders every day, and deliver in over 80 countries.”Another Gurugram resident, Astuti Bhatnagar, says, “I want simple rakhis for my brothers and elegant ones for my bhabhis. The kind they can wear for more than a day. I have seen a few entrepreneurs selling some really cool ones, and I’m going to order them online.”A Delhiite, Sakshi Jain, says, “I haven’t really thought of venturing out to the markets this year to buy rakhis. I will order them online or will ask my daughters to make them. Although, we did use the online service this time to send rakhis to my brother in the USA.”Abhir Bhalla, a student from a Haryana-based university, says, “Since I wanted to avoid visiting the market because of the pandemic, I decided to order it online. It’s convenient because you can choose from all the options in one place. It’s just like ordering clothes and groceries online; something many of us have shifted to in recent times.” Shivika Mathur, an Udaipur-based student, bought a stethoscope rakhi online for her doctor brother. She says, “I was bored of buying rakhis from the market and wanted a fun design. The quality is top-notch, and you can wear it for a long time too. The variety and pricing are great as well.”Jaipur-based Pallavi Maroo says, “I prefer buying rakhis online or at exhibitions as they are unique and not available in local shops. Since there are no exhibitions this year, I bought cubic zirconia (CZ) stone rakhis online.”Delhi-based Priyansha Sharma has bought a dumbbell shaped rakhi for her brother. “It is perfect for him as he’s a gym and fitness enthusiast. In the traditional way of shopping, I’d have to go from one place to another in search of the perfect rakhi, which means more time and more cost. But with online portals, my perfect rakhi was just a few clicks away,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/raksha-bandhan-2020-denizens-prefer-online-rakhis-for-variety-and-quirk-factor/story-LxIQV66zAQGiTnNPLlZ4cP.html
