04-08-2020||Mumbai||2 missing after boat with 13 fishermen capsizes near Gorai||A fishing boat, Lucky Star, carrying around 13 fishermen, capsized around 10 nautical miles away from the Gorai coast on Tuesday afternoon. While 11 fishermen were rescued by another boat, God King, two people are still missing. Senior inspector Sanjeev Narkar of Gorai police station said the incident occurred around 2pm. “We have informed to Indian Coast Guard (ICG) and Indian Navy to help with the search operations to find the two missing people.” Following the request, the ICG sent a rescue boat. “We received information about the incident and a rescue boat has been dispatched for the rescue operation,” commandant RK Singh of the coast guard said. The boat was in the sea since August 1. “It seems like while returning to the shore, the boat capsized around 10 nautical miles away from the coast. The reason behind the incident is not clear. It could be because of the rough sea and high tide or due to a technical problem with the boat. It will be clear once we record the statements of the rescued fishermen,” said Narkar. The rescued fishermen will undergo a medical check-up. “A team has been informed to wait at Gorai coast to provide medical help to the two missing people after they are found. The rescued fishermen will be taken to a local hospital for a medical check-up,” said Narkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-missing-after-boat-with-13-fishermen-capsizes-near-gorai/story-AAq7xXwk5Udj7nTz4hZjSL.html
04-08-2020||City||Want to work for welfare of agrarian society, says UPSC topper Pradeep Singh||Pradeep Singh from Haryana’s Sonepat district has topped the prestigious Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examination 2019, which selects people to join the Indian Administrative Service, Indian Foreign Service, Indian Police Service, Indian Revenue Service and other civil services after three gruelling rounds of assessment. 29-year-old Pradeep, a farmer’s son, is currently undergoing training at the National Academy of Customs, Indirect Taxes and Narcotics in Faridabad. A native of Ganaur’s Tewri village, Pradeep said, “My father Sukhbir Singh, who served as sarpanch for two terms, inspired me to become an IAS officer. He always wanted to work for the welfare of the farming community,” he added. ‘MY FATHER HELPED ME WHENEVER I HIT A WALL’About his route to success, Pradeep said, “My focus was to cover targeted syllabus everyday. UPSC demands undeviating attention and sometimes, I felt that I was not consistent. But, my father always encouraged me.” “After completing my graduation, I cleared the SSC exam and got my first job as an income tax officer in Delhi five years ago. I sat for the UPSC civil services exam four times. Last year, I got 260th rank,” the UPSC topper added. Pradeep said it was quite difficult for him to juggle between studies and job. “Some of my friends also helped me in cracking this exam. I have achieved this feat by resorting to self-study,” he added. Pradeep studied till Class 7 in government school at Tewri before his family moved to Sonepat. He did his Class 12 from Shambhu Dayal Modern School, Sonepat, in 2008 and engineering from Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology in Sonepat’s Murthal in 2012. His elder brother Ajit is married and younger sister Manisha is a postgraduate in mathematics. Their mother is a homemaker. “Pradeep has made every Haryanavi proud today. I want to tell all farmers and labourers that their children have more potential to become an IAS officer,” his father Sukhbir said. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has congratulated Pradeep for securing top spot in the examination. “Pradeep has brought laurels to Haryana,” he said in a message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/want-to-work-for-welfare-of-agrarian-society-says-upsc-topper-pradeep-singh/story-apI7OY6Fvfo4uC55C0yn2J.html
04-08-2020||City||With eye on 2022 municipal polls, AAP to restructure party unit in Delhi||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will restructure the party organisation across ranks in Delhi to prepare for the municipal elections, scheduled to be held in 2022, with the focus on party workers and volunteers in the forefront of the 2020 assembly elections campaign. AAP’s Delhi convener Gopal Rai said the process will begin Wednesday, adding people who have led from the front during the Covid crisis may also be given posts. Currently, the three municipal corporations in Delhi are ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In 2017, the party won 64 out of 104 seats in the north Delhi municipal body, 70 out of 104 in the south Delhi municipal body and 47 out of 64 in the east Delhi municipal body. “The AAP is going to initiate a process of restructuring within its organisation in Delhi keeping a close watch on the forthcoming Delhi municipal corporation elections. Changes will be made at the assembly level, district level, ward level, polling station level, and at the booth level. The restructuring will commence from August 5. New responsibilities will be given to those who performed well in the 2020 assembly elections,” said Rai.He further said, “Under this process, the performance of everyone in the assembly elections held in February 2020, ranging from a volunteer to office bearers will be reviewed and those with praiseworthy performances will be given priority. At the same time, those who played a significant role during corona crises in the ration and food distribution, in creating awareness about proper sanitisation and ensuring social distancing are being considered for new responsibilities to build a strong volunteer organisation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-eye-on-2022-municipal-polls-aap-to-restructure-party-unit-in-delhi/story-giNQuwrZ6ELbykKwVj5aYP.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records second highest 24-hour August rain in 10 years||The city and suburbs witnessed the most intense showers of the season between Monday night and Tuesday morning, making it the second highest 24-hour August rain in 10 years at 268.6mm, and also taking Mumbai’s rain tally past the 2,000-mm mark, with almost two months of the monsoon still remaining. While the red alert (extremely heavy rain across isolated areas) prediction for Wednesday stays, a yellow alert (heavy rain at isolated places) has been issued for Thursday for Mumbai, even as the red alert continues for Thane and Palghar. Between 8.30pm on Monday and 8.30am on Tuesday, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 268.6mm rain, of which 251mm was over a 12-hour period between 8.30pm on Monday and 8.30am on Tuesday. On Tuesday, between 8.30am and 8.30pm, the suburbs recorded 29.3mm rain, while 19mm was recorded in south Mumbai. Borivli recorded the highest rain at 30.2mm, followed by BKC at 28.4mm. The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 252.2mm rain over 24 hours, with 214 mm over 12 hours. Mumbai recorded the highest rain across the state between Monday and Tuesday. Mumbai has received 310mm rain this month, 53% of its August average. The seasonal rain tally on Tuesday evening (from June 1 to 8.30pm on August 4) for the suburbs reached 2,198.9mm, which was 97% of the seasonal target of 2260.4mm. Similarly south Mumbai recorded 2,038mm for the season so far against the target of 2,066mm, covering 98% of the required rainfall. The highest 24-hour August rain for the decade was recorded on July 30, 2017 at 331.4mm, while the all-time high was on July 23, 1997 at 346.2mm. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday announced the formation of a low-pressure system over north Bay of Bengal (BoB). “As per the accurate forecast, the Konkan coast including Mumbai witnessed intense showers stemming from the low pressure system in BoB. This trend is likely to continue, and necessary warnings were issued to respective government departments well in advance,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD. According to the IMD, the wind speed ranged between 55-60 kmph between 4am and 6am in parts of south Mumbai and 41-45kmph in the suburbs. When cyclone Nisarga had brushed past the city, the wind speed was 92kmph in south Mumbai and 74kmph in the suburbs. “Active monsoon conditions over the Arabian Sea led to high convection and localised circulation that enhanced rain activity, thunderstorms and overnight gusty winds. After a minor break through the day on Tuesday, extremely heavy rain is likely to pick up on Wednesday again,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Independent meteorologists said an offshore trough and a vortex system (localised circulation) were activated on Monday night paving the way for extremely heavy rain. “North Konkan including Mumbai, Palghar, Thane, and Raigad should continue to remain on high alert for the next 48 hours,” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay. Like other thunderstorms, the vortex weakened on Tuesday morning leading to a sharp reduction in rainfall, said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-second-highest-24-hour-august-rain-in-10-years/story-8yimpwnqCvkzDEdLDZArkN.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||341 Palghar fishing boats stranded at mid-sea; fisheries department mulls calling in coast guard for help||Around 341 fishing trawlers from Palghar and neighbouring Thane district have been stranded at mid-sea, 45 to 55 nautical miles (1 nautical mile equals 1.8km) from the nearest coast, due to the torrential downpour on Tuesday. On August 1, 37 fishing trawlers had left from the coasts of Vasai, Arnala, and Naigaon; 238 from Satpati, Murbhe, Nawapur, and Dandi, and 60 from Uttan coast. They have not returned yet.“We have informed the respective fish workers’ societies to maintain contact with the fishermen stranded at sea and told them to return to base. We may also contact the coast guard, Dahanu to join in the search and rescue operations if needed,” said Ajinkya Patil, assistant commissioner, fisheries, Palghar.Fishing resumed on Narali Purnima on August 3, after the monsoon-season ban was lifted by the fisheries department. Heavy rain showers are expected to continue along the Maharashtra-Goa belt till August 7, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.Trawler avoids mid-sea collision with cargo shipOn Tuesday morning, fishing trawler – Morya – piloted by Suraj Chowdhary of Satpati, Palghar, with 14 khalasis (fish labourers) on board, was returning to base amid heavy rainfall and winds, when it has a near collision with an unidentified cargo vessel. The ship was around 100 feet away from the trawler when the captain blew the horn, and Chowdhary veered the trawler to avoid a collision. Chowdhary informed a member of a fish worker welfare co-operative society at Satpati about the near-collision via the boat’s wireless system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/341-palghar-fishing-boats-stranded-at-mid-sea-fisheries-department-mulls-calling-in-coast-guard-for-help/story-2ZvSJoMiUDwYFYVPVPxeMP.html
04-08-2020||City||Govt to crack down on tax defaulters in Delhi||New Delhi: Nearly 10,800 companies in Delhi have paid lesser or zero tax between January and March this year because of which the revenue dropped by over Rs 2,000 crore compared to the same period last year, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday.To take stock of the situation, Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s finance minister, held a meeting with the state trade and taxes department on Tuesday. During the meeting, Sisodia directed officials to intensify the crackdown on companies evading taxes and evaluate as many as 700,000 companies registered under the goods and services taxes (GST).Data showed that the department, so far, has analysed around 15,000 companies having a high turnover, of which 970 companies did not pay tax to the government despite charging from the consumers. Of the 10,800 defaulting companies, 9.73% firms were those dealing in real estate, leasing and rentals. Around 8.83% companies belonged to the services sector and 5.46% are consulting firms.The Delhi government received around Rs 2,015 crore lesser tax than last year during this period. In 2019, it collected around Rs 5,792 crore as tax returns, but this year the tax collection was only Rs 3,777 crore.“The Delhi government has started issuing 3A notices to the defaulting 10,800 taxpayers and in case they fail to file their return within the prescribed time of 15 days, the department will proceed to make best judgment assessment of such taxpayers. The Delhi government has also issued notices against 111 liquor companies that did not pay VAT (value-added tax) from January to March,” Sisodia said. The deputy chief minister appealed to the companies to immediately deposit the pending tax. “This is public money which the companies have collected from the people, but did not deposit it with the government. This will affect development works for the citizens, including the fight against the Covid pandemic. The Delhi government will take stringent action against the companies who will not deposit the full tax,” he said.A senior official in the trade and taxes department said the government is also identifying general taxpayers who are evading tax. “The department has been able to recover Rs. 10 crore from two such defaulting companies in the last one week,” the official said.Last week, three major search operations were conducted against the defaulters, including marble and granite companies and bulk taxpayers, the government said in a statement. “Rs 20.70 lakh was collected from them. In one case, the company’s office was sealed. In the second case, the company’s papers were confiscated. The Delhi government has also taken action against movement of goods without carrying e-way bills. With effect from June 23, around 140 vehicles have been detained and tax and penalty to the tune of around Rs. 1 crore were collected,” it said.“Of the 15,000 high turnover taxpayers that were analysed, almost 970 taxpayers belonging to both Centre and state jurisdiction have not filed returns for Q4 2019-20 and Q1 2020-21. The extended time period granted for the filing of GST return for Q1 2020-21 had expired in July 2020,” the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-to-crack-down-on-tax-defaulters-in-delhi/story-qLLaK9UOgmQ79E78AmDuMK.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||AAP stages protest over hooch tragedy||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday held a protest against the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government over Punjab’s worst hooch tragedy that has claimed more than 110 lives in three districts. The protesters led by AAP’s state unit president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann and several MLAs squatted on the road in nearby Mullanpur when they were stopped from proceedings towards the chief minister’s farmhouse at Siswan in Mohali to ‘gherao’ him. There were heated arguments between the AAP leaders, including Mann and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, and the police personnel when they were stopped from going to the CM’s house. The protesters sat on the road, raising slogans against the Punjab government for not being allowed to exercise their democratic right. Several party members were detained and taken to a police station in Mohali where they were later released. The party, in a press statement later, also said that some leaders, including Garshankar MLA Jai Kishan Singh Rori, were also injured in the jostling. Demanding a CBI probe, Mann said the AAP leaders wanted to inform Amarinder minister the alleged “unholy alliance” of the Congress leaders and MLAs with various mafias who were enjoying patronage of the ruling party. He said the chief minister was also the minister in-charge of home and excise but had not visible on the ground for the past three years. “The idea was to stir him out of deep slumber but there was heavy deployment of police force which did not allow us to meet and inform him about all that is going on in the state,” he said. Earlier, the AAP leaders and members had planned to gather at the party office in Chandigarh and move towards the chief minister’s residence in Mullanpur, but were not allowed to assembly there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aap-stages-protest-over-hooch-tragedy/story-uF1dikHr7ELWoVkHH3iidI.html
04-08-2020||City||HOOCH TRAGEDY: Jalandhar divisional commissioner to begin magisterial probe on Aug 6||The Jalandhar divisional commissioner will visit Amritsar on Thursday to start the magisterial probe into Punjab’s worst-ever hooch tragedy that has claimed 111 lives so far. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on July 31 had ordered the probe by divisional commissioner Raj Kamal Chaudhary into the deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts. Chaudhary will first hold meetings with the inquiry committee in Amritsar to carry forward the probe. He said the probe would be to look into all aspects of the tragedy, including the source of the spurious liquor, ingredients used in its preparation and how it was distributed and the role of people or agencies involved. He also appealed to the general public to share information related to the tragic episode on e-mail div.com.jal@punjab.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hooch-tragedy-jalandhar-divisional-commissioner-to-begin-magisterial-probe-on-aug-6/story-6bDyjYnwHiuKbwkFH4tYoJ.html
04-08-2020||City||HOOCH TRAGEDY: Cong, Akali leaders from supply hub of killer spirit under lens||The role of a Congress leader as well as a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) activist from Pandoori Gola village in the Khadoor Sahib constituency has come under scanner in death of 111 persons due to consumption of illicit liquor in Tarn Taran and adjoining districts of Amritsar and Gurdaspur. Located just 4 kilometres from the district headquarters, Pandoori Gola, the police believe, was the hub from where the killer spirit was distributed to various villages and towns of the three Majha districts.Kashmir Singh, a village resident who fought the zila parishad elections in 2018 on the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) ticket, has been named as an accused while the role of sitting sarpanch Kulwinder Singh Babbu, who owes allegiance to the ruling Congress, is also under scanner. Kashmir along with six others was arrested on Saturday by the Tarn Taran police after the initial reports of deaths emerged. He was booked under Sections 304 (culpable homicide), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 61-1-14 of the Excise Act.Kashmir’s brother Harjit Singh and the latter’s sons Satnam and Shamsher are seen as some of the key players in the case. Police say Harjit Singh and his two sons were in contact with Moga’s Avtar Singh, who allegedly sold three drums of the spirit which is believed to be the cause of the deaths, to them for Rs 84,000. The drums were found hidden in the bushes near the village.Harjit and his sons sold part of the spirit to Gobinder Singh of Jandiala, who further supplied it to Muchhal village in Amritsar and Gurdaspur’s Batala town, say the police. The residents of the village said Kashmir and Harjit are into the illicit liquor trade for the last two decades despite the police being aware about it.Kashmir lost the election as a member of zila parishad against Congress’ Jaswant Singh. SSP: ‘NO TECHNICAL EVIDENCE AGAINST VILLAGE HEAD SO FAR’Village sarpanch Kulwinder Singh has also been booked in the case. Kulwinder’s wife said, “My husband has been booked by the police under political pressure. He is innocent.” Some residents of the village said he had been sheltering those into selling illicit liquor in the village. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said, “Kulwinder’s role is being probed. Till now, no technical evidence has been found against him.”Tarn Taran zila parishad former chairman and SAD leader Baldev Singh, who is a resident of the same village, said, “Kashmir Singh was fielded as a party candidate when Ravinder Singh Brahmpura was the in-charge of the constituency. When Ravinder Singh’s father and former MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpra parted his way with the party, Kashmir also joined the rebels.”Ravinder Brahmpura, said, “Kashmir joined our group in 2019, but he went back to the Akali Dal after my father’s tenure as MP came to an end.”SAD district president Virsa Singh Valtoha said, “All accused should be punished strictly no matter which political party they belong to. People are also accusing Congress’ Khadoor Sahib MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki’s personal assistant (PA) Jarmanjit Singh of being involved. Action should be taken against him too.”Sikki said attempts were being made o defame him by dragging his PA’s name in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hooch-tragedy-cong-akali-leaders-from-supply-hub-of-killer-spirit-under-lens/story-M4jJR2IQg3IYwazg4FsCbP.html
04-08-2020||City||Operating from canal banks, zero line, bootleggers in border belt keep cops on toes||Running illicit breweries on canal banks, village streets to isolated spots near the zero line, bootleggers in the border belt of south Malwa districts have been giving the police and the excise department officials a tough time. The business of manufacturing illicit liquor by villagers in the region is not new as it has been going on for the last several decades. Most of those into bootlegging, including women, are repeat offenders as they evade strict legal action due to the toothless Excise Act, say the officials.Every district in the region has villages that have earned the notoriety for distilling illicit liquor in bulk. In Fazilka district, Mahlam, Hindu Mal Kot (located on the line zero on Pakistan border) and Chananwala areas are among the most infamous for distilling liquor. Kattianwali in Muktsar district and Bathinda’s Bir Talab, Nathana and Talwandi Sabo areas are known for producing illicit liquor.Police officials say tracks between the Pakistan border and the Sutlej in Ferozepur district are commonly used to brew liquor.“Floodplains and small islands in the river areas along the international border have restricted access due to the Border Security Force (BSF) protocol. Thus they become haven for bootleggers. The brewers work in connivance with the corrupt low-rung cops,” says a senior police official.Another official said as authorised liquor vends are not available in some of the far-off places in the border belt, villagers prefer buying illicit liquor which comes at relatively cheap price.Besides, highly unhygienic ways are adopted to produce liquor.Fazilka senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harjit Singh said raiding Mahlama and two other villages is a weekly exercise as lahan (raw material used to manufacture liquor) in hundreds of liters is destroyed every month. Since it is a herculean task to store huge quantity of illicit liquor at the police stations, it is preferred to dismantle such unauthorised breweries with a stern warning to villagers, he said.“Villagers dig large pits outside their houses to brew liquor. In the last three months, we have seized and destroyed over 1.25 lakh liters of lahan at Mahlam alone. A section of villagers at Hindu Mal Kot have brewing units in the adjoining Rajasthan and we frequently make joint raid with the Sriganganagar police,” said the SSP.“There is no data on how illicit liquor gradually affects the health of consumers. It is easily available at villages but civil society activists, including those of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), who have a wide network of volunteers, have hardly ever raised the issue of unauthorised liquor to build a societal pressure on the administration and the government,” says a senior police official.Newly appointed Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said about 30 quintal lahan and 35,000 litre illicit liquor was recovered from about five identified villages in the last four days. “The list of habitual offenders is being prepared for further legal action. Illicit liquor is also a social nuisance and we are maintaining a close watch on the areas where people indulge in brewing and selling of hooch,” said Virk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/operating-from-canal-banks-zero-line-bootleggers-in-border-belt-keep-cops-on-toes/story-yVI1J9Ive8rQJoVaoSF4TN.html
04-08-2020||City||20 deaths, 488 fresh infections in Punjab||With 20 fresh Covid-related deaths and 488 new infections, Punjab’s tally is on an upswing. Now, the state has 462 Covid deaths and 19,015 patients, of which 12,491 have cured.Ludhiana district again led the death as well as patient tally with six fatalities and 142 infections. Jalandhar district recorded two deaths and 34 new infections on Tuesday. Health officials said a 31-year-old man of Mastar Tara Singh Nagar and 66-year-old man from Dhan Mohalla died of Covid-19 in the district. Among the 34 new cases, 15 were contacts of Covid patients.In Mohali, 30 fresh infections were recorded on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 989.2 DEATHS FROM MAJHATwo residents, one from Amritsar and other from Gurdaspur district, died of Covid-19 during the treatment in Majha region on Tuesday, health officials said. “A 65-year-old man of Batala passed away, while a 53-year-old woman of Amritsar died at PGI Chandigarh,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh.On Tuesday, Amritsar district reported 21 fresh Covid cases, out of which 10 are locally transmitted cases and 11 are close contacts of positive patients. Also, deputy commissioner of police (DCP, Amritsar), Jagmohan Singh, who tested positive for the virus on July 28, recovered on Tuesday.Also, 12 people from Gurdaspur district also tested positive for Covid-19.1 DEATH, 34 VASES IN SANGRURA 63-year-old woman hailing from Malerkotla block died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Ludhiana on Tuesday, while 34 people tested positive for the virus. Of the fresh cases, 11 are from Sangrur block, 6 from Ahmedgarh, 4 from Longowal, 3 each from Dhuri, Moonak and Sunam, 2 from Malerkotla, one each from Bhawanigarh and Kauhrian.In Patiala, five people died and 34 others tested positive on Tuesday, taking the district’s total count to 2,001. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said out of 34 infections, 15 patients are from Patiala, 3 from Rajpura, 10 from Nabha, 1 from Samana and 5 are from various villages.Bathinda reported 16 fresh cases on Tuesday. Civil surgeon Dr AS Sandhu said that most of the patients are residents of city and adjoining villages.Seven patients tested positive in Ferozepur district, three in Fazilka and one in Gidderbaha.DSP, SHO AMONG 16 PATIENTS IN KAPURTHALA Kapurthala deputy superintendent of police (headquarter) was among the 16 Covid-19 patients reported in Kapurthala district on Tuesday. Among the patients were also Dhilwan station house officer and an ASI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-deaths-488-fresh-infections-in-punjab/story-qndoiEZ5fHxhsdWG4XHfYO.html
04-08-2020||City||Only 2.5% of Covid-19 patients put on ventilators survived in Punjab||Only 2.5% of critically ill Covid-19 patients put on ventilator support in government and private hospitals across Punjab could recover from the disease.As per the state health department data, 200 critical coronavirus patients were put on ventilation machines and only five of them (2.5%) survived. A ventilator facilitates the breathing of a patient who is physically unable to breathe. The number of Covid-related fatalities in the state stands at 442. Punjab has 300 ventilators in government medical colleges and hospitals (GMCH) and 900 in private facilities to treat Covid-19 patients.Meanwhile in Punjab, the survival rate of Covid-19 patients who were given ventilator support has dipped by 7.5% in past two months. Till May 30, two of the 21 patients (10%) put on ventilator support had survived from the disease.“To date, 200 Covid-19 patients out of the total 18,527 had required ventilator support, which is only 1%. But we could save only 5 patients. The survival rate of patients on ventilators in Punjab matches the national average. The health team is focusing on lowering the fatality rate in the state. Most of the Covid-19 patients who died in the state had co-morbidities,” said Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.He added, “The state has increased the ventilator capacity from 600 to 1,200 in the last two months. At present, 18 critical patients are on ventilator support in Punjab and nearly 150 patients are on oxygen support. The remaining 1,182 ventilators are vacant at present and the state is prepared to handle the worst situation.”“The death rate of patients on ventilators is high because the cases arrive late as most of them initially hesitate in revealing their condition to the health department and take medicines without prescription. Also, the patients get referred to government hospitals from private facilities at an almost irreversible stage,” Dr Bhaskar added.Blurb: Of 200 critical coronavirus patients provided mechanical breathing assistance in the state, only five survived||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-2-5-of-covid-19-patients-put-on-ventilators-survived-in-punjab/story-29f3vs2T7gbZsHzo7NdhSJ.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana plans to switch over to machine-driven procurement||Before the paddy harvesting season sets in, Haryana government is actively planning to gradually switch from manual to machine-driven procurement of food grains and overcome the looming risk of labour shortage induced by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In what is being seen a first firm step towards mechanisation of procurement process, Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) has mooted a plan about introducing stock-lifting machines in the wholesale grain market yards. The new equipment will include motor-operated electrical loaders, bag stackers, electronic weighing scales and bag stitching machines. Based on the volume of grain arrival in the mandis, about two to five e-loaders and bag stackers will be installed in each procurement centre. “To begin with, we plan to introduce these machines in about 80 mandis,” PK Das, additional chief secretary (ACS), food, civil supplies and consumer affairs, said. “This system will also help us in eliminating ghost purchasing of the grains. At the entry and exit points of the mandis, there would be electronic weighing scales that will help us in quantity audit.” Haryana produces nearly 68 lakh metric tonne (LMT) paddy, including over 25 LMT basmati on about 32 lakh acre land. As paddy production consumes massive quantity of water, Haryana government has also introduced ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ policy to encourage farmers to switch over to alternative crop in place of paddy. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of the food, civil supplies and consumer affairs, in a statement said due to Covid-19, labour shortage may continue during paddy procurement in October. “In view of this, the state government has decided to mechanise the procurement process,” he added. Haryana largely depends on farm labourers from UP and Bihar and most of them had gone back to their native places amid coronavirus outbreak. Once the farmers bring in their harvest to the mandis, the next challenge is how to unload the large volumes, weigh and pack the vast quantity of grain. The delay in lifting of grains leads to glut in the wholesale markets as at present, trucks are loaded manually. “You need a specialised labour for this laborious task of lifting, loading and unloading of grain bags. The electrical loader will reduce dependence on manual labour,” the ACS said. In its proposal to the government, the HSAMB has said that these machines can load and unload two to three bags per minute and could reduce 75% dependency on labour. “...Also, the time of loading, stacking and unloading will reduce to less than half,” reads the HSAMB note. According to Sumedha Kataria, chief administrator of HSAMB, at least 24 maize dryers will be bought for three Kurukshetra mandis (Ladwa, Babain and Pipli). The maize arriving in the markets contains high moisture ranging from 24% to 46%. Drying of maize during the peak arrival period is a difficult task for farmers as manual drying is a labour-oriented and time-consuming process. These machines can reduce high moisture of maize to normal purchasable moisture 18% to 20% in seven to eight hours. “Being portable, these machine can be shifted from one mandi to another as per requirement,” Kataria added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-plans-to-switch-over-to-machine-driven-procurement/story-Sf74HqDBFappPBP6J82x2N.html
04-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to build over 70 check dams in Asola Bhatti to conserve rainwater, prevent soil erosion||The Delhi government’s forest department is planning to build over 70 small check dams in the catchment areas of the Asola Bhatti sanctuary and the southern and central ridges to conserve rainwater and prevent soil erosion.The project aims to retain water in the form of small ponds that will help recharge groundwater aquifers, bring up the depleting water table and also serve as a natural water resource to support wildlife and improve vegetation. These forests are considered the city’s green lungs. During monsoon, rainwater flows out of the forests into nearby colonies and drains and nutrient-rich soil is lost due to surface runoff.According to officials in the forest department, the project has already been launched at the Asola sanctuary. Eleven check dams are already being built. These dams will help retain as much water as possible, which will gradually aid in raising the water table of nearby areas as well. It will also improve the soil quality and vegetation in the area.The sanctuary is located on the southern ridge and is spread across 1,960 hectares. It is part of the northern Aravallis and serves as a carbon sink for the national capital and a potential shelterbelt against desert storms.The decision to build check dams was taken by the Delhi government after the Delhi High Court told the city government last year to trap rainwater and check soil erosion in protected forest areas.“Check dams are small dams that are built across a water channel or a drainage ditch (depression) to counteract erosion by reducing the velocity of the flow of water. It prevents the soil from erosion during rainfall and allows water to be retained in the form of small pools or waterholes where wild animals can drink and bathe. They also help natural vegetation grow by retaining moisture,” said Ishwar Singh, the principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) and head of the forest department.A senior forest official said that their departments has undertaken an extensive survey to identify the catchment areas at all three locations. “So far at Asola, we have identified around 30 sites where check dams of about 2-4 feet in height will come up. A survey to identify 20 more sites is going on. Also, three or four bigger dams of 6-8 feet in height will be constructed in the sanctuary area. Besides, on the southern and central ridges, 8-10 dams each will come up. These forests already have a few bigger check dams we constructed a few years ago,” the official said, not wishing to be named.“The first batch of 11 dams has been set up in the forest area behind Sangam Vihar. At present, work is being undertaken at the Neeli Jheel and near the Shahurpur village. Work has also started at the central ridge,” the official added.The forest department has roped in the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) for the project. Sohail Madan, an ecologist and manager of the BNHS Conservation Education Centre at Asola Bhatti sanctuary said that three kinds of check dams—gabion rock dams, soil embankment dams and grass dams—are being built on seasonal streams.“Check dams are effective, low-cost and do not disturb the forest as such. They will be of immense help in retaining soil and moisture at a place like Asola, which has steep slopes where the water and the silt run down fast,” said Madan.CR Babu, professor emeritus and head of the Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems (CEMDE) at Delhi University, said that check dams are a traditional method of rainwater harvesting in larger landscapes such as forests that have bigger surface drainage channels. “There are many roles that these dams play, from increasing the capacity of groundwater recharge, raising the water table and retaining moisture for plant growth to serving as grassland habitats, which enrich the overall biodiversity. It is a good technique to prevent soil erosion. Some of the deeper streams serve as a water resource even during the dry season,” said Babu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-build-over-70-check-dams-in-asola-bhatti-to-conserve-rainwater-prevent-soil-erosion/story-oG3nhBCNjvyLvmNhKxokGJ.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 40-year-old dies, co-worker suffers injuries in hit-and-run||A 40-year-old man died and his co-worker suffered injuries after a speeding SUV hit their scooter in South Model Gram on Monday evening.The deceased has been identified as Rajinder Kumar, a resident of Amarpura. He was a salesman at a shop in Mochpura market. The injured is Sandeep Dogra, 30, of Lohara.The deceased’s nephew, Sunny Kumar, stated in his complaint that his uncle and his colleague were coming towards ESIC hospital from Pakhowal road in a scooter when an over-speeding SUV hit the vehicle and fled.The bystanders rushed both of them to hospital where Kumar succumbed to injuries.Assistant sub-inspector Sukhwinder Singh said a case has been registered against unidentified accused. The police have been scanning footage of CCTV cameras in the area to trace the accused.Kumar is survived by his wife and two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-40-year-old-dies-co-worker-suffers-injuries-in-hit-and-run/story-GJ3eCyM8xI9Acv6VAMp1zO.html
04-08-2020||Delhi||JNU gets funding of ₹455 crore for new buildings, e-learning||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Tuesday said it had received a funding of ₹455.02 crore for the construction of new academic buildings, hostels, and research centres, among others, under the Union ministry of human resources development (MHRD)’s higher education funding agency (HEFA).The HEFA was established in 2017. It offers infrastructure loans to educational institutions which the institutions have to pay back. Previously, institutions were getting government grants for the expansion of infrastructure.This statement comes two weeks after Hindustan Times reported that the ministry was in favour of approving projects of approximately ₹450 crore in the JNU and these included five new hostel blocks, a building for its management school, another for an advanced animal research facility and an incubation centre.JNU vice-chancellor N Jagadesh Kumar Wednesday said the funds allotted by HEFA will be used for various projects such as hostels and “academic complex buildings for the School of Engineering, Atal Bihari Vajpayee School of Management & Entrepreneurship, trans disciplinary academic research, advanced animal research facility, advanced instrumentation research facility, incubation centre for start-up companies, special centre for e-learning, lecture hall complex and the setting up of an integrated and unified education system”.The special centre for e-learning will offer online degree programmes to students who could not be admitted to JNU, registrar Pramod Kumar later said in a statement. “These students can still benefit from the expertise of JNU faculty,” he said.The JNU teachers’ association (JNUTA), however, opposed the move. “This is a replacement of public funding for infrastructure development with loans, the terms of which cannot possibly be better than grants where no repayment obligation exists. Furthermore, a part of this financing will also be directed towards making JNU the instrument of helping the government shirk its responsibility to invest in making education accessible to all -- by promoting online education and falsely selling the idea that it is a substitute for regular teaching and learning,” JNUTA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jnu-gets-funding-of-455-crore-for-new-buildings-e-learning/story-mzoA3Fn7J48c0ER1Kwf43K.html
04-08-2020||City||Pvt hospitals in Ludhiana assure admn of starting Covid treatment||Amid surging cases of Covid-19 in Ludhiana district, representatives of around 50 private hospitals have assured the district administration of starting Covid-19 treatment in their premises within this week. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, commissioner of police Rakesh Kumar Agrawal, additional deputy commissioner (development) Sandeep Kumar, deputy commissioner of police Ashwani Kapoor and other senior officials held a meeting with representatives of the private hospitals at police lines on Tuesday.When all these private hospitals start the facility, at least 200 ICU and 500 non-ICU (level 2) beds will be added to the existing strength, Sharma said.At present, seven private hospitals, namely Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Christian Medical College and Hospital, SPS Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Deep Hospital, GTB Hospital and Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer Hospital are providing Covid treatment, along with government hospitals.The deputy commissioner said that some of the private hospitals have assured to start Covid treatment within a day, and some will start within the next 48 hours. He also directed private hospitals to reserve at least 50% of their total ICU beds for Covid treatment.The civil surgeon, Ludhiana, has been asked to train medical and other healthcare staff for Covid treatment in private hospitals. Also, doctors of these hospitals will be able to seek guidance regarding treatment of Covid patients from the state-level expert committee specially formed for this purpose.The DC told representatives of private hospitals that it is their moral and social responsibility to treat patients during the ongoing pandemic. He added that if a staff members of these private hospitals denies treatment to Covid patients, action will be taken against them under National Disaster Management Act. Police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal urged all private hospitals to come forward and assist the district administration in the war against Covid-19. He also assured police security at their premises.Sandeep Kumar, ADC (development)-cum-nodal officer, Covid-19, said that once these 50 private hospitals start providing Covid treatment, their data will be added in the newly developed mobile app so that residents can check real-time status of vacant beds in private hospitals of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pvt-hospitals-in-ludhiana-assure-admn-of-starting-covid-treatment/story-EO0vmjzpf0jCZTLQ6wsrRJ.html
04-08-2020||City||DU ad hoc teachers worried about renewal of contracts amid Covid pandemic||New Delhi: The rather permanent problem of Delhi University’s temporary teachers – guest and ad-hoc – has surfaced again amid the Covid-19 pandemic. With first-year admissions delayed by at least two months, teachers are now worried about the upcoming academic session, their role in it and renewal of their contracts.Himanshu Singh, an ad-hoc teacher at DU’s Satyawati College, said, “The revised academic session states that classes will begin on August 10 for first, third, and fifth semester students. But admission for the first year was delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic. This has substantially reduced the workload. We are worried that some colleges may use this as an excuse to not renew our appointment.” Singh said while some principals said they would renew the appointments of their ad-hoc teachers, others have “created confusion” over how they will execute this.Ad-hoc teachers number around 4,500 and constitute more than 50% of the university’s teaching strength of around 10,000 and participate in other college activities. Their teaching hours are around 16 hours per week. While ad-hoc teachers are appointed for four months, after which the contract may be renewed, guest teachers (roughly 1,700) are paid on a lecture basis and have around five to eight teaching hours per week. The rest are permanent teachers. Abhishek Parashar, an ad-hoc teacher at Delhi University, said the uncertainty of jobs during a health crisis has been unnerving. “The university must intervene and order colleges to redistribute work but there has been no directive so far. Permanent teachers have stepped up and said they would take the workload for the first year and we could look at continuing students. These are only quick-fixes but we need a permanent appointment, which have not been done despite directives.”Asit Kumar, a guest teacher of DU who resides in Burari with his family, said he has to rely upon his brother to run his family. “While my college has cleared my payment till April, I am yet to receive remuneration for classes conducted at non-collegiate courses of the varsity, which amounts to over Rs 70,000. I have already used up all my savings during the lockdown and have to rely on the money my brother sends me from our village with little clarity on when I will get my pay. There is no clarity over our appointments and due to the Covid-19 crisis, looking for other jobs is also difficult.”Rajesh Jha, DU’s executive council member, said, “We found out that fewer number of approvals were sent out for ad-hoc teachers than usual. Thousands of these teachers have been mentoring, counselling and providing academic guidance throughout the Covid-19 period. They don’t have any health benefits and are dependent on salary. We have written to university officials, asking them to ensure that their appointments are not hampered.”In order to implement the constitutionally mandated Economically Weaker Section reservation, Jha said there have been cases of ad-hoc teachers being removed as the posts are going to the EWS category, requiring fresh appointments. “These teachers should not be sacrificed overnight during such an uncertain time,” Jha said.Earlier this month, the DU Teachers’ Association also wrote to vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi, asking that services of all ad-hoc teachers must be renewed and vacation salaries must be disbursed. “The appointment of guest faculty required for the teaching of courses for continuing students must be done on an immediate basis to prevent loss of teaching time,” the association said in its letter. The association also said guest faculty engaged in non-collegiate and regular courses have gone without pay and their remuneration must be released immediately.Balaram Pani, the university’s dean of colleges, said, “The academic session has not started yet. Beginning August 10, classes will be conducted online. How can teachers get the letter [of renewal] before the session even begins?” He said DU’s School of Open Learning had cleared all bills for guest teachers and only those for which applications had not been moved were pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-ad-hoc-teachers-worried-about-renewal-of-contracts-amid-covid-pandemic/story-C7ReR4Mj728kRIg1hsZKyL.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Hit-and-run accidents snuff out three lives in Ambala||Three men lost their lives in hit-and-run accidents in Ambala district in the past 24 hours, police said on Tuesday.A vendor’s bike was hit by a speeding tractor near Gharoli mor in Shahzadpur on Monday evening. The victim, Aashish, was taken to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The victim’s uncle, Subhash, stated in his complaint that the tractor driver, Manish, a resident of Uttrakhand, fled the spot. A case has been registered.A man died in a road mishap near Dhakola village on Monday. The victim has been identified as Hardip Singh. The victim’s brother, Ram Avtar of Mullana, told police that Hardip was returning from a birthday party on his motorcycle when he hit by a speeding car. The driver fled the spot and Hardip was taken to MM Hospital in Mullana where he was declared brought dead. A case has been registered at Saha police station. A truck cleaner from Uttar Pradesh was crushed to death near Jandli flyover in Ambala city on Monday night. The victim has been identified as Mantu Singh. The complainant, Neeraj, who is the driver of the truck, told police that the victim was cleaning tires when a large container hit him from behind, killed him and damaged the truck. The container driver, who was also injured in the incident, fled the spot. A case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hit-and-run-accidents-snuff-out-three-lives-in-ambala/story-yNimbfGasSGvAXp6wnNjhM.html
04-08-2020||City||Delhi Police probing Kaushal gang hand in two Delhi shooting incidents||New Delhi: Delhi Police are probing a possible link between Gurugram’s dreaded Kaushal gang and two back-to-back firing incidents cum extortion threats in Delhi within 48 hours last week. One person arrested on Monday for the shootings allegedly claimed he was following the gangster’s orders, police said.At least 10 teams, including members from the special cell and crime branch, were formed after the firing incidents by gunmen, who left a letter at each spot, demanding R1 crore as “protection money” on behalf of Kaushal, who is presently lodged in Hisar jail.The first firing took place on July 31 at a sweet shop in west Delhi’s Hari Nagar, where two bike-borne persons opened fire and left a letter, demanding R1 crore. Even as the west district police were probing the case, a similar incident took place the very next day, when three masked men opened fire at a car showroom near the Sultanpur Metro station in south Delhi and left a similar letter.Initial investigation hinted that at least five gangs, mostly based in Haryana, joined hands with Kaushal’s group to carry out extortions and establish themselves in Delhi’s crime world, which has been lying void after the arrest of gangsters such as Jitender alias Gogi, Jyoti Prakash alias Baba, Vikas alias PK, and Sandeep alias Dhillu, police said.Officers said some members of the so-called “Kranti gang” led Rajesh Bharti, who was killed in a shootout in south Delhi in 2018, also joined Kaushal.“Gangsters such as Kuldeep Gadoli, Sandeep alias Kala Jatheri, Sube Gujjar and their accomplices are now working with Kaushal’s gang and their prime focus is to expand their empire to the national capital. There was another firing and extortion demand case in Najafgarh two-three months ago and the name of Kaushal’s gang had emerged during the investigation,” said a special cell officer, requesting anonymity.Members of the special cell and crime branch were put on the job to break the emerging nexus of different gangs and nab their members, senior police officers privy to the case said.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said, “We have been receiving information that gangs from Haryana are trying to establish base in Delhi. Our teams are committed to thwart their attempts.”A plumber till 16 years ago, Kaushal, 39, was arrested in August 2019 by Haryana Police from the Delhi airport. He was involved in more than 200 cases of murder, extortion, blackmail, and threat calls. Kaushal fled to Dubai and shifted eight locations there since December 2017. A Red Corner Notice and a lookout circular (LOC) were issued against him. Another officer said on condition of anonymity that Kaushal is also trying to get himself shifted to a Delhi prison, to avoid threat to his life from rivals and seek the support of Delhi’s jailed gangsters. On Monday, the special cell caught 24-year-old Kapil alias Ravi Kumar, who was involved in the recent shootings, after an exchange of fire in outer Delhi’s Rohini. Five bullets were exchanged and one fired by the police hit Kapil’s leg. Two policemen took one bullet each in their bulletproof vests, an officer associated with the raid said.Kapil told police he was acting on the directions of Kaushal and his aide Sachin, whom he had met in Bhondsi jail this year, DCP Yadav said. “Sachin is Kaushal’s hitman and he was with Kapil in both the firing incidents. Sachin told Kapil that Kaushal had selected him for some work and later included him in the firings,” said Yadav. “Since Kaushal’s name emerged in the car showroom firing case, our team will question him and take his custody if needed,” said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya.Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of Gurugram police (crime), said, “We will extend our support to Delhi Police as and when they need in their cases involving Kaushal and other gangs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-probing-kaushal-gang-hand-in-two-delhi-shooting-incidents/story-EmOKVQDARtHvn21lcWAKKO.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||SONGS VS SOCIETY: Will ‘Desi Daru’ obsession wane after a high in Punjabi songs?||While songs in any culture celebrate a drink or more, Punjabi songs in the past few decades have overdone this glorification.Music-makers of the region have endorsed alcohol, which is part of a Punjabi lifestyle, and extolled the tradition all the way from a swig of ‘Patiala Peg’ to a gulp of ‘Desi Daru’.Such was the fervour of ‘Desi Daru’ songs in the past decades that even the otherwise sober and sentimental Gurdas Maan could not resist the joy of home-brewed liquor in ‘Apna Punjab hove, ghar di sharab hove’. In the video of this 2011 song, the singer can be seen drinking from an enamelled mug and riding high as ‘Jatt Nawab’ on a string cot.Of course, this drinking obsession was exploited to the optimum by the controversial singer Yo Yo Honey Singh who sang out with joy ‘One bottle down’, ‘Char botal vodka’, and “Party all night’. When questioned, he said: “Whenever you party, alcohol is the biggest reason to do so. You cannot avoid it.” Singer-actor Diljit Dosanjh, before he turned to a singing literary poet like Shiv Kumar Batalvi, took thrill in singing ‘Oh desi daru vargi te, mera mood bigad’da jaave’.Well known Punjabi music director Atul Sharma says: “The trend is of eulogising ‘daru’ all the way. Young, educated and socially aware singers are not indulging in this culture. We have singers like Rabbi Shergill and Satinder Sartaj, who are winning young Punjabi hearts without playing the liquor card.”Nevertheless, singer Sharry Maan’s ‘3 Bottle’ song continues to be the most popular with millions of viewers.Song writer and former alcoholic, Baljinder Singh, says: “Liquor is a part of the Punjabi way of life. Even in covid times, the state government has allowed its home delivery. Desi Daru is all that a poor person can afford. I feel that alcoholism is a personal issue and songs cannot encourage or discourage it.”Along with Punjabi beats, glorification of alcohol has also entered Bollywood. For instance, in Cocktail, a sensitive Malerkotla poet like Irshad Kamil wrote: ‘Chadhi mujhe yaari teri aisi jaise daru desi’. Popular song ‘Party abhi baaki hai’ also refers to ‘Desi Daru’; this was also the name of a song sung by Jasbir Jassi for the film Main Aur Mr Riight.The issue, however, is if country-brew is legal or illicit and ‘Desi Daru’ is a poor Punjabi’s drink. So, the debate of whether songs influence society or it is the other way around continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/songs-vs-society-will-desi-daru-obsession-wane-after-a-high-in-punjabi-songs/story-sg3xVxdVWSEIpCjAs1Z31H.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana vet varsity to use stray cows as surrogate mothers for high-yielding calves||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, is all set to use the stray cows as surrogate mothers to produce high-yield varieties of calves. The animal-sciences university is establishing its own cow shed (gaushala) where stray cows fit to give birth will be used to reproduce high-yield varieties of calf through in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) and embryo transfer (ET). GADVASU vice-chancellor (VC) Dr Inderjeet Singh said the gaushala is being established for research, demonstration and training purposes. He said the university was making an effort to lower number of stray cattle left abandoned on highways. The census count conducted last year found that there were 1.4 lakh stray cattle in the state. Sachin Sharma, chairman of state Gau Sewa Commission, issued a notice to all deputy commissioners of the state on Tuesday highlighting the problem of stray cattle on highways. “It has been observed that during the lockdown and post lockdown, some gaushalas have run out of funds and abandoned cattle. The deputy commissioner, who is defecto president of cow pond, has been asked to provide shelter to cattle so that precious lives of both commuters and cows can be saved,” Sharma said. EMBRYOS TRANSFER PROJECT The varsity was the first in the country to carry out such an experiment successfully in 2017 when embryos of indigenous cows were transferred to exotic Holstein Friesian (HF) breed of cows and they became surrogate mothers to pure Sahiwal calves. The newborn calves had no traits of HF and were born in brown colour of Sahiwal. EXAMINATION OF PG COURSES FROM AUGUST 20 The V-C said that examinations of final semester students of postgraduate courses will be conducted from August 20, while the process of admission will be decided during the academic counsel meeting on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-vet-varsity-to-use-stray-cows-as-surrogate-mothers-for-high-yielding-calves/story-ICL2EuOUTY7UCP0Ma9e1HJ.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to link welfare schemes with ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday announced that welfare schemes of all departments would be linked with ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ (PPP) within three months. The PPP is a unique e-governance initiative that will enable the citizens to get the benefit of various central and state government schemes at their doorsteps in a fair and transparent manner, the chief minister said, while distributing the new identification cards to heads of 20 eligible families in a function organised at Panchkula. The Mukhya Mantri Parivar Samridhi Yojana and three pension schemes old age — Samman Allowance Scheme, Divyang Jan Pension Scheme and Widow and Destitute Women Pension Scheme — have been integrated with the PPP. The ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ were also distributed in other 21 districts on Tuesday. Khattar said the state government has decided to celebrate this year as ‘Susashan Sanakap Varsh’ and the integration of schemes of all departments with PPP would not only ensure effective and efficient delivery of services to the people, but also put an end to the complaints of corruption and red-tapism in the system. Out of the available record of 56.2 lakh families in the state, ‘golden data’ of 18.19 lakh families has been prepared and these are being given ‘Parivar Pehchan Patras’. The additional 20 lakh cards would be distributed by the end of August, Khattar said, adding that for the remaining family IDs that are to be distributed in September, verification would be completed this month only. Special camps would also be organised from August 27 to August 30 at village and ward levels for the collection and verification of data. The chief minister said with the distribution of PPPs, the state government would not only take care of educational, health and other needs of such families, but also skilling and employment of youth. To avail the benefits, the eligible beneficiaries would be required to fill up a simple form only once at their nearest saral kendras or Antyodaya Saral Kendra. Khattar said under the government’s drive to integrate the schemes of various departments with the PPP, ration cards of all those families would be prepared which at present do not have any ration card, but are eligible to have a ration card of the appropriate category. Later, Khattar inaugurated a portal for the registration of unorganised workers through PPP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-link-welfare-schemes-with-parivar-pehchan-patra/story-OLeoYW4dQvcH4YlsSPmE2M.html
04-08-2020||City||Punjab hooch tragedy: Ludhiana-based methanol supplier held||Punjab Police has arrested the Ludhiana-based paint store owner responsible for triggering the chain of events that led to over hundred deaths by alcohol poisoning across three districts in the state.Punjab is witnessing its worst hooch tragedy which unfolded on the night of July 29 after the first five fatalities were reported from Mucchal and Tangra villages in Amritsar’s Tarsikka.As per director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta, accused Rajeev Joshi was nabbed late on Monday, following which he revealed that he had supplied three drums of methanol (methyl alcohol), which were used to make the spurious alcohol, to Prabhdeep Singh, nephew of Ravinder Anand of Moga, who is further linked with Avtar Singh. The police are tracking the leads given by Joshi, who was reportedly procuring various types of alcohol and spirits from various places in Punjab and Delhi.With the arrest of Joshi and two other key players in the case, the number of arrests has gone up to 40 – including 21 accused from Tarn Taran, 10 from Amritsar (rural) and 9 from Batala in Gurdaspur district. Since July 31, 563 raids have been conducted in the three districts under five FIRs, including one in Batala, two in Amritsar and two in Tarn Taran.The DGP said one absconding accused, identified as Dharminder of Hathi Gate in Batala, was arrested on Tuesday. The DGP said 50 litres of alcohol was seized from him.The state police had launched a major state-wide crackdown on spurious liquor leading to the arrest of 184 persons in 238 cases. So far, 5,943 litres of illicit liquor and 32,470kg lahan has been recovered, along with 8 working stills, during the raids across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-hooch-tragedy-ludhiana-based-methanol-supplier-held/story-irvdjjiJtSSKLE0XhGjBgI.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Praveen Pardeshi to soon join UNITAR||Former Mumbai civic commissioner Praveen Pardeshi will soon join United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR) as global programme coordinator after the Appointments Committee of the cabinet of the Central government approved the proposal on Tuesday. After being transferred as Mumbai municipal commissioner during the Covid-19 pandemic, Pardeshi was appointed as an additional chief secretary of urban development department on May 9. The 1985 batch IAS officer is due for retirement in November 2021. Pardeshi was reportedly unhappy with the way he was removed from the civic body. He had protested the transfer by heading on a two-week leave. The proposal for his international deputation was sent to the Centre by the state government on July 8. Pardeshi was assumed to be among the top contenders for the post of next chief secretary. Principal secretary Bhushan Gagarani has been given additional charge of the urban development department. The ACC has also cleared the appointment of Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram (2008 batch IAS officer) as deputy secretary in Prime Minister’s Office for four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/praveen-pardeshi-to-soon-join-unitar/story-gGn0yg8lCh4bQh8kGqxZbN.html
04-08-2020||City||Rain washes away tall claims of Ambala civic body||Nearly an hour of downpour on Tuesday morning led to waterlogging in several areas of Ambala city.Residents complained of waterlogging because of blocked drains that were not cleaned properly. The problem was reported from Sector 9, 10, Jagadhari gate road, Shakul Kund road, Manali House etc. Severe waterlogging was reported near the Kalka Mor on National Highway-44 where the vehicles were seen crawling to avoid large pits that were filled with rainwater.Residents alleged that the civic body only cleans dry waste over the drains and does not open them due to which water remains on roads for hours.A shopkeeper Anil said that every year roads are filled with water even after half-an-hour of rain. “Customers are not visiting markets due to the fear of Covid-19 pandemic and now waterlogging is adding to our woes,” he said.Posh areas like Manali House and Sectors 9 and 10 also reported waterlogging in some lanes. SDM Gauri Midha along with MC officials had visited the same sectors last week to take stock of the situation. She had directed the municipal authorities to resolve the issue.Meanwhile, MC commissioner Parth Gupta said that rainwater was gradually cleared in most of the areas but Kalka Mor area is not under his jurisdiction.“Due to heavy rains, the main drains near Nahan House and Shukul Kund road were initially full due to the water flow from interiors but later it cleared the water from peripheral areas as well. Nine pumping stations were also operating and we’ve already done extensive cleaning to ensure waterlogging doesn’t occur,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-washes-away-tall-claims-of-ambala-civic-body/story-US8qeYXPts3NLvJAE1KEQM.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Eight fatalities take Haryana’s Covid-19 toll to 448||Eight patients succumbed to Covid-19 in Haryana on Tuesday as the state saw 623 fresh infections, which took the patients’ tally to 37,796, a health bulletin said. Three people died in Sirsa, while one patient each succumbed in Fatehabad, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar, Rohtak and Faridabad. With eight more fatalities, the death toll has risen to 448 (318 men, 130 women). Though there has been no respite from fatalities and new cases, the recovery rate on Tuesday improved further and rose to 82.62% from Monday’s 81.97%. After 756 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours, the number of those cured of Covid climbed to 31,226. Faridabad saw maximum 169 new cases on Tuesday, followed by Rohtak where 96 people tested positive. Other districts where fresh cases were recorded included Gurugram (46), Sonepat (29), Rewari (20), Ambala (32), Panipat (50), Karnal (19), Hisar (4), Palwal (15), Jhajjar (16), Mahendergarh (3), Bhiwani (15), Panchkula (12), Nuh (5), Kurukshetra (16), Sirsa (19), Fatehabad (21), Yamunanagar (22), Jind (8), and Kaithal (6). In Kurukshetra, among the new cases was a four-year-old girl from Shahbad town, while other patients were in the age bracket of 25 to 50 years. With 19 new cases of Covid-19 in Karnal, the number of infected persons rose to 1,139 in the district. In Bhiwani, among the fresh cases were four children aged between five and 11 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eight-fatalities-take-haryana-s-toll-to-448/story-QM2CRrRXi3DAxFnTGB0iML.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board set to legalise PG facility in independent houses||Owners of independent houses allotted by the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will soon be able to legally run paying guest accommodations on their premises.However, only those with houses of or above 7.5 marla will benefit from this decision. At present, it is illegal to run paying guest residential accommodations (PGRA) in CHB houses.A PGRA policy has been drafted, which will be tabled before the board of directors on August 6 for final approval, confirmed Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer (CEO), CHB. “Thereafter, the permission of the UT administration will be taken. The policy will not be applicable in group housing societies/flats allotted by the CHB,” he said.The development comes in the wake of a fire incident in a PG accommodation in Sector 32 on February 22, which claimed lives of three girl students. It led to the authorities mulling over allowing licensed PGRA in more houses to discourage unauthorised facilities and have better regulation.Residential properties under the jurisdiction of the UT estate office are already governed by the UT administration’s PG policy. The CHB has formulated its policy on the lines of the revised estate office policy notified earlier this year.“A large number of PG accommodations are being run illegally in independent houses allotted by the CHB. Even if house owners want permission for starting such a facility, it is not forthcoming. On approaching the estate office for registration, they are told to get a no-objection certificate from the CHB, which has no policy for it,” said Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation.REGISTRATION PROCESSAccording to the draft policy, the house owner/lessee interested for starting the PGRA has to register with the CHB secretary. A physical inspection will be carried out before issuing the registration. The facility will be allowed only in those houses that have sanctioned plans and no building rule violations. A no-objection certificate from UT’s chief fire office is also mandatory. The owner has to renew the licence every year.WHAT THE POLICY ENTAILSArea of independent house cannot be less than 7.5 marlaThe owner/lessee or member of their family must reside in houseMinimum usable area for one PG must be 50 sq ft with provision for toiletNo extra or new kitchen can be erected beyond approved building plansA register of PGs has to be maintained with intimation to police and list should be displayedList of available accommodation with tariff plan must be displayedList of employees to take care of PGs to be verified by policeOwner/lessee responsible for maintaining disciplineVehicles should be parked within premises as far as possibleNo front office system allowed and facility should appear as a normal houseIn case of a breach of rules, CHB resume property or cancel allotment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-set-to-legalise-pg-facility-in-independent-houses/story-yHncKOSGkxIxKB3WwyUK5O.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER gets surgical gastroenterology department||Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) gave its nod to the creation of an independent department for surgical gastroenterology on Tuesday after it was approved by the health ministry and family minister on July 23.“The surgical gastroenterology division of department of general surgery has been conferred the status of independent department. This will help bring PGIMER at par with other top academic institutes in the country and provide much-needed stimulus to academic and patient-care endeavors,” PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said.Dr Ram said that this is the need of the hour and the institute will provide upgraded technology to ensure focused patient care.“We will expand the department in the coming days. The health ministry has accorded its sanction,” he added.Meanwhile, Dr Rajesh Gupta from the division has been appointed head of department, and three other faculty members including liver transplant specialists have also been placed in the new department.Existing students have been posted in the new department while 23 beds in the general ward, two in the high dependency unit and two operation theatre slots have been earmarked for the department’s use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-gets-surgical-gastroenterology-department/story-cOoux2e5VSR2lDajVcik9O.html
04-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: 15 more contractual MC staffers get service termination notices||A month after issuing service termination notices to over 35 contractual staffers deputed at the bridges and roads (B&R) branch of the MC, the outsourcing company has served similar orders to 15 more junior engineers (JEs) and sub-divisional officers (SDOs).As per the officials, notices were served to the contractual employees because the higher authorities were not satisfied with their performance. However, financial crisis has been cited as the reason in the notice by the outsourcing company. The higher authorities would be observing their work for a month now before the MC takes its final decision. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The services of JEs and SDOs working in the B&R branch would be terminated as the notice period has ended. The contracts of only few JEs and SDOs would be renewed as per the requirement and on the basis of their performance. The services of operation and maintenance staff would also ended if their performance is not found up to the mark.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-15-more-contractual-mc-staffers-get-service-termination-notices/story-MeokSk91vNktVJxEhSo65N.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bajwa, Dullo hit back, say limit to accepting misgovernance||Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo on Tuesday said there is always a limit to accepting “misgovernance and maladministration”. Responding to Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar’s demand for their expulsion from the party, Bajwa said they are loyalists of the Congress but not of leaders who are looting the state under the garb of welfare and good governance. “I have not bartered away my conscience for a seat in a former Maharaja’s durbar. I will continue raising issues of such magnitude,” the Congress MP said in a statement, denying any personal agenda. Bajwa said they had been raising the issue of liquor mafia and writing to the chief minister but he had the audacity to publicly comment in a press conference that he does not read their communications. “Jakhar should understand that I have not backstabbed the party but was left with no alternative means to raise these issues with the chief minister,” he added, offering to accompany him for a meeting with Sonia Gandhi to apprise her of the true administration of Punjab. The Congress MP said they did betray the Congress or its leadership but sought an inquiry where the government was protecting the mafia. Training his guns on Jakhar, the Congress MLA accused him of “weak-kneed and spineless leadership” that had left the Congress workers in the state demoralised and disgruntled. He said if Jakhar had the courage to question the chief minister, lives would have been saved. “We do not understand how the conscience of Jakhar permits him to ignore a tragedy of this magnitude,” he said, accusing him of defending the undefendable. Dullo also asked Jakhar to perform his dharma as the state unit chief of the party. “Is it a crime to talk against mafia? We are working to save the Congress,” he said, accusing Jakhar of not performing his duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bajwa-dullo-hit-back-say-limit-to-accepting-misgovernance/story-CzHxlMXJgajNSG4zSAtj4O.html
04-08-2020||City||Ram Mandir Bhumi Pujan: Security beefed up outside religious places in Ludhiana||Ahead of the Bhumi Pujan ceremony for Ram Mandir in Ayodhya and the first anniversary of scrapping of Article 370, the police have beefed up security at all religious places in the city. They have also been conducting meetings with the various religious organisations to maintain law and order situation here.Apart from this, the cyber cell is keeping tabs on social media content being posted regarding Ram Mandir and Article 370.To avoid any untoward situation, additional 2,500 police personnel have been deputed in the city and patrolling has been intensified.On being asked about some people’s appeal to light candles on their rooftops on Wednesday, the police commissioner said he requests everyone to maintain law and order in the city and co-operate with the police. He added that those who will try to create problems will face stern action.The police chief said extra force has been deployed in sensitive areas identified by them. Assembly of five or more persons is already banned in the city and no one would be allowed to violate the orders. The police will be present at every roundabout and public places.The police will establish special checkpoints in different parts of the city, the top official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ram-mandir-bhumi-pujan-security-beefed-up-outside-religious-places-in-ludhiana/story-wIa3kxHTxqeoOQGeGpdC9L.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Rama Temple foundation ceremony brings Palampur into limelight||The foundation stone ceremony of Rama Temple slated for Wednesday has brought Palampur, a small hill-town located around 1,000km from Ayodhya, the birth place of Lord Rama.It was in Palampur on June 11, 1989 that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in its quarterly national executive meeting incorporated demands for the Ram temple in its agenda. The resolution later came to be known as Palampur resolution.“According to available records, Mughal emperor Barbar visited Ayodhya in 1528, destroyed the temple situated at the site believed to be Ram-Janamsthana, and constructed a mosque,” states a part of the Palampur resolution.BJP asserted claim of the Hindu community over the disputed Shrine. The Palampur resolution vaulted the BJP to the centre stage as the movement for Rama Temple gained momentum.“Of course this is a great day not only for India but for Himachal and Palampur also. It was here that the party adopted the Rama Temple demand as its political agenda,” said BJP veteran and former union minister Shanta Kumar.He was the president of Himachal BJP and main organiser of the working committee meeting in which the resolution was passed.“It was after this resolution that the movement gathered steam,” said Shanta, adding that after years of struggle and sacrifices the dream is finally being realised. He further says that the Lord Rama was not only a religious leader but founder of cultural nationalism, which makes the core of the Hindu ideology.KULLU REJOICESThe hill-town of Kullu, formerly a princely state, has also a unique connection with Ayodhya. The idol of Lord Raghunatha at the temple owned by the Royal Family of Kullu, is believed to be brought from Ayodhya in the 16th century.As per the story, to ward off a Brahmin’s curse, the then king of Kullu Raja Jagat Singh was advised by a sage to bring the idol of Lord Raghunatha from Ayodhya and setup a temple at Kullu.Maheshwar Singh, the scion of Kullu Royal Family and chharibardar of Raghunatha Temple said the temple premises has been illuminated to celebrate the occasion. “A big function will be organised once the Covid-19 pandemic is over,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rama-temple-foundation-ceremony-brings-palampur-into-limelight/story-ccBxdSX3OvCkieagPKC6rJ.html
04-08-2020||Pune||Pune reports 1,192 fresh positive cases, 28 deaths on Tuesday||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 1,192 fresh positive cases and 28 deaths on Tuesday taking the progressive positive count to 59,496 and death toll to 1,412. Meanwhile, the state health department recorded 1,296 fresh positive cases and 29 virus-related deaths on Tuesday. The progressive positive count stands at 63,854 and death toll is 1,576, as per state data. As per PMC data, of the 16,833 active cases, 656 are in critical condition, 404 on ventilator and 252 in ICU without ventilator. Also, 2,172 are undergoing oxygen treatment. A total of 2.92 lakh samples have been tested, including 5,595 samples tested on Tuesday. The city also saw 1,312 discharges, taking the count of such patients to 41,251. Eight deaths were reported from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH), seven from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), two deaths each from DH Aundh and Naidu hospital on Tuesday. One death each was recorded at Rao Nursing Home, Jehangir hospital, Joshi hospital, Vinod Memorial hospital, Kashibai Navale Hospital, KEM hospital, Surya Sahyadri hospital, Inlaks and Budhrani and Dalvi hospital. Two deaths were reported of citizens from outside PMC limits at SGH.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-1-192-fresh-positive-cases-28-deaths-on-tuesday/story-YSF98ZVdVMhoH1KprVOq6H.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali DC reviews arrangements for state-level Independence Day function||An on-site meeting to review arrangements for the state-level Independence Day celebration was held at Shaheed Major Harminderpal Singh (Shaurya Chakra) Government College in Mohali on Tuesday. Presiding over the meeting, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan gave clear directions regarding non-involvement of students in the function. The DC said the ceremonial part of the celebrations will be held in a befitting manner. The Tricolour will be hoisted by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh followed by a march past by police contingents and address by the chief guest. However, no cultural programme involving school students will be organised, Dayalan said. He also directed district education officers (primary and secondary) to ensure that no government or private school organises any celebrations on their campus involving students. He ordered thorough sanitisation of the venue and asked officers concerned to strictly adhere to health and safety protocols. Aashika Jain ADC (G), Kamal Kumar Garg, municipal commissioner, and other officers from civil and police administration were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-dc-reviews-arrangements-for-state-level-independence-day-function/story-Y2hgDL8x0KnqPZgxnUvlnO.html
04-08-2020||City||Soon, working women’s hostel to come up in Mohali’s Sector 79||Punjab minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday directed the district officials here to resolve all development-related issues in a time-bound manner as no laxity in work would be tolerated.The health, family welfare and labour welfare minister said this during a review meeting at the District Administrative Complex in Sector 76.He was informed that Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has allotted land free of cost for setting up a working women’s hostel in Sector 79 and is mulling to shift the marble shops situated near Landran Chowk to some other suitable location. The development body is also floating a special need-based policy in the city to resolve the issues pertaining MIG/LIG flats and land for establishment of a slaughterhouse, Sidhu was apprised.The minister suggested explore the possibility of widening specific roads to at least 18 feet to facilitate establishment of small industrial units at village level. He also proposed to make use of forest land in Girdderpura village of Kharar for setting up dairies. GMADA was also asked to construct sprinting tracks in all major parks in Mohali.He directed GMADA to look into the sewerage problem at TDI City, Akal Aashram and Green Enclave and resolve the waterlogging issue in Bakarpur, Mauli, Chilla and Lakhnour villages.The municipal corporation was directed to install sun-shades in shops in Palika Bazar, Phase 11. The district administration was asked to install community toilet sets near the cremation ground in Mohali to end open defecation in the area. Besides, the district development and panchayat officer was directed to moot the proposal for constitution of block development and panchayat office in Mohali.Sidhu also asserted that farmers holding ‘J’ forms in the district should be covered under the Ayushmann Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna. He said it has been observed that farmers from Mohali living in the areas adjoining Chandigarh like Machlikalan and other villages have sold their produce in the UT grain market. They have the said form issued by the Chandigarh administration so they are facing difficulty in availing the benefit of the insurance cover offered in the scheme. He asked the Mohali administration to take Aadhaar card or Jamabandi as proof of their being Mohali residents and ensure that they successfully derive the benefit duly accrued to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soon-working-women-s-hostel-to-come-up-in-mohali-s-sector-79/story-6hMnISd1q6ajq5Rf0WSXDI.html
04-08-2020||City||Four booked for driving Ludhiana travel agent to suicide||Police have booked four men for abetment to suicide a week after the mutilated body of a 42-year-old travel agent was fished out from a canal near Gholiya Khurd village in Moga district on July 28.The police action came following the recovery of a suicide note from the office of the deceased, a resident of Jadtoli village, Ludhiana.Those booked are Deepa Badesha and Darshi of Narangwal village, and Pappu Theekiwal and Narjeet Singh of Bhai Roopa village.The FIR was lodged on the statement of the deceased’s brother, who informed the police about the recovery of a suicide note naming the four men.The complainant told the police that his brother owned a dairy and also worked as a travel agent. On July 12, he left home, but never returned. They had lodged a missing person complaint with the police, but he could not be traced until his body was fished out from a canal on July 28. A few days back, he found a suicide note at his brother’s office, stating that the four men named were harassing and threatening him for money as he had been unable to get the student visas of their children processed amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Therefore, he was ending his life, the note added.ASI Pritpal Singh, who is the investigating officer in the case, said the body was fished out from the canal on July 28, following which the deceased’s family identified the body. Despite their confirmation, police will go for DNA profiling to establish the body’s identity, he added.A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. A manhunt has been launched for their arrest, the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-booked-for-driving-ludhiana-travel-agent-to-suicide/story-mtXreE9dRvmZ2Rxe9rQzuO.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal apple growers scout for online buyers||With the apple economy in doldrums amid the coronavirus crisis, Himachal orchardists are scouting for online buyers. Orchardists had to grapple with issues such as acute labour shortage and transportation difficulties this season. The produce was also leaner as compared to previous years. Labourers from Nepal form a major chunk of the workforce in apple growing areas. But this year due to travel restrictions imposed to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, Nepalese labourers could not return. There are 40,000 Nepalese labourers registered with the government. The Nepalese workforce is primarily concentrated in the Shimla-Kullu-Kinnaur belt, a major apple-growing areas in the state. The Nepalese labourers are also scattered in areas where hydel projects are located. After Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal is the second-highest apple-producing state in the country. More than two-thirds of the market is captured by apples from Kashmir, while Himachal apple has a 20% share. Apple growers say this harvest season was one of the toughest seen. Farmers are trying hard to rope in local labourers besides arranging labourers from Motihari in Bihar and Lakhinpur kiri in Uttar Pradesh. “Labourers from Jharkhand are not trained in working in apple orchards. Only Nepalese labourers can handle manual operations in apple orchards,” said Mahijit Singh Rathore, president, Nawar Valley Apple growers. “ My seasonal labourers are struck in Nepal. I have made several attempts to get them over to India but the Nepalese government has imposed strict restrictions and are a not allowing them to cross the border in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. I had to arrange labour from Sirmaur district,“ says Naresh Chauhan an apple grower from Dhraonk village in Kotkhai . Like many others, Chauhan has also set up his own grading unit for sorting apples . ‘NOT MANY BUYERS INTERESTED’“ I have tried to contact many online buyers to purchase apples but they have not shown much interest,” says Raman Prakash an apple grower in Kotgarh region, which is known for its quality apple produce. Labour shortage has also forced the apple growers to shell out more money to pay the daily wages . The daily wages during the apple season vary from ₹400-₹500 per day. However, areas facing labour shortage are having to pay more. Many areas facing labour shortage have jacked up the rates and apple owners are paying upto ₹800 per day. Apple harvest is gradually picking up and the labour problem is likely to get more acute in the coming days. Also, not many bulk buyers from outside the sate have shown interest in purchasing apples . “So far, 1.25 lakh apples have been transported outside the state, the transportation will go up in the coming days,” says Naresh Thakur managing director Agro Produce Marketing Corporation ( APMC). Then horticulture department is projecting estimates of ₹2.5 crore apple boxes but growers say the crop is lean this time . Retail stores such as Walmart, Reliance and Big Basket who have shown interest in purchasing the apples have not yet not started their operations in Himachal. Also, the big stores are only interested in purchasing apples from higher-altitude regions. The apple economy in Himachal Pradesh is a ₹5,000 crore economy and the more than 1.65 lakh families in Himachal are only dependent on apples for their livelihood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-apple-growers-scout-for-online-buyers/story-MiuakuENa80euXssZ2V0xL.html
04-08-2020||City||Akal Takht jathedar shrugs off invitation to Ayodhya bhoomi pujan||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Tuesday shrugged off the invite to the bhoomi pujan of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The invitation, sent by the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, was delivered by the Rashtriya Sikh Sangat, the Sikh wing of pro-Hindutva organisation, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Monday afternoon. When asked if he would be attending the event on August 5, the jathedar said, “I have not read this invitation.” When told that the contents of the invitation had been published in the newspapers, he said, “I have not read the newspapers.”Many are seeing his response as an indication that he won’t go to the event. Rashtriya Sikh Sangat general secretary Sandeep Singh, who delivered the invite, said, “Though we gave the invite on Monday, our national president had sent it to him on Whatsapp two or three days ago. We can only request his presence. It’s up to him to attend or not,” he added.Notably, the trust planned to ensure the presence of jathedars of all five Sikh Takhts at the event. However, there is no possibility of attendance of the jathedars as a considerable section of the Sikh community is against it. In October 2019, Giani Harpreet Singh had demanded a ban on the RSS while terming the ‘Hindu Rashtra’ statement of its chief, Mohan Bhagwat, divisive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akal-takht-jathedar-shrugs-off-invitation-to-ayodhya-bhoomi-pujan/story-cSwtHoZjchXliBnFankZsL.html
04-08-2020||City||Ludhiana man succumbs to Covid-19 in absence of ventilator at Civil Hospital||The acute shortage of ventilators in city hospitals for the treatment of coronavirus patients has led to the death of a Covid-19 patient on Tuesday. Joginderpal, 54, died on Tuesday afternoon in absence of ventilator facility at the Civil Hospital. The four ventilators that were installed at Civil Hospital are currently being managed by Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H) to treat Covid-19 patients. The victim’s son Vishal accused the hospital authorities of his father’s death. A resident of Dholewal area, Vishal said that on Monday evening the condition of his father, who had contracted Covid-19 deteriorated. “As my father developed flu-like symptoms, the private hospitals refused to admit him citing unavailability of beds. We took him to the Civil Hospital where he was left unattended. He was later tested positive for coronavirus and was kept on oxygen support. Due to no ventilator bed available at the hospital, my father died on Tuesday,” said Vishal. However, senior medical officer (SMO) at Civil Hospital Amarjeet Kaur said that the patient arrived at the hospital in a critical condition. “The patient arrived at the hospital at 4.30 am and soon the staff tried to stabilize him. As the ventilator was not available at the Civil Hospital, we contacted the authorities of Government Rajindra Medical College in Patiala. We tried shifting two patients on Advanced Life Support (ALS), but their relatives objected. Meanwhile, the patient had died. We have been urging people to admit patients at an early stage when they show signs of flu-like symptoms. But sadly the patients arrive at a very late stage,” Dr Amarjeet Kaur. On Tuesday, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma set-up a help desk at DMC&H so that patients with level-1 ailment could be referred to isolation facilities, and ICU facilities could be reserved for critically ill patients. Recently, MP Ravneet Singh Bittu had demanded level-3 facilities at Ludhiana Civil Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-absence-of-ventilator-at-civil-hospital/story-YWpMgIeQzK7OaGdbMnFvDK.html
04-08-2020||City||Six more succumb to Covid-19 in Ludhiana, case tally 3,870||With 142 fresh cases and six deaths, being reported in Ludhiana, the district count of confirmed Covid-19 cases has reached 3,870.The fatalities include three women, including a 27-year-old who was undergoing treatment at PGIMER, Chandigarh. The other patients were a 70-year-old woman from Durgapuri and another woman, 66, from Harkartar Colony. A man, 69, from Habib Road, two men aged 60 years from Kartar Nagar and Jodhewal Basti respectively also succumbed to the virus. With these deaths, the number of casualties due to Covid-19 has reached 120.Eleven undertrials, 10 health workers, a pregnant woman and among others tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. 32 deaths in four daysIn the last four days, the virus has claimed 32 lives. Nine patients died while 193 persons tested positive on August 1, while eight died on Sunday. Nine Covid-19 related fatalities were reported on Monday. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that there are 1287 active cases in the district.He said that a total of 159 patients (142 from Ludhiana and 17 from other states/districts) tested positive on Tuesday.He added that to date, a total of 66,551 samples have been taken for testing, of which 59,526 tested negative and report of 2,650 samples are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-ludhiana-case-tally-3-870/story-inVNTq95OQV6XMDhfUo8hO.html
04-08-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand crosses 8,000-mark in Covid-19 positive cases||Uttarakhand on Tuesday reported 208 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 8,008. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Tuesday evening, 208 fresh cases included maximum 63 from US Nagar district, followed by Dehradun (48), Pithoragarh (32), Haridwar (23), Nainital (10), Champawat (10), Uttarkashi (8), Pauri (6) Tehri (3), Almora (3) and one each from Chamoli and Rudraprayag. Of 8,008 Covid-19 positive case so far, Dehradun district has reported maximum of 1,823 cases, followed Haridwar (1,610), US Nagar (1356) and Nainital (1,289). The state also reported the death of five Covid-19 positive patients. According to health bulletin released by the state health department, an 80-year-old man died at Sushila Tiwari Hospital (STH) on August 1 due to ‘bilateral pneumonitis, shock, acute febrile illness’. Another 55-year-old woman died at the same hospital on August 1 due to ‘bilateral pneumonitis, acute kidney disease, septicemia, shock.’ A 52-year-old man also passed away on August 1 at STH due to ‘bilateral pneumonitis, acute respiratory distress, type 1 respiratory failure’. A 37-year-old female expired at HIHT Jolly Grant Dehradun on Tuesday and a 56-year-old male expired at Doon Medical College Dehradun. The cause of death is awaited in both the cases. A total of 95 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now with 16 patients dying due to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The rest of the positive patients died due to co-morbidities and other causes, added health officials. Many of 208 fresh cases were reported in the case of people who had travel history from Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Bihar and South Africa. But in a large number of cases (58 cases), travel history was not available. The fresh cases included 123 contacts of earlier positive cases. Ten cases were detected at flu clinics and five healthcare workers from Pauri Garhwal also tested positive. Also, 309 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Tuesday with a maximum of 125 from Haridwar district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 31.31 days, while the infection rate is 4.69%. The state has so far tested over 1.82 lakh samples of which results of over 8100 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 343 containment zones in four districts including maximum 301 in Haridwar, followed by 28 in US Nagar, 10 in Dehradun, and one in Champawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-crosses-8-000-mark-in-covid-19-positive-cases/story-8MJboIbFmjHYrbLZ2RBzCI.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 20th Covid death, highest spike of 46 cases||A 50-year-old woman became Chandigarh’s 20th Covid-19 fatality on Tuesday, which also saw the city record its highest spike in cases with 46 fresh infections.The city’s tally stands at 1,206 with 470 cases still active. As many as 715 patients have been cured, nine of whom were discharged on Tuesday. The last highest spike of 44 cases was recorded on July 29.The latest victim was a resident of Burail and suffered from severe rheumatic heart disease. She tested positive for Covid-19 and died in the trauma unit of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Monday evening, though the case was added to the UT’s tally a day later. The woman was brought to the trauma unit after she had a fall on experiencing giddiness. She was found to have suffered subdural hemorrhage.“The patient’s condition deteriorated further and she suffered a sudden cardiac arrest and could not be revived,” stated the Covid-19 bulletin. 4 hospital staffers test +veAmong those found infected are two employees of the PGIMER and one each of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Civil Hospital, Sector 22. A family of four, including a three-year-old girl, have tested positive in Dhanas while five members of a family in Bapu Dham Colony have also been found infected. The remaining cases are spread across the city, including Sectors 12, 15, 19, 32, 34, 36, 39, 42, 44, 45, 46, 48, 49 and 50 besides Khuda Jassu, Raipur Khurd, Mauli Jagran, Daria, Manimajra, Burail, Ram Darbar and Khuda Lahora.Meanwhile, amid the rising number of cases, the Chandigarh deputy commissioner has empowered sub-inspectors of the municipal corporation’s enforcement wing to impose fines on people found not wearing masks in public places. In June, the UT administration had imposed a fine ₹500 for the offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-20th-covid-death-highest-spike-of-46-cases/story-yft39yxjQHG0qJmPpmXAhO.html
04-08-2020||City||Pune divisional commissioner reduces paperwork of pvt hospitals for Covid cases||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has streamlined the admission procedure for Covid patients at private hospitals. The hospital management has to fill 4-5 forms against the previous practice of 17-18 forms. Rao said, “At every review meeting, private hospitals raised the issue that time was lost in filling various forms. Even manpower was unnecessarily needed to fill 17-18 forms for Covid patients.” The senior official said that the administration appointed a three-expert committee to address the issue. The panel found that private hospitals need to fill and submit the same information at various offices, including Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), district collector, municipal corporation and charity commissioner. The experts suggested that these agencies can also get the information from a single platform.” Rao said, “Based on the panel’s recommendations, the form-filling exercise has been reduced to four and five.” The commissioner said that private hospitals are voluntarily approaching the administration to convert their hospitals into Covid care centres. Rao said, “A private hospital had to use its beds to quarantine 45 staff. When I suggested that the infected staff will be shifted to a civic-run quarantine facility, the hospital agreed to turn the hospital into a Covid care centre. Hence, we got 45 beds for critical patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-divisional-commissioner-reduces-paperwork-of-pvt-hospitals-for-covid-cases/story-oMO7o6SSS2CbtHVv7k0lHO.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Jakhar seeks expulsion of Bajwa, Dullo, says they crossed ‘lakshman rekha’||A day after Congress MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo sought CBI, ED probes into illicit liquor trade in the state, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar demanded their immediate expulsion from the Congress for crossing the ‘lakshman rekha’ of party discipline. Jakhar said he will write to Congress president Sonia Gandhi to seek “strict action” against the brazen indiscipline of the two Rajya Sabha MPs, who have attacked their own government. While extending his sympathies to the families of those who lost their lives in the horrific, he said such tragedies do not give license to any individual to indulge in indiscipline. Bajwa and Dullo, both former presidents of Punjab Congress, had met Governor VP Singh Badnore and alleged “clear-cut failure” on the part of the state administration. Jakhar, in a detailed riposte, said it was time to stem the rot and save the Congress from the “petty machinations” of the likes of Bajwa and Dullo. “Ye jis thali mein khatey hain ussi mein chhed kartey hain (They are biting the hand that feeds them). They are only interesting in fulfilling their vested interest,” he said, describing their actions as a ‘copy-paste job’ of what happened in Rajasthan in January, in the wake of 107 infant deaths over which Sachin Pilot had flayed his own government. Asserting that the actions of Bajwa and Dullo could not be tolerated any longer, the Punjab Congress chief said men like these, who did not have even the courage to face elections, were no asset to the party. Such back-stabbing members should be shown the door before they can cause any serious damage, he said, adding that “enough is enough now”. Jakhar said Bajwa and Dullo had been engaging in such anti-party activities for quite some time by talking against their own party and targeting the Congress government in Punjab. He said their attacks had increased after Amarinder Singh announced his decision to contest the 2022 assembly elections. “Having probably seen the 2022 polls as their last chance to make it big in the corridors of power, the duo saw their hopes shattered and, out of sheer frustration, are knocking at all possible doors to sneak their way to the top echelons of power,” he said. Complimenting Union home minister Amit Shah for his “uncanny ability” of gauging a person’s worth, Jakhar alleged that the centre scaled up the security of Bajwa from ‘Y’ to ‘Z’ category, giving him four extra security guards, while curtailing the security of top Congress leaders and won him over. “Bajwa and Dullo want to meet the Prime Minister and home minister. Why didn’t they meet them to demand funds for the state government for Covid-19,” he asked. He said the two MPs were surviving politically only due to the largesse of the Congress high command, which had nominated them to the Rajya Sabha since they were scared of contesting the assembly or parliamentary elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jakhar-seeks-expulsion-of-bajwa-dullo-says-they-crossed-lakshman-rekha/story-GZJJ3BHY6Vl6e2o7iCZP9M.html
04-08-2020||City||Projects take a backseat as Chhatbir Zoo suffers loss of ₹3.5 crore amid pandemic||Off limits for the public for the past four months, the Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir Zoo, has suffered a loss of Rs 3.5 crore due to the Covid-19 lockdown.Thanks to the steep losses, work on the Dinosaur Park, an aquarium and an exchange project for exotic animals has come to a grinding halt. Before it closed its gates in March, the zoo was earning Rs 1.8 lakh a day with the help of 3,000 visitors daily and was hoping to become self-reliant in the next two years. On the flip side, it will now take the zoo six months to help its accounts tide over the losses.The Punjab government had planned a Dinosaur Park on two acres in the zoo at a cost of Rs 4.5 crore. Completed 50% so far, it is being developed on public-private partnership (PPP) mode.As part of an exotic animal exchange programme, the zoo was to import animals from Africa, including zebras, giraffes, chimpanzees and gorillas.“Last year, we collected a revenue of Rs 6.5 crore. This year, we have already suffered a loss of Rs 3.5 crore. There is no certainty on when the new projects will see the light of the day, while it will take at least six months to recover from the losses,” said zoo field director M Sudhagar. Over the past few months before the lockdown, the zoo was equipped with numerous new features to attract visitors, such as an aviary and new ticket counters, besides road maintenance.The zoo spends about Rs 30 lakh a month on meat, fodder, grains, fruits and vegetables for the animals. Its revenue comes from outsourcing the parking, canteen and lion safari – all of which have been closed due to the pandemic. The tickets are priced at Rs 80 for adults and Rs 40 for children, which, on an average, contributes to a daily revenue of Rs 1.8 lakh. Lion and deer safari tickets cost Rs 75 per visitor. “We were aiming at becoming self-reliant in two years, but that seems a pipe dream now,” said a zoo staffer, not willing to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/projects-take-a-backseat-as-chhatbir-zoo-suffers-loss-of-3-5-crore-amid-pandemic/story-yZyJz8ZXxd9ShLrxxiseyH.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||IMD forecasts ‘extremely heavy’ rainfall in Mumbai, Pune||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune, Nashik and some other parts of Maharashtra for Wednesday.The red alert was issued for the second consecutive day. Rains have been lashing Mumbai and adjoining districts since Tuesday night.“The red alert of extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places has been issued for Wednesday. The probability of it is very likely, which means it could actualise up to 75 per cent,” an IMD official said here.The alert was issued for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik districts, he said.While the warning for Mumbai is only for Wednesday, that for Thane, Palghar and Nashik is for Wednesday and Thursday, the official said.Extremely heavy rainfall is defined as a rainfall of above 204.4 mm in 24 hours, he said.“The south and north Maharashtra coast would receive squally weather with wind speed reaching 50-60 kilometre per hour on 4th, 5th and 6th August,” the IMD official said.Mumbai, which was lashed by rain all night, received less intense showers during the day.Several areas of the metropolis had received more than 200 mm rain between midnight to Tuesday morning.“Highest precipitation was reported at Borivali weather station (in north Mumbai) at 30.6 mm from 8.30 in the morning till 5.30 pm,” the official said.Other areas which received heavy showers during the day were Bandra (26 mm), Powai and Charkop (24 mm each).The rainfall was 8.6 mm in Colaba (south Mumbai) and 9.4 mm at Dadar, the IMD data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/imd-forecasts-extremely-heavy-rainfall-in-mumbai-pune/story-ObE1qFqnI6oWs2jwC25m7M.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||2017 graft case: Chandigarh DIG declines sanction to prosecute suspended SHO||Stating that “no substantive evidence” has been placed on record by the investigating agency – the CBI, the UT deputy inspector general has refused to grant sanction to prosecute suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur in a 2017 graft case. A special CBI court on Tuesday adjourned the case to August 5.Currently in judicial custody, the graft-tainted inspector had surrendered before a Chandigarh court on July 25 in another Rs 5 lakh graft case from May this year.In October 2017, sub-inspector (SI) Mohan Singh was arrested for accepting Rs 2 lakh in bribe, allegedly on the directions of the then Sector 31 SHO, Jaswinder Kaur.Prem Singh Bisht, the complainant, had alleged that the SI, who was the investigating officer in an attempt to murder case, demanded Rs 9 lakh to drop the names of three of his employees from the FIR.Bisht had alleged that the SI had told him that Rs 8 lakh were for the SHO and remaining Rs 1 lakh for him. The CBI had arrested the SI while accepting Rs 2 lakh bribe, but the case was closed against Kaur as the agency could not find any evidence to implicate her.However, in the CBI court, the complainant had said that he was taken to SHO Kaur by the SI at Old Car Bazaar in Hallomajra, where a meeting had taken place and SHO had demanded money.In 2019, Bisht had moved an application to declare Kaur an accused in the case, followed by another application in February 2020, where he stated he was being pressured by the SHO.Taking cognizance of the applications, the court had directed CBI to place before the sanctioning authority (SSP, Chandigarh) all evidence, so that the authority could apply its own mind whether to give sanction for prosecution.DIG’S RESPONSEResponding five months from the date of order – February 13, DIG Omvir Singh Bishnoi stated that he had gone through all documents and was of the view that the “perusal of chargesheet also reveals that after laying the trap, accused Mohan Singh did not disclose that bribe was obtained by him on behalf of Jaswinder Kaur and he even refused to make call to her.”He added, “As per chargesheet filed by CBI, there is no independent, oral, documentary or scientific evidence on record regarding direct demand of bribe by Kaur or on her behalf. The investigating agency further reveals that there is no evidence regarding her meeting with the complainant.”The DIG mentioned that even in the contents of the application moved by Bisht, “no new fact has been brought into light”. Therefore, no substantive evidence has been placed on record by the CBI to prove her involvement.“Thus, the prosecution sanction under Section 19 of Prevention of Corruption Act is hereby declined,” his response stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2017-graft-case-chandigarh-dig-declines-sanction-to-prosecute-suspended-sho/story-2RBnDPVncdBp4YzdqRn9BN.html
04-08-2020||City||Youth shot dead by ex-army man over Facebook comments||A 26-year-old man was allegedly shot dead by an ex-army personnel over some Facebook comments at Killa Kavi Santokh Singh village in Tarn Taran on Tuesday.The deceased was Sukhchain Singh, whose father Paramjit Singh runs a chemist shop in the village, and the accused is Jasbir Singh.Jasbir had reportedly been posting some comments against the victim’s family for “selling drug pills” on his Facebook page. The victim opposed this. Sukhchain requested Jasbir to not post such comments on the social media, time and again but to no avail.According to the victim’s father, on Monday, Jasbir posted another comment on his Facebook page against the family. “When we opposed this, he deleted the comment,” said Paramjit.On Tuesday, his son was on his way back home after paying obeisance at the village gurdwara when the accused intercepted him and started hurling abuses.“When my son opposed, he fired at my son twice using a .12 bore licensed rifle. My son sustained severe injuries,” he said.“With the help of some villagers, I took my son to Tarn Taran civil hospital where he succumbed minutes after being admitted,” he said.Tarn Taran City police station SHO Manmohan Singh said a case was registered under Section 302 of the IPC against the accused, who is absconding, and raids are being conducted to nab him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-shot-dead-by-ex-army-man-over-facebook-comments/story-eZLFECs8AltamN9fYbrZpN.html
04-08-2020||City||Shops on both sides of road in Pune allowed to open from August 5||Pune: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday agreed to scrap the “odd-even (P1 and P2)” formula implemented for shop owners in the city as part of the lockdown restrictions. The move came after traders from the city held a meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in Mumbai on Tuesday and requested the guardian minister to withdraw the order. The traders welcomed the move saying that business will be back to normal from Wednesday (August 5) after PMC scrapped the “draconian” rule. In his order, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “Non-essential shops outside containment zones in Pune city was to follow the P1 and P2 regulations for opening establishments. The regulation now stands cancelled and all shops in Pune city will remain open as per the given timings between 9 am and 7 pm from August 5.” Shop owners and traders’ body Vyapari Mahasangh association have been staging protests in the city against the P1 and P2 formula. On Monday, the state government scrapped a similar rule in Mumbai, following which PMC issued the order. “We met deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and he assured us that regulations will be cancelled immediately. We are thankful to all those who have helped us in this fight to get our demands,” said Fatehchand Ranka, president, Pune traders’ association. Vaibhav Dhekane, executive president, Dattanagar Jambhulwadi road traders’ association, said, “We opposed the P1 and P2 rule in our area since day one. We welcome the decision taken by PMC and look forward to do good business during the upcoming festival season.” In a letter to Pawar on Sunday, Federation of Traders’ Association, an apex body of traders, and various trader associations stated that the odd-even rule was hurting their businesses. As per the P and P2 rule, on even dates, shops on one side of the road were allowed to open while the other side ran business on odd days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-on-both-sides-of-road-in-pune-allowed-to-open-from-august-5/story-etHG6nWmCYzZMJp9UR6obK.html
04-08-2020||City||Six held for gangraping minor girl in Kangra||Police on Tuesday arrested six men for allegedly gangraping a minor girl in Nagrota Bagwan sub-division of Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra district.The accused are Vinit,29, Rohit,21, Ravi Kumar,42, Akshay,23, Manish,19, and Pravesh,26.The incident took place on July 4. Kangra superintendent of police (SP) Vimukt Ranjan said the victim had gone for an outing with her friend and while returning home they were stopped by six people. “They beat up her friend who fled the scene. The accused then molested the victim and took turns to rape her. They also shot a video of the crime and threatened the victim of dire consequences if she reported the matter to anyone,” the SP said, adding that the accused later circulated the video on various social media platforms and messaging apps.“After the video came in the notice of police, a suo moto probe was initiated and it was found that the crime took place in Nagrota Bagwan,” he said. The accused have been booked under Section 376D (gang rape), 354b (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe) 506 (Criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-held-for-gangraping-minor-girl-in-kangra/story-o6vIhmkSMezCAM656FReqM.html
04-08-2020||Bangalore||Biggest single day spike of 6,259 Covid-19 cases takes Karnataka’s tally past 1.45 L||Karnataka on Tuesday reported its biggest single day spike of 6,259 Covid-19 cases and 110 fresh deaths, taking the total infection count to 1,45,830 and the toll to 2,704, the health department said.The day also saw a record 6,777 patients getting discharged after recovery, outnumbering the fresh cases.Out of 6,259 fresh cases, a total of 2,035 cases were from Bengaluru Urban district.The previous biggest single day record was on July 30 when the state added 6,128 cases.A bulletin from the department said cumulatively 1,45,830 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state and it included 2,704 deaths and 69,272 discharges. Out of the 73,846 active cases, as many as 73,212 patients were stable in isolation at designated hospitals while 634 in the intensive care units. Among the fresh deaths, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 30 followed by Dakshina Kannada (13) and Mysuru (9). Most of the people who succumbed either had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI), the bulletin said. Besides Bengaluru Urban, the other districts which reported higher fresh cases on Tuesday are Mysuru 662, Kalaburagi 285, Ballari 284, Belagavi 263, Dakshina Kannada 225, Davangere 191, Dharwad and Hassan 188.Bengaluru Urban district continued to top the list of positive cases with a total of 63,033 infections, followed by Ballari 7,638 and Dakshina Kannada 6,388. Among discharges too Bengaluru Urban tops the districts with 27,877 discharges, followed by Ballari 3,724 and Kalaburagi 3,470. A total of 14,89,016 samples had been tested so far, out of which 42,458 on Tuesday with 29,488 being rapid antigen tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/biggest-single-day-spike-of-6-259-covid-19-cases-takes-karnataka-s-tally-past-1-45-l/story-oYMpv1suvFT9dYT2YpBjxL.html
04-08-2020||City||NSUI observes ‘1st death anniversary’ of 4G internet in J&K||The activists of NSUI on Tuesday observed the first “death anniversary” of 4G internet services here on the banks of Tawi River where a priest performed the rituals. “The NSUI organised “4G Barkhi” on one year of the suspension of 4G internet in Jammu and Kashmir,” said Vikas Badhoria, J&K NSUI general secretary. He said when the entire world is fighting against the deadly Covid-19, people of J&K are up in arms against the “digital” pandemic. “The people of J&K have been deprived of 4G internet facility from past one year. When students all over India are attending online classes, those in J&K have to struggle on obsolete 2G mobile network. Similarly, when businessmen are working from their homes on 4G in other parts of the country, their counterparts in J&K are still struggling with slow internet,” he said. NSUI activist Ajay Lakhotra said the government must respond to the grievances of people of J&K. “The youth of J&K are already in depression due to unemployment and the suspension of 4G network has added to their frustration. People here are debarred from 4G internet access in the name of national security. We request the government to restore 4G as soon as possible”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nsui-observes-1st-death-anniversary-of-4g-internet-in-j-k/story-0y8qbD30wTOLoSCc1Z3z1L.html
04-08-2020||City||Raghav Jain from Ludhiana bags 127th rank in civil services exam||A resident of Civil Lines, Ludhiana, Raghav Jain, 27, bagged the 127th rank in the Union Public Services Commission (UPSC) examinations, results of which were declared on Tuesday.Jain (27), an alumnus of Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management who cleared the examination in his third attempt said, “I was able to clear the preliminary examination in 2017 and then in 2018, I was very disappointed as I couldn’t clear prelims and mains. Then my parents motivated me to reappear for the civil services examination and with consistent practice, I was able to crack the exam this time.”“I went to Delhi in 2016 to take coaching for the examination. I believe that patience, planning, hard work as well as smart work helped me clear the exam. I opted for management studies as an optional subject as I belong from a business background and had more knowledge of the subject,” he said.His father Pawan Kumar is a businessman and his mother Renu Gupta is a housewife.“I never refrained from using social networking sites such as Instagram, Facebook to keep myself updated with the latest news. I make productive use of these sites,” said Raghav.Raghav, an alumnus of Kundan Vidya Mandir School, scored 93.4% marks in Class 12. He aims to work in the education sector by focusing on providing professional courses guidance to youngsters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/raghav-jain-from-ludhiana-bags-127th-rank-in-civil-services-exam/story-KdORjQpi1JD0SbN3HqCZ9N.html
04-08-2020||City||Panchkula records 3rd Covid fatality, 10 new cases||Death toll due to Covid-19 rose to three in Panchkula, though the district got some respite from the recent spike in infections, with just 10 new cases being reported on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as a 46-year-old man from Baloti village in Morni. He was tested positive posthumously.“He reported with severe respiratory distress and was admitted in the ICU as his condition was critical. The Covid sample was taken, but the patient died on Monday, before the report was received. His report came positive on Tuesday,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.Meanwhile, eight men and two women have tested positive for the disease, taking the total to 723. The cases are spread across Sectors 6, 12, 24 and 25 in the city besides Pinjore, Natwal and Marranwala. As many as 377 cases remain active, as 343 people have been cured so far.Mohali count inches towards 1,000With 30 fresh cases, Mohali’s Covid-19 count inched towards 1,000 on Tuesday.Now, 989 people have been infected with the virus in the district, of whom 393 are still hospitalised. Dera Bassi subdivision accounts for over 50% (16) of the fresh cases, while nine are from Mohali and five from Kharar subdivision. Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said: “Most patients are asymptomatic and have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.” Meanwhile, with 26 more patients being discharged on Tuesday, the number of those cured has reached 579. As many as 17 have succumbed so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-records-3rd-covid-fatality-10-new-cases/story-Cxun45jpEbfMuVcjim2QrL.html
04-08-2020||City||After fight with wife, Ludhiana man sets himself on fire||Upset over a fight with his wife, a 44-year-old man allegedly set himself on fire in New Shimlapuri here. The victim was referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where he succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday.A complaint was given to the cops by the victim’s father that his daughter-in-law was ill-treating his son and didn’t give him food.The police lodged an FIR against the victim’s wife for abetment to suicide. The couple has an 8-year-old son from their marriage. According to the victim’s father, his son was diagnosed with tuberculosis a year ago.“After my son was diagnosed with the disease, his wife did not allow him to enter the house suspecting that she and their son would be infected,” he alleged.“On July 31, when my daughter-in-law didn’t open the door of their house for my son, he poured petrol on him and immolated himself. The onlookers doused the flames and took him to a local hospital from where he was referred to PGIMER Chandigarh, where he succumbed to the injuries,” he added.ASI Harbans Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code was lodged against the woman. A hunt is on for her arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-fight-with-wife-ludhiana-man-sets-himself-on-fire/story-2dzL8OoRlNEw2ZA1cwaO8O.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Riddhima and Darpan from Chandigarh tricity bag spots in UPSC Top 100||Beating all their male counterparts, Riddhima Shrivastava and Darpan Ahluwalia have emerged as the only duo from the Chandigarh tricity area to figure in the Top 100 candidates selected for the prestigious civil services.Of the 829 candidates, who cleared the stringent process of the civil services exam (CSE), conducted by the Union Public Service Commission, no men from the tricity could make it to the Top 100.LIKE MOTHER LIKE DAUGHTERRiddhima Shrivastava, who lives in Sector 24, Chandigarh, secured the 74th rank to clinch the top spot in the tricity.Only child of her parents, the 24-year-old cleared the exam in her second attempt.Her mother Raji Shrivastava is also an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer and is currently working as principal secretary, social security women and child development, Punjab. Her father, Pramod Shrivastava, is a retired Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer.Irrespective of her parents being civil officers, Riddhima said her parents always gave her the freedom to choose her own path and follow her dreams. “They are happy with the result, and have been immensely supportive throughout my journey,” she said.An alumna of Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Riddhima completed her engineering in electronics and communication in October 2017, before starting preparations for UPSC.However, rather than following in her parents’ footsteps, Riddhima wants to join the Indian Foreign Service (IFS): “It was always on my mind, but I made up my mind to prepare for UPSC only after passing out from PEC.”On her success mantra, she said, “More than motivation, it was discipline that paved the way for me. I stuck to rigorous preparations, while following a strict schedule. I revised all concepts holistically.”MOVE OVER MEDICINE, DOCTOR EYES IASSecond in the tricity at the 80th rank, Darpan Ahluwalia, a 26-year-old MBBS graduate from Government Medical College, Patiala, and a resident of Phase 10, Mohali, aims to be an IAS officer.“This was my second attempt. In 2018 also I had cleared the UPSC preliminary and main exams and had reached the interview stage,” Darpan said, adding that this year’s result had taken her by surprise as she did not expect to get through. “I was already preparing for my third attempt when the results were declared on Tuesday,” she added. After her previous attempt, she chose medical science as her optional subject, which she feels worked in her favour. “Usually candidates opt for a high-scoring and easy optional subject. But, I didn’t want to lose touch with what I had studied, so I opted for the harder subject. I scored well in it, which made a huge difference.”While IAS remains Darpan’s first choice, she would not mind either of the Indian Police Service (IPS) or the IFS. Darpan’s father Gurinder Singh Walia is a joint director with the Punjab department of animal husbandry. Her mother, Navneet Walia, who holds an MPhil degree in economics, teaches underprivileged children pro-bono. Her younger brother, Aaftab Singh, is pursuing a BTech in information and technology engineering from Vellore Institute of Technology, Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/riddhima-and-darpan-from-chandigarh-tricity-bag-spots-in-upsc-top-100/story-YsatdFZIToO3mexqSlKkoM.html
04-08-2020||City||Fearing shutdown, Ludhiana wedding hall owners ask govt to ease gathering curbs||Dreading a business shutdown, the owners of marriage halls and hotels with banquets on Pakhowal Road here have appealed the state government to increase the gathering limit of guests in weddings and other events.Overburdened by fixed charges such as salaries and electricity bills, the owners rued that they were getting no business due to the restriction that only 30 guests can participate in a wedding function.Addressing mediapersons here on Tuesday, hotel association members said there are around 200 resorts and hotels with banquet halls on Pakhowal Road and all are on the brink of shutdown, as the state government is not paying heed to their problems.Kohinoor Hotel owner Pritam Singh said, “The state government has failed to focus on the hospitality sector while announcing relief amid the ongoing pandemic. We are reeling under losses as there is no relief in terms of fixed charges, including electricity bills, even when no events are taking place. We are retaining our employees and are paying salaries to them, but we would not be able to continue like this for long and the government should increase the number of guests allowed to participate in events.”Taranjit Singh, who owns a resort here, said, “The government is allowing buses to run with full capacity, but no announcement has been made to increase the number of guests in events, rather the number has been decreased from 50 to 30 in the past. The restriction has also increased the cost of organising an event, due to which the residents are refraining from making bookings. We are expecting a good response from the public in the months of October, November and December, but if the government fails to announce any relief, the sector would not be able to revive itself. The government should allow 50% guests as per the capacity of a resort or banquet hall.”The owners also highlighted that a large number of trades associated with weddings, including caterers, brass band groups, valet service providers among others, were facing a tough time.Association president Vikas Shrivastava said, “The slowdown in the hospitality sector is taking a toll on a large number of trades and this would also lead to large scale unemployment if no relief is provided in the coming time. The government should at least waive off the fixed charges from power bills as no event is taking place in the resorts. Also, the number of guests allowed to participate in the event should be increased.”“With these restrictions, most of the events are taking place in temples and gurdwaras where they do not have proper staff to manage things. We can provide trained staff at the resorts and can maintain social distancing with ease. The revival of this sector would also generate revenue for the government in terms of goods and services tax,” said Shrivastava.HOTELIERS WARN OF STATEWIDE CLOSUREReeling under losses due to low footfall and gathering restrictions imposed by the state government in wedding events, Punjab restaurants and hotel association has warned of shutting down hotels if the government fails to provide them relief by the end of this week.The announcement was made by the members during an online meeting on Tuesday, wherein they decided to take up the matter with the chief minister on Thursday.They rued that the hotel business would not revive until interstate movement is allowed and railway services start across the country, but the government should at least increase the number of guests allowed to participate in events to provide some relief to the sector.Leading a group of around 1,750 restaurant and hotel owners, association president Amarvir Singh said, “The government has failed to provide any relief in terms of fixed charges in power bills etc. Further, the number of guests in a wedding event has been restricted to 30 even when the Union government has allowed 50 persons. Fifty passengers are allowed in a bus, but not in a banquet hall with much more capacity. We will take up the matter with the CM on Thursday and if the government fails to provide any relief, we will start shutting down hotels across the state from Monday onwards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fearing-shutdown-ludhiana-wedding-hall-owners-ask-govt-to-ease-gathering-curbs/story-4QGuhTfiiF4imiHDtQfejL.html
04-08-2020||Pune||Pune dist collector Naval Kishore Ram gets PMO posting||In an order issued on Tuesday, Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram has been transferred to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) as deputy secretary. Ram, a 2008-batch IAS officer, has been at the helm of handling the Covid-19 situation in Pune district, which has seen over 92,000 cases till Monday. “This is a challenging opportunity for me and I am looking forward to it. I will follow further instructions from the government when taking charge of my new assignment,” said Ram after receiving the order. Ram will be deputy secretary for a period of four years from the date of taking charge under the central staffing scheme, a note issued by department of personnel and training written to Maharashtra chief secretary, stated. In Pune, Ram was leading the team formed to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, particularly in rural and semi-rural parts of the district, along with the smooth migration of workers back home during the lockdown. Ram is the third key officer in Pune district to have been transferred within a month amid the Covid-19 crisis and the administration busy in increasing the bed capacity by setting up three jumbo facilities. Earlier in July, the state government had transferred the then civic chief Shekhar Gaikwad and replaced him with Vikram Rao. On August 1, the government appointed Saurabh Rao, a 2003-IAS officer, as the Pune divisional commissioner after incumbent Deepak Mhaisekar retired on July 31. While Rao has been given time of three weeks to join the new position, the government is yet to announce a new collector for the district. The government is likely to issue an order in a day or two, said officials at the collectorate. In Pune, Ram had been tasked to ensure a peaceful gathering at Bhima Koregaon in 2019, a year after the village near Pune witnessed caste clashes during the anniversary of the war fought between British rulers and Peshwas. At least 10 lakh people had gathered at the obelisk to commemorate the Bhima Koregaon battle. Ram has also been credited with successfully handling the aftermath of the flash floods in Pune during September 2019.Before taking charge in April 2018, Ram had been posted as the Aurangabad district collector and also Beed collector. Before Ram, the then Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited managing director Shrikar Pardeshi and former PMC commissioner Kunal Kumar were transferred to the PMO from Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-dist-collector-naval-kishore-ram-gets-pmo-posting/story-MMXs9uEkJ0NU5WmwULKRyH.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Eviction of encroachers from acquired land not condition for compensation payment: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday held that railway bodies which want to acquire land, cannot insist that landowners shall remove encroachments and hand them over vacant possession, before compensation is paid for the land acquired under the Railways Act, 1989.“From a minute and careful examination of the two provisions [sections 20-H and 20-I of the Railways Act], what is discernible is that payment of compensation to the person(s) entitled, is not dependent upon handing over of possession of the land,” said the bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice NR Borkar.The bench said there was no negative covenant in the law that empowered the acquiring bodies to insist on encroachment-free possession of the land and withhold compensation on those grounds.HC said the legal provisions made it clear that before taking over possession of the land, the Central government has to deposit compensation with the competent authority, and as soon as the deposit is made, the competent authority shall make the payment to the person(s) entitled. However, a period of sixty days is prescribed for surrendering or delivering possession of the land.“This is clearly indicative of the fact that payment of compensation is not contingent upon handing over possession,” the bench said.The court was hearing a petition filed by Premier Limited, seeking a direction to Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL), a subsidiary of Indian Railways, to release the compensation amount of ₹21.71 crore for 28,672sqm of the petitioner company’s land at Bhopar in Thane district. The piece of land has been acquired by DFCCIL for the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor, a special railway project with a route length of 1483km, from Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) to Dadri in Haryana.Premier Ltd complained that though the final award was passed as regards the piece of land on May 6, 2017, and the land was transferred in revenue records to DFCCIL, compensation was not paid to it on the grounds that it failed to clear encroachments on the land. The company contended that nowhere in the law was such a condition stipulated, and it was legally unsustainable.DFCCIL, on the other hand, maintained that the land was well-protected until the publication of the first notification for its acquisition, but thereafter, the petitioner company permitted encroachments. “This is out of mala fide desire of the petitioner to extract more money as compensation from the second respondent, being hand in glove with the encroachers,” said the lawyer for the railway subsidiary. “Since the land has been acquired for a public purpose, the petitioner ought to clear the encroachments first, and handover possession of the vacant land, free from all encumbrances,” the lawyer added.HC, however, refused to accept the argument. The bench said in the backdrop of the legal position, the stand taken by DFCCIL was not justified. “Calling upon the petitioner to evict encroachers and to hand over vacant possession of the land, as a condition precedent to payment of compensation, is legally unsustainable,” said the bench.The court has now directed the sub-divisional officer at Kalyan, through whom the land was acquired, to pay the compensation amount to Premier Limited in six weeks, along with interest at the rate of 6℅ per annum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/eviction-of-encroachers-from-acquired-land-not-condition-for-compensation-payment-hc/story-SbfBx5Y6hwpktW806E1WJP.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||17-year-old booked for molestation||A 17-year-old was booked by Bandra police for allegedly molesting his 16-year-old friend. He also recorded a video and circulated among his group of friends through WhatsApp. According to the police, in March both became friends through social media. The victim in her statement to police officials said, “In the last week of May, he insisted on meeting near KC Marg, Bandra (West), where he touched her inappropriately and recorded a video without her knowledge.” An officer from Bandra police station said, “She was unaware that her friend had circulated her video on WhatsApp groups. On August 2, one of the victim’s friend received her video on WhatsApp after which he alerted her about the same.” A complaint was filed on August 3. Police have registered the offence under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of Indian Penal Code, and sections 8 (punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses Act and section 66 (D) (punishment for cheating by personation by using computer resource) of Information Technology Act and are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/17-year-old-booked-for-molestation/story-WHkBm2rPWVk7UL3gt6tFKL.html
04-08-2020||City||Complaint against man for defaming Sena leader on social media||The Vartak Nagar police have registered a non-cognisable complaint against a man for posting objectionable and defaming content on social media about Maharashtra cabinet minister and Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde. The senior Shiv Sena leader is currently the urban development and public works minister in the state cabinet. The party workers of Thane came across the comments targeting Shinde and informed the Lokmanya Nagar vibhag pramukh (area head) Ramchandra Gaurav. Gaurav submitted his complaint to the Vartak Nagar police station on Sunday. Gurav said, “We do not know the person who posted such comments. It was our duty to file a police complaint.” “We have filed a non-cognisable complaint. The accused appears to have used a fake profile to post the objectionable comments,” said SB Gaikwad, senior inspector at Vartak Nagar police station. Meanwhile, Thane corporator Eknath Bhoir told media persons that the Shiv Sena will not tolerate such comments against the state leader. “If someone behaves in such a way, the Shiv Sena will not shy away from getting down on roads. The mayor has asked us to show restraint, but if someone continues to commit such acts, then we will respond to them in the same way. The entire state knows how the Thane Shiv Sena gives a response,” Bhoir said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/complaint-against-man-for-defaming-sena-leader-on-social-media/story-eD0jq6PJwyqKQKpDbL0wTJ.html
04-08-2020||City||No bias against Kangra district under BJP regime: Forest minister Pathania||There was no bias against Kangra district in the BJP regime led by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and the district is excelling in development, newly appointed forest minister Rakesh Pathania said on Tuesday.He was addressing his first press conference here after assuming office.Pathania said there was a mistaken belief and a politically motivated propaganda that the BJP government was biased against Kangra and the district leadership was being ignored. “I wonder why this discussion crops up time and again. There is no discrimination with Kangra,” he added.He said the district leadership has got enough representation in the government as well as organisation.“Besides, Vidhan Sabha speaker Vipin Singh Parmar, two ministers Bikram Singh and Sarveen Chaudhary come from Kangra. Senior MLA Ramesh Dhawalais is deputy chairman of state planning board,” he said.On the development front, Pathania said, several projects exclusively for Kangra district are in the pipeline. Citing an example, the Nurpur legislator said, a mango plantation project in collaboration with Israel, Maharashtra and Rajasthan will be implemented in the district.Under the project, a hybrid verity of mango that gives two crops in two year will be planted in the district. Besides, fruit plants of hybrid quality will be imported from Italy.He said ₹40 crore have been sanctioned for Kangra under horticulture project and two forestry projects will also be implanted in the district.Setting up of a National Sports University in Kangra is in pipeline and I have taken up the matter with the Union minister as well as BJP chief JP Nadda, he said.He said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur will be on a four-day tour to Kangra from August 6 to inaugurate and lay foundation stones of various projects in the district.Pathania, also took a dig at the opposition Congress terming it a ship without a captain.“BJP is clear about contesting the next assembly election under the leadership of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. However, we don’t know who will lead the Congress,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-bias-with-kangra-district-under-bjp-regime-forest-minister-pathania/story-GdRsFAdfmrUL2PWihpRMVL.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Hooch deaths: Capt talks tough, says guilty will not be spared||Asserting that he will finish the liquor mafia in the state, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said that no one, whether a politician or a public servant, will be spared if found complicit in the hooch deaths. Amarinder said nobody will be allowed to get away with killing people with liquor. “I have put the entire force of the Punjab Police to crack down on the mafia. Some unscrupulous elements took advantage of the police focus on the pandemic to satiate their greed at the cost of the lives of Punjabis,” he said in a statement, terming the deaths due to spurious liquor as “sheer murder”. Accusing the opposition of exploiting the tragedy for their “petty political interests”, the chief minister said this is not the time to play politics but to stand by the government in its efforts to eliminate the mafia. He flayed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) over its dharnas against the hooch tragedy, and asked how this would help in battling the mafia or supporting the bereaved families. The chief minister said that such tragedies have been taking place through the years across states, under different political dispensations. “Mafias and criminals do not have any political affiliation, their only interest is to earn money by hook or by crook,” he said, noting that 2019 had seen three hooch tragedies, all in the BJP-ruled states of Assam, UP and Uttarakhand, where 168, 97 and 30 people lost their lives, respectively. In 2016, 16 people had died in Janata Dal-ruled Bihar while in 2015, BJP-led Maharashtra had lost 102 lives to hooch in Mumbai and under the Trinamool Congress rule in West Bengal, as many as 167 people had died due to consumption of spurious liquor, he added, listing similar tragedies in other states. He urged the opposition parties to stop playing politics over the lives of innocent Punjabis. People do not care which party is ruling the state and all they want is justice, he said, adding that Punjab had also witnessed similar tragedies under the SAD-BJP regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooch-deaths-capt-talks-tough-says-guilty-will-not-be-spared/story-O72OQyiymvXV12bD0MZpWJ.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress chief to write to Sonia for strict action against ‘backstabbing’ MPs Partap Bajwa, Shamsher Dullo||Chandigarh: Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday said he will be writing to party president Sonia Gandhi to seek action against the brazen indiscipline of the two Rajya Sabha MPs Pratap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, who had chosen to attack their own government. The Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief extended his sympathies to the families of those who had lost their lives in the hooch tragedy but said such tragedies do not give licence to any individual to indulge in indiscipline. “It’s time to stem the rot and save the Congress from the petty machinations of the likes of Bajwa and Dullo, who had no shame in biting the hand that feeds them,” Jakhar said, adding “Ye jis thali mein khatey hain ussi mein chhed kartey hain.” He said he would seek strict action against the two MPs who were disgracefully exploiting a tragedy to further their own political ambitions and interests. Asserting that the actions of Bajwa and Dullo could not be tolerated any longer, Jakhar said: “Men like these who do not have even the courage to face elections, are no asset to the party. Such backstabbing members should be shown the door before they can cause any serious damage. Enough is enough. I’m going to clearly demand action against them from the party president.” Jakhar described the action of the two MPs, who had approached the governor on Monday to demand a CBI and enforcement department (ED) probe into the liquor deaths, as a manifestation of their desperate desire to grab power by hook or by crook. “How many times in all these years did they ask for expediting the CBI inquiry into the sacrilege cases (which has since been taken over by Punjab Police) or the ED probe into drugs, launched during the SAD-BJP government?” he asked. ‘ENGAGING IN ANTI-PARTY ACTIVITIES’Pointing out that Bajwa and Dullo had been engaging in such anti-party activities for quite some time by talking against their own party and targeting the Congress government in Punjab, Jakhar said their attacks had increased after Captain Amarinder Singh announced his decision to contest the 2022 elections. “Having probably seen the 2022 elections as their last chance to make it big in the corridors of power, the duo saw their hopes shattered and, out of sheer frustration, were knocking at all possible doors to sneak their way to the top echelons of power,” he added, citing rumours of the two MPs being in touch with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). TAKES SWIPE AT SACHIN PILOTJakhar described the attack of the two MPs on their own government as a ‘copy-paste job’ of what happened in Rajasthan in January, in the wake of 107 infant deaths over which Sachin Pilot had flayed his own government. “Had action been taken against Pilot then itself, what is happening today in Rajasthan could have been avoided,” he said, adding that he will bring to Sonia’s notice the dangers of letting Bajwa and Dullo get away with “their detestable act of expressing their dissent/concern not in the party or government forum but in public”. The PPCC president pointed out that the “two MPs are surviving politically only due to the largesse of the Congress high command, which had nominated them to the Rajya Sabha since they had run scared from contesting assembly and parliamentary elections”. He recalled that Rahul Gandhi had helped Bajwa by making him PCC president in the face of opposition, but his betrayal of Rahul’s and the party’s trust had exposed his petty political ambitions which he was bent on pursuing to the detriment of the Congress itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-congress-chief-to-write-to-sonia-for-strict-action-against-backstabbing-mps-partap-bajwa-shamsher-dullo/story-IidVuolC9CcgWjZQJjjPHM.html
04-08-2020||City||State govt committed to realise Dr Parmar’s dream of developed, prosperous Himachal: CM||The state government is committed to realise the first chief minister Dr YS Parmar’s dream of a developed and prosperous Himachal, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Tuesday.Speaking at a function held to mark the 114th birth anniversary of Dr Parmar here, Thakur described the former CM as a great visionary leader who played a key role in the formation of the state. “The foundation laid by Dr Parmar helped develop Himachal Pradesh into a model state among all the hill states,” he said.The CM said,” Dr Parmar strongly advocated the merger of those hilly areas of Punjab, having identical culture, with Himachal Pradesh. It was his vision that the state’s agrarian economy, particularly horticulture sector, made rapid strides.”He said Dr Parmar was a multi-faceted personality who left indelible mark in the hearts of people of Himachal with his simplicity and down-to-earth approach. “It was his tireless efforts that Himachal became 18th state of the Indian Union,” he added.The CM said Dr Parmar stressed upon development of road infrastructure in the state and also promoted the cultivation of cash crops.“The initiatives taken by him has led Himachal to become a ₹5,000 crore fruit economy,” he added.Earlier, the CM paid floral tributes to Dr Parmar at the Vidhan Sabha Complex where he was joined by speaker and deputy speaker, leader of opposition, cabinet ministers, MLAs and former legislators.Speaking on the occasion, Vidhan Sabha speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said Dr Parmar apprised the then Union government that the developmental needs of the hill state were different from other states of the country.He said Dr Parmar laid special emphasis on construction of roads, power generation and giving boost to horticulture and agriculture sectors to ensure overall development of the state.Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said Dr Parmar shunned all luxuries of life and chose a path of struggle for maintaining separate identity of Himachal Pradesh. He said January 25, 1971 was indeed the red letter day in the annals of state as it was due to the efforts of Dr Parmar that Himachal Pradesh was granted statehood.He said the Land Reforms Act was one of the biggest contributions of Dr Parmar. A documentary on life of Dr YS Parmar produced by information and public relations department was also screened on the occasion.Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, agriculture minister Virender Kanwar, health minister Dr Rajiv Saizal, deputy speaker Vidhan Sabha Hansraj and several MLAs of both ruling and opposition were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-govt-committed-to-realise-dr-parmar-s-dream-of-developed-prosperous-himachal-cm/story-80hfOCSjnLFVlPerfoloiM.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Sangrur doctor’s son ranks 104th rank in UPSC civil services||24-year-old Adithya Bansal ranked 104 in the civil service examinations, the results of which were declared on Tuesday. He wants to serve society but in a different way from his parents, who are doctors.“I had decided to pursue civil services when I was in Class-12. I did not have fixed hours for studying but continuously focused on my goal and cleared the exam in my third attempt,” said Bansal.After studying science till Class 12, Bansal changed his stream to humanities. “My mother, Pratibha Bansal, helped me a lot. I will probably get a posting in the Indian Police Services (IPS),” he added.Dr Ravinder Bansal, Adithya’s father, who runs a private hospital in Sangrur, said he never forced his son to study medicine and asked him to follow his dreams. Raghav Jain, a resident of Civil Lines, Ludhiana, ranked 127 in the civil services exam.Jain, an alumnus of Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, cleared the exam in his third attempt. He attributed his success to her parents: “I was able to clear the Preliminary Exam in 2017 and then in 2018. I was disappointed when I failed to clear both prelims and mains. But my parents motivated me to prepare again and I decided to give it my best and took the exam last year. I decided to work on my weak areas and with consistent practice I was able to crack the exam this time,” he said. “I belong to a business family and always wanted to do something different. I went to Delhi in 2016 and took coaching for six months. I believe patience, planning, hard work and smart work helped me to attain this rank,” said an elated Jain.His father Pawan Kumar is a businessman and mother Renu Gupta is a housewife.“I never stopped using social networking sites but made productive use of these sites”, he said.Raghav, an alumnus of Kundan Vidya Mandir School, scored 93.4% in Class-12. He wants to work for the education sector.Punjab block development and panchayat officer clears UPSC Punjab block development and panchayat officer Naveen Rattu cleared the Union Public Services Commission (UPSC) civil services exam 2019, the results of which were declared on Tuesday. He secured the 776th rank. Hailing from Mehatpur town of Jalandhar district, Naveen Rattu, 27, completed his graduation in computer science engineering in the year 2016 from Chandigarh University, Gharaun. He is presently posted in Ludhiana. Rattu said he cleared the civil services examination in the fourth attempt. He had previously been called for an interview in 2018 and cleared the mains in 2019. Rattu said he would study for eight to nine hours to prepare for the exam and would read poetry, cook or listen to music to relax. “I cleared the Punjab civil services examination in 2019 and was appointed the BDPO in February 2020”, said Rattu. Rattu had to face many challenges as his father, Krishan Lal Rattu, a joint director in the public relations department, Punjab, had suffered from paralysis in the year 2017, due to which he had take care of the household. “I will re-appear to improve my rank,” said Rattu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-block-development-and-panchayat-officer-clears-upsc/story-MknwnhunaeQZLQoHuauoKL.html
04-08-2020||City||100 bus routes cancelled by private operators in Himachal||Private bus operators in Himachal Pradesh have cancelled plying of buses on 100 routes in the state due to huge losses amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The operators claimed that due to fear of getting infected with the virus and recent spike in cases in the state, they are not getting enough passengers on these routes and are not able to generate money for the fuel.Himachal Private Bus Operators Association president Rajesh Parashar said, “We have suffered huge losses due to the pandemic as buses are not able to generate enough income. Therefore, we have decided to stop plying buses in some routes as we cannot continue bearing expenses. If the situation persists, we might cancel more routes in the future.” As of now, private buses ply on 500 routes in the state out of which 100 have been cancelled.He said private bus owners will soon meet chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and demand concessions in taxes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/100-bus-routes-cancelled-by-private-operators-in-himachal/story-mH2iIVyEre5UBzMOjOE5xI.html
04-08-2020||Noida||Gautam Buddh Nagar district reports 36 new Covid-19 cases, tally up at 5,544||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 36 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the tally in the district to 5,544, official data showed.The number of active cases has came down to 902 as 54 more patients were discharged since Monday, according to the data released by the UP Health Department.Tuesday also marked a break in the steady rise in active cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar. There were 921 active cases on Monday, 886 on Sunday, 846 on Saturday, 796 on Friday, 730 on Thursday and 679 on Wednesday, the data showed.So far, 4,599 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, the second highest among districts in UP after Lucknow (5,043), it added.The district has so far recorded 43 deaths linked to the coronavirus, with a mortality rate of 0.77 per cent, according to official statistics.The recovery rate of patients improved slightly to 82.95 per cent on Tuesday from 82.50 per cent on Monday and 82.89 per cent on Sunday. It was 83.31 per cent on Saturday, 83.89 per cent on Friday, 84.77 per cent on Thursday and 85.48 per cent on Wednesday, per the statistics.Gautam Buddh Nagar stands 11th on the list of districts in the state in terms of active cases.The highest number of active cases is in Lucknow (4,638), followed by Kanpur Nagar (3,845), Allahabad (1,894), Varanasi (1,739), Bareilly (1,651), Gorakhpur (1,240), Ballia (1,094), Jaunpur (1,137), Aligarh (933) and Ghaziabad (928), according to the data.There were 41,222 active cases across Uttar Pradesh, while the death toll has reached 1,817 with 41 fatalities since Monday. So far, 57,271 patients have recovered across the state, the data stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gautam-buddh-nagar-district-reports-36-new-covid-19-cases-tally-up-at-5-544/story-8wxELoqlugc3apeFBPzMNP.html
04-08-2020||Pune||Pune malls back in business from Aug 5 with safety in mind||Members of Shopping Centres’ Association of India (SCAI) have welcomed the decision to allow malls to operate between 9am and 7pm from August 5.The decision was taken on July 31 when new guidelines were issued by Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar.Amitabh Taneja, chairman, Shopping Centres’ Association of India, said, “SCAI has developed and rolled out stringent standard operating procedures (SOPs) in over 500 shopping malls across the country that opened up and have successfully been able to implement social distancing guidelines along with other necessary measures in the best possible manner.”“The mandatory use of the government’s Aarogya Setu app to enter malls, reduced parking to maintain social distancing, encouraging contactless payments, isolation room facility, availability of oxygen cylinders, ambulance-on-call, are some of the measures undertaken,” added Taneja.As per data available with the SCAI, there are more than 20 malls in Pune and seven in Pimpri-Chinchwad.Even though shops in malls were not open since the last four months, mall owners were completely keeping tight security checks and hygiene at the malls.“We all are geared up to follow the hygiene norms as per SOPs given by Shopping Centres’ Association of India. On every floor, there will be a social distancing officer to guide the people. The officer will keep a track of people to make sure that there is no rush or crowd,” said Shashank Pathak, centre director, Westend mall, Aundh.The Westend Mall has also tied up with an hospital which is just 500 metres from the mall. If the mall administration finds a case where a person is coughing or he/she displays temperature anomalies then they will be put under the isolation facility,which has been made in the parking slot.“Patients can be kept safely at the isolation facility. We will call an ambulance and doctors and they will be escorted out of the mall,” added Pathak.Rashmi Sen, chief operations officer - malls, The Phoenix Mills, said, “This is a positive step towards rekindling India’s consumption story. Our malls have incorporated the highest quality SOPs to ensure the safety of our customers, retail partners and employees across our properties.”“We are fully prepared to welcome our guests with the new safe shopping experience,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-malls-back-in-business-from-aug-5-with-safety-in-mind/story-GbKH7a7nrSAbcFx8yqggAP.html
04-08-2020||Pune||Centralised bed management to be functional in city in next two to three days: Saurabh Rao||Amid the rise in Covid-19 positive cases in the city to avoid the mismanagement of beds, district and civic administration has decided to launch a centralised bed management system following the instructions from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. According to divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, the administration will allocate the beds for positive patients soon in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad instead of hospitals managing the same. “The inflow of positive patients is high in Pune and there is pressure on private hospitals too. Naturally, despite showing the vacant bed on dashboards, some complaints are coming that critical patients are not getting beds in Pune. By considering all these issues, it is decided to launch the centralised bed system,” said Rao. “The centralised bed system will be functional in next two to three days,” he said. Vikram Kumar, Pune municipal commissioner, said, “Trials for centralised bed management system are going on at all the 15 ward office levels. It will help to avoid confusion and would have better coordination.” District collector Naval Kishor Ram said, “The impression had been created that the city would have less beds, but the situation is not that difficult. We are getting two to three complaints every week.”Shravan Hardkiar, commissioner, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), said, “PCMC had completed trials in all the eight wards. Now municipal corporation and district administration would get immediate information of the critical and positive patients and they would allocate the beds to the patients.”Arrangements for students coming from rural partsMaharashtra Public Service Commission’s (MPSC) prelims examination is scheduled on September 13 in the city. Thousands of students from various parts of rural Maharashtra are expected to visit the city for the same. As many hotels are closed and Covid-19 restrictions are still in place Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “If necessary administration will provide the accommodation to these students as most of them (officials) have vacated their existing rooms and hostels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/centralised-bed-management-to-be-functional-in-city-in-next-two-to-three-days-saurabh-rao/story-scxrFSHqtNcHIsleScID6N.html
04-08-2020||Pune||Hotels, lodges, guest houses in Pune city to begin operations with 33% capacity from Aug 5||PUNE Along with malls, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, on Monday, allowed hotels, lodges and guest houses to begin operations with a 33 per cent capacity from August 5. Vikram Kumar issued detail guidelines for the standard operating procedures (SOP) for the lodging services. Kumar said, “Thermal scanning, online payments, less rush at reception, social distancing – with these in place, these businesses can be run. Operators must ensure that customers have the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones.” The hotels are being allowed to open for residential purposes only and the commissioner appealed to owners to not allow food in common dining areas, but to have in-house restaurants deliver room service. Customers also need to wear masks while in the hotel, he said. The PMC also asked hotels to run air conditioners in a temperature range of 24-30 degrees Celsius, with a relative humidity in the range of 40-70 per cent. An intake of fresh air must be allowed with adequate cross-ventilation. As per the PMC’s SOP, when a customer vacates the room, blankets, curtains and bedsheets should be washed and the same room should not be given out for the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hotels-lodges-guest-houses-in-pune-city-to-begin-operations-with-33-capacity-from-aug-5/story-C9Wq4Zq5QUjMZleqrb3uMK.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Rain pounds Mumbai, people told to stay indoors, trains stopped||Heavy showers in Mumbai and neighbouring areas brought life to a juddering halt and disrupted rail and road traffic in the city on Tuesday, with essential services workers like nurses and other medical staff treating Covid-19 patients also finding it difficult to reach hospitals. State minister Aaditya Thackeray, who visited several areas in the city, said this is probably the heaviest rains Mumbai has seen in a “12-hour span”. Several areas in the city and suburbs received more than 200 mm rainfall since Monday night and heavy showers were likely to continue for the next 48 hours, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Several houses in low-lying areas like Kurla, Sion and parts of Bhandup were flooded due to the heavy downpour, a civic official said. Several vehicles, which suffered engine problems due to the heavy downpour, were seen lying abandoned on roads.Here are the top 10 updates on Mumbai rains:* The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) appealed to residents to stay at home and urged commercial establishments, except those providing essential services, to remain closed on Tuesday.* The Maharashtra government also announced a holiday for all its offices in Mumbai city and suburbs on Tuesday in view of the heavy rainfall in the metropolis and neighbouring areas. * State minister Aaditya Thackeray visited several areas, saying “work is on in full swing to drain out water from water logged areas”. The minister also said, in a tweet, that this is “perhaps for the first time after July 2005, Mumbai has experienced such heavy rains in a 12 hour span. * A 35-year-old woman and her two children were swept away in a swollen nullah after their house collapsed due to heavy rainfall in suburban Santacruz here on Tuesday afternoon, an official said. * Local train services, which are currently being operated only for those engaged in essential services, were suspended on some routes in Mumbai and suburbs in the morning due to water-logging on rail tracks.* A landslide on the Western Express Highway, a major north-south arterial road, in suburban Kandivali affected vehicular movement from the western suburbs towards south Mumbai, though there was no casualty, officials said.* Water-logging outside the civic-run Nair Hospital in central Mumbai, where several Covid-19 patients from the city are being treated, posed a problem for its medical staff. “Nurses and other medical staff have been struggling to reach the hospital due to water-logging in the premises and elsewhere, a resident doctor from the hospital said.* Some incidents of tree fall were also reported, a civic official said, adding that a big tree fell on Andheri- SEEPZ road, disrupting traffic movement there.* The Bombay High Court adjourned its virtual hearings in various cases as many staff members could not reach the court in south Mumbai, an official said. The high court will hear the matters on Wednesday, an official said.* The city has been witnessing heavy rainfall since Monday night, leading to water-logging in several low-lying areas.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rain-pounds-mumbai-residents-told-to-stay-indoors-trains-stopped/story-iTd8GwyKilqch7DAtwIyAI.html
04-08-2020||Pune||Those above 55 years and with comorbidities comprise 78% of total Covid deaths in Pune||Of the total Covid-19 positive patients reported in the city, only 25 per cent were people with comorbidities or above the age group of 50 years, however, this vulnerable group constitutes at least 78 per cent of the total virus deaths, according to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data.As per the PMC data, of the 51,738 progressive positives reported till July 29, only 25.48 per cent or 13,183 belonged to the vulnerable group of those suffering from comorbidities or those above the age group of 50 years. The most common comorbidities are diabetes, hypertension, obesity and kidney ailments.However, of the total 78.70 per cent of the deaths reported due to Covid-19, were from the above group. Despite low infectivity among the group, the case fatality rate is too high, say officials.Dr Bhagwan Pawar, the district health officer, said, “Maybe due to awareness among the public about the spread of the virus among people with comorbidities or above 50 years of age many people stayed indoors, so the infection rate among this population is less.”“But for such patients once infected, it is hard to recover,” he added.Dr Sanjay Dabhade, a member of Jan Aarogya Manch, said, “It is true that those with co-morbidities or in the vulnerable age group are seen to take more precaution and so the infectivity rate in this group is less. It could be that the so-called healthier population who are young or do not have any reported co-morbidities are acting as carriers of the virus and spreading it to their close contacts.”“It is also a global truth that the case fatality rate among those infected in this vulnerable group is high,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/those-above-55-years-and-with-comorbidities-comprise-78-of-total-covid-deaths-in-pune/story-UyiDJKPFoSvHlna1F44YFL.html
04-08-2020||Pune||Minor raped by 17-year-old uncle||An 11-year-old minor was allegedly raped by her 17-year-old uncle, after making her watch obscene videos and physically assaulting her in Pabal, Shirur, on August 1. The victim’s mother has lodged a complaint with the Shikrapur police. According to police, the girl did not return home till late Sunday evening and her mother requested their neighbour’s son to go to the village and search for her. The neighbour spotted the girl crying near the village temple with two persons. The neighbour brought her home and told her mother that she was seen with her uncle and another person identified as Mangesh Chavan. When the mother inquired about the incident, the girl narrated that her 17- year old maternal uncle and his friend Mangesh Chavan, 19, called her behind the temple, showed her obscene videos and the uncle allegedly raped her. The woman then informed her relatives following which the family members reached Shikrakpur and lodged a complaint against the accused. Based on the complaint, the police have apprehended the 17-year-old and arrested Mangesh Chavan, both residents of Pabal in connection with the case. Assistant police inspector Vikram Salunkhe, said, “The victim and the 17-year-old are related and knew each other well. The 17-year-old called her and showed her obscene clips and raped her. He was helped in the crime by Mangesh who kept the mobile with himself and was present during the crime. One has been apprehended while Chavan has been arrested and remanded in custody.” The police have booked the accused under relevant sections of the Pocso Act ( The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act 2012 )and Section 376 (rape) and Section 34 (Common Intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/minor-raped-by-17-year-old-uncle/story-uT8vPUSE9v9jIkbrVVrSML.html
04-08-2020||Pune||Admission for first-year Engineering diploma begins||The admission process for first-year Engineering diploma began on Sunday, in addition to the state department of technical education (DTE) giving instructions to all polytechnic colleges and institutions to start a facilitation centre. Students have been eagerly waiting for the admission process to kick start from the last few days. Accordingly, the first-year diploma in Engineering and direct second-year diploma admissions have begun in the state. DTE director Abhay Wagh has instructed all polytechnic colleges and Engineering institution directors to take a review of manpower, computers, technical arrangements and other necessary things to start the admission process immediately. There were also instructions given to start a facilitation centre to help students with admissions and to follow safety guidelines for Covid-19 during the admission process. “This year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the admission process will be for a shorter duration and we will try to finish it up early. We will soon declare the detailed time table of the admission process,” said Wagh. Vaibhav Kakade, who recently cleared his SSC exam said, “I was waiting for the admission process to start for first-year diploma in Engineering. I always wanted to be an electronics engineer and now as the process has begun, I hope to get a good government polytechnic college in Pune.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/admission-for-first-year-engineering-diploma-begins/story-WhZhUo83Qgkh39pcWJLPaO.html
04-08-2020||Pune||Sassoon reported 50% less deaths in July as compared to last year: Ram||Following allegations by Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol about unaccounted Covid-19 deaths in the city, Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram on Monday rejected the claim saying that July this year witnessed half the number of deaths at Sassoon General Hospital as compared to the same period last year. According to Ram, July this year saw 17 persons who were brought dead, 144 persons dying unnatural death and 384 natural deaths. “The figures were relatively low compared to last year where 35 were brought dead, those who died unnatural deaths were 216, while natural deaths 331,” said Ram. “The allegation of unaccounted deaths is not true,” said Rao while declining to comment further. Earlier on Thursday, Mohol claimed that there are at least 400 suspected Covid-19 deaths in July, that have gone unaccounted for. Mohol’s allegation came on the day chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited the city. According to Mohol, as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, there is no need to conduct the Covid-19 test on a deceased person. “As per my information, every day, almost 12 suspected deaths are being recorded at Sassoon Hospital alone and there are many such cases in other hospitals. Post the death, when doctors carry out an X-ray test on the body, there are clear symptoms of Covid-19,” the mayor had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sassoon-reported-50-less-deaths-in-july-as-compared-to-last-year-ram/story-ahGCHfgzxg5OFmZyUIcOsL.html
04-08-2020||Pune||Demand for rotational shifts after PMC teacher on Covid duty gets infected, dies||A 44-year-old music teacher and frontline Covid warrior died after being infected by Covid-19 on Sunday, prompting sharp reactions from teachers deputed on Covid duty. There are around 2,700 teachers in the city and adjoining rural areas working as Covid warriors conducting home to home surveys with safety gears like masks and gloves. Govind Bhilare worked as a Covid warrior for home-to-home surveys and contact tracing work in PMC jurisdiction for the past three months. This is the first death of a Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) appointed teacher in the city who was on Covid duty, according to civic officials. Following Bhilare’s death, the Maharashtra state teachers association has demanded that PMC teachers should not be given Covid duties citing they are already overburdened with work. The teachers’ body said many of the PMC teachers are working in Covid teams and also taking online classes and additional school work. Bhilare, a Pakhwaj player, was working as a music teacher in PMC for the last 15 years and would go for classes to PMC schools in Katraj division on a rotational basis. He is survived by his wife, daughter, son and parents. He has played Pakhwaj with several prominent artists like Ustad Jhakir Hussain, Pandit Jasraj, Pandit Bhimsen Joshi and many others at classical music programmes like the Sawai Gandharv, and also at some international music events. “Due to the mismanagement of the PMC, we have lost one of our best music teacher and a great artist from Pune city. He was working tirelessly for the society for the last three months as Covid warrior. He didn’t have any health issues prior to the Covid infection. A few days back, he tested positive and was admitted to the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and on August 2, he took his last breath while undergoing treatment. Until now, around 18 of our teachers performing Covid duties have tested positive for the infection and Bhilare is the first casualty among PMC teachers,” said Sachin Dimble, Pune division association head. On Monday, a four-member committee of primary teachers association, Pune division had a meeting with PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar about the duties issue. “For the 3 to 4 months 2,700 PMC teachers have been given duties of Covid related work. It includes right from swab testing of people, contact tracing, area surveys, disaster management works, and taking information about positive patients. In this, there is direct contact with Covid positive patients. The main thing which was disappointing for us was that duties were given throughout the three months without any rotational method. Today, we meth the PMC commissioner and demanded that all our teachers should be given rotational duties of 14 days according to the state government guidelines. We are ready to work for the Covid duties but in a rotational method. Physically, our teachers are exhausted now but due to the fear of losing their job they are performing Covid duties,” added Dimble. When the association representatives met PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar on Monday, they demanded to immediately change duties pattern to a rotational method. Kumar said, “Currently, due to a shortage in staff we cannot change allotted duties to teachers immediately but I will look into this issue personally and do the needful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/demand-for-rotational-shifts-after-pmc-teacher-on-covid-duty-gets-infected-dies/story-Sz1S8wZX7CXiLJV7R4WnMM.html
04-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren tested again for Covid-19, found negative||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren was tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday – second time in less than a month- after 19 members of his staff tested positive for the coronavirus disease last week. His test came out negative in the evening. Swab samples of the CM, his wife and some others from his office and residence staff were collected in the morning.“Undergone corona test along with family members and office staff,” Soren said on Twitter.According to a senior district health official, sampling of people associated with the chief minister’s secretariat was carried on Tuesday morning and nearly 90 samples were collected.Announcing the test results, Ranchi civil surgeon Dr VB Prasad said in the evening, “Test reports of the CM and his family members were found negative. Reports of many others have not yet arrived.”The need for a second test arose after the driver of Kalpana Soren, the CM’s wife, and another staff at the CM’s residence were found to be infected with SARS-CoV-2 on July 30. After contact tracing revealed that as many as 17 others in the CM’s residence and secretariat were also found positive on Sunday.According to a senior district health official, sampling of people associated with the chief minister’s office and residence was carried out on Tuesday morning and nearly 90 samples were collected. “Test reports are likely by today evening or tomorrow,” he said.Hemant Soren had placed himself in home quarantine early last month soon after coming in contact with one of his cabinet colleagues and a JMM lawmaker who had tested positive for Covid-19. Subsequently, Soren, his family members and several others including CMO officials were tested for the disease which had turned out to be negative.There were 8561 active Covid-19 cases in the state as per the Union health ministry dashboard at 8 am on Tuesday. The death toll in the state is 125.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-cm-family-again-tested-for-covid-19-after-19-staff-members-test-positive/story-eh33VbyXdikJARniWja98M.html
04-08-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata airport operations will be suspended for 7 days in August due to Bengal lockdown||Kolkata airport has announced fresh dates in August when it will suspend operations due to the state of West Bengal going into a complete lockdown mode to break the chain of coronavirus infection, according to an official tweet by the airport authority on Tuesday. “As per the State Govt. order dated 03.08.2020, flight operations at #KolkataAirport will remain suspended on the revised lockdown days: 5th, 8th, 20th, 21st, 27th, 28th and 31st August 2020,” the official tweet says.State government on Monday revised for the fourth time, the set of dates- August 5, 8, 20, 21, 27, 28 and 31-- for implementation of complete lockdown to contain coronavirus disease. Earlier the dates were August 5, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31.The state government had on July 28 withdrawn the complete lockdown on August 2 and 9 paring down the number of lockdown days from nine to seven.Also Read: Lockdown dates change in Bengal for the fourth time since July 28The government order said the changes had been affected after receiving requests from different communities seeking relaxations on dates coinciding with festivals.The suspension of operations at Kolkata airport will impact several domestic flights that are already under stress due to curtailed domestic operations since resumption of flights on May 25 after two months of complete suspension due to nationwide lockdown in late March.The aviation minister had yesterday suggested that the situation was continuously improving.“Domestic operations continue to soar. 3rd August 2020, Day 72 till 23:59 hrs. Departures were 849. 78,155 passengers handled. Arrivals were 846. 77,558 passengers handled. Total movements were 1695. Footfalls at airports were 1,55,713. Total number of flyers was 78,155,” he tweeted.Also Read: Many gyms in Kolkata will open on August 6The lockdown dates in West Bengal have run into controversy since BJP has accused the TMC government of disrespecting sentiments of Hindu community by not lifting restrictions on August 5, when the ground breaking ceremony for construction of a grand Ram Temple will take place in Ayodhya.Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said the decision for the lockdown on August 5 reflects the ruling party’s strategy to turn “West Bengal into Bangladesh”.He has demanded that the August 5 be dropped from the lockdown-days list like it was done for Eid festival on August 1.“We had no problem with the state government changing dates for the lockdown due to the Eid festival. Similarly the sentiment of the Hindus over the construction of Ram Mandir should not be ignored,” Ghosh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-airport-operations-will-be-suspended-for-7-days-in-august-due-to-bengal-lockdown/story-MwlAlr6H79oxXhrFycTLLK.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus patient escapes from Covid care centre near Shimla||Shimla: A Covid-19 patient escaped from the dedicated Covid care centre (DCCC) at Mashobra, 10 km from Shimla, creating panic. The apple merchant from Jammu and Kashmir had come to Shimla in connection with business but tested positive for Covid-19 on July 17 after which he was shifted to DCCC, Mashobra. He was admitted in room number 107 but on Monday he escaped, giving security guards the slip. Shimla superintendent of police Omapati Jamwal said a search is on and he will be arrested soon. A case was registered under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code at Dhalli police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-patient-escapes-from-covid-care-centre-near-shimla/story-SLlOD5dIjZodOdQMqQ4uoN.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||20-year-old drug addict stabs grandmother to death in Himachal’s Mandi district||Shimla: A 65-year-old woman was stabbed to death by her 20-year-old grandson when she refused to give him money to buy drugs at Dal village in Gohar tehsil of Mandi district, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday when Nikhil Kumar, a drug addict, asked his grandmother, Bhuma Devi, for money to buy drugs but she refused, leading to an argument. Nikhil pushed his grandmother and she fell on a glass table. He picked up a piece of broken glass and stabbed her, killing her on the spot. The accused fled before his parents, who were also at home, could react to the elderly woman’s cries for help. The parents informed the police, who later arrested Nikhil. Though Bhuma Devi was rushed to the Civil Hospital at Gohar, she was declared brought dead. Family sources said Bhuma Devi had retired as a class IV government employee and would give Nikhil pocket money from her pension. She stopped doing so when she found that was addicted to drugs and alcohol. Mandi superintendent of police Gurdev Sharma said a case was registered under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-year-old-drug-addict-stabs-grandmother-to-death-in-himachal-s-mandi-district/story-yZo8JvSY1A7SRqhSAfILdP.html
04-08-2020||Kolkata||Many gyms in Kolkata will open on August 6||Many gyms in the city are conducting online demo sessions to tell their patrons about the safety measures in place before opening on August 6.The Centre has declared gyms, which are closed since March end, can open during unlock 3.0 phase from August 5 but the biweekly lockdown falling on that date in West Bengal, many gyms have decided to function from August six while others have preferred to wait a little more.The safety measures by the gyms include a self- declaration form by patrons that they have not been infected by C-Covid-19 virus.Core Gym’s Tuhin Bhattacharya told PTI on Tuesday that “self declaration form will have to be signed by each member which will be renewed every 15 days to know whether he/she have been exposed to Covid infected people.” This will be in addition to all the trainers and non- training staff wearing face masks all the time and keeping a minimum of 6 feet distance with members during workout.There can’t be any touching the members for support by the trainers during workout, Bhattacharya said.A limited number of people will be allowed to workout and divided into separate slots of 1 hour each, he said.Neeraj Surana of Rush Gym will, however, said he will wait for a few more days, preferably my mid-August to open his facility but only one floor for workouts.“From installing hand sanitizer dispenser, sanitizing after each slot and thermal checking of everyone, we will be taking all necessary protocol before opening so that once we open facilities there is no going back,” Surana said.Turning to the lockdown days, both recall how there was no income in that time while, “we had to pay electricity charges, salaries, and some other miscellaneous expenses like marketing, etc.” They said “economically it was like hell. But we felt more repressed as gyms and fitness centres play a vital role in building and developing immunity and a healthy lifestyle, which is the most crucial in fighting against COVID-19.” Both recall how the turnout in pre-covid times was good.“We were having our floor crowded at all the peak time when suddenly everything came to a pause mode. We expect the footfall to rise as we are receiving calls from our members as well as new admission enquiries. We feel people are frustrated by just sitting at home and watching their health declining,” Surana said.The gyms, however, don’t foresee any dramatic surge of members in the ensuing festive season as “purchasing power of people has come down drastically,” Bhattacharya said. PTI SUS RG RG||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/many-gyms-in-city-will-open-on-august-6/story-waRQ9ziUlllnru3dJIPLWM.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||230 mm rainfall recorded in Mumbai in 10 hours, more rain in next 3 hours||Mumbai recorded a 230 mm rainfall within 10 hours of incessant rainfall, Iqbal Singh Chahal, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Commissioner told ANI on Tuesday, adding that a flood-like situation had been created in the city.“The downpour started around 7 pm last night and slowed down around five to six am today morning. In the 10-hour downpour, 230 mm of rainfall was recorded in Mumbai. The Mithi river had swelled up in the morning because of the heavy rains and went above the prescribed danger mark of 27 meters. In the morning it had gone up to 34 meters and we had started to evacuate people in the low-lying slum areas. The water levels have come down to 24, so we have ceased evacuation for now,” Chahal told ANI. The Commissioner also said that over 163 pumps were being used to ease the inundation in different parts of the city. “In the saucer-shaped areas of the city like Hindmata, King’s Circle, Milan and Andheri Subway, we cannot use the pumps till the water levels reach a certain level. As soon as the water levels reached the limit, we started to clear it out with the pumps. We are currently using 163 pumps to clear out the rainwater in these low-lying areas,” he added.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) informed that between 8:30 am to 11:30 am on Tuesday, Colaba and Santacruz recorded 6 mm and 19 mm of rain respectively, while Thane recorded 16 mm. “Intense to very intense rainfall likely to continue in many parts of Mumbai during next 3 hours,” the IMD added. The Western Railways, which had earlier suspended train services between Bandra and Church gate due to the rain, resumed the 1st slow-train from Churchgate at 12:05 on Tuesday and the train from Andheri started at 11:40 am. “Water level at all places has started receding. 1st DN slow train from Churchgate started at 12:05 pm and the UP slow train started from Andheri at 11:40 am. Fast lines will also shortly resume after inspection of points,” the Western Railway said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/230-mm-rainfall-recorded-in-mumbai-in-10-hours-more-rain-in-next-3-hours/story-yNYvJ1evP0ADX8LkYMJGKJ.html
04-08-2020||Ranchi||State’s unemployment rate drops to 8.8% in July||The state’s unemployment rate has dropped significantly to 8.8% in July compared to 21% in June, reflecting the improvement in employment prospects due to relaxations given during the two Unlock phases. With this, the unemployment rate has almost returned to that in the pre-lockdown period, according to the monthly data of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). Jharkhand’s unemployment rate had shot up drastically after the nationwide lockdown came into effect from March 24 this year, when it increased from 8.2% to 47.1% in April due to the lockdown. In May, the state recorded the highest unemployment rate at 59.2%. However, the situation improved after Unlock-1 began from June 1, when the unemployment rate stood at 21.0%. It further dropped to 8.8% under Unlock-2 in July. State economists said Unlock activities have helped reduce the unemployment rate. However, the Kharif season has been the major rider, which gave a boost to economic activities just after beginning of Unlock activities. Renowned economist and director-in-chief of Centre of Fiscal Studies, Jharkhand, Harishwar Dayal said, “People’s participation increased in agriculture activities with the beginning of Kharif season. Besides, rural development works, including MGNREGA, and infrastructure development activities have generated a decent number of jobs.” State rural development minister Alamgir Alam recently said they have provided a record number of jobs under MGNREGA. Earlier, an average of three to 3.5 lakh workers used to get jobs under the scheme, which has now reached seven lakh, he said. Besides, a large number of people, including migrant workers, have also returned to agriculture activities. Interestingly, the unemployment rate dropped more in urban areas compared to rural areas. The unemployment rate in urban areas for the month stood at 5.6%, while it was recorded at 9.9% in rural areas. “Generally, migrant workers return to rural areas from urban areas during Kharif seasons to participate in agriculture activities. This is why unemployment rate is higher in rural areas,” Dayal said. Moreover, Jharkhand’s unemployment rate has improved as compared to Bihar and Chattisgarh. The unemployment rate in Bihar for the month stood at 12.2%, while it was registered at 9.0% in Chattisgarh. However, the state still lags behind West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha, where the unemployment rates stood at 6.8%, 5.5% and 1.9%, respectively in July. Dayal said, “The data of CMIE is considered to be authentic, as they use scientific methodology in collecting the data.” Unemployment rate in Jharkhand Month Unemployment rate Urban Rural March 8.2 16.4 5.0 April 47.1 61.5 41.7 May 59.2 70.2 55.1 June 21.0 19.4 21.5 July 8.8 5.6 9.9 (Source: Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) Website) EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/state-s-unemployment-rate-drops-to-8-8-in-july/story-YqJbWYzh0uczh0xKoXBLzO.html
04-08-2020||Jaipur||8 deaths, 551 more Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan||A total of 551 new Covid-19 cases and eight deaths have been reported from Rajasthan in the last 24 hours, the State Health Department informed.With this, Rajasthan now has a total of 46,106 positive cases, including 13,222 active cases and 727 deaths. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe highest number of cases was reported in Bhilwara with 95 cases, followed by 85 cases from Alwar, 73 from Kota, 72 from Pali, 55 from Bikaner, 43 from Jaipur, 37 from Barmer, 32 from Udaipur, 24 from Dungarpur, 17 from Baran, three each from Banswara and Jaisalmer, 11 from Churu and one from another state.India witnessed a single-day spike of 52,050 Covid-19 cases as the total cases in the country reached 18,55,746, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Tuesday.803 Covid-19 related deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The total cases include 5,86,298 active cases, 12,30,510 cured/discharged/migrated and 38,938 deaths, the Health Ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/8-deaths-551-more-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan/story-04n8gYYzeh02sxEO75nFaI.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena says Covid-19 won’t deter Shah from posing a threat to Gehlot’s govt||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday took a dig at Union Home Minister Amit Shah stating that despite being infected with Covid-19 and staying in isolation he will continue posing a threat to the Rajasthan state government. “Corona has attacked Home Minister Shah and as a result, he had to go into isolation. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot should not get too happy over this. Wherever Shah is, he can continue his political operations from there only and, therefore, the danger on Gehlot government still persists,” an article in Saamna, the party mouthpiece, read.“The Home Minister went into isolation and Gehlot too had to take his MLAs into isolation means the danger still persists,” it added.Wishing Union Home Minister Amit Shah a speedy recovery from the infection, Sena said that his absence will be felt on August 5 during the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.It also suggested that the whole Union Cabinet would have to be isolated as per Shah’s appeal to people who had met him.“It is true that the government followed social distancing but now Home Minister Shah has himself appealed to all those who came in contact with him to isolate themselves and get themselves tested for corona. If the Home Minister says so then all the Ministers in the Cabinet will have to be isolated,” the Shiv Sena said through an editorial published in party mouthpiece Saamna.It further said that Shah and multiple BJP Chief Ministers and Ministers in state governments, including Uttar Pradesh, testing positive for Covid-19 revealed a frightening picture of the pandemic in the country, and added the names of the priest and other functionaries of the Ram temple in the list.“It is being seen that Uttar Pradesh has become a big hotspot for corona and Ayodhya is no different. A senior Minister of the Uttar Pradesh government passed away due to corona on Sunday. Three other Ministers and UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh are also in the grasp of the disease,” the editorial read.It further added that the Prime Minister laying the foundation stone for the Ram temple in Ayodhya tomorrow would be a sight worth remembering for all and said that the ceremony would mark the satisfactory end of the fight for the Ram temple started by senior leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, who would take part in the ceremony through video conferencing.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-says-covid-19-won-t-deter-shah-from-posing-a-threat-to-gehlot-s-govt/story-y3ZPYKGqAr7kduJE0fZQLN.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||61 new Covid-19 cases in Himachal, tally rises to 2,879||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 61 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state tally to 2,879, officials said. Of the new cases, 17 were reported in Bilaspur, 12 in Solan, 10 in Kangra, seven in Mandi, five in Sirmaur, three in Hamirpur, two in Shimla each in Shimla, Chamba, Sirmaur and Kullu and one in Una. Bilaspur deputy commissioner Rajeshwar Goel said 14 migrant workers working at the AIIMS construction site in Kothipura have tested positive. They are under institutional quarantine. In Kangra, four paramilitary personnel and an Indian Army jawan were among 10 new cases. They have been shifted to Covid-care centres. Two cases were reported in Manikaran and Sainj area of Kullu district. The district administration is tracing their contact history. In Chamba, a 13-year-old boy and a 34-year-old man tested positive. A couple is among the four new cases in Shimla district. Other two patients are migrant labourers from Jammu. Seven more cases were reported in Mandi district late on Monday. The new cases were detected in the severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) ward and flu OPD of Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk. Thirty-seven cases were reported in Mandi on Monday, which saw the steepest single-day spike in cases. Twenty-two patients are from Khunagi village of Thunag sub division. All were primary contacts of two meatseller brothers who tested positive on July 26. The authorities said the number of positive cases in the village may go up. Meanwhile, two cases were reported in Chamba on Tuesday morning. 1,129 ACTIVE CASES IN STATE The state now has 1,129 active cases, while 1,710 patients have been cured. The state has seen 12 deaths due to the infection. Till date, 1.52 lakh people have been tested for Covid-19 of which 2,879 tested positive. Solan is the worst-hit district in Himachal Pradesh with 734 cases followed by Kangra with 492 cases. Sirmaur has 355 cases, Hamirpur 318, Una 244, Mandi 220, Shimla 182, Bilaspur 127, Chamba 119, Kinnaur 45, Kullu 37 and Lahaul-Spiti four. VIGILANCE OFFICE SEALED AFTER SI TESTS POSITIVE Twenty vigilance personnel, including an additional superintendent of police, police and home guard jawans were quarantined on Tuesday after a sub-inspector posted at the State Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau’s Una office tested positive for Covid-19. Una additional SP, vigilance, Sagar Chand, who is among those quarantined, said the 57-year-old sub-inspector had gone on leave to his hometown, Kharar in Punjab, where he developed flu-like symptoms. “He got his Covid-19 test conducted and the result came out positive on Monday,” Chand said. The vigilance office has been sanitised and sealed till further orders. “Samples of all personnel of the vigilance office will be sent for testing after six days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vigilance-office-in-hp-s-una-town-sealed-20-cops-including-additional-sp-quarantined-after-sub-inspector-tests-positive/story-elLmg1f4lbKX7kT1TGhCSJ.html
04-08-2020||Patna||Bihar govt recommends CBI investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: Chief minister Nitish Kumar||The Bihar government on Tuesday recommended probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.Chief minister Nitish Kumar said the decision was take after Rajput’s father met the state police chief. “The DGP spoke to Sushant Singh Rajput’s father this morning and he gave consent for CBI inquiry. So now, we are recommending CBI probe in the matter,” said Kumar.Rajput’s father KK Singh had also met Kumar seeking CBI investigation in the case. A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) has been filed before the Bombay high court in this regard. The hearing was scheduled to take place on Tuesday, but has been postponed due to heavy rain in Mumbai.Earlier, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan had also requested Kumar to transfer the case to CBI without further delay. Paswan said that LJP leaders, related to the late actor, had informed him that on August 5 that the Supreme Court will hear a petition seeking transfer of the case from Bihar to Mumbai.The actor’s father had said on Monday that he had filed a complaint with Mumbai police in February claiming his son’s life was in danger. The revelation came as Singh filed an FIR with Patna police, alleging Mumbai police of inaction even after 40 days of the actor’s sudden death.In a self-made video, Singh alleged that the accused in the actor’s death case is on the loose and Patna Police should be provided with help.An FIR was registered by Bihar Police on Singh’s complaint against actor Rhea Chakraborty under several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including abetment of suicide. Bihar Police started the investigation and dispatched a team to Mumbai.Separately, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) questioned Rajput’s chartered accountant in connection with a money laundering probe that stemmed from the complaint lodged by the actor’s father with the Bihar Police.The Bihar Police, meanwhile, recorded the statement of Sushant Singh Rajput’s friend and creative content manager Siddharth Pithani. He was summoned by the police on Monday evening.Pithani was staying with the actor for the past one year, police said. They have already recorded statements of Rajput’s sister, former girlfriend Ankita Lokhande, director Rumi Jaffrey, his cook, friends and doctor.This comes hours after Rajput’s father KK Singh met chief minister Nitish Kumar seeking CBI investigation in the case. The Bombay high court will hear a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in this regard. The hearing was scheduled to take place on Tuesday, but has been postponed due to heavy rain in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-govt-recommends-cbi-investigation-into-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-jdu-s-sanjay-singh/story-UC2xZWg1T8WEJY646SYOFI.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Heavy overnight rain in Mumbai causes landslide on Western Express Highway||Heavy overnight rain caused a landslide on the Western Express Highway in suburban Kandivali early Tuesday morning, affecting vehicular movement from the western suburbs towards south Mumbai, officials said.No casualty was reported in the incident, a fire control room official said.“We received a call around 7 am informing us about the debris on Ali Yavar Jung Marg (also known as the Western Express Highway),” the official said.The Western Express Highway (WEH) is a major north- south arterial road, stretching from Dahisar to suburban Bandra in Mumbai.For the latest updates on Mumbai Rains, click hereVehicular movement from the area towards south Mumbai was disrupted, affecting regular commuters and those involved in emergency services as authorities closed some portion of the road for clearing the debris, another official said.A car was stuck in the debris and was later removed.Also Read: Mumbai rains: Local train services stop, BMC appeals to offices to remain shutThe south-bound traffic was diverted to another road, the fire control room official said, adding that work was on to remove the debris from the road.Mumbai and its neighbouring areas have been receiving heavy showers since Monday night.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), heavy rains are likely to continue for next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-overnight-rain-in-mumbai-causes-landslide-on-western-express-highway/story-EUfX7tWs3JONES3LltSccK.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai rains: Local train services stop, BMC appeals to offices to remain shut||Mumbai woke up to heavy rain, with the city receiving more than 230 mm of rain int he last 10 hours.The rain continued through the night which led to waterlogging. Early morning visuals in news agency ANI showed people wading through waist-deep water in several low-lying areas of Mumbai.Buses, shops and other structures are submerged in water.The downpour has led to disruption of transport services in Mumbai. The BEST bus services have been diverted on 56 routes in various parts of the city and its suburbs due to waterlogging, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.Watch: Heavy rainfall, waterlogging in parts of Mumbai; red alert issued The local train service, considered lifeline of Mumbai, has also been affected. According to the BMC, trains on central, western and harbour lines have completely stopped.The weather department has sounded a red alert for two days (Tuesday and Wednesday) for extremely heavy rain in Mumbai.According to BMC, Mumbai city received 140.5 mm rain from 8 am on August 3 to 3 am on August 4. The Eastern and Western Suburbs recorded 84.77 mm and 79.27 mm of rainfall respectively. BMC issued suitable warnings and advisories to all coastal security agencies and disaster management department. It has also appealed to all offices and other establishments, except emergency services, to remain shut today.The city corporation has also put on alert fire brigade, pumping stations and operating staff at temporarily installed 299 pumping machines.The IMD said that extremely heavy rain will occur at isolated places in Mumbai, Thane and Raigad districts of Maharashtra on August 4 and August 5.Ratnagiri district is also expected to receive extremely heavy rain on August 4, while Paldhar district is expected to receive extremely heavy rain on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-local-train-services-stop-bmc-appeals-to-offices-to-remain-shut/story-gY8k6rEggkKGKH9A9AIDEI.html
04-08-2020||Bangalore||Section 144 imposed in Mangaluru from Aug 4 to 6 ahead of Bhumi Pujan in Ayodhya||In order to avoid any untoward incident on August 5, during bhumi pujan of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, section 144 will be imposed from August 4 from 8 pm to 6 am on August 6 in Mangaluru, the city police commissioner, Vikas Kumar said.“Due to ‘Bhoomi puja’ for Ram Mandir on August 5, section 144 to be imposed (4 August 8.00 pm to 6 August 6.00 am), in Mangaluru Police Commissionarate Limit,” Commissioner office press release read.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5.The construction of Ram temple will begin in Ayodhya after the foundation ceremony in which various dignitaries from the political and religious field are likely to participate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/section-144-imposed-in-mangaluru-from-aug-4-to-6-ahead-of-bhumi-pujan-in-ayodhya/story-kQV5ALublXntnrdSSIat6L.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||‘Never seen anything like this after July 26, 2005’: Mumbai residents after heavy rain||It’s raining heavily in Mumbai, where the weather bureau has forecast heavy downpour on Tuesday and Wednesday. A red alert has been issued for these two days.Click here to follow live updates of Mumbai rainsThe rain continued through the night and people in many localities woke up to severe waterlogging.Many Mumbai residents took to Twitter to post pictures and videos of the extremely heavy rain. Some of them claim that they haven’t seen anything like this since July 26, 2005, when extremely heavy rainfall resulted in floods which killed nearly 1,000 people.“Oh no! Not again!!” posted a user Sakshi Arora. She used a hastag #MumbaiRains along with her tweet. Oh no! Not again!! #MumbaiRains pic.twitter.com/eWX8oirIwO“The state of Mumbai currently! Many places broke record of 200mm just in 4 hours,” posted another user Shalom Tellis. The state of Mumbai currently!Many places broke record of 200mm just in 4 hours.#MumbaiRains pic.twitter.com/i1fCPa4UrNAnother user Habib Khan posted a video of himself driving on the Western Express highway. “Travelling on western express highway. Never seen anything like this after 26th july 2005..#MumbaiRains. Stay safe.. stay indoors,” he said. Travelling on western express highway..Never seen anything like this after 26th july 2005..#MumbaiRainsStay safe.. stay indoors.. pic.twitter.com/FBPBphuuFnMumbai’s civic body, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has issued an advisory asking people to stay indoors. “As per the forecast of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), extremely heavy rainfall is expected in Mumbai and suburbs today with high tide at 12.47 pm. Mumbaikars are requested not to venture out unless extremely necessary and stay away from the shore and waterlogged areas,” the advisory said.According to BMC, Mumbai city received 140.5 mm rain from 8 am on August 3 to 3 am on August 4. The Eastern and Western Suburbs recorded 84.77 mm and 79.27 mm of rainfall respectively. ALSO WATCH | Mumbai rains | Landslide on Western Express Highway, heavy traffic: Latest updates The city corporation has also put on alert fire brigade, pumping stations and operating staff at temporarily installed 299 pumping machines.Officers have also been put on alert in case evacuation is required when the water level of the Mithi river increases due to rains.Education officers have been told to keep the BMC schools prepared if any emergency situation arises and people need shelter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/never-seen-anything-like-this-after-july-26-2005-mumbai-residents-after-heavy-rain/story-urOmclnF9DfftUTHfBMx4N.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai rains intensify, IMD asks citizens to remain indoors on August 4,5||The India Meteorology Department has issued a red alert for extremely heavy rainfall in Mumbai and its suburbs for Tuesday and advised fishermen to not sail deep into sea on the east coast as a low-pressure area was developing over the the Bay of Bengal.Rainfall resumed in Mumbai and its suburbs Monday morning as the monsoon strengthened over the Arabian Sea. The intensity will increase in the metropolis and other areas of Maharashtra during the next two days, weather forecasting agencies said.Mumbaikars are advised to avoid going out on August 4 and 5, said Skymet Weather, adding the intensity will start decreasing from August 6. The private forecaster said this would be the second spell of heavy rainfall in Mumbai, after mid-July.Click here to follow Mumbai rains live updatesThe IMD’s Odisha centre said a low-pressure area is likely to develop over north Bay of Bengal on Tuesday under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over Gangetic West Bengal and another one over northeast Bay of Bengal. It will bring heavy rainfall to the coastal state, including Balasore, Bhadrak and Dhenkanal districts, until Thursday.The meteorology centre advised fishermen to not venture into deep sea till August 6 as surface winds with speeds up to 50 kmph will make the condition very rough.Heavy-to-very heavy rainfall and thunderstorms are likely to lash many parts of Madhya Pradesh, too, where the monsoon activity has remained subdued so far. In north India, a sultry weather prevailed in Delhi, Punjab and Haryana as the monsoon trough, which was active over the region last week, shifted southwards.The trough is now passing from Ganganagar and Pilani in Rajasthan, through Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh and Banda in Uttar Pradesh, towards Beharampur in West Bengal and Mizoram and Meghalaya.Under its influence, several areas in Rajasthan were lashed by monsoon rains since Sunday. Jaipur, Tonk, Bhilwara and Pilani recorded 34.8, 7, 2 and 3.1 mm rainfall in the past 24 hours till Monday evening, according to the local meteorology centre.Several areas in the state reported waterlogging. In Jaipur, a car got stuck on a flooded road over a nullah. Locals rescued him and the other occupants of the car.More than 800 villages in 15 districts of Uttar Pradesh have been inundated in Uttar Pradesh due to swelling of Sarayu and Rapti rivers, state minister Anil Rajbhar said.Rajbhar said embankments had been breached in Gonda, Azamgarh and efforts were on to seal them. As many as 188 medical teams and 16 disaster response and provincial constabulary teams have been deployed for rescue operations.The flood situation in Assam improved considerably on Monday as the water receded from many areas, though one more person lost his life in the deluge.The number of flood-hit people decreased by 4.65 lakh since Sunday but around 3.89 lakh people in 17 districts are still affected, the Assam government said in a bulletin.The Brahmaputra river is flowing above the danger mark at Dhubri town, Nimatighat in Jorhat and Tezpur in Sonitpur districts. Its tributaries Dhansiri, Jia Bharali and Kopili are also flowing above the danger level.This year’s flood and landslides have damaged roads and other infrastructure at several places and claimed 136 lives in Assam, according to official estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rainfall-resumes-in-mumbai-as-imd-advises-fishermen-to-not-venture-deep-into-bay-of-bengal/story-wK9a5NWGG1n8v9wL4odgGL.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Recoveries cross 30,000-mark in Haryana||Recoveries from Covid-19 in Haryana went past 30,000 on Monday even as the state recorded 654 new infections. As many as 780 people got recovered/discharged in the past 24 hours, stated a health bulletin. The virus, meanwhile, claimed seven more lives, taking the death toll to 440 (313 men, 127 women). Four people died of Covid-19 in Panipat, two in Kurukshetra and one patient succumbed to the virus in Bhiwani. Until Monday evening, Haryana had reported 37,173 positive cases, but so far 30,470 patients have recovered from the disease. Now, there are 6,263 active patients in the state, including 130 critical patients undergoing treatment in 16 different hospitals. The recovery rate saw further improvement as it reached 81.97%, while the doubling rate climbed to 26 days in Haryana. It was after a long gap that Gurugram witnessed a drop in new cases as it registered only 43 fresh infections, whereas Faridabad logged 173 new corona carriers. Panipat reported 106 new cases, Panchkula 60, Rewari 50, Hisar 33, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar 27 each, Sonepat 25, Karnal 20, Sirsa 17, Palwal 15, Jind 14, Fatehabad 10, Ambala and Jhajjar 9 each, Kaithal 7, Mahendergarh 5, Nuh 4, and Bhiwani 3. According to Rewari DC Yashendra Singh, of the total 50 new cases, at least 33 were from Rewari city, 10 from Bawal, six from Kasola and one from Nahar village. A confectioner from Luhari village, along with three labourers, was among the new patients registered in Jhajjar. Bhiwani civil surgeon Dr Jitender Kadian said a 43-year-old armyman, who had returned home on July 31 from Nagaland, a 68-year-old retired armyman, who is undergoing cancer treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram, and a 60-year-old woman tested positive for the virus in the district. “A 62-year-old woman, whose samples were taken on August 1, succumbed to the virus today,” he added. Kurukshetra chief medical officer Sukhbir Singh said among the new patients were a six-year-old boy from Brahma colony, a 14-year-old girl from Shahbad’s Jyoti Nagar and a 15-year-old girl from Ratgal village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/recoveries-cross-30-000-mark-in-haryana/story-KvlmaeOSCL4lIUVUIacNjO.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||11 new colleges for women to come up in Haryana: Khattar||Taking the ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ campaign forward, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday announced the opening of 11 new colleges for women on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. The chief minister said 97 new colleges have been opened in the last five years in the state. Khattar said Monday’s programme was initially to announce 10 colleges, but on the request of the minister of state for woman and child development, Kamlesh Dhanda, 11 colleges will be opened, including one in Rajod village of Kalayat constituency. “This is a special gift of Raksha Bandhan for the women of the state,” he said. The state government, Khattar said, aims to set up a college in every 10km radius. The chief minister said on the lines of ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’, every constituency from Panchkula to Nuh and Jagadhri to Dabwali has a college. He said at present, there are 161 government colleges in the state. “However, it is surprising that when the Congress was in power, not a single college was opened in Baroda constituency. Thus, two colleges have been announced for Baroda,” he added. Khattar said 50% seats will be reserved for women candidates in the upcoming panchayati raj elections. ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ campaign made a difference and bore fruitful results with the cooperation of people, he said, adding that the gender ratio had currently reached 923, which was merely 871 earlier. Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta also spoke on the occasion. Union minister of state for Jal Shakti, Rattan Lal Kataria, and education minister Kanwar Pal were among others present. New colleges will come up at Morni Hills (Panchkula), Isharwal (Bhiwani), Goriwala (Sirsa), Firozpur Jhirka (Nuh), Chhatar (Jind), Ladna Chaku and Rajaund (Kaithal), Pratap Nagar (Yamunanagar), Agroha (Hisar), Bhainswal Kalan and Baroda, both in Sonepat district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/11-new-colleges-for-women-to-come-up-in-haryana-khattar/story-qXBcFKpSMQUV06ubTT940L.html
04-08-2020||City||Twin mishaps in Jhajjar claim six lives||Six persons, including a brother-sister duo, were killed in two separate road accidents in Jhajjar on Monday.In the first incident, a couple and their daughter died after an unknown vehicle hit their motorcycle near Gwalison village.The deceased are Om Parkash, 45, his wife Sushila, 40, and their daughter Manisha, 10. The family hailed from Dhanonda village in Mahendergarh.As per the information, the accident took place when they were on their way to Badli from Dhanonda.A police spokesman said the victims’ bodies have been sent to civil hospital in Jhajjar for postmortem examination and their family has been informed. A case has been registered against the driver of the unknown vehicle under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In the second mishap, a 26-year-old man, his sister and her son died after the car they were travelling in rammed into an oil tanker on the western peripheral expressway near Badli.The deceased are Gaurav, his sister Preeti and her 10-month-old son Aarush. Gaurav had gone to Jhajjar’s Badli to take his sister and nephew to their parents’ home in Sonepat on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan.An FIR under similar IPC sections has been registered against the tanker driver and a probe has been launched. TWO DIE IN FATEHABAD CRASHIn another accident, a man and his daughter were killed after their bike rammed into a blue bull near Fatehabad’s Mohammadpur Rohi village.A spokesman of Fatehabad police said the 42-year-old man, Amit, and his 10-year-old daughter Anu of Munshiwali village were killed while his wife Santosh and three children got injured after their bike rammed into a blue bull.“The incident took place around 5pm when the man, along with five members of his family, was going to Mohammadpur Rohi village from Jhalania to celebrate Rakhi with his in-laws. The survivors are undergoing treatment at the Agroha medical college,” the spokesman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/twin-mishaps-in-jhajjar-claim-six-lives/story-GtBSjVV0eSLkfoQqXkkVCO.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Diabetes emerges as single biggest comorbidity factor in Covid deaths||Diabetes mellitus, a chronic metabolic disorder in which blood sugar levels are abnormally high, has emerged as the single biggest comorbidity factor (an existing medical condition) in the deaths of patients infected with coronavirus in Haryana. About 62% of the total infected persons who died till August 2 in the state due to the virus had comorbidities. Data analysed by the health department on comorbidity factor in Covid-19 patients showed that about 8% of the 433 infected persons who succumbed to the viral illness till August 2 had diabetes. Statistics show that about 30% of the infected persons who died had multiple comorbidities. Dr Usha Gupta, director, health services, integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP), said that multiple comorbidities means that the patients had more than one existing medical condition such as hypertension and diabetes or renal function impairment which affected their conditions. “Patients with comorbidity are immunocompromised and their organs are also not in a good shape,” she said. While about 5% patients who died had an existing respiratory disease, 4% patients each had heart disease and high blood pressure, statistics reveal. About 3% of the dead had kidney disease, about 2% patients each had neurological disorder, cancer and liver disease and 1% were anaemic. The health department is investigating the comorbidities leading to the death of 5% Covid-19 infected persons. Head of the pulmonary and critical care medicine at PGIMS, Rohtak, professor Dhruva Chaudhary, said he gets extremely worried if a coronavirus infected person is pre-diabetic or diabetic. “Our experience is that a number of coronavirus infected patients admitted in hospitals have quite high levels of blood sugar. This is because either they have diabetes or pre-diabetes. Also, the stress of the Covid-19 infection in a patient can result in an adrenaline surge, thus increasing the blood sugar levels. The infection can also lead to fall in insulin level due to the steroids given to patients,” said Dr Chaudhary, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 in Haryana. He said he would suspect the virus of doing mischief if the blood sugar levels were elevated in an infected person who otherwise had controlled blood sugar and was not being administered steroids. 4 northern districts get ‘critical’ tag Northern Haryana districts of Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Karnal and Panipat have also bagged the critical tag in the last fortnight for having more than 200 coronavirus active cases, a critical value as per the parameters recommended by the Union ministry of health. The total number of districts having more than 200 active cases is now 11. Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panchkula and Palwal have also got more than 15 active cases per lakh population in the last fortnight. As per the health department statistics, the total number of such districts is 13. While the sample positivity rate (confirmation rate) in Sonepat fell down to 5.8% last week, Panipat with a confirmation rate of 6.3% has earned the ‘critical value’ tag. The total number of districts having more than 6% confirmation rate are four. BoX: 10-day forecast Cumulative infections by Aug 13: About 45,600 Recovered patients by Aug 13: About 37,800 Active cases by Aug 13: About 7,700 New infections reported last week (July 27-Aug 2): 5,187 (Source: Health department, prediction as per average daily increase in cases)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/diabetes-emerges-as-single-biggest-comorbidity-factor-in-covid-deaths/story-4iruCHZKlcD0XmDGIGZGpJ.html
04-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Chasing the monsoon sights||It comes unexpected. Suddenly the grim, grey sky disappears to be replaced by a haze of deep shades of blue, with hints of pale red or pink.This is an extraordinary evening sight.Surprisingly, no masked shopper here on Khan Market’s front lane cares enough to look up at the phenomenon. (Not that there are as many people strutting around as in the BC — before coronavirus — era, but yet.)A masked parking attendant, sitting idly on a scooter at the market’s entrance, looks up after his attention is directed towards the surreal colours of the sky. He observes them for some time. Then he bows down his head, and murmurs, “Never seen anything like this.”It might be true for him, but Delhi sees these kind of skies every year during the monsoon months. In the day, the sky remains somewhat ordinary, cloaked in boring rain clouds. But as the evening unfolds, the sharp colours of the sunset (the sun being invisible all this while) often manages to break through the clouds, and drenches the air with hues of red, pink, orange and blue, so ethereal that it overwhelms the senses of the lucky few who manage to register this passing beauty.Just a little bit later, just a little bit farther, the reddish-blue heaven is behaving differently. At the Kasturba Gandhi Marg traffic intersection, the sky looks as sublime but more vulnerable too, for its multicoloured glow is being challenged by the brighter red of the traffic light. As the red turns to green, the canvas suddenly gets tainted, as if the painter had accidentally dropped a drip of green on it — or the Instagrammer used a greenish filter.Another evening, in an empty ground in Ghaziabad’s Vasundhara neighbourhood, a similar setting — colours and shades so beautiful and fragile that maybe, just by exhaling, you’ll chase them away. It has rained earlier in the afternoon and a large puddle—like a lake on the top of a volcanic mountain—had formed in a still-empty real estate. As the sun starts to go down somewhere in the unseen west, it bleaches a leftover cloud in smoky red. The cloud is reflected onto the monsoon puddle, which looks like a pit of frozen fire. It is a scene particular to the spot and couldn’t be replicated anywhere else. It has more beauty than it probably deserves, because one knows that this place is normally just another piece of dusty Ghaziabad. Soon afterwards, it becomes dark.In these times of coronavirus pandemic, it is difficult to freely go about town—and just forget about flying to a far away holiday. But looking up at the evening skies might give you a sense of escape—no matter where in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-chasing-the-monsoon-sights/story-yrNMBcaFH8Wkb9XOpPc4FM.html
04-08-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad suitcase murder: ‘Victim’ found alive||On July 27, the police in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad found a woman’s body stuffed in a suitcase. They shared photographs on social media as part of an identification drive. A man and his mother from Aligarh came forward. The elderly woman identified the victim as her 24-year-old daughter, Warisha, who goes by one name. They took the body to Aligarh, where the burial took place on July 29. Warisha’s husband and in-laws were booked for dowry death and sent to jail. A police team from Ghaziabad got a reward of ₹15,000 for successful tracking of the family. The case was shut. But there was a twist. A big one. On Monday, Warisha bumped into a police constable in Aligarh and narrated her story. Only then, the realisation dawned on the police. The woman in the suitcase was someone else; she is yet to be identified. “After the Ghaziabad police circulated the photographs of the body, Warisha’s family took notice and approached the police. Along with our officers, they went to Ghaziabad and identified the body...her husband and in-laws beat her up and harassed her for dowry; she fled their house on the afternoon of July 23,” Santosh Kumar Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Bulandshahr, said. Warisha was married to one Amir Khan, a Bulandshahr resident, on June 1. Warisha came to Noida, where she earlier worked with an electrical equipment company, and stayed there for couple of days. She returned to Aligarh on Monday. The police said they will scrap the dowry death charge from the first information report (FIR). “...other sections will remain as the in-laws harassed her. Her husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law are in jail. We will inform the court about the development,” Singh said. In Ghaziabad, the police said the identification was done by Warisha’s family members and the body was handed over to them by medical officials, who conducted the autopsy. “...we will now register a case of murder and destruction of evidence, and probe the murder of the woman whose body was found in the suitcase,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, SSP Ghaziabad. “Our officials, however, got the viscera and the DNA of the deceased preserved...this will help us in tracing the identity of the woman whose body was found in the suitcase,” he added. Bulandshahr SSP Singh said the cause of death of the woman found in suitcase could not be ascertained in the autopsy. The police in Bulandshahr filed the FIR on July 28 against Warisha’s husband and her in-laws. They were booked for dowry death and cruelty, among other charges. The three were arrested on the same day and sent to 14 days’ judicial custody by a court in Bulandshahr.“...it will be up to the investigating officer of the Ghaziabad police to investigate and trace the identity of the woman who was actually killed. The body can be exhumed...we may take legal action against Warisha’s mother and brother for identifying a wrong body,” said Diksha Singh, circle officer (city), Bulandshahr.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-suitcase-murder-victim-found-alive/story-Or83Xp4u93k2bWukxeIGxN.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn declares two micro-containment zones in Manimajra and Dhanas||The UT administration has declared a few houses in Pipliwala town in Manimajra and a residential block of the EWS Colony in Dhanas as micro containment zones.The decision was taken in the war room review meeting, chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator, here on Monday.UT adviser Manoj Parida, in his capacity as the chairman of the State Disaster Management Authority, designated six houses in Pipliwala town in Manimajra and the top floor of a block in EWS Colony, Dhanas, as containment zones.In view of the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases in July, the UT administration had last week decided to demarcate micro containment zones and directed the Affected Area Committee to identify such areas. Under the policy, even three to four houses within a sector or colony can be designated as micro containment zones.CROWDING AT PGIMER DISCUSSEDDuring the meeting, officials of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) said that many patients from Punjab, Haryana and other neighboring states were coming into emergency wards, adding that if found positive, the patients were being accommodated at Nehru Hospital Extension.The officials requested the administrator to take up the issue of overcrowding at PGIMER with the neighbouring states, and added that those who could be treated locally should avoid coming to Chandigarh.The administrator advised the director of PGIMER to hold regular meetings with health directors of neighbouring states and stick to proper protocol in receiving patients from other states. The administrator then directed Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, health, to begin a dedicated dialysis facility for Covid patients. This, he added, will reduce the burden on PGIMER.Badnore asked the deputy commissioner, Mandip Singh Brar, to find additional facilities where Covid patients could be accommodated, as and when required. Badnore suggested that community halls located away from residential areas could be utilised for the purpose.Meanwhile, KK Yadav, MC commissioner, said they had started a large-scale sanitisation campaign in the city to prevent the outbreak of vector borne diseases like malaria and dengue. He also stated that the quality of water in various tubewells was being checked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-declares-two-micro-containment-zones-in-manimajra-and-dhanas/story-EKW3dzKI1PhhRNLCsjdfII.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Hooch Tragedy: Congress MPs Bajwa, Dullo target Capt govt; seek CBI, ED probes||In a joint offensive against the Capt Amarinder Singh government after Punjab’s worst hooch tragedy, Congress MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo on Monday demanded an “impartial and thorough” probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate into the illegal liquor business in the state. Bajwa and Dullo, both former presidents of Punjab Congress, met Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore and alleged “clear-cut failure” on the part of the state administration and claimed the tragedy could have been averted had the chief minister acted in time on their complaints about illegal liquor businesses. “Had CM acted in time, the hooch tragedy would not have taken place.... We have been highlighting this issue since 2017,” Dullo said, adding that it was the responsibility of the state government to act tough against liquor smugglers. The two Rajya Sabha MPs requested the government to send a recommendation to the Centre for inquiry by the two central agencies into the production and distribution of illegal liquor in the state. “We had initially requested for an inquiry by a judge of the high court but now evidently a much deeper investigation is needed by a central investigative agency,” they wrote in a four-page letter to the governor, expressing lack of confidence in officers of the state departments. The two leaders said they would meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi and, thereafter, take up the issue with the prime minister and the Union home minister. “We will also raise the issue of deaths of people in Parliament,” said Bajwa. The two MPs said they had written letters to the chief minister (Capt Amarinder Singh) as well as spoken publicly about the loss to the public exchequer due to smuggling of liquor by licensed distilleries, functioning of illegal distilleries, and production of spurious liquor and sought action against the people guilty of committing these offences but no action was taken against the real culprits till date. “The losses in revenue generation caused due to the smuggling of liquor are to the tune of ₹2,700 crore. This could not have been done without the consent/connivance of bureaucrats including police, excise officials and politicians in power,” they wrote. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooch-tragedy-congress-mps-bajwa-dullo-target-capt-govt-seek-cbi-ed-probes/story-CzBWoImLWwBcoSopa0VPqN.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Fate of Sector-53 general housing scheme to be decided by Chandigarh Housing Board on August 6||The final decision on the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) general housing scheme, Sector 53—whether to scrap it or float a revised scheme—will be taken at the board of directors’ meeting scheduled for August 6.The development comes after the UT urban planning department rejected the board’s request for allowing an increased floor area ratio (FAR) in the scheme. With CHB struggling to attract buyers owing to high pricing, the board had hoped that the increased FAR would help reduce the price. Twice had the CHB proposed to the urban planning department to increase the FAR.The department, however, had contended that increasing the FAR for CHB’s general housing scheme could set a bad precedent for other housing schemes. Also, increasing the FAR at such a late stage when all the approvals for the project had been finalised would waste all the earlier work, the department added.Due to a poor response from the public, the CHB in March this year had decided to refund the processing fee of all applicants and planned the scheme afresh in order to make it more attractive.Only 178 applications were received against the 492 flats on offer in March this year. The scheme offered 3HK flats for as high as ₹1.8 crore, 2BHK flats for ₹1.5 crore and 1BHK flats for ₹95 lakh. The CHB had slashed the proposed rates by 15% to attract more buyers but it did not work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fate-of-sector-53-general-housing-scheme-to-be-decided-by-chandigarh-housing-board-on-august-6/story-KBolUcm2UZT4nWhnN7uFgP.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown hit more workers from lower castes, reveals study by university in Haryana||The lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 has affected employment prospects of workers from lower castes more unfavourably than those from upper castes, according to a study by Ashoka University, Haryana. Released on Friday, the paper, titled “Is COVID-19 ‘The Great Leveller’? The Critical Role of Social Identity in Lockdown- induced Job Losses”, analyses the drop in employment for workers from communities ranked low in the caste hierarchy – scheduled castes (SC), scheduled tribes (ST), and other backward castes (OBC). The study uses data of skilled and unskilled labour from across India, gathered by the independent think tank, Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy. The researchers found that compared to workers from upper castes, the probability of job loss was three times higher for those who are SC and two times higher for OBC workers. “We have tried to understand the effect of the pandemic on the employment situation of lower caste workers in relation to upper caste workers. We have compared employment data over December 2018 and April 2020,” said Ashwini Deshpande, professor of Economics at Ashoka University, who co-authored the study with Rajesh Ramachandran from the department of microeconomics and management at Goethe University in Germany. The proportion of employed persons in all caste groups remained fairly stable from August 2018 to December 2019. However, between December 2019 and April 2020, there was a steep fall in employment of all caste groups, indicating that the lockdown had affected employment of workers across all castes, but in varying degrees. In December 2019, 39% of upper caste workers were employed and by April 2020, the percentage had dropped to 32%. The fall was more pronounced for SC workers, 44% of whom were employed in December 2019, but only 24% were employed in April 2020. For OBCs and STs the fall was from 40% to 26% and 48% to 33%, respectively. Ajit Ranade, Mumbai-based economist and political analyst, who was not a part of the study, said the findings were important as they show the impact of the pandemic through the lens of caste. “Researchers find that there is a difference between upper caste and lower caste, especially the scheduled caste, in terms of the severity of the negative impact on employment. The upper castes are endowed with higher human capital, i.e. educational achievement, and are in jobs less vulnerable to pandemic disruption. What is surprising is that the impact on scheduled caste is three times worse. Not only has the pandemic exposed the pre-existing inequities but has amplified them. Hence relief and welfare measures have to pay extra attention and compensate for this unequal impact across caste divisions,” said Ranade. The study also found education emerged as a key element in job security. The researchers mapped the share of individuals with 12 or more years of completed schooling and the proportion holding daily wage or casual jobs (jobs contracted on a daily basis). “The share of individuals with more than 12 years of schooling is 37% for upper castes and 17% for SCs. It shows that stigmatised caste groups are also disproportionately more likely to hold daily wage jobs, which provide no job security or tenure,” said the paper. While only 3% of daily wage earners are from upper castes, 16% are from SCs. The researchers also found that stigmatised groups with lower levels of education were further impacted by differences in the type of employment contracts they were given. “However, while caste differences are minimised among the better-off workers [those with more than 12 years of schooling and those without daily wage jobs], they are not completely eliminated,” said Deshpande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-hit-more-workers-from-lower-castes-reveals-study-by-university-in-haryana/story-wkIfltjnSCQv8p0vE01XAP.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||32-year-old woman held with 78g heroin in Chandigarh||A 32-year-old woman of Pinjore was arrested with 78.42 gram heroin, the police said on Monday. The accused was identified as Rekha who worked as a labourer and got into supplying heroin to make easy money. She was arrested near Khuda Lahora bridge in Chandigarh on Sunday. Police said Rekha had been supplying heroin for the last two years. During preliminary questioning, she told the police that she would get the heroin for ₹2,000 per gram from Delhi and sell the same for ₹4,000 to ₹4,500 in the tricity. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered. The accused was on Monday produced before the court and sent to judicial custody.THEFT IN COOLER FACTORYThieves targeted a factory in Industrial Area, Phase 1, on the intervening night of August 1/2, the police said on Monday. In his complaint, owner Paramjit Singh, 47, of Sector 38 told the police that he was into the business of making almirahs and coolers. He said that on the morning of August 2, he got a call from his servant informing him that the locks of the main door of the factory had been broken. A cooler, 12 cooler motors and a screwdriver were reported stolen from the factory. A case under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/32-year-old-woman-held-with-78g-heroin-in-chandigarh/story-mJ5FneZg1BeZFDIn6KjBNJ.html
04-08-2020||City||Amid Covid-19 outbreak, Sewri TB Hospital in Mumbai sees drop in patients visiting OPD||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the number of tuberculosis patients visiting the outpatient department (OPD) at Sewri TB Hospital, the largest TB facility in India, dropped to 562 in July, from 1,418 in January. The number of admitted patients, too, dropped to 216 last month, from 493 patients in January. Every year, on an average, over 5,000 people die of TB in Mumbai, according to the civic body’s data. Similar to Covid-19, TB affects the lungs, is highly infectious and spreads when an individual with active disease coughs or sneezes and expelled droplets that contain TB bacteria are inhaled by another person. With every undiagnosed case, the chance of spread increases. Despite the severity, detection of new cases has drastically reduced since March, when the first case of Covid-19 was reported in Mumbai, claim activists, adding all efforts are directed towards containing Covid-19. Doctors, however, said TB cases have declined due to social distancing norms. Activists alleged inaccessibility of drugs and lack of transportation to reach the hospital prevent many patients from following-up. They said irregular treatment can lead to a spike in TB cases post the pandemic. “Patients with drug-resistant TB suffer the most. These patients need to take injections regularly. Sometimes either drugs aren’t available or medicos aren’t available to administer it,” said Ganesh Acharya, a TB activist. “One can’t expect all TB patients to travel in a bus to reach a hospital. Trains are running only for government employees and essential service staff. If patients lose out on their medicines, they not only fall behind their regime, but also develop further health complications.” Poornima Nair, director (health) at a non-government organisation, Apnalaya in Govandi, which is home to the highest number of drug-resistant TB cases, said, “There are possibilities that many individuals with active Mycobacterium (the bacteria that causes TB) may go unidentified as they aren’t visiting hospitals for check-ups. NGOs along with the civic bodies are trying to give the drugs at their doorstep.” Doctors give other reasons. “Due to Covid-19, people are taking all kinds of precautions like wearing masks and maintaining social distance. How will new people get infected with the bacteria of TB,” asked Dr Deepak Baid, president, Association of Medical Consultants, who works at the Covid ward of Rajawadi Hospital. A senior health officer from BMC on condition of anonymity said, “Through anganwadi and social workers, we are following up with patients daily. Instead of providing dosage for one month, we have given drugs for two months, so patients don’t have to visit health centres often.” Dr Salil Bendre, head, pulmonary medicine, Nanavati Hospital, said despite restrictions during the lockdown, patients have been allowed to visit hospitals for treatment. “Even though many hospitals are being converted into dedicated Covid hospitals, there are several other medicine centres where TB patients are being treated. It would be wrong to say that TB treatment has been affected due to Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-covid-19-outbreak-sewri-tb-hospital-in-mumbai-sees-drop-in-patients-visiting-opd/story-M6EVf0nlD96BhA0ASFNyCP.html
04-08-2020||City||Medical staffers in Kalyan-Dombivli Covid centres tie rakhis to patients||Patients admitted at the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Patidhar Bhavan in Dombivli received a surprise when the staff working at the facility decided to tie rakhi on their wrists on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan on Monday. “We were surprised when the women staffers brought rakhis to tie on our wrists. I was missing my sister a lot and had just finished speaking to her over the phone, as we cannot celebrate Raksha Bandhan this year. The gesture made by the medical staff was so overwhelming for most of the patients,” said a 33-year-old patient. Similar scenes were witnessed at the Tata Amantra and Sai Nirvana Covid-19 facilities. “The patients might be missing the celebrations with their sisters and so we decided to help on this special occasion. The medical staff are the real protectors actually. Such celebrations make festivals meaningful,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC). In another similar gesture, Sanskriti Patil, 13, sent a rakhi with a thank you note to Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) commissioner Raja Dayanidhi to express her gratitude to the civic chief and his team for their fight against the outbreak. “During lockdown, Sanskriti’s school gave her several activities and one of them was to send rakhis to Covid-19 warriors. She decided to send one rakhi to the person who heads the city and manages all the teams. She also sent three more rakhis to a police officer, a health officer and a bus depot manager in our area,” said Rajendra Patil, 39, the father of the Class 7 student. UMC public relations officer, Yuvraj Badhane said that the civic commissioner was overwhelmed when he received the rakhi and the thank you note. “He in return also sent a note thanking the child for the motivational gesture,” said Badhane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/medical-staffers-in-kalyan-dombivli-covid-centres-tie-rakhis-to-patients/story-Y29GvlNjSajXWMBPZcEZrK.html
04-08-2020||City||Ulhasnagar civic body acts against private Covid hospital for overcharging ₹36 lakh from 82 patients||After initiating a probe against four private Covid-19 hospitals over complaints of overcharging, the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) on Monday served a show-cause notice to a private hospital for allegedly overcharging ₹36.39 lakh from 82 Covid-19 patients since July 7. Despite repeated attempts, the hospital did not respond to HT’s calls or messages. “An audit conducted by the civic body’s committee found that the hospital did not follow the directions by the state government on charging Covid-19 patients. The committee acquired all the bills and documents from the hospital since July 7 and on studying them discovered the hospital overcharged the patients. Hence, the civic body chief served a show-cause notice to the facility,” said Yuvraj Badhane, public relations officer, UMC. The hospital needs to respond to the notice in seven days, citing an explanation for the alleged overcharging of bills or face legal action under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897; the Disaster Management Act, 2005; the Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance (Amendment) Act, 2011, and the Mumbai Nursing Home (Amendment) Act. “If the hospital fails to respond, the civic body will initiate legal action against it for not following the state’s directions on treatment of Covid-19 patients,” said Badhane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ulhasnagar-civic-body-acts-against-private-covid-hospital-for-overcharging-36-lakh-from-82-patients/story-KpCcYrRHNk8JgNfYCrtxJO.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Railway hospital in Mumbai to get Covid-19 testing lab in November||The Jagjivan Ram Hospital at Mumbai Central, which is operated by the Indian Railways, will get a dedicated Covid-19 testing laboratory, which will have a capacity to conduct 500 real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests every day. “The laboratory will be of biosafety level 3. It will be the first-of-its-kind testing facility operated by Indian Railways. The laboratory will be able to carry virology, pathological and fungal tests,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR.A tender for the laboratory has been floated by WR and bids have been invited for its construction. The lab is expected to be functional by November and will be built at a cost of ₹3.2 crore. Currently, the hospital, which operates as a Covid-19 facility, collects the swab samples and sends them to government-run hospitals in the city for testing. Recently, Western Railway (WR) had manufactured swab sample collection kiosks at the facility. The kiosks were manufactured at the railways’ Lower Parel workshop to help healthcare workers collect the swab samples without exposing themselves to the virus. In its fight against Covid-19, the railways had also manufactured intubation boxes, which act as a shield between patients and doctors, thereby limiting the doctor from virus exposure while intubating a patient. The railways has also installed vending machines for masks, sanitisers and gloves for passengers at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) and Dadar station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/railway-hospital-in-mumbai-to-get-covid-19-testing-lab-in-november/story-444Z6GtQsHZcAvkWQIpXmL.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||From Wednesday, Mumbaiites can buy liquor from shops||Four days after the state government eased some more restrictions in the ongoing lockdown, civic commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Monday issued a circular permitting market complexes and shopping malls in the city to remain open between 9am and 7pm from Wednesday.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also scrapped the odd-even rule meant for shops selling non-essential, and permitted them to remain open on all days. The civic body, which earlier only permitted home delivery of liquor, allowed its over-the-counter sale from Wednesday.“It is directed that the liquor shops are allowed to remain open for sale across the counter but shall strictly adhere to national directives of Covid-19 for safe distancing and covering of masks mentioned. It is further directed that all shops shall remain open on all days on all sides of the road irrespective of the even and odd days rule,” the circular stated.However, the civic body said citizens cannot travel far to buy non-essential items or in the case of non-emergencies.Stating that around five million people employed in the modern retail sector would suffer if the state delays reopening of malls, the Shopping Centres’ Association of India (SCAI) urged the Maharashtra government to take concrete steps to ensure their urgent reopening. Maharashtra has more than 75 malls of which 50% are located in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, while 20% is in Pune, and the rest in Amravati, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Nashik and Nagpur.However, the theatres and restaurants inside city malls will remain closed. “Malls and market complexes will be operational from 9am to 7pm with effect from 5th August, 2020, without theatres, food courts / restaurants. However, the kitchen of restaurant and food courts will be allowed to operate in malls, wherein only home delivery through aggregators will be allowed,” the circular stated.The circular also permits e-commerce companies to deliver all types of goods and private offices to function with 10% attendance. As per the new rules, garages can remain open but clients can visit only after taking prior appointments. The circular also stated that self-employed people such as plumbers, electricians, pest-control companies and technicians can work commence their work.The civic body also allowed venues for non-team sports such as golf courses, firing ranges, gymnastics, tennis and badminton courts to operate from Wednesday but owners and visitors must ensure that sanitation measures and social distancing norms are maintained.However, gyms in the city will remain closed.Viren Shah, president of Federation of Retail Traders’ Welfare Association (FRTWA), welcomed the civic body’s decision. “It was not practical for us to follow the alternate-day rule as we need to pay wages to our workers and rent to landlords. We have been requesting the authorities to permit shops to operate on all days from the past 20 days. We would like to thank the civic body and the Maharashtra government for allowing it now. More than 3 lakh shop owners in Mumbai can now heave a sigh of relief as they can remain open on all days. We have asked all the shops to ensure social distancing and follow sanitisation and other precautionary measures in shops,” said Shah.The circular was issued as part of the state government’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ initiative that envisages phase-wise relaxations to the lockdown. Like the state, the city will also be under lockdown till August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/from-wednesday-mumbaiites-can-buy-liquor-from-shops/story-0wz2pqraEgkbPP3BgQswGN.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Residents’ body demands separate wards for rural and urban Manimajra||The resident welfare association (RWA) of the Modern Housing Complex (MHC) in Sector 13 (Manimajra) has written to the UT adviser asking that ward number 25 be split into two separate parts with the rural part of Manimajra in one and the urban part in the other.Speaking about this, president of the RWA Colonel (retd) Gursewak Singh said, “The existing ward 25 comprises, on the one hand, the bulk of rural area, and on the other, the new urban modern colonies of MHC, Rajeev Vihar and Uppal Marble Arch. Civic amenities and need-based development of these residential areas are and would be basically different from those of the old, rural areas and these entities must be clubbed together to form a new ward in Sector 13.”Colonel Gursewak added that without the bifurcation, many development works including construction of bus shelters and e-sampark centres had been delayed for more than three years.General secretary of the RWA, SA Qureshi, said all the past municipal corporation (MC) councillors including the current one from their ward were from Manimajra village, so it was seen that the urban parts of Manimajra were being neglected as compared to Manimajra village.The RWA is asking that a separate urban ward be made of Manimajra pockets 1 to 6, comprising urban residential colonies like MHC, Rajeev Vihar, Uppal Marble Arch, Shivalik Enclave, NAC and adjoining residential colonies.On the other hand, MC councillor Jagtar Singh Jagga said, “True, we have a big ward, but most development work is being done for the urban areas only. They have the best water supply and working lights. They have recently gotten a railway under bridge (RUB) installed. Meanwhile, the village paints a contrasting picture and I have been working towards solving the problems of the village residents as well.”In 2019, the MHC RWA had written to the UT administration for the renaming of Manimajra as Sector 13. The suggestion was first floated on the occasion of Guru Nanak’s 550th birth anniversary, citing the auspiciousness of the number 13. It was following their letters that the area was renamed Sector 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-body-demands-separate-wards-for-rural-and-urban-manimajra/story-up3H8EooDIzUAYnMOGMojL.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Rajput suicide: CM supports Mumbai Police||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Anil Deshmukh are determined to not hand over the investigation into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) despite mounting pressure. While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has criticised the state government for its handling of the case, there is division within the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi alliance with Congress leaders favouring the transfer of the case to CBI and Shiv Sena supporting Mumbai Police’s investigation. Thackeray held a high level meeting with police officers on Sunday evening, in which he was briefed on the progress made by Mumbai Police in its investigation. Thackeray was reportedly satisfied with how the probe into the actor’s suicide is being handled. Deshmukh, who has previously said there is no need to hand the case over to CBI, on Monday morning said, “Mumbai Police is investigating the case professionally.” Following rumours and allegations on social media that claimed a state minister is implicated in the case, the state government has decided to take action against those attempting to defame the government. “Through social media and a section of media, it is being repeatedly projected that the son of a minister had attended the party at Sushant’s residence a day before he died. It’s false propaganda to transfer the case to the central agency. We have decided to take a serious note of and action against it,” said a state government official who was at the meeting. Some in the bureaucracy and the state Cabinet feel the Maharashtra government has struggled to tackle how the episode has been politicised by the Opposition. “Right from a case in Patna to a strategic movement of creating suspicion about involvement of a Maharashtra minister, it was a well thought out strategy by the Opposition. Instead of giving a fitting reply, the government seems to have fallen prey to it. We could not even take advantage of the doubtful integrity of the director general of Bihar Police who has been blaming Mumbai and Maharashtra Police. Goof ups at the local level by stamping the Bihar Police officer with a quarantine mark has further damaged our image. Our opinion is that the case should be handed over to CBI as it appears to be just a suicide with no foul play involved,” said a senior Congress leader requesting anonymity. After Vinay Tiwari of Patna City police was quarantined by BMC on Sunday, former chief minister of Maharashtra and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis had questioned why Tiwari had been singled out for quarantine and described the state government’s decisions regarding the investigation into Rajput’s death as “really strange”. BJP leader Ram Kadam has questioned if the state government was trying to “hush up” certain incidents and referred to a conspiracy theory that Mumbai Police has since debunked, which claimed a state minister had attended a party at the residence of Rajput’s former manager Disha Salian, who died by suicide on June 8. Mumbai Police has said there is no evidence to connect Salian and Rajput’s deaths. On Monday, the commissioner of Mumbai Police said in a press conference that Bihar Police has no jurisdiction over Rajput’s suicide case, but senior officials in the home department speculated that the Centre could take over the case using the first information report (FIR) filed in Patna. “Mumbai Police has not filed any FIR so far as they have not found any substance to convert the accidental death report into an FIR. Patna Police has already filed an FIR and it can be handed over to the CBI for which Maharashtra government’s consent is not required. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has already expressed his willingness for the transfer. The hearing in the Supreme Court on Wednesday now bears great significance, but it will paint Maharashtra and Mumbai Police in poor light,” said an official. The Supreme Court will hear actor Rhea Chakraborty’s plea to transfer the FIR lodged against her in the case of Rajput’s suicide from Patna to Mumbai, today. Police officer turned lawyer YP Singh said, “Without state consent or an order from the Apex or high court, the transfer cannot take place. If Mumbai Police has not lodged an FIR, it is right on its part as it may not have found adequate evidence against anybody.” Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant accused the BJP of defaming Mumbai Police. “Maharashtra BJP leaders, on the orders of their high command, are defaming our police. Director general of police of Bihar is at the forefront in the attempt. The DGP is facing serious charges in a case, which was being investigated by the CBI. The officer wanted to contest election as a BJP candidate in the past,” he said. Sawant also questioned why Rajput’s father had not registered a complaint with Mumbai Police. In their signed statements, none of Rajput’s family members, including his father, had mentioned any suspicion of foul play, said Mumbai Police. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday also came out in support of Mumbai Police. “If Mumbai Police is already investigating the case, anyone not related to the Maharashtra government and not related to the case should not comment on it as Mumbai Police is capable of conducting the probe on its own,” Raut said. He said anyone claiming the police investigation was compromised because a state minister was involved in the case should come forward. “They should openly name the person. Saying such baseless things is not even politics, I think. People know everything. This should be stopped immediately. Mumbai Police should be allowed to carry on with its work,” he said. Shiv Sena’s Arvind Sawant on Monday alleged Bihar Police officers had used luxury cars owned by BJP office bearers while in Mumbai. Speaking to ANI, Sawant said, “Whose vehicles were those? The BMW belonged to a BJP office bearer. If Bihar Police travels in it, you can understand the politics.” Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. The post mortem declared he had died by suicide. A police investigation into the circumstances of his death is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rajput-suicide-cm-supports-mumbai-police/story-WRJVHRMs6RywdJ7zgNY1JN.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||No hawkers in Maharashtra as of now: State reiterates its stand before HC||The Maharashtra government has reiterated its stand before the Bombay high court that it cannot allow street vendors to resume their businesses as of now.In an affidavit filed in HC, the state government has stated that there is no occasion even to consider allowing street vendors and hawkers to resume business in containment zones and areas where lockdown will continue to be imposed.As of now, they will also not be allowed to resume businesses in other areas outside lockdown areas and containment zones. “This is particularly because, these sectors (street vending and hawking) fall under unorganised sectors and it is very difficult, if any and if at all, imposed for conducting such businesses,” said the affidavit filed by Kishor Nimbalkar, secretary, disaster management, relief and rehabilitation department.Huge manpower including police and civic staff will be required to ensure compliance of guidelines issued for the conduct of these businesses and but the ground reality is that all these agencies are over-burdened and already exhausted, it added.The affidavit is filed in reply to public interest litigation filed by activist Manoj Oswal, for a declaration that the imposition of a complete ban on the sale of products or food by street vendors to be illegal or unconstitutional and violative of the rights of the people to conduct legitimate business.In his petition filed through advocate Ashish Verma, the 43-year-old activist from Pune said the nationwide lockdown has led to serious issues for the survival of the large population, including street vendors and traders who own very small informal shops and vends and the only possible relief for them was that they were allowed to conduct their daily business with reasonable restrictions. Oswal has termed the state’s stand as “extremely high handed and insensitive.”“The assumption that the street vendors can cause more Covid-19 infections than the store or shop owners is not supported by science or findings by any research,” said his rejoinder. “Merely because these people are poor, they are being treated as more infectious and responsible for causing infections. This is a clear prejudice and nothing else,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-hawkers-in-maharashtra-as-of-now-state-reiterates-its-stand-before-hc/story-25VfSgGKoHwf76PMtVoyAO.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||KYC fraud: Senior citizen duped of ₹3.18 lakh||Borivli police have booked an unknown person for duping a 67-year-old senior citizen of ₹3.18 lakh. The accused posed as an executive from a popular eWallet service provider and under the pretext of updating the KYC (know your customer) details, tricked the old person into sharing his banking details, including the OTPs (one-time Passwords). The accused then fraudulently transferred money in the desired bank account.According to the Borivli police, the complainant is a retired government employee and resides in Borivli (West). On Sunday morning he received a call from an executive who identified himself as Abhishekh Choudhary. He told the victim that he will no longer be able to use the eWallet service as his KYC details were not updated.“He told the complainant that he needed to pay a fee of ₹10 if he wants to update the KYC detail. The old person paid ₹10 four times as per the instructions of Choudhary and also shared OTPs with him” said an officer from the Borivli police station. When the accused (Choudhary) asked the complainant his debit card details, he sensed something wrong and disconnected the phone call, states the FIR.The complainant immediately checked the balance in his bank account and discovered that ₹3,17,800 is missing from his account. The complainant approached police and registered an FIR against Choudhary.The police have registered a case under sections 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code and 66d (cheating by personation by using computer resource) of Information Technology Act against an unknown accused.The police have begun an investigation and are in the process of obtaining details of the unauthorized transactions from the bank and the eWallet service provider.The state cyber police recently issued an advisory about how such frauds are being done regularly and have also given following tips to citizens to prevent themselves from such frauds.- Do not to believe the messages or calls that ask you to update KYC documents.- KYC is only done face-to-face at authorised centres, and not via phone or SMS.- Never share OTPs with anyone, not even with the bank executives. No bank ask for OTPs from its customers- While doing every transaction on eWallet or UPI platforms always carefully read the message before making the transaction. Fraudsters trick you into clicking some options for fraudulent transactions by distracting your attention.- Avoid making your phone number public on social media sites.- Always use genuine software on your smartphones.- If you ever come across a suspicious message take your time to think and never click the links given in such text messages.- Do not share bank account credentials on Google view forms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kyc-fraud-senior-citizen-duped-of-3-18-lakh/story-KNel0cRRSypkzKPZYqbbdP.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||21-year-old pharmacy student rescues rare seabird||A rare sea bird called brown booby, which is originally found in Australia and the United States, was rescued at Virar on Sunday afternoon. Suraj Pandey, a 21-year-old pharmacy student, spotted the dehydrated and tired bird which was being attacked by crows, and rescued it. Pandey informed forest department officials who took custody of the bird. The brown booby is now being treated at Transit Wildlife Rescue Centre,Shilphata in Kalyan which is run by the forest department, and will be released in the Arabian Sea when the bird is in a better shape to fly, said Namrata Pawar, range forest officer, Virar.Brown booby or Sula leucogaster (scientific name) is a large seabird of the booby family, Sulidae, and is found on the islands and coasts of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans in Australia and the United States, said Pandey who also rescues snakes.Brown booby birds frequent breeding grounds of the islands in the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean Sea, and nest in large colonies, said Bhushan Bhoir, zoology professor at Sonopant Dandekar Shikshan Mandali, popularly known as SDSM College, Palghar. Bhoir added that the bird, which eats only small fish or squid, may have flown from Australia to Kerala or Karnataka in search of food and ended up in Palghar. He also added that there’s a chance that the bird might have lost direction. “The bird could have been tired from flying as it can fly only when there is high wind speed due to its aerodynamic wings,” said Bhoir adding that the bird floats on the water when it gets tired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/21-year-old-pharmacy-student-rescues-rare-seabird/story-oGHvrSgJ24ZPoWW8IEYtjL.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Virar-Alibag corridor: ‘Reconsider its alignment to save mangroves’||The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) has asked authorities to reconsider the Virar-Alibag multi-modal corridor alignment to minimise the cutting and destruction of mangroves. The proposal was deferred in a meeting held on July 7, 2020, stating that MCZMA requires a detailed survey of “quantification of mangroves” to be affected owing to the alignment.In the meantime, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which was handling the project until recently, said that it is in the process of handing over the project to the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). AB Gaikwad, chief engineer, MSRDC said, “Since MSRDC is already looking at constructing the Konkan Expressway and the Samruddhi corridor, it was considered apt to take over the project for integrated planning. However, since the handover is still under process, we cannot comment on the (MCZMA) decision as of now.” BG Pawar, joint metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA said, “MCZMA has asked to look at an alternate alignment between Chirner to Balavali only. The decision to hand over the project to MSRDC was taken in an authority meeting held in July and is under process.”MSRDC, on the other hand, said it is too early to comment on the alignment.Anil Diggikar, chairman of MCZMA, in an earlier interaction with HT had confirmed that clearance for the multimodal corridor has been deferred. The project is pending a go-ahead from MCZMA since 2018. As per MMRDA’s submission in 2019, the project is passing through mangroves and its 50-meter buffer zone, which is around 19.95 hectares.MCZMA had asked the state mangrove cell to conduct a site visit to assess the damage in 2019. The cell, which visited 5 villages, in its report to MCZMA stated that it is necessary “to determine exact affected mangrove area and clearance under Forest Conservation Act, 1980 needs to be obtained.” It’s report states that mangroves will be affected in the villages of Rave, Dighati, Vidhane, Dighode and Koper.MCMZA’s minutes of the meeting state that it also passes through the greenfield areas under the City Industrial and Development Corporation’s ambit. The minutes further reveal that the project will pass through 3.68 lakh square meters of CRZ area.MMRDA was looking at commissioning the project in two phases - Phase I - 80km stretch from Navghar to Chirner (near the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust - JNPT), Phase IA - 18km stretch from Chirner to Balavali and Phase-II - 28km stretch from Balavali to Alibag. The corridor will be an eight-lane stretch with separate lanes for metro and bus rapid transit system. The authority has been seeking coastal regulation zone (CRZ) clearance for Phase IA.One of Maharashtra government’s most ambitious projects, the 126-km corridor, will pass through emerging nodes of Bhiwandi, Kalyan, Panvel and Pen. It will have 13 interchanges, 48 underpasses and 41 bridges. The access-control highway is also expected to have a metro on its central median. MMRDA had got administrative approval for its construction cost at ₹19,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/virar-alibag-corridor-reconsider-its-alignment-to-save-mangroves/story-CJaHcJsYOncmf8fWqqsOJK.html
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Day 1: Online classes in Panjab University on to low-key start||Teaching and learning at Panjab University went online on Monday, but the varsity met with a mixed response as participation remained low key on the first day.As per the new academic calendar of the university, the first term of the next session will end on November 28 and the semester examinations will be conducted from December 2 onwards for 20 days.Many students said no classes were held for them on Day 1 and others said they hadn’t even received the time table yet. The teaching process was not seamless in many departments and classes were marred by technical glitches. In many departments, classes were held late in the morning due to Raksha Bandhan.A student of the English department seeking anonymity said, “We were provided a WebEx link, but due to technical glitches our class was not held on Monday.”The Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) had earlier sought that teachers be allowed to conduct online classes from home as well. Professor Navdeep Goyal, who is heading a special panel of the university, said, “We are getting many queries and we may decide to allow teachers to conduct online classes from home in the coming days.”PU’s dean of university instructions (DUI) RK Singla said, “We are approving the time table of many departments. We are working at a good pace and it will take a few days to streamline the online teaching process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/day-1-online-classes-in-panjab-university-on-to-low-key-start/story-mJx7aj0D78Kkc6jqUrKLNP.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai University to begin new academic year from Friday; virtual classes to start||The University of Mumbai on Sunday stated that the new academic year should begin from August 7. The circular, which is addressed to all affiliated colleges, also states that with the completion of admissions for all batches, except first-year undergraduate and postgraduate graduate courses, colleges should start virtual lectures for the new academic year until further notice.“Colleges should commence online lectures for all classes, except first-year/part 1 of the undergraduate and postgraduate programs. The detailed arrangement of the term for programs offered under different faculties will be communicated separately,” said the circular released on August 2.In a separate circular released on August 31, the university also clarified the admission rules to colleges. While all institutes have been asked to finish admissions of their current students after promoting them, the varsity has also clarified that no other admissions will be allowed. “Colleges are permitted to admit all in-house students to the second, third, fourth and/or fifth-year courses. However, colleges are not permitted to admit outsider/external student beyond the sanctioned capacity,” said the varsity circular. It further stated that in-house students must be admitted within the divisions sanctioned, such that there is no increase in the workload nor rise in demand for any additional staff,” added the circular.The pre-admission registration and college dorm filling process for admissions to undergraduate degree courses is currently underway. The first merit list for first-year university admissions will be released on August 4 at 7pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-to-begin-new-academic-year-from-friday-virtual-classes-to-start/story-G1RIAHmxXhTYr22MbVg9GJ.html
04-08-2020||City||Engineer dies as her bike skids on Sion-Panvel road||A 26-year-old engineer died after her bike skidded due to sudden rain, on Sion-Panvel highway on Monday morning. The woman sustained severe head injuries as her helmet, which was unlatched, fell off when her bike skidded, said police.The incident took place near Kharghar toll booth around 8.15am when the woman, Bhakti Adate, was heading to her office in Mankhurd. When she reached the tollbooth, it started raining which led to several bikers stopping near the bus stop, said police. “According to eye-witness account, she applied brakes and ended up skidding and fell sideways. She was wearing a helmet but it fell off her head as it was not latched. She fell off the bike, hit her head on the road and fell unconscious,” said an officer from Kharghar police station.A few bikers put called for an ambulance and she was taken to MGM Hospital in Kamothe, where she was declared dead on arrival.Kharghar police have filed an accidental death report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/engineer-dies-as-her-bike-skids-on-sion-panvel-road/story-upLRhL5BwoMB6cQoqtMVgN.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||FYJC admissions: 65K students get their forms verified in 2 days||Around 65,000 students in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) got their forms verified on the online portal for first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions while more than 2 lakh students could successfully register themselves until Monday evening, two days since the portal was launched on August 1. This year, due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown, the entire admission process is online. After students submit the part 1 of their admission forms, these forms have to be verified online either by their respective schools or the guidance centres appointed by the education department. While students said that the overall process of registration and form filling was smooth, some reported issues with the payment gateway. “We could fill the form in 15 minutes but it took almost an entire day to make the payment. The gateway would show failed payment attempts again and again. This is one thing that needs to be fixed,” said a parent of a student who has registered on the portal. An official from the education department said the payment issue only existed for a brief period on the first day and has been resolved since. “Parents should wait in case the gateway shows failed payment. If an excess amount is deducted, the payment gateway would reverse the amount to the account within 3 working days,” a notice put up on the admission website stated. The education department is yet to put up a schedule for filling part 2 of the form, which consists of students’ marks and college preferences. KC College offers seat to juice seller’s daughter Asma Salim Shaikh, whose father sells lime juice near Azad Maidan and who had cleared her Class 10 exam with 40% marks, has been promised a seat in Churchgate’s KC College. Hemlata Bagla, principal of KC College, said, “We are very proud of Asma’s achievement and have offered to take her in our college through the management quota. We have helped such needy students even in the past and it is good to see their happiness after getting to be in the college. She will complete the due process of online admission and would then be allotted a seat.” On Monday, Congress leader Milind Deora, who had earlier shared Asma’s achievement on his Twitter handle, congratulated her for being assured a seat at KC college. “Delighted that Asma has secured the option to study at Mumbai’s prestigious KC College”, he tweeted. Asma said she would fill up the online form for FYJC admissions and put KC College as her preference. “I want to pursue Arts and I am happy that such a big college is willing to take me,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-admissions-65k-students-get-their-forms-verified-in-2-days/story-ibtoXtvxSHjKFqfqGMMl5M.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Row erupts over Bihar cop being quarantined||After facing allegations of forcing Bihar Police officer Vinay Tiwari into quarantine, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) clarified on Monday that it has guided Tiwari to file an exemption. On Sunday, when Tiwari reached Mumbai to investigate a case filed in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, Bihar’s director general of police Gupteshwar Pandey had alleged BMC had forced Tiwari into quarantine and that Tiwari had been denied accommodation. Pandey tweeted, “IPS officer Binay Tiwari reached Mumbai today from Patna on official duty to lead the police team there but he has been forcibly quarantined by BMC officials at 11pm today. He was not provided accommodation in the IPS Mess despite request...”. However, BMC in its statement clarified that its team had been following standard guidelines. “BMC received information stating that the said officer arrived in SRPF group 8 Guesthouse, Goregaon (East). Being a domestic air traveller, he needs to be guided for home quarantine as per the State Government Guidelines. Accordingly, BMC team approached him at the guesthouse yesterday evening [Sunday],” said BMC in its statement. The statement went on to clarify Tiwari has been guided to apply for exemption from quarantine. “The team explained to him the entire procedure applicable to a domestic air traveller, including home quarantine, which is fixed by the state government notification dated May 25, 2020. He has also been guided to apply to the competent authority of MCGM [Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai] for exemption in the home quarantine period as per the state government notification,” it said.BMC did not comment on why four officers who had come to Mumbai from Bihar on July 27, in connection with the same case, had not been quarantined. Leader of the Opposition and former chief minister of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis tweeted on Monday, “It is really strange why Maharashtra government is coming under unnecessary suspicion by not allowing Bihar police to perform their duties. The movement of officers doing official public service can’t be stopped by putting them in quarantine in these testing times of Covid-19 pandemic. A medical team from Kerala visited Mumbai, UP police came to investigate Vikas Dubey case, a team from Bihar police is already working since 4 days but none of them was quarantined then why only an SP rank officer is treated differently?” Fadnavis added, “Instead of solving the mystery of #SushantSinghRajput’s death, such behaviour will only result in huge public outcry and disbelief amongst people about the investigation in the case.’’ Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kirit Somaiya also said, “The Circular DMU/2020CR of 25 May, categorically stated that no home quarantine for a person intending to stay in Mumbai for less than 7 days and government servants are given an exemption for such govt work. All such government officials have been, are exempted since 25 May.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-row-erupts-over-bihar-cop-being-quarantined/story-Oj45iWAU3dpNH132cm9C4J.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid tally crosses 450K: State will set up infectious diseases hospitals, says CM||Maharashtra on Monday breached the 450,000 mark in confirmed Covid-19 cases with 8,968 new infections taking the state’s tally to 450,196. The state recorded 266 deaths on Monday, pushing the death toll to 15,842. It reported that 10,221 patients were discharged on Monday, taking the tally of the recovered people to 287,030. The number of active cases in the state stood at 147,018.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday reiterated that the state government will set up permanent hospitals for infectious diseases in the state. Last week, Thackeray sought the support of the Central government to set up a permanent infectious disease hospital and research facility near Mumbai. He put forth the demand, while interacting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan at the virtual launch of Covid-19 testing facilities in Noida, Mumbai and Kolkata.Mumbai, meanwhile, continued with the trend of clocking fewer cases on the first two days of the week. On Monday, it recorded 970 new infections, taking its tally to 117,406. With 46 fatalities reported in the city, Mumbai’s toll due to the infectious disease stood at 6,493. Mumbai now has 20,528 active cases.Though the absolute number reported on Monday is lower than the previous days, the positivity rate saw a significant rise from the numbers reported on Sunday. As per the state health department’s data, 43,022 samples were tested,On Monday, the positivity rate jumped by 5.19 percentage points in comparison to the previous day though the absolute numbers were lower. The number of samples tested on Monday was 43,022, of which 8,968 were positive, which is a positivity rate of 20.84%. On Sunday, 60,758 samples were tested and 9,509 came out positive, which was a positivity rate of 15.65%. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 19.58%.Maharashtra is the most affected state by the Covid-19 outbreak and has the second-highest case fatality rate (CFR) in the state after Gujarat. The volume of the outbreak and the absence of robust health infrastructure in the state has prompted the state government to set up makeshift facilities and subsequently plan permanent infrastructure.While speaking at the commissioning of a 371-bed dedicated Covid-19 facility in Mira-Bhayander, Thackeray said that along with development work, the state will focus on strengthening public health infrastructure“There is an urgent need to set up permanent dedicated infectious hospitals across the state to overcome an epidemic in the future and the state government is making efforts for this,” Thackeray said, who inaugurated the two dedicated Covid facilities in Bhayander east on Monday afternoon through video conferencing. The CM also assured that there will not be a dearth of funds for the municipal corporations in the state in the battle against Covid-19.Thackeray also inaugurated a 200-bed dedicated Covid facility in Mahad, Raigad district. The CM said that the facility will help rural areas in the surrounding areas. Thane and Raigad districts have 32,191 and 4,872 active cases.The CM called for increased coordination between agencies and government machinery to tackle the outbreak and to control the death rate. “To stop the spread of Covid-19, coordination between the government machinery is crucial. With erecting quarantine facilities, tracing, testing and tracking should be done. The state machinery should work even harder to control the CFR,” he said.Meanwhile, Pune district is expected to cross 1 lakh total confirmed cases by Tuesday as the tally on Monday stood at 96,669. As per the data, 43% or 41,664 of the total cases in the district are active cases. On Monday, Pune city reported 796 new infections and 40 deaths. Pune district reported 231 new cases and nine fatalities, while Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 731 new infections and 13 deaths.The infection in the rural and semi-urban areas of the state continued to spread at a brisk pace. With festivals, including Ganeshotsav, approaching, the state health department is anticipating a rise in the number of cases across rural areas.On Monday, Nashik city reported 323 new infections, taking city’s tally to 10,559. Solapur district, another hotspot in the state, saw 202 new infections, taking tally to 4562. Kolhapur district recorded 395 new cases, taking its tally to 5,196. Sangli-Miraj reported 365 new cases, pushing its tally to 1,881.Aurangabad city reported 237 cases pushing its tally to 10,609. Nagpur city reported 176 new cases, which took the city’s tally to 3,850, while the district reported 108 new cases. Hingoli reported 100 cases, while Nanded district and Nanded city reported 123 and 103 new cases, respectively. Latur, Amravati city and Gondia reported 76, 63 and 61 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-tally-crosses-450k-state-will-set-up-infectious-diseases-hospitals-says-cm/story-KfvNYnk9GMyx4BBk0OrA8M.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Wet spell begins in Mumbai: Red alert for August 4 and 5||The city can expect extremely heavy rain across isolated areas on Tuesday and Wednesday, according to the weather bureau’s revised forecast issued on Monday.A red alert (possibility of over 204.5mm rain over 24 hours across isolated areas) has been issued for Mumbai, Thane and Raigad for Tuesday and Wednesday, with the possibility of waterlogging and disruption of traffic. A red alert has also been issued for Ratnagiri for Tuesday and Palghar on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The city and suburbs saw partly cloudy conditions with spells of sunshine through the day on Monday, but light to moderate rain was recorded from early evening with intermittent intense spells in some areas. The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs, recorded 17.6mm (moderate) rain between 8.30am and 8.30pm on Monday, while Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 38.2mm (moderate) rain during the same time. Majority of this rain was recorded over three hours between 5.30pm and 8.30pm. Location-wise rain showed Mazgaon recorded maximum rain at 31.2mm, followed by Malad at 28.6mm and Worli 25mm.“The active wet spell for the Konkan coast, including Mumbai, commenced from Monday evening and is expected to continue till Thursday. Intense rain activity is expected on Tuesday and Wednesday due to the formation of a low pressure weather system over Bay of Bengal on Tuesday. This will enhance rain bearing factors along the west coast strengthening westerly winds and allowing increased moisture incursions leading to extremely heavy showers,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Maximum and minimum temperatures were close to the normal mark on Monday.From June 1 to August 3 8.30 pm, Mumbai recorded 1,918.6 mm rain, which is 85% of its seasonal average rain (2,260.4mm). However, water stock across seven lakes supplying water to Mumbai was 34.7% of the required amount on Monday. It was 91.5% last year by August 3.“Very heavy showers, ranging to the amount of 500mm or more, are expected over catchment areas between Wednesday and Thursday,” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT-B), Bombay.From Sunday evening itself, wind speed over the city picked up with 22-25kmph winds, according to IMD. “The combination of factors, including a cyclonic circulation in the lower troposphere and a developing monsoon depression over the Bay of Bengal, is allowing the offshore trough to intensify and enhance south-westerly winds over the Mumbai region. The wind speed is likely to further increase to around 40kmph on Tuesday before decreasing from Tuesday night,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also issued a high alert warning for Mumbai on August 4 and 5, owing to IMD’s warning that parts of the island city and suburbs will experience heavy rainfall on these two days. BMC has urged Mumbaiites not to visit beaches or venture into areas if they are water logged.In a media announcement made on Monday, BMC informed that all 24 disaster-control rooms at ward levels have been put on high alert, six regional offices of the Mumbai fire brigade are on standby and three units of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are also on standby for Mumbai. BMC has ensured all six pumping stations, and the 299 dewatering pumps set up temporarily across the city are functional.The electric substations of BEST and Adani, etc, are also on high alert. Moreover, assistant commissioner of the L Ward in Kurla, with jurisdiction over areas adjoining the banks of Mithi river, is on alert to evacuate residents of these areas, in case the water levels of Mithi increase to dangerous levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/august-s-wet-spell-begins-red-alert-for-august-4-and-5/story-gowCQEMMJLQUyBddWaS6kL.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Trial court must record signs, gestures of hearing and speech impaired witnesses: HC||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has held that while recording testimony of a hearing and speech impaired witness, trial courts must also record the signs and gestures made by the witness along with the interpretation of the same.Justice VK Jadhav said recording details of signs and gestures made by the witness was mandatory under section 119 of the Evidence Act, 1872, which lays down the procedure for recording testimony of a hearing and speech impaired witnesses.The judge granted bail to a gang rape convict, Abdul Salim, after noticing that the trial court did not record, in its evidence of the hearing and speech impaired survivor, the details of signs and gestures that the survivor had made before the court along with the interpretation by a special teacher.“On careful perusal of prosecution evidence, particularly the evidence of the victim and evidence of the special teacher, it appears that the learned judge of the trial court has not taken any pains to record the gestures made by the victim during the course of recording her evidence nor there is any reference as to how those gestures came to be interpreted by the special teacher.”Salim moved HC after Nanded sessions court on October 3, 2019, after he was convicted for gang rape along with two juveniles and sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment.He filed a plea for bail during pendency of his appeal and his lawyer pointed out the lacuna in recording evidence of the survivor while urging HC to suspend the substantive sentence headed down to the convict and release him on bail. Justice Jadhav found substance in the argument that the trial court had failed to comply with the mandate of section 119 of the Evidence Act. Besides, the judge also took note of the fact that the evidence of the doctor who examined the survivor was not clear and the medical evidence did not support the prosecution case of gang rape.HC also noted that though the opinion of the doctor about possibility of forcible intercourse was confusing and unclear, he had stated in clear terms that he did not find any marks of struggle on the survivor.Justice Jadhav was also displeased with the manner in which identification parade was conducted by the investigation officer. Allegedly the officer called some boys in the age group of 18-20 years (age group of the accused) to the police station and asked the survivor to identify three culprits. “This particular procedure is unknown to the criminal law, violating all norms and guidelines for conducting identification parade,” said the judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trial-court-must-record-signs-gestures-of-hearing-and-speech-impaired-witnesses-hc/story-yvlN7EFs4YM4Av4DU49UwN.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Doc with diploma seeks HC intervention to attain degree status||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday directed a doctor to amend his petition to challenge the June 2018 notification of the state which changed the status of diploma courses for post-graduate (PG) medical education to degree courses. The doctor in his petition claimed that he completed the two-year diploma course in March and is asked to continue his practice amid the Covid-19 outbreak under the diploma status. He also submitted that as there is a possibility of continuing being on Covid-19 duty as a diploma student for nine more months, he should receive the benefit of being a degree holder. A division bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Milind Jadhav, while hearing the petition of Dr Shashikant Morale, was informed by advocate Vijay Thorat that his client took an admission in the PG diploma course in May 2018. A month later, the state government came out with a notification which changed the status of PG medical diploma courses into degree courses. Thorat submitted that when his client sought to be given the benefit of the degree status for the course, he was refused on the ground that the notification could not be applied retrospectively. Aggrieved by the refusal, he approached the court, seeking direction to the Medical Council of India to extend the benefit of the change for him. Thorat submitted that his client was asked to continue his duty as a diploma student amid the outbreak. Thorat submitted that as Dr Morale had already completed three months in excess of the two years needed for the diploma course and was willing to serve another nine months, he should be given a degree certificate at the end of his duty instead of a diploma certificate. The counsel for the doctor also said that the notification was discriminatory and violated the provisions under Article 14 of the Constitution and so should be struck down. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that as the petitioner did not challenge the notification, the court granted liberty to him to amend the petition and include the challenge to the notification itself and posted the matter for hearing on August 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/doc-with-diploma-seeks-hc-intervention-to-attain-degree-status/story-Aeb8XgDMeERXKOJ70JGMfN.html
04-08-2020||City||Blast in a chemical unit in Dombivli, no injuries||A blast took place in a chemical unit in Dombivli Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) phase 2 around 5pm on Monday. The chemical unit, Ambar Chemicals, suffered property loss. Some windowpanes of nearby buildings were also damaged. However, there was no injury reported in the incident. As per the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) fire department, the company was shut on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. “We got information about the blast and sent a fire tender to the spot. The noise of the blast led to panic among residents. No one was injured in the incident,” said Dilip Gund, chief fire officer, KDMC.The chemical unit is around 30 years old. Mahesh Sawant, 35, a resident of Thakurli, said, “There was a loud noise in the area. When I called up some of the residents, I came to know that there was a blast.” Devendra Soni, president of Kalyan Ambernath Manufacturers Association, said, “There was a loud noise from the unit. However, since it was an off day for workers there were no injuries. The incident led to panic among the residents, but fire officials brought the situation is under control soon.”In May 2016, Dombivli MIDC had witnessed a blast that killed 12 and injured over 200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/blast-in-a-chemical-unit-in-dombivli-no-injuries/story-K7Xuh1g5lQnjQ9lZvncZDP.html
04-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Case not under Bihar police’s jurisdiction, says city police chief||Commissioner of police Param Bir Singh said on Monday that Bihar Police does not have jurisdiction to probe the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput who died by suicide in his Bandra home on June 14. He clarified that Mumbai Police has found no misappropriation of Rajput’s funds and his family had not mentioned they suspected anyone of foul play in the signed statements they gave to Mumbai Police on June 16. This is the first time Singh has commented on the matter. At a press conference held on Monday, Singh said, “The law is clear. If the incident has not happened in our jurisdiction, we register a ‘zero’ first information report (FIR) and transfer it to the concerned state police. We do not know how Bihar police is investigating the case. They approached us and asked for some documents. We asked them under what section they were asking for the documents.” Singh added that Mumbai Police was taking legal opinion to understand if Bihar Police could also investigate the case. Singh said the investigation was being handled in a professional manner by Bandra police, under the direct supervision of deputy commissioner of police (Zone 9) Abhishek Trimukhe. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra home on June 14 after which the police punchanama was conducted and the flat was sealed. On June 15, a team from the Directorate of Forensic Science Laboratories in Kalina and a team from Cooper Municipal General Hospital collect evidence from the flat, which was unsealed and handed over to Rajput’s family. “The investigation is still going on. All the points at various stages including personal rivalry, financial distress and health-related issues have been verified. We have not spare anyone in the inquiry related to the incident and called every person and recorded their statement,” said Singh. He said that in the course of the investigation experts were consulted and gadgets, including phones, were examined. So far, police have recorded the statements of 56 people including Rajput’s three sisters, brother in-law and others present in his house. Singh said the statements of Rajput’s family members, including his father, sisters and brother in-law, were recorded on June 16. “No one expressed any suspicion on the actor’s death and had stated that it could be financial issues or issues related to his mental health had caused the unfortunate incident. It is the very first statement given by them which holds legal value because it is the uncorrupted version,” said Singh of statements given by Rajput’s family. Later, members of Rajput’s family, including his sisters, had visited joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vinoy Kumar Chaubey and Trimukhe. “Even at that point, none of the family members expressed any suspicion,” said Singh. Responding to rumours that have circulated around circumstances preceding Rajput’s death, Singh said there was no evidence of a party in the actor’s home on June 13 or June 14. “We have examined CCTV [closed circuit television] footage of the building and recorded statements of every member in the house, but we have not found any evidence of any party being held in his apartment,” said Singh. The police commissioner also clarified that so far, no connection has been found between Rajput’s death and that of Rajput’s former manager Disha Salian, who also died by suicide. An investigation into Salian’s death is also underway. “Disha Salian died between the night of June 8 and June 9, and we have recorded statements of the six people present at the party, and also of Salian’s parents. None of them have expressed any suspicion. We have also examined CCTV footage of the apartment and nobody apart from the six people including her fiancé was present,” said Singh, adding that Salian and Rajput had met in March, but the meeting is not significant to either of their suicides. However, Singh said Rajput may have been “emotionally disturbed” by the articles that he read online that linked him to Salian’s death. Singh further said that prior to his death, Rajput would regularly look himself up on Google. He also searched for “painless death”. “We are in touch with the five doctors whom he consulted and was under treatment. We are also in touch with chartered accountant,” said Singh. Singh said so far, Mumbai Police has not found any misappropriation with respect to Rajput’s finances. “There was around Rs 18 crore in his account and the account still has around Rs 4.5 crore. We have not found any transaction to Rhea Chakraborty’s account. We have also found detailed transaction on where the remaining money was found. But we are still conducting a detailed inquiry into each of the transactions,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-not-under-bihar-police-s-jurisdiction-says-city-police-chief/story-ydK69dBcxc824TndFqFoNN.html
04-08-2020||Gurugram||‘Beef’ in truck row: Prime suspect, one other nabbed, hunt intensifies for others||Three days after a 25-year-old man was beaten up by a group of men on the alleged suspicion of transporting beef in his pick-up truck, the police on Monday arrested two persons, including a prime suspect who was seen raining hammer blows on the victim in a video that had surfaced online. So far, the police have arrested four suspects in this case. Investigators said that at least seven more have been identified and raids are being conducted to arrest them. Police identified Monday’s arrested suspects as Monu, who owns a dairy in Badshahpur, and Anesh, a resident of Sohna, both of who were nabbed by a team of crime branch officers, sector 10. Monu was allegedly among the suspects who had cornered the victim, Lukman, near Trunk Market when he was on his way to a meat shop near Jama Masjid. In a three-minute video shot by an eyewitness, a man wearing a blue T-shirt could be seen dragging the victim on the road before kicking him and then beating him with a hammer. In the video, at least two more suspects take turns and assault Lukman with a hammer and sticks before he is bundled into the pick-up truck. A uniformed police official can been seen standing next to the suspects, as he is being assaulted. Police said Anesh was also among the suspects who had beaten up the victim in Trunk market. Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “Based on evidence and questioning other suspects, two more men have been arrested, including the one who had beaten the complainant with a hammer. Prima facie, they do not have a criminal record and we are checking if they were involved in any such activities before.” Police had earlier arrested Mahesh, 30, from Rithoj, and Pardeep Yadav, 28, a Rajiv Nagar resident, in the case. According to a statement by the police, all the four accused men have told the police that they suspected that the complainant was carrying cow meat in his pick-up truck and had tried to stop him. When Lukman did not halt his vehicle, they cornered him and assaulted him. A police official, requesting anonymity, said, “Another suspect, who had passed on the initial information that the complainant was coming from Nuh has been identified but is still at large. The meat recovered from the truck was sent to a laboratory for testing and the results are still awaited.” The case was transferred to crime branch after a preliminary enquiry, in which departmental action was taken against four police officials. Three officials were suspended on Sunday for ‘failing to take action on the spot’ while on Saturday, the station house officer (SHO) of Badshahpur police station was transferred to police lines for negligence and failing to control the situation. The incident took place around 9.30am on Friday, when Lukman, a native of Ghasera village in Nuh, was transporting some meat in his pick-up truck to a shop near Jama Masjid. In the FIR registered at Badshahpur police station on Friday, Lukman has said, “As I reached near a traffic signal in Badshahpur, several men on 4-5 motorcycles started following me. They tried to stop my vehicle but I sped towards the mosque. A few lanes from the mosque, near the Trunk Market, the men cornered me and assaulted me with rods. They broke the window panes of the truck. They later bundled me into my truck and took me to Jail road in Badshahpur, where they assaulted me again, before a police team rescued me.” On Sunday, Lukman’s father, Hafiz Bilal had said that the suspects had continued to beat his son despite his repeated pleas stating that he was transporting buffalo meat. “He told them that if it was proved that he had beef in his truck, they would be free to hit him. But they continued to beat him with rods and a hammer. He started praying but the suspects forced him to chant ‘Jai Siya Ram’ and then threatened to burn him alive,” he said. Lukman is recovering from injuries sustained on his head, legs and arms at a hospital in Nuh, his family said. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “There is no mention in the FIR that the victim was forced to chant these slogans. No such link has come out in the investigations so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/beef-in-truck-row-prime-suspect-one-other-nabbed-hunt-intensifies-for-others/story-eVTg13REi3nFlHF6JR9APJ.html
04-08-2020||Gurugram||Daily positivity rate in Gurugram dips to 3.5%, officials say Covid-19 past its peak now||For the first time in over two weeks, the district’s daily test positivity rate (TPR) dipped to 3.5 percent on Monday, with just 43 of the 1,217 new samples testing positive for Covid-19. For at least three days now, the TPR — defined as the ratio of positive cases to the total number of tests conducted — has inched below the 5% mark, which is the World Health Organisation’s recommended benchmark for lifting restrictions on public mobility (if sustained for over two weeks). On July 15, Gurugram’s daily TPR hit a record low of 3.2 percent. However, at the time, the improvement was not consistent. “We were still seeing an average positivity rate of about 6 to 8 percent, but now the number is reducing daily. Even in hotspot areas such as Sohna, where the TPR was 11 percent in mid-July, the positivity rate has now been brought down to about six percent now,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer in the Gururgam.Health department data showed a steep dip in test positivity rate beginning mid-June, which coincides with an increase in RT-PCR tests and the district opening its own laboratory for testing of samples. Until then, nasal swabs taken from patients were being sent to one of the six other government labs in the state, with most samples being tested at PGIMS Rohtak. From an average positivity rate of 60 percent in the first week of June — when as many as 200 new cases were emerging each day — the number dipped to 26 percent around June 25, after an upgrade in Gurugram’s testing capabilities. Then, with the introduction of rapid, point-of-care antigen tests in late June, which allowed authorities to more than double the number of daily tests, Gurugram’s TPR (taken as a seven day moving average) saw a sharper dip over subsequent weeks, to as little as 5.35 percent by July 19. Authorities cited this trend as evidence that Gurugram is past its first epidemiological ‘peak’ of the outbreak. Health department officials, including the district’s chief medical officer, compared the district’s trajectory of infection to that of larger metropolitan cities, which experts now believe are past their peaks. “Delhi and Mumbai too have seen almost simultaneous dips in their growth rate and positivity rates. In terms of the severity of the outbreak, Gurugram’s absolute numbers are not that high, but we also have a population that’s 20 times less than Delhi’s. We have seen the same trend in terms of how the epidemic has progressed, but at a smaller scale,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, adding that transmission of the virus itself has been halted to a significant degree. The challenge ahead lies in sustaining the prevailing positivity rate so that normal life can resume, albeit with strict social distancing measures. The WHO’s recommendation for lifting curbs on mobility is a daily TPR of five percent or less, over a period of at least two weeks. “We are confident of being able to meet this benchmark, but it means that we cannot falter on testing at all now, otherwise it will skew the progress that we are witnessing. The second thing is social distancing, which is more important for people to understand. The pandemic is not over. Our behaviour still needs to be vigilant,” said Dr Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist, Gurugram.Cumulatively, a total of 8.6 percent of all samples tested from the district have come out positive for the SARS-Cov-2 virus. This, officials said, is an improvement from about 17 percent in mid-June, while Gurugram’s peak was underway. While other cities like Delhi and Mumbai have since released comprehensive serological studies mapping the prevalence of Covid-19 among the community, a similar analysis for Gurugram is awaited. While at least 361 IgG antibodies tests were conducted last month — on subjects belonging to 18 vulnerable demographic categories specified by the ICMR — only 25 of them (or 7 percent) were found to be seropositive. “This is still a small sample. We will be able to make a concrete statement on prevalence and infection fatality rate once a wider study is done,” Dr Jai Prakash Sharma said. Average test-positivity rate (weekly):June 1 - 7: 40.8%June 8 - 14: 59%June 15 - 21: 26%June 22 - 28: 11%June 29 - July 5: 6%July 6 - 12: 4.78%July 13 - 19: 5.35%July 20 - 26: 6%July 27 - August 2: 4.45%Daily TPR:August 1: 4.9%August 2: 4.17%August 3: 3.5%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-daily-positivity-rate-dips-to-3-5-percent-officials-say-disease-past-its-peak-now/story-IsMwNEwP78NvG2lz3nqOwM.html
04-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi police anti-riot gear in dire need of upgrade, show records||The Delhi Police’s armoury of anti-riot gear is in urgent need of an upgrade with nearly 70% of all tear gas shells and grenades, and 30% of bulletproof vests deemed “condemned (discarded)” or on the “verge of condemnation (declared unusable)”, data from a recent police inventory shows.That’s not all. About 36% of all helmets, 19% of lathis (batons), and 13% of poly carbonate body shields have been put in the category of “to be condemned”, the data further shows. Since the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) was passed in Parliament last December, the city has witnessed numerous protests, many of them violent, and a communal riot in north-east Delhi in February that left 53 dead and over 400 injured. Also read: Tahir Hussain was given task of collecting glass bottles during Delhi violence: ReportBetween December 15 and 19, 2019, the city police fired nearly 450 tear gas shells to quell anti-CAA protests in Jamia Nagar and Seelampur-Jafarabad. Nearly 3,500 tear gas shells and gas grenades were used against rioters during the communal violence that ravaged several parts of north-east Delhi between February 24 and 26, a senior officer in the know of the matter, on condition of anonymity, said. As tear gas shells, their launching guns, gas grenades, bulletproof vests, body shields, lathis and helmets are key anti-riot equipment and hundreds of demonstrations are organised every year in the national capital, the Delhi Police is gearing up to strengthen its armoury. Towards that end, the force recently carried out an inventory of anti-riot equipment available in all 15 police districts of Delhi and as many other units of Delhi Police. After the evaluation, a list was drawn up on the equipment required and a proposal was drafted for the procurement of these items, said officials from provision and logistics (P&L) department that deals in the sale and purchase of items for the Delhi Police. “The assessment of arms, ammunition and anti-riot equipment is done periodically to ascertain the status and condition of such items. On the basis of the assessment, we prepare a list of items required, and send the proposal to the ministry of home affairs for release of funds. A proposal to purchase anti-riot equipment is in the pipeline,” Delhi Police spokesperson Mandeep Singh Randhawa said.Also read: Former JNU student Umar Khalid questioned in Delhi riots case, cellphone seizedData accessed by Hindustan Times shows that the police presently have 61,279 tear gas shells and gas grenades but about 70% of them have either expired or are nearing expiry date. Similarly, of the 16,607 bulletproof vests with the force, 5,104 (nearly 30%) are to be disposed of. The police have 18,685 helmets of which 6,718 are not fit for use. Of the 16,486 poly carbonate body shields and 23,195 lathis, 2,230 shields and 4,531 lathis have been declared unusable, shows the data. “Poor maintenance and storage in unsuitable conditions are the prime reasons for the gear going to waste. The purchasing is vendor-driven and so the items procured are of poor quality. The ideal way would be to choose a vendor on the basis of quality and specification of items required as ascertained by the technical committee,” Vikram Singh, former director-general (DG) of Uttar Pradesh Police, said. Many serving officers of the Delhi Police supported the former UP Police chief’s view and said anti-riot items are usually stored in malkhanas (storage room where recovered goods as well as arms and ammunition are stored) of police stations and these spaces are not temperature controlled. “There is no fixed life span for a bulletproof vest. The vest armour is damaged only by gunshots. It’s the cloth and fitting buckles that decay because of poor storage and maintenance. The vests get mildewed from the sweat of the wearer and the damp and humid conditions in malkhanas,” an officer, who did not want to be named said. Another officer from the P&L department said tear gas shells and gas grenades come with an expiry date, which is between three and five years. “The expired shells are used for training sessions at the police training college,” the officer said, adding that lathis and body shields sustain damage either during their use or because of poor maintenance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-anti-riot-gear-in-dire-need-of-upgrade-show-records/story-WKujp0GUSjap7XeuX7PyrI.html
04-08-2020||Delhi||New footover bridge to be constructed in place of the old ‘lohe ka pul’||A new footover bridge may come up on the Brijmohan Chowk on Netaji Subhash Marg in place of the heritage ‘lohe ka pul’ (iron bridge) that was dismantled in 2011. The 48-year-old bridge, which connected the Jama Masjid side with Ansari Road, was built in 1963. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator from Chandni Chowk Parlad Singh Sawhney said the proposal to construct a new footover bridge on the same location has been sent to the Delhi government’s Public Works Department (PWD) and the “overbridge is likely to be constructed latest by March next year”. “Ever since the old footover bridge has been dismantled, pedestrians in the area face difficulties in crossing the busy road. Netaji Subhash Chandra Marg is a busy road and specially during peak rush hours, it becomes an uphill task for those on foot to cross the road,” said Sawhney. The five-time MLA from the constituency said he had also discussed the possibility constructing a footover bridge on the same location and the “department agreed with the proposal”. The proposal was sent to the PWD but financial clearance for it got stuck after the Covid-19 outbreak in the national capital. A senior PWD official said he can only comment on the plan after the project gets financial sanction. Senior officials of the Delhi traffic police said with the Chandni Chowk main road being redeveloped, the need for pedestrian facility on Netaji Subhash Chandra Marg will be imperative. “We have discussed the possibility of a pedestrian facility on the stretch. After the pedestrianisation plan comes into force, there could be a new traffic movement plan for the entire stretch. However, we are yet to receive a formal clearance request from the PWD for the construction of such a facility,” a senior traffic official said. Old-timers in the area recall that the bridge was originally built on the road to help kids from two orphanages—Arya Orphanage and Bacchon ka Ghar—to reach their schools on either sides of the road. In 2011, however, the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) had dismantled the iron structure after it was deemed ‘dangerous’ for public use because of its decrepit condition. A report of the footover bridge’s dismantling, submitted before the house back then, read that the railings of the old bridge was in “dangerous state” and “portions of the staircase had worn out”. Apart from this, the bridge had also become a hub for anti-social elements, who would camp over and under it, making it unsafe for general public. As per the PWD’s initial proposal for the bridge, which is likely to cost between R2-3 crores, elevators would be provided on both sides of the road, escalators, and disabled-friendly ramps would also be made. The residents of the area, however, are divided over the plan. While some are excited to get a safe facility for pedestrians, others are wary that it will once again see the fate of the old iron bridge, which was under maintained and became a spot for petty crimes. Mohammad Sohail, one of the owners of ‘Jahangeer Foods’, which was among the first shops to be set up under this bridge, said that the family was relieved when the footover bridge was finally removed. “It was in such a bad condition. People would urinate on the sides and drug addicts would camp over it. Regular pedestrians were barely using it. It was a blessing that it was removed,” Sohail said. Sixty nine-year-old Abdul Rehman, who used to run a tyre repair shop under the bridge, however, said that the stretch needed a footover bridge because of the chaotic traffic. “This road is not safe for pedestrians. Even when the traffic signal goes red, vehicles charge at you, without giving you any time to cross the street. Crossing the road is like risking your life every day. A footover bridge will also ease the crowd here,” Rehman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-footover-bridge-to-be-constructed-in-place-of-the-old-lohe-ka-pul/story-gAcC2PwMTYyfSaj079XkdJ.html
04-08-2020||Delhi||Lockdown effect: Peak power demand in Delhi drops by 15%||In a first in 11 years, the peak electricity demand in Delhi has seen a decline of around 15% (1,095 MW) compared to the previous year, data provided by power utilities showed on Monday. The city’s peak electricity consumption this summer has been lowest since 2017 because of the lockdown and also the weather, senior government and discom officials said. This year, the peak power demand met by distribution companies (discoms) so far has been 6,314 MW, recorded on June 29. Going by the trend over the past 11 years, Delhi’s power demand is unlikely to peak any further this year, officials in the state power department said.Also read:  Power demand slump narrows to 2.6% in July beginning“If we analyse Delhi’s peak power demand since 2009, we will see that it has peaked 8 times in the month of July, 4 times in June (including this year) and once in August (August 2, 2011). So, we can say that Delhi, in all likelihood, has passed its peak demand for this year, contrary to initial projection of it crossing the 7,000 MW mark again this time,” said a senior power official who did not wish to be named.Delhi’s all-time high peak power demand was registered on July 2 last year, when it had clocked 7,409 MW - an increase of over 250% from the peak of 2,879 MW recorded in 2002. Government data accessed by HT showed that Delhi, on an average, has seen a year-on-year growth of 5% in its peak electricity demand over a period of 10 years. This means that the city’s peak demand used to increase by at least 5% compared to the previous year’s value. However, it is only this year that the demand has dropped by around 15%. Before this, between 2009 and 2019, the peak electricity demand had dropped only once in the year 2015 — but this dip was only of 1% (from 5925 MW in 2014 to 5846 MW in 2015).“This year, because of the lockdown and the weather, the peak power demand has been muted. Under the fourth phase of lockdown, which started from around May 18, industries, shops and other commercial activities that were shut for the last two months were allowed to operate in full strength in Delhi. But, Covid-19 cases were increasing so rapidly in Delhi that majority of the industries and commercial establishments had voluntarily not resumed business,” explained a spokesperson of the two BSES discoms.The Delhi government said that from July industrial and commercial consumption gradually started to pick up. “But that also is muted because of the favourable weather conditions. The intense heatwave in Delhi remains mostly during June and July, which is the time when the power demand mostly peaks. So, unless there is an intense heatwave coupled with extremely humid conditions, the power demand is unlikely to cross the 7,000 MW mark this year,” said the first power department official. Government reports show that the first month of the lockdown had not only decreased Delhi’s daily average power demand by 35% over the previous year (2019), but it also turned out to be a period with the lowest average electricity consumption in the Capital over the last 11 years at least. Delhi was among the first cities to impose a lockdown which came into effect from March 23. Though, sector-wise data (domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, etc) of Delhi’s power consumption for the months of June and July in 2019 and this year was not available, multiple power utilities operating in the city confirmed that maximum share of electricity consumption this year has been from households or the domestic category.“Since May 18 this year, Delhi’s peak power demand has increased by over 50%. Further, if we compare the peak power demand of April, 2020 with that of July 2020, Delhi’s peak power demand has already increased by over 87%. Since June 1, 2020, Delhi’s peak power demand has increased by over 65%. The maximum consumption in all this has been from the domestic category which is because more people are staying indoors with offices promoting work from home,” another power department official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-records-highest-dip-in-peak-power-demand-because-of-lockdown-and-weather/story-q73WY9c1pw5mEPkyyEo5QI.html
04-08-2020||City||Tahir Hussain admits to planning north-east Delhi riots: Police report||New Delhi: Former municipal councillor Tahir Hussain has told the police that he had met student leader Umar Khalid at Popular Front of India (PFI) office in southeast Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh on January 8 to plan the riots in north-east Delhi, according to the interrogation reports submitted to the court by the Delhi police as part of the several charge sheets against Hussain. Hussain’s confession was recorded by police after his arrest in March this year in connection with the murder of Intelligence Bureau officer Ankit Sharma during the communal riots in the Capital in February.The confession is not an admissible evidence in court because it was made in front of a police officer but it has been attached with the charge sheet against him.Hussain’s interrogation reports were widely circulated on social media on Sunday and Monday. According to his confession recorded by police, Khalid had assured them of finances from the PFI, Jamia Cordination Committee (JCC), from some political people, and from advocates and Muslim organisations, the interrogation report reads. Senior police officers refused to comment on the reports, saying the court is already seized of the matter. Hussain’s lawyer Javed Ali said the police are manipulating facts. “Tahir Hussain has not admitted to anything with regard to Delhi riots cases. The reality is he is a victim and has been falsely implicated. Moreover, as far as confessional statement is concerned, it is settled law that statement made by a person to the police before he is accused of any offence is irrelevant. The Indian Evidence Act clearly says that such a statement does not come within the definition of evidence. Only a confession before the magistrate under section 164 of CrPC is admissible in the eyes of law and Tahir Hussain has never given any such statement,” he said. According to the report, Hussain told the police that soon after he was elected municipal councillor from Ward 59 in Nehru Vihar in 2017, Khalid Saifi, founder of ‘United Against Hate’, told him that he should use his influence and money against the Hindus and for the betterment of Muslims. Saifi has also been arrested in a case related to the riots.According to the police report, Saifi introduced Hussain to Khalid. Saifi told them that when US President Donald Trump would be in India, they should do something that will force the Indian government withdraw the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Everyone was given different tasks. “While Saifi had to gather mob on he streets, I was asked to collect glass bottles, acid and petrol,” Hussain told the interrogators, as per the report.Harsh Bora, Khalid Saifi’s counsel rubbished the allegations.“Interrogation reports are not evidence in the eyes of the law. The police have made many such false allegations against Khalid Saifi in the past but have repeatedly failed to substantiate even a single one with any evidence whatsoever,” Bora said.On Saturday, Delhi police had questioned Umar Khalid in connection with an alleged conspiracy behind the February violence in northeast Delhi. Khalid was earlier also booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act for allegedly giving provocative speeches at different places and appealing to the people to come out on the streets and block roads during Trump’s visit.Khalid’s counsel Trideep Pais said, “Khalid has already clarified publicly that he has never met Tahir Hussain. He also has said he has never been to PFI office and that he was not even interrogated about this by the Delhi police in his first and only interrogation on July 31.”When contacted, Anis Ahmed, general secretary, Popular Front of India said, the reports alleging Popular Front link to the violence in north-east Delhi are “another attempt by the fascist forces and agencies controlled by them to defame their organisation”.“Popular Front cannot be intimidated by such ridiculous attempts. The allegation is a copy of the lie propagated by fascist forces through their sponsored reports to malign Muslims who are the real victims of the Delhi pogrom. As we have earlier stated the Delhi Police itself has become an obstacle in the path of providing justice to the real victims of the pogrom. We would reiterate our demand for an independent enquiry headed by a sitting High Court or Supreme Court judge into the Delhi violence, including the behaviour of Delhi Police during the riots and in probing the riots,” he said.Reacting to Hussain’s alleged disclosure, a member of the Jamia Coordination Committee said it is a baseless allegation.“Jamia Coordination Committee has never coordinated with Khalid Saifi or Tahir Hussain. Police are randomly creating connections and statements(confession) without any evidence to prove fabricated allegations. It will not stand before the court,” the JCC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tahir-hussain-admits-to-planning-north-east-delhi-riots-police-report/story-uruyQ6ew8t3K9V5uzLCAgL.html
04-08-2020||Pune||Sars-Cov-2 virus is showing new emerging pattern of linked mutations: Pune’s NCCS study||PUNE A study conducted by the Pune’s National Centre for Cell Sciences (NCCS), claims to have found evidence that the Sars-Cov-2 virus is showing a newly emerging pattern of linked mutations. These mutations are region specific, apart from also showing age-specific indicators, different for each district from where the samples were taken. The study is based on 90 samples taken from Sassoon hospital and the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) in Pune; and from persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in Satara and Nashik. The study also showed mutations varying in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. However, the effect of the mutations on symptoms, treatment and development of vaccine, if any, needs need to be further researched, said experts involved in the study. Dr Yogesh Shouche, scientist and principal investigator, National Centre for Microbial Resources, said, “When we say mutations, it means that the genetic material of the virus is changing. However, from our study we cannot say whether or not the mutations impact the spread, or treatment. This needs to be studied further. It just helps us understand how the virus is changing in the local population. If the virus is changing it may help to understand if the vaccine needs to be made from only one virus strain, or should it be a cocktail of the many different types of the mutations.” NCMR is affiliated to National Centre for Cell Science and Dr Shouche was part of the research as it was under NCMR. Dr Shouche also said similar virus types were seen in samples from Europe. He said, “Type 20 A and 20 B, which we saw in the samples we studied, were also found in samples in Europe.” When asked if these similarities were seen in samples found in China and the USA, Dr Shouche said no. The virus sequences studied in Pune were compared with those reported from other Indian and global sources, to identify any variations. According to information released by the National Centre for Cell Sciences, four variations were found to be predominant in most of the sequences. “The genomes could be grouped into four distinct groups based on these. Three mutations found in the major group, appeared to be more frequent in samples from symptomatic patients, and more prominent in samples from women. Some correlations were also observed between sequence variations and patient age, with six mutations found to be frequent in the samples from younger patients, but being absent in those from senior patients,” the study stated. “These analyses, thus, revealed a newly emerging pattern of unique linked mutations in the genome sequences from western India, indicating that region-specific evolution of the virus genome might have occurred during the lockdown period,” the study further concluded. The abstract of the study, named “Phylogenomic analysis of SARS-CoV-2 genomes from western India reveals unique linked mutations”, states that the major cluster (cluster 4), distinguished by mutations C313T, C5700A, G28881A, are unique patterns observed in 45 per cent of the samples. The study was carried out by NCCS in collaboration with BJ Medical College and the Armed Forces Medical College in Pune, and the Directorate of Medical Education and Research, (DMER). District-wise mutation A novel and distinct pattern of mutations in the viral strains of each of the districts was observed. The Satara district viral strains showed mutations primarily at the 3′ end of the genome, while the Nashik district viral strains displayed mutations at the 5′ end of the genome. Characterisation of Pune strains showed that a novel variant has overtaken the other strains. Examination of the frequency of three mutations i.e., C313T, C5700A, G28881A, in symptomatic versus asymptomatic patients indicated an increased occurrence in symptomatic cases, which is more prominent in females. Age-wise mutation An age-wise specific pattern of mutation is also observed. Mutations found in age group 10-25, were not found in higher age range of 61-80. Dr Shouche further added, “The study shows how the virus is changing as it spreads and now what effect that change has on virus transmission or treatment, needs to be further examined. The impact of the study can help understand the virus even better and this study needs to be taken forward by virologists for how mutations impact infectivity, symptoms and treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sars-cov-2-virus-is-showing-new-emerging-pattern-of-linked-mutations-study/story-OjqmzmLwTQiN3tovIBaBCK.html
04-08-2020||Pune||Mundhwa police book landlord for assaulting tenant||The Mundhwa police have lodged a case against a landlord for physically assaulting his tenant for non-payment of rent for four months. The tenant did not pay rent including power bills totally estimated to be worth around Rs 14,000 during the lockdown period. The victim has been a tenant for nearly five years. The incident comes in the wake of strict warning issued by Pune police regarding action to be taken against landlords harassing tenants for rent. The accused have been identified as Devendra Suresh Bhat, Nargis Bhat and Suresh Bhat based on the complaint lodged by tenant identified as Roshan Suresh Parate, 26. According to police, the complainant and his mother stayed in the house on rent for the last five years but during the Covid crisis, he was unable to pay the monthly rent and total arrears along with power bills which added up to Rs 14,000. Acting Mundhwa police station in-charge Saleem Chaus said, “A case has been lodged against the accused of harassing the tenant during the Covid-19 crisis period and subsequent physical assault.” The first such case was lodged against a landlady harassing a student tenant in June. She allegedly demanded rent from a civil services student during the lockdown and violated the order of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mundhwa-police-book-landlord-for-assaulting-tenant/story-W17bLswkxQaS2LFScjcVQN.html
04-08-2020||City||As HP restricts entry, tourists flood Morni, throw caution to wind||With Himachal Pradesh restricting the entry of tourists, Morni – the hill station of Panchkula – has become the new haunt for holidaymakers. The hill station, which is just five hours from Delhi and 45 kilometres from Chandigarh, has seen a fourfold increase in footfall in the last few weeks.What’s more worrying is that the visitors are often seen roaming without masks and violating social distancing norms, putting themselves and others at risk for infection. This even as Panchkula’s Covid count is rapidly increasing.During weekends, the roads leading to Morni remain abuzz with cars from Delhi, Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana and even Uttarakhand. Youngsters speeding on two-wheelers without helmets or masks are a common sight.In view of the rush, police had barricaded the entry points to the hill station. A cop deputed at the Mandhna T-Point said: “The number of vehicles has increased in the last few weeks. By noon, at least 50 vehicles cross this T-point. This is because Himachal Pradesh has made the process very cumbersome for tourists to enter their state.”The Tikkar Tal Lake, which is a major attraction, sees at least 400 to 500 parked here everyday.When this correspondent visited the spot, groups of young men were seen freely drinking alcohol and dancing to loud music, undeterred by the police presence a few metres away. Some others were seen sitting in close proximity to each other, taking selfies and enjoying their meal and drinks. One such visitor was Gundeep Singh, who had come from Ludhiana with his friends. None of them were wearing masks. When asked, he said: “We can’t go to Himachal, so we planned a one day-trip to Morni. We will leave by evening.”A few steps ahead, two-three families were seen sitting having their meal under a single shelter. Amresh Khajuria from Mohali said, “My son brought us here for a trip. This is the first time that we have explored this place and it’s beautiful. I would like to come here, again.”Two youths, who introduced themselves as resident doctors from Maharishi Markandeshwar (Deemed to be University), Mullana, were seen enjoying the weather but without masks.Kishan Pal Joshi, the security guard at the parking, was the only one seen covering his face properly. He said: “Earlier, we got around 20 to 30 visitors on weekdays and 50 to 60 more on weekends. But now, we have at least 150 to 200 cars parked here everyday and on weekends, the rush increases by 400-500 cars.”When contacted, Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “We will be soon picking up samples from tourist spots.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-hp-restricts-entry-tourists-flood-morni-throw-caution-to-wind/story-qv90ZGmUKy7ItVDJblUgXN.html
04-08-2020||Lucknow||Amar Singh: A negotiator par excellence||Rajya Sabha member and former Samajwadi Party leader Amar Singh’s rise and influence in Uttar Pradesh and national politics ran almost parallel to that of the Samajwadi Party. A negotiator par excellence, Amar Singh was known for making friends. He also ended up making some fierce enemies in politics, especially his own party. Amar’s friendship with Mulayam Singh Yadav began in 1996 when the then Samajwadi Party national president attained prominence in national politics. Mulayam became the Union defence minister in 1996 and soon afterwards inducted Amar Singh (who was earlier in the Congress) into his party and sent him to Rajya Sabha in November 1996. Thereafter Amar’s influence in the party rose to the extent that some top leaders in SP even began to call him de facto SP president. Amar Singh was instrumental in saving the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government when in 2008 the Left Front pulled out of the government over the India-US Civil Nuclear Agreement. The Samajwadi Party with its 39 MPs gave outside support to the UPA-1. In between this period, Amar Singh and his influence brought some visible changes in the party. Apart from his strong political connections across various parties, Amar also had links in Mumbai’s film industry. He transformed the Samajwadi Party family’s ancestral village Saifai’s annual festival and made it dazzling by bringing in top Bollywood actors and singers to perform. But he went beyond entertainment. Over the years he also inducted several Bollywood personalities into Samajwadi Party and was the initiator of friendship between the Yadav family and Amitabh Bachchan family. Jaya Bachchan joined SP and is currently SP Rajya Sabha MP, Jaya Prada, Sanjay Dutt ( he came to contest the Lucknow Lok Sabha seat as SP candidate in 2009 but the Supreme Court restrained him), Nafisa Ali and Manoj Tiwari were others. Then it was Amar Singh who was behind making the then chief minister of UP, Mulayam Singh Yadav host the former US President Bill Clinton in Lucknow in 2005. But his relationship with the Samajwadi Party turned sour in 2009. Heavyweight SP leaders and old friends of Mulayam--Azam Khan and Beni Prasad Verma had left the SP citing Amar Singh as the reason. Amar Singh resigned from all party posts (he was a general secretary and parliamentary board member of the party) after SP’s 2009 Lok Sabha polls debacle.Mulayam said that he would not accept the resignations of Amar Singh. In 2010, Mulayam expelled Amar Singh and Jaya Prada from the party. In 2011, ahead of the UP assembly polls, Amar Singh floated Rashtriya Lok Manch. He campaigned against the Samajwadi Party and contested the elections on over 200 UP seats without luck. Soon afterwards, he dissolved the Rashtriya Lokmanch and joined joined Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) with Jaya Prada. He and Jaya Prada contested the Fatehpur Sikri and Bijnore seats and lost. However, in 2016, when the Samajwadi Party family feud between the current SP president Akhilesh Yadav and his uncle Shivpal Yadav began, Amar took Shivpal’s side. Mulayam re-inducted him into the party again and sent him to Rajya Sabha again. Before the 2017 Assembly election, on becoming the national president of the party, Amar Singh was finally out of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/amar-singh-a-negotiator-par-excellence/story-XGQIQa2OkMvr2413Fo6D9O.html
