06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Overgrown trees leave residents concerned in southern sectors||Unpruned trees in some southern sectors have left the residents concerned for their safety. Residents say trees aren’t being pruned and branches in some cases have touched the electricity supply lines, a perfect recipe for mishaps during the monsoons. Residents of southern sectors say this is again an example of “step-brotherly treatment”. President of the Sector 44-B resident welfare association (RWA) Swadesh Talwar said, “We had been asking the municipal corporation (MC) for months to prune a tree as there is a pipe with wires going through it which has now sunk into the trunk of the tree. The residents here are fearful that it may lead to electrocution.” In Sector 46-A, there are many vacant plots having large trees. Sector’s RWA president Rajinder Garg said, “The trees have become so thick that the streetlights aren’t effective anymore. We have complained to the MC numerous times but our complaints are not addressed.”Vice-president of the Sector 49 RWA Jatinder Mehta said pruning happen only after residents complain or approach the higher officials of the MC. “Pruning of trees should be a regular process in all sectors. Nowadays, MC acts only when there is a complaint.”Pruning of trees within the sectors is done by the horticulture department of the MC. Officials say pruning works are put on hold during monsoons except for if there is an emergency. “We are receiving a few complaints, pruning will resume in September,” officials said. He said due to shortage of labour and the lockdown, pruning work couldn’t be carried out completely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/overgrown-trees-leave-residents-concerned-in-southern-sectors/story-JEbz0snBhINiNIL1sYGMSO.html
06-08-2020||City||Haryana: 16-year-old girl’s body pulled out of pyre, mother, brothers held for murder||Police on Thursday pulled out the body of a 16-year-old girl from pyre in Kaithal’s Badsikri village on suspicion that she was murdered by her family. Her mother, a brother and a cousin were arrested, who during questioning confessed that they strangled the girl as she used to talk to a boy over phone, the police said. Kaithal superintendent of police Shashank Kumar said the police had got a tip-off about the girl’s murder and a team lead by DSP Ravinder Sangwan reached the spot only to find her body being cremated.In the presence of duty magistrate Hardev Singh, police officials pulled out the girl’s body from the pyre and sent it to PGIMS in Rohtak for the postmortem examination. The accused have been charged with murder and a probe has been launched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-16-year-old-girl-s-body-pulled-out-of-pyre-mother-brothers-held-for-murder/story-yHgG7OYl7VuPkRFdt82vKP.html
06-08-2020||City||Haryana to launch special campaign to prevent farm fires||In order to bring down the incidents of farm fires in the coming kharif harvesting season (beginning in October), the Haryana government will conduct a special awareness drive for farmers to apprise them of the adverse impacts of burning paddy residue. The officials working on the plan said the government has decided to keep a strict vigil, especially on villages which are notorious for the burning of crop residue. A local-level committee will be formed to keep an eye on the erring farmers so that immediate action can be taken, they added. The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) had shared details of villages having maximum cases of active fire locations with the district administrations concerned. “Last year, we had identified villages with maximum cases of stubble burning and this time also, we are planning to identity at least 30 hot villages in every paddy sowing district for a focused approach,” said HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan. Officials from agriculture, revenue, pollution control board, and development and panchayats department will initiate a drive in these villages to make farmers aware of the adverse impacts of burning of paddy residue. “Last year, we observed a significant reduction in farm fires as compared to the previous years’ data as we had adopted the strategy of identifying top burning’ villages in every district based on the active fire locations identified in the previous season,” Narayanan said. Sanjeev Kaushal, additional chief secretary, agriculture and farmers’ welfare department, said, “This year we will divide the villages in red, orange and green zones. There will be a special focus on red zones. Also, the pollution control board will be asked to file FIRs against the erring farmers this year.” As per figures, the state has recorded a considerable decline in farm fire incidents. Last wheat harvesting season, as many as 3,911 active fire locations were identified by Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) against 7,378 of 2019. A total of 6,630 such locations were identified during the last paddy season against 2018’s 10,286. According to officials, setting up the custom hiring centres in the state did not give desired results as most of the machines were purchased by big farmers and small farmers were unable to hire them. Now, the government is focusing on providing straw bailers for the management of crop waste and making it profitable for the farmers. This year, the state government has introduced a ₹1,304-crore plan for crop residue management with special focus on kharif harvesting season. The state agriculture department officials said this year, the area under parmal varieties has increased which may create more problems as they are harvested by the machines and leave around 20 quintals of unmanaged crop waste behind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-to-launch-special-campaign-to-prevent-farm-fires/story-Ikbxm7smW7F3eRmCC9D4cO.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Now, upload water meter reading online||Chandigarh residents can now upload their water meter reading on the e-sampark mobile app/e-sampark web portal to put a check on wrong billing. Mayor Raj Bala Malik and MC commissioner KK Yadav on Thursday launched the application for uploading water meter reading online. Malik said that android/IOS users can download/install the e-sampark app and thereafter, picture of the meter reading can be uploaded through the app/web portal. The consumer needs to add the water account number. Those residents, who have already downloaded the mobile app, will be required to update the same. The complete process for submitting the water readings is available on the MC website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-upload-water-meter-reading-online/story-bXagogzZw2RLFcTOrtsNsI.html
06-08-2020||Gurugram||Covid drugs racket: SIT probe widens to four cities, two wholesale distributors held; ten arrested so far||A probe by the special investigation team (SIT) constituted to look into the international smuggling racket of pharmaceutical drugs, including those used in treatment of Covid-19 and cancer, has now expanded to four cities — Gurugram, Delhi, Jaipur and Agra — as police look to uncover the nexus between pharmacists, wholesalers, distributors of pharmaceutical companies and the four arrested Iraqi interpreters. On Thursday, the SIT arrested two wholesale medicine distributors from Jaipur and Agra — including one who was involved in distribution of remdesivir — an experimental drug administered to Covid-19 patients in emergency situations. The suspects have been identified as Hariom Tikiwal, 42, owner of Krom Pharmaceuticals in Jaipur and Amit Aggarwal, 45, a wholesale medicine distributor from Agra. So far, the police have arrested 10 persons in the racket — including four Iraqi interpreters and four pharmacists and two wholesale distributors. Three pharmacists have been nabbed from Delhi, while one was picked up from Gurugram . Ever since the Iraqi interpreters were arrested on July 28 in a raid — during which police had allegedly recovered 48 vials of remdesivir, 55 strips of fabiflu and 18 packs of Lopikast (three drugs used to treat Covid-19) — the police have followed a pattern of reverse tracking and conducted raids in Delhi, Gurugram, Jaipur and Agra, based on questioning of the suspects in custody. Police said the first key link in the chain was established with the arrest of Pradeep, a pharmacist in Jharsa, sector 38. Probe found that Pradeep had allegedly procured remdesivir injection for Rs 15,000 per vial without an invoice from a supplier in Delhi and sold it to Mohanad, one of the arrested Iraqi suspects, for Rs 18,000 per vial. Police had recovered 84 vials of remdesivir, which Pradeep had allegedly concealed in a room near a tubewell in his village in Pataudi. He had allegedly received Rs 15 lakh as advance and the consignment was supposed to be sent to Iraq through medical tourism patients. A vial in Iraq is sold for over Rs 1 lakh . During interrogation, Pradeep allegedly told the police that he procured medicines from Sajid and Faizan, who run a medical store in Jhandewalan, Delhi, following which the duo was arrested on July 31. The following day, one Tarun Goyal, a pharmacist from Hauz Khas, Delhi, was arrested for allegedly selling the vials to Sajid and Faizan. The trail led police to Agra as Goyal revealed his source, Amit Aggarwal, who runs a wholesale medicine shop, MK Distributors, along with his brother in Agra. Police said in a statement that after raids in Agra, probe revealed that Hariom Tikiwal, a wholesale distributor of medicines in Jaipur and one of the distributors of remdesivir, used to procure the drug for Rs 4200 per vial from the manufacturing company and sell it to Aggarwal in Agra for a margin. Police said everyone in the network sold the injections for a margin, with the chain eventually reaching to Iraqi interpreters. Karan Goyal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), DLF, who is heading the five-member SIT, said, “There is a whole chain involving pharmacists, wholesalers and distributors of pharmaceuticals, who were supplying these medicines across states. We are trying to get to the source and questioning suspects about their dealings. We shall also write to the concerned pharmaceutical company since some of these drugs are directly sold to hospitals and there are no intermediaries.” Earlier, the police had said that the role of some hospitals in Delhi was also under the scanner. Police probe has found that the Iraqi interpreters had been smuggling medicines to Iraq for at least two years and since the pandemic, they had started dealing primarily in drugs used to treat Covid-19 which were in short supply and hence sold at exorbitant prices in Iraq. The suspects worked as translators for medical tourism patients at private hospitals and enlisted the patients or their attendants as conduits and asked them to carry medicines along with their personal medicines in the flights to Iraq, where an aide would collect it from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-drugs-racket-sit-probe-widens-to-four-cities-two-wholesale-distributors-held-ten-arrested-so-far/story-UQoy4DQpPIVjgqSRrwFmxN.html
06-08-2020||Gurugram||21K people to be covered under state-wide Covid sero survey||More than 21,000 people will be covered across Haryana for Covid-19 serological survey to ascertain the proportion of population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 infection .In each of the 22 districts of Haryana, including Gurugram, at least 960 people will be tested during the sero survey which aims to look for IgG antibodies against Covid-19 that may have developed without the patient showing any symptoms of the virus. The survey is likely to start from the third week of August, according to the official letter issued by the state health department on Thursday. For five Haryana districts — Gurugram, Ambala, Faridabad, Panchkula and Sonepat — this will be the second round of sero-survey being carrid out to try and determine the prevalence of infection spread. In the first round of survey in Gurugram — conducted from last week of June till mid July — 454 IgG antibody tests were done, out of which 56 were positive and 398 were negative. The survey showed a positivity rate of 12.3%. As reported by HT earlier, experts said that if the positivity rate is extrapolated to the 15 lakh population of the city (as per the 2011 census), then 12.3% translates to 1.85 lakh population who may have been infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The health department officials, however, have maintained that the survey was held in too small a scale to derive any conclusions. Overall, in the five districts 1,544 people were tested, of which 180 had antibodies while the remaining 1,364 were negative. Therefore, to gauge the actual spread of the disease among the wider population base, who had been left out from testing, the state government will cover all 22 districts this time. The sample size too this time, has been increased to 960 per district, and will cover at least 21,120 people. Rajiv Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said, “The purpose of the study is to know how many people have already suffered from the infection without showing any symptoms — like cough, cold and fever. Or they might be cases of mild symptoms, which went unnoticed. Through IgG test we can tell who got infected in the past. The findings will help the department to draw guidelines as per the district regulations to prevent and control the spread of infection furtherin the community.”IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 virus develops in the body two weeks after the onset of the infection and it remains in the body for long time, indicating that the body had contracted the virus in the past. For this, 5ml blood is drawn from people who are covered under the survey for the antibody tests.Arora said, “Each district will get 10 kits, through which 960 IgG antibody test will be conducted. Some of the districts have kits from the previous survey, which has been included in the total kits to be provided.” According to the official letter on sero survey issued by the state health department, the survey will start from third week of August and the final report will be drafted by the end of the month. It will be conducted in collaboration with PGIMER, Chandigarh. Out of the 960 people to be covered under the survey, population from both urban and rural areas will be taken into account as state’s rural and urban population ratio is 60:40. “The survey will be conducted in clusters identified based on GPS mapping. In urban areas, four clusters will be selected, whereas in the rural areas we will select 12 clusters. Only people above 18 years of age will be covered only after they give their consent,” Arora said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/21k-people-to-be-covered-under-state-wide-covid-sero-survey/story-wW8yAK2xk2yeJ4OS4rNK1N.html
06-08-2020||City||Gurugram: DTCP directs Ardee City developer to initiate registries or face action||Gurugram: The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has issued directions to the developer of Ardee City project to start executing apartment registries of around 300 property owners within a week, which have been pending for over a decade. The department has also said that if the developer does not take action in this regard, then it could face penal action. The directions follow the repeated complaints lodged by the residents, who have alleged that despite repeated pleas, the process of registration had not started.Earlier in February, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar during a grievance meeting had issued directions that the registry of these properties should be started at the earliest. The residents said that they have paid all the dues to the developer, while the latter raised the objection that majority of residents have pending dues and thus registries were not carried out. District town planner RS Bhath said that action was delayed in the matter due to the lockdown but after the restrictions were relaxed, the developer was asked to share details of owners but they got no response.”The department has now directed that details of homebuyers who have or haven’t deposited dues should be submitted. If the response is not filed within a week, an FIR will be filed,” he said.Anil Hasija, vice president, Ardee City’s developer, said that this matter was sub-judice and will be decided by the court. “Those owners who have paid their dues can get their houses registered but others need to pay,” he said.The residents, meanwhile, said that they have already submitted documents of around 60 home owners in the month of March but no action was taken. “There is no connection between maintenance dues and registry as the property price has already been paid in full to the developer 10 years back. The process of registry of floors has no clause about maintenance and this is a sheer delaying tactic,” said Chaitali, a homeowner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-dtcp-directs-ardee-city-developer-to-initiate-registries-or-face-action/story-0QI413dHS5D357BmNYs2lN.html
06-08-2020||Gurugram||Five Covid patients booked for skipping home quarantine||Five people, who had tested positive for Covid-19, were booked for allegedly violating quarantine protocols and leaving home isolation, thereby potentially threatening the spread of the infection in Molahera sector 22, the police said on Thursday. Police said preliminary probe has found that all the patients hailed from Kushinagar district in Uttar Pradesh and had gone back to their respective homes. Police teams are currently trying to trace their whereabouts. According to the police, the incident was reported to them by the health department on August 2 when officials had gone to the area for an inspection and did not find the Covid-19 positive patients at the given address. Police said that on July 28, one person had tested positive for Covid-19 and was advised home isolation. Over the next three days, the samples of four other tenants, aged 26, 47, 22 and 24 respectively, in the same building were taken,who positive for the virus on August 2. Police said after the patients were not found at the given address, the officials tried to contact them on their mobile phones. Some of them had shared only Aadhaar card numbers and not full details of their respective hometowns, following which the landlord was questioned. Vikash Bhola, station house officer (SHO), Palam Vihar police station, said, “We are trying to trace them. It has been found that they were from Kushinagar district in Uttar Pradesh and had returned there in a vehicle. Two of the patients have negative reports and we have sought clarity from the health department. There was some complicity from their landlord in helping them escape and hence he too has been booked.” A case was registered against the accused persons under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule), 120-B (criminal conspicracy) of Indian Penal Code and section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act at Palam Vihar police station on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/five-covid-patients-booked-for-skipping-home-quarantine/story-gmGZA2VH0j7CiOYeZb24XK.html
06-08-2020||Gurugram||Stabbed 30 times: Woman out of danger, suspect had been threatening family, cops say||Investigators probing the violent knife attack on a 23-year-old woman on Thursday said they had found evidence that the suspect, Vivek Kondal, was in touch with the victim’s family members for the last few months and had on multiple occasions threatened them.The woman was stabbed 30 times allegedly by her former classmate Kondal at her house in Sector 14 on Tuesday night. The woman, who suffered injuries on her ear, neck, chest, and stomach in the attack, was rushed to a private hospital in the city and later referred to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi. The woman was discharged on Thursday and is out of danger, said police. Police said that during questioning so far, Kondal had told his interrogators that he had warned the victim’s family members several times, but they did not pay any heed to his threats. Police said the suspect had managed to obtain bail in the case on Wednesday. “Kondal was in touch with the woman’s relatives and was trying to convince them to get her married to him. But as he had still not completed his studies, the girl’s family found her a match and fixed her marriage. This angered Kondal,” said KK Rao, commissioner of police. The crime team with the help of cyber crime cell has taken out Kondal’s call detail records and are analysing it to get exact details to know since when he was in touch with the victim’s family members. Police said they have asked the relatives to join the investigation and their statements will be recorded. The police said the incident took place around 9.30 pm on Tuesday, shortly after the victim had returned with her husband from her parents’ house in Delhi. The suspect allegedly came to the woman’s house and stabbed her. The woman’s father-in-law, who was also injured in the attack, said they were not aware of the motive of the suspect. “We are still not convinced with the explanation he has given to the police. She got married in February this year, why will he come after five months to take revenge. We hope we get justice and the suspect is punished soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/stabbed-30-times-woman-out-of-danger-suspect-had-been-threatening-family-cops-say/story-aBvaOejXDbRfMgdkpZN7DK.html
06-08-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad: Teenaged traffic violators to watch a 30-minute film on road safety as punishment||The Faridabad Police has made it mandatory for teenaged traffic violators to watch a 30-minute-long film on road safety and clear a quiz afterwards in the place of paying a fine. The police said they will not be issued a challan, provided that they watch the film on the spot and pass a quiz based on it. If they fail to secure 35 marks, they will be required to take a retest. This exercise, which started on Thursday, is only for teenagers to ensure they are aware of road safety rules and to ensure they drive safely, the police said. The process of paying challan for others will also be modified soon, said police.The commissioner of police of Faridabad, O P Singh, said that the step was taken to streamline vehicular movement and is a way to educate young motorists on traffic norms. “However, the initiative has not been taken well by the defaulters so far,” he said. Singh said as per the new norms, it is mandatory for violators to watch a 30-minute-long movie at the police booth. They can only be released if they clear the test.The police said since it was difficult to arrange for projectors for more than 150 spots in the city, the movie has been downloaded on smartphones of all the teams deployed at traffic checkpoints. The quiz with answers has also downloaded. Many of the traffic violators, however, said it was a torture to watch a road-safety movie and they prefer paying the fine if given a chance. Anuj Kumar, a resident of Sector 21C, said that he was caught by the police after he jumped a traffic signal. “I was asked to sit on a chair at the police post, where one of the policemen handed over his mobile and asked me to watch a movie. I thought the movie would be of a few minutes but it was long and it took me almost two hours to answer all the questions correctly. I offered to pay the fine but was denied. They made me complete the quiz with all the correct answers,” he said. “These days, young people often violate speed limits and can be seen jumping traffic signals. Earlier, we used to issue challans to the parents of minors but this did not their approach towards the violation. A majority of them do not believe in wearing helmets and parents often do not keep a check on them. So we thought of educating them through this exercise,” he said, adding that this exercise will continue for a month and they are hoping to see a change as a result of this change. The movie talks about various traffic rules and the reasons behind them: Why one should not talk on a mobile phone while driving or crossing a traffic junction, why it is important to wear seat belts while driving, why it is unsafe to drink and drive, and suchlike. On Thursday, 270 bikers were caught riding without helmets and were made to sit at the check post and take the quiz, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-teenaged-traffic-violators-to-watch-a-30-minute-film-on-road-safety-as-punishment/story-cuP1Bo1hHj8sI8dZqZvYpI.html
06-08-2020||Gurugram||After experts raise doubts, HSPCB sends Bandhwari leachate samples for retest||The Haryana State Pollution Control Board(HSPCB) on Wednesday collected fresh samples of leachate from around the Bandhwari landfill site for a second laboratory test to assess whether the leachate’s chemical constituents conform to the required guidelines for discharge, as stipulated by the Centre’s Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The move comes almost two weeks after experts and environmentalists raised concerns regarding the HSPCB’s first report in the matter, dated July 18, that found no presence of heavy metals in leachate samples collected soon after the first heavy monsoon rains, around July 9. A copy of the report is in possession of Hindustan Times. Apart from the absence of heavy metals in the leachate samples, the report had stated that the pH levels (which measure acidity) and the biological oxygen demand (which is the measure of oxygen consumed by microorganisms as they decompose organic waste) in the samples were within the limits prescribed by the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) solid waste management rules.Experts who reviewed the report said its findings were “highly improbable” and did not adhere to the rules of the national accreditation board for testing and calibration laboratories (NABL). In response to these allegations, HSPCB officials said on July 25 that a second analysis would be commissioned. “We have now sent two batches of samples for testing at separate labs. One will be sent to Panchkula to be tested at the HSPCB’s headquarters, and the other will be tested by an independent private laboratory. Lab reports, as well as a site inspection report, will be ready in seven days. Following that, we will issue our concluding analysis,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, Gurugram. Singh also pointed out that four samples have been collected this time, in the presence of a local environmentalist as well as a three-member team of HSPCB officials, who have been tasked with preparing the final report. An order to this effect was also issued by Singh on July 29, following complaints from city resident Vaishali Rana Chandra — an activist who has been tracking developments at the landfill. The HSPCB had initially inspected the area and collected three samples from a leachate pond for chemical analysis on July 13.Dr Rekha Singh, an approved environment expert from the Quality Council of India under the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF), had expressed her doubts about the initial findings of HSPCB. She said, “The results seem highly unlikely for a leachate sample taken from a landfill. Going by the report, which shows desirable acidity and oxygen demand, the water may even be fit for drinking. This definitely raises some questions as to the integrity of the report, as most samples taken from the field -- even in natural water bodies -- show higher pH levels and the presence of contaminants.”Dr Vinod Kumar Mogha, an independent expert with over a decade-long experience in material sciences and laboratory testing, said the report does not, as per the NABL guidelines, provide any confirmatory statements about the quality of the samples taken. “Any lab test is done with a certain aim, and reports must mandatorily summarise their findings and provide conclusive statements. The HSPCB report does not tell us about the implications of its test results, as it should have,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/after-experts-raise-doubts-hspcb-sends-bandhwari-leachate-samples-for-retest/story-CFXMfCdlKmcTRaxaNYNCOK.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||More Asha workers under lens, parents of rescued newborns record statements||Involvement of more Asha workers in child trafficking racket busted by the Chandigarh Police has come to fore, going by the statement of the parents of the rescued 11-day-old girl who was sold for ₹1 lakh. The parents of the girl are daily wagers and she was their fourth child. Accused Bhawna (32) of Sector 45, Chandigarh, arrested for child trafficking was reportedly introduced to the couple by an Asha worker in Muktsar. The Asha worker had told the couple that Bhawna was her sister and unable to bear children.She reportedly had convinced them to hand over their newborn to Bhawna so that she can raise the child as her own. The couple handed over the custody of the newborn to Bhawna, but soon they released their folly and tried to contact the Asha worker and Bhawna. However, the phone number given to them was switched off. The family told the police that it was only when police came looking for them they got to know that the child was sold for ₹1 lakh to a childless couple in Chandigarh. The statements of parents of the girl were recorded before a magistrate. “The Asha worker who had persuaded to give up the baby girl has been traced. She is admitted to a hospital, thus her statement could not be recorded,” said a senior police officer, adding it is being probed whether the Asha worker was aware of the child being sold or not. Police on Tuesday had arrested five people including two Asha workers and a police constable. The accused were arrested while they had come to Chandigarh to sell newborn boy for ₹4 lakh to a businessman staying in Sector 37. Father of rescued boy records statementThe father of the rescued newborn boy recorded his statement before a magistrate on Thursday. Hailing from Dhuri, he stated his wife had delivered twins of which one was stillborn. He was handed over the body of the stillborn never informed about the other boy. His wife was discharged from hospital on August 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-asha-workers-under-lens-parents-of-rescued-newborns-record-statements/story-ZScSQgoNJFl7UeUJOvsn2O.html
06-08-2020||Lucknow||Donated 18 years ago, shila for Ram temple lying in Ayodhya treasury||A shila (stone) donated for construction of the Ram temple during the shiladan ceremony held in the temple town on March 15, 2002 remains apparently forgotten under ‘double lock’ of the district treasury of Ayodhya.“Yes, this shila was donated in two parts for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. This is one of the shilas carved at the Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s karyashala (workshop) set up in Ayodhya. Now, when other shilas are going to be shifted from the karyashala to the construction site, this shila, kept under ‘double lock’ of the district treasury, should also be taken out and given for construction of the temple,” said Anil Kumar Gupta, who then served as the divisional commissioner of Faizabad (now Ayodhya) and receiver for the Ram Janmabhoomi site, where the Ram temple will now come up in Ayodhya.Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the first brick of the Ram temple at the bhoomi pujan ceremony held in Ayodhya on Wednesday.The then chairman of Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas (Ram temple trust), the late Mahant Ramchandra Das Paramhans, had donated the shila to the then Prime Minister the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s emissary Shatrughan Singh at Bada Sthan (Ayodhya) on March 15, 2002. After taking the donation, Singh had handed over the same to the district administration, asking the officers to place it with respect under double lock of the district treasury.“Yes, the late Ram Chandra Das Paramhans had donated the shila in two parts. As the shila was to be donated to an emissary, the Centre decided to depute Shatrughan Singh from the union home ministry’s Ayodhya cell to receive the donation. Singh was flown in by a special plane to Ayodhya to receive the shila,” recollected Gupta.“Although the then VHP (Vishwa Hindu Parishad) president Ashok Singhal was present on the occasion, the late Mahant Ramchandra Das Paramhans was the main donor of the shila,” he added.“Now when donations are pouring in for the Ram temple, the state government should transfer the donated shila from the treasury to the (temple) trust for construction of the Ram temple,” said VHP’s Ayodhya-based regional spokesman Sharad Sharma.VHP had announced a symbolic puja for the Ram temple on March 15, 2002 and later agreed to hold a ‘shiladan’ outside the then disputed Ram Janmabhoomi complex. Later, Ramchandra Das Paramhans’s successor Suresh Das also demanded that the district administration should transfer the shila to the trust for construction of the temple.Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha said there were many valuable items, including gold and silver and the shila, kept in the district treasury in Ayodhya. The district administration handed over a list of all these valuable items to the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust on February 5, 2020.“We have many valuable items, including gold and silver and the shila in the treasury and transferred them on paper to the temple construction trust. It is for the temple trust to take out these items as per convenience. We have no problem. Let them decide the time. We will give all these items to them,” said Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/donated-18-years-ago-shila-for-ram-temple-lying-in-ayodhya-treasury/story-v5cH0BQb9K9L87lIHuof8L.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Liquor theft inquiry:IAS, IPS officer face heat, Vij recommends action against duo||Haryana home minister Anil Vij has sought departmental action against IAS officer, Shekhar Vidyarthi and AGMUT cadre IPS officer, Pratiksha Godara, following their indictment by a Special Enquiry Team (SET). Vidyarthi is the excise and taxation commissioner (ETC) and Godara is a former Sonepat superintendent of police.The state government had formed the SET to probe theft of confiscated liquor from warehouses. During the lockdown, large quantity of liquor was pilfered from a godown in Kharkhauda in Sonepat. The police was also investigating the matter. “I have also written to the state vigilance bureau to conduct an inquiry on the issues that the SIT has flagged,’’ Vij said. Findings against IAS officer  Additional chief secretary, power, TC Gupta, headed the SET which had submitted its inquiry report to the home minister last week. The report indicts Vidyarthi for ordering the closure of liquor vends during the lockdown by only giving verbal instructions. “These verbal instructions should have been followed by written orders. However, no written instructions were issued by the ETC or the collector (excise). In the absence of written instructions to field officials and system integrator regarding steps to be followed for ensuring complete closure of vends, permits and passes for movement of liquor were issued during the closure period by some districts,’’ reads the inquiry report. Vij added that Vidyarthi was also responsible for dilly dallying in reply to information that SET sought and hampering the visit of the SET to NV distillery. “ The police is naming drivers of the vehicles confiscated with liquor as accused but except in a few cases, no serious efforts appeared to have been made to address the origin of smuggled liquor and to issue notices to the distilleries suspected to have smuggled liquor to join investigations. However, after the constitution of the SET, the investigating officers have sent notices to distillery managements. The name of NV distillery is surfacing in many cases again and again. How is it possible to steal liquor in a big way without the complicity of the management itself or the excise officials posted there?,’’ said the inquiry report. The home minister added that to verify the allegations, the SET had decided to visit NV distillery on July 3. “Though Vidyarthi agreed to accompany the SET during their visit to the distillery, he cited pre-occupation with work a few hours before they were to leave. Hence, the visit could not materialise,” Vij said. The probe report said a written request for facilitating the SET’s visit was sent on July 18 to the ETC. “A response was received on July 29 evening when the SET was in the last stages of finalising its recommendations. It said that matter was legally analysed by the ETC office and the request to visit the distillery was not covered under the provisions of Punjab Excise Policy, 1914 (as applicable to Haryana). This is nothing, but an attempt to block the visit of the SET to a distillery,’’ the report said. Findings against IPS officer Vij added that the AGMUT cadre IPS officer, Pratiksha Godara, who was on deputation to Haryana was indicted by the SIT for providing gunman to Bhupinder Dahiya, an accused in the Khakhauda liquor theft case and even recommending an arms licence for him. “The SET found that she knew, he was a liquor smuggler,’’ Vij said. The IPS officer however had told the SET that two police gunmen were provided to Bhupinder after he cited threat to his life from a gangster Raju Basodi. The gunmen were withdrawn immediately after the arrest of one of the shooters of Basodi gang. “ But since the threat to his life persisted, she had recommended a weapon licence for Bhupinder,’’ said the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-theft-inquiry-ias-ips-officer-face-heat-vij-recommends-action-against-duo/story-cCyGcyh9E1r6MEIn4vP89K.html
06-08-2020||Noida||Noida: Two more arrested for scrap dealer’s murder||Noida police on Thursday arrested two more suspects in connection with the murder of a 35-year-old scrap dealer in Phase 2 area on August 2.The two suspects were identified as Imran, 27, and Sabir, 30, both residents of Agarbasti in Noida Phase 2.Farmood Ali Pundir, station house officer, Phase 2 police station, said, the victim,Nawabuddin (identified by a single name in police records) went missing from his home on July 29 following which his family filed a missing person complaint. The police and the family members had launched a search but failed to trace him.On August 2, local residents found the victim’s body in a drain and the following day victim’s brother Idrish filed a case against four persons – Imran, Raju, Sabir, and Haji Ikramuddin alleging their role in the murder.Based on the complaint, the police said that a case under Section 302 (murder) and Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) was registered against the four persons. Pundir said that during their investigation, the police came to know that the victim used to work as a scrap dealer in partnership with Imran and one Rahish alias Pahadi worked at Imran’s shop as a helper.On Wednesday, Rahish, 28, was picked up for questioning, and the police, said he admitted to having murdered the victim along with Imran, Sabir, and Ikramuddin following which he was arrested.  Following the revelations, the police said, they conducted a search on Thursday and arrested Imran and his accomplice Sabir. “During interrogation, Imran revealed that he had a monetary dispute with the victim. Imran called Nawabuddin at night, and killed him with his four accomplices and later dumped the body in the drain,” said Pundir. Two suspects, Raju and Ikramuddin, are on the run.The police said they have also recovered the victim’s motorcycle, mobile phone, and clothes from the spot. The two arrested suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-two-more-arrested-for-scrap-dealer-s-murder/story-NQwvwhvInMUEKFGcTUHD9N.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||8 booked for clash over loud music played by DJ in Jagatpura||A week after nine persons were injured in a brawl between two groups over a DJ playing music near a government school at Jagatpura village here, the Sohana police on Thursday registered case against eight persons.Another case was lodged as the opposing party responded with counter charges.Two persons were booked under Sections 323, 324 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC on the complaint of Manu Ram, who was from the family that had hired the DJ. Six others were booked under Sections 323, 341, 506 and 148 of the IPC on the statement of Arshad and Ram’s neighbour who had complained about the music.Assistant sub-inspector Sikandar Singh who was investigating the case said, “Manu Ram is being treated in hospital while the remaining eight injured persons were discharged. We have registered the case on the basis of medical reports of both the parties. The suspects will be arrested soon and (names of) some more suspects might be added in the FIR.”On July 31 night, Manu Ram’s family had hired a DJ to celebrate a family member’s birthday and mark festivities on the eve of Eid.A heated argument followed when the family of Rashid (Arshad’s father) living in the neighbourhood objected to the loud music and asked that it be played at low volume.Both parties attacked each other with sticks and swords.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/8-booked-for-clash-over-loud-music-played-by-dj-in-jagatpura/story-Kb0g8Ofdjr4Fe1OkCfcTaL.html
06-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad clears budget, no hike in property rates until March 31||The Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) cleared the budget for 2020-21 and also took up several proposals, including freezing of sector rates till March 31, 2021. According to officials, the authority on Thursday proposed a budget that will see the body expecting to receive ₹1,102.76 crore and spend ₹931.83 crore. According to records, in 2019-20 the body received only ₹606 crore as against the budgetary expectation of ₹1,780 crore and spent only ₹768 crore as against the expected ₹1,343 crore. “We plan to spend majorly on the development of our Madhuban Bapudham Housing Scheme as well as taking up infrastructure development works. In another major proposal which was cleared, the board decided to free the sector rates till March 31, 2021 except in three localities of Indirapuram, Vaishali and Kaushambi,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, authority’s chief architect and town planner, after Thursday’s meeting in Meerut. The sector rates are the rates on which the GDA sells it properties for the first time to an allottee. The subsequent sales are taken up on circle rates which are defined by the district magistrate every year. “The proposal for freezing the sector rate would mean that there will be no hike in cost for our properties. The three localities have been left out as we have pending properties available in these areas and put to auction regularly. The decision to free the sector rates is prevalent since 2012 in order to bring the sector rates and circle rates at par. Otherwise, consistent hike in sector rates in past rendered the prices of our properties higher than the market rates,” said Shivpuri. With the freezing of sector rates, the authority plans to dispose off its pending 658 properties valued at about ₹1625 crore. The properties include 613 plots, with 28 properties having area of over 2000 square metres and 17 plots meant for hospital and schools. At present, the sector rates for GDA properties in Indirapuram, Vaishali and Kaushambi are ₹50,000 per square metres (sqm). The existing circle rates for Indirapuram range from ₹66,500 to ₹73,100 per sqm while those for Vaishali range from ₹67,500 to ₹74,200 per sqm. Kaushambi on the other hand, being close to Delhi, commands circle rates for properties in range of ₹72,500 to ₹79,700 per sqm. In another decision related to pricing of properties, the district magistrate on Thursday evening said that there will be no hike in circle rates this year too. “Due to Covid-19 situation, we have decided that the rates which prevailed in August, 2018 and those decided in August, 2019 with minor modifications, will continue to prevail this year too. There will be no increase in circle rates this year,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-clears-budget-no-hike-in-property-rates-until-march-31/story-BwbZZidGDR57gup7n6AaNK.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||CHB scraps transfer charges, buyer saves ₹15.7L on ₹1 crore property||In a major relief to the allottees of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) dwelling units, the CHB board of directors in a meeting held here on Thursday decided that the transfer charges, 15% of the consideration amount and stamp duty, will not be applicable in those cases where a freehold CHB dwelling unit is transferred through duly registered sale deed.“The decision will be applicable in those cases where the original allottee executed a registered Sale-Deed through a General Power of Attorney (GPA).,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer (CEO), CHB. It will save the genuine purchasers from paying considerable amount as Transfer fee just because of technicalities in registration of sale-deed, Garg added.Welcoming the decision, Rajat Malhotra, general secretary, CRAWFED, said, “It will reduce major burden on the CHB allottees registering their properties. The CHB was charging 15% on the so called profit amount on the allottees who sold their properties through the GPA. This was particularly the case in transfer of property before the conversion of leasehold to freehold properties.”At the time of registration of sale deed, in addition to the sale amount, the buyer has to pay stamp duty. In the case of the CHB, the purchaser had to pay an additional 15% as transfer charge to the CHB.“So, for a property priced at ₹1 crore, the purchaser pays ₹1 crore plus ₹5 lakh stamp duty (at 5%). But, for the CHB property transferred through GPA, the purchaser for registering the sale deed had to pay additional ₹15.75 lakh as transfer charges (at 15%),” explains Rajesh Kumar, a city-based real estate consultant. Now with this decision, the buyer in the above quoted cases will not be charged the additional ₹15.75 lakh.The property experts say that the decision will boost the sagging real estate market in the city. “It is definitely a positive step for the property market in the city. Now, people who were not keen to buy CHB property because of the extra financial burden will come forward,” said Kamal Gupta, president, Chandigarh Property Consultant Welfare Association.THE GENERAL HOUSE SCHEME STILL ONThe board of directors also decided against shelving the general housing scheme in Sector 53. A revised plan for the scheme will be prepared with modified density and floor area ratio (FAR) parameters.UT urban planning has twice rejected CHB proposal for increasing the FAR in the project . The increased FAR would have decreased the cost of dwelling units in the project. Only 178 applications were received against the 492 flats on offer in March this year. The scheme offered 3HK flats for as high as ₹1.8 crore, 2BHK flats for ₹1.5 crore and 1BHK flats for ₹95 lakh. The CHB had slashed the proposed rates by 15% to attract more buyers but it did not work.BoxCHB TO FOLLOW UT PAYING GUEST POLICYIn the Thursday’s meeting, the board also decided that the CHB would follow the existing paying guest policy of the Chandigarh administration for CHB’s independent houses. However, before its implementation, approval of the UT administration will be obtained.The CHB had formulated its own paying guest policy and presented the same before the board of directors. But, the directors decided that there should be uniformity in policy in the city. “As per the UT policy, applicant for the paying guest facility needs to submit a completion certificate. For CHB properties, this condition will not be applicable,” said Garg. Also, they will have to register with the CHB secretary and not the UT estate office.Quotes:The decision will be applicable in those cases where the original allottee executed a registered sale deed through a general power of attorney (GPA).Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHBIt will reduce major burden on the CHB allottees registering their properties. The CHB was charging 15% on the so called profit amount on the allottees who sold their properties through the GPA.Rajat Malhotra, general secretary, CRAWFED||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chb-scraps-transfer-charges-buyer-saves-15-7l-on-1-crore-property/story-VgEkPVdX7pdX9pBsBNThaI.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||Tilak Nagar: Three held, juvenile detained for robbing and killing man, injuring his friend||A day after a man was robbed and killed, and his friend grievously injured, by three unidentified men in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar, police on Thursday said they have arrested all three and detained a juvenile accomplice. Police said the attack was planned as a revenge by one of the arrested suspects, who was an employee of the man who survived the attack and was sacked recently. The man who planned the attack was identified as Sonu Singh, 19, and he used to work at the packaged food distribution agency run by the injured man, Dheeraj, until a few months ago. His associates were identified as Kawaljeet Kumar, 19, previously involved in six criminal cases, and Anil Bahadur, 19 -- all residents of Tilak Nagar. While one juvenile accomplice was also apprehended, police said they’re on the lookout for another suspect, Kuldeep Prakash, who is on the run and was previously involved in a murder and robbery case in Vikas Puri.According to the police, a call was received at the Tilak Nagar police station at 11.29pm reporting that a few men had stabbed two men at Block 24 in Tilak Nagar and had fled towards Mall Road. “A police team reached the spot found that the injured persons had already been taken to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital. While one of the injured men, Ranjan Mishra, 25, who had sustained stab wounds to his right thigh, was pronounced dead at the hospital, his friend Dheeraj, who was also critically injured, survived and is undergoing treatment. His condition continues to be critical due to excessive bleeding,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named. Additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Sameer Sharma said one of the eyewitnesses, who helped shift the injured to DDU hospital, told the police that he had seen three men attacking the duo and then fleeing on a motorcycle. “The eyewitness said the injured also told him that they have been robbed of their laptop, mobile phone and ₹45,000 cash. A case of robbery and murder was registered and the investigation was taken up,” Sharma said.He said, after hours of scanning CCTV footage, technical surveillance, local enquiries and verification of least 50 active criminals, the suspects were identified as residents of Tilak Nagar. “Our teams raided their hideouts and arrested them. Of the money they had stolen, ₹24,640 was recovered along with a knife used in the murder,” the additional DCP said. Sharma said, during interrogation, Sonu revealed that he used to be an employee of Dheeraj at the latter’s shop. “He said they had gotten into a dispute over salary and Dheeraj had sacked him. When Sonu told his juvenile friend about Dheeraj, he introduced him to Kawaljeet, Anil and Kuldeep. As Sonu had also told them that Dheeraj leaves for his house every night with a daily collection of about ₹50,000, they hatched a plan to rob Dheeraj,” he said.The officer said, as planned, the juvenile suspect followed Dheeraj and Ranjan as soon as they left the shop around 10.30pm Tuesday. When they reached Choukhandi Chowk, the juvenile informed Sonu, Kanwaljeet and Anil, who intercepted the duo near Block 24 to rob them. But when the two men fought back, the trio stabbed both of them and fled with their valuables,” Sharma said. He said Kuldeep had helped the trio in carrying out the crime and several police teams are currently searching for him..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tilak-nagar-three-held-juvenile-detained-for-robbing-and-killing-man-injuring-his-friend/story-VatKNaecfuYv6sDFpSoubJ.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana municipal town planner issues order building inspectors to remove illegal constructions||Acting on a complaint filed with the local bodies department on the failure of municipal corporation (MC) to comply with the orders issued by the lokpal, Punjab, in February, the municipal town planner (MTP) has issued an order to building inspectors to take action against illegal constructions in their respective areas, failing which, departmental action will be taken against them.The lokpal had directed the municipal commissioner to recommend action against officials who are not performing their duties to stop illegal constructions. In his complaint, RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal, said, “The MC had failed to comply with orders issued by the lokpal in February, due to which I had filed a complaint with the local bodies department on June 1. In the month of July, local bodies department asked the municipal commissioner to comply with the orders and send a report regarding the same.” As per the orders issued by MTP Surinder Singh Bindra on August 4, he directed building inspectors to take action against the illegal construction as soon they begin. Meanwhile, the MC staff marked an illegal encroachment by a private hospital in Model Town area on Thursday. Officials said the owner has been given a chance to remove the encroachment by himself, failing which, MC will take action against the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-municipal-town-planner-issues-order-building-inspectors-to-remove-illegal-constructions/story-iFu02LeTGoLdcq2W5YmXzM.html
06-08-2020||Noida||Ayurveda products in high demand at Covid-dedicated facilities||The Covid-19 pandemic has increased the demand for immunity boosters under ayurveda and homoeopathy at different Covid-dedicated facilities in Gautam Budh Nagar district. Entrepreneurs thank the central government ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (Ayush) for the spike in business.Rajesh Kumar, who runs an ayurvedic products store in Sector 26, said, “Since March, the demand for honey has gone up 45%, chyawanprash by 85% and turmeric by 40% in ayurvedic stores. The interest in these products has mostly been fuelled by the recommendations from the ministry of ayush to fight the coronavirus. It appealed to the people to include spices like turmeric and coriander in their cooking and to have chyawanprash.”With increased demand, prices of certain medicines too have gone up.“A 60-capsule box of Giloy tablets, which used to be sold for ₹100 now sells for ₹250,” said Kumar. Dr Vikas Kheria, an ayurveda doctor at the Gautam district hospital in sector 39, said that these medicines came with the added advantage of not having any non-organic compounds thereby reducing the risk of side effects. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi recommended use of ayurveda to boost immunity. Ayush products, being non-chemical and organic, have more immunity boosting and healing capacity. That’s why, we are serving the kadha (decoction) to the Covid-19 patients in all our L-1 facilities (for mild cases). This brewed drink is made of pure herbs like giloy, guduchi, tulsi, amalaki, ashvagandha, and others,” he said. Homeopathic practitioner CB Jha, who is also the president of Atta market association, said that he distributed around 5,000 vials of immunity boosting homeopathic medicines to front line Covid-19 warriors. “The government has approved and recommended the Arsenicum Album 30C as a preventive medicine to boost immunity. In my clinic, at least 100 patients come daily for this medicine,” he claimed. Companies like Dabur and Patanjali also said they have seen an increase in demand for Ayurvedic products across portfolio. “It was witnessing a strong growth in enquiries for key products, especially the immunity booster range including Chyawanprash, Honey, Giloy tablets, Giloy Churna, Ashwagandha capsules and the recently launched Immunity Kit,” said the spokesperson of Dabur. A senior sales officer of Patanjali, requesting anonymity, said that the demand for ayurvedic products with health care benefits has gone up. “Immunity building products are in greater demand. All the products, coming in the wellness and immunity section, have witnessed considerable increase in demand, ” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ayurveda-products-in-high-demand-at-covid-dedicated-facilities/story-xaag7OizLDUr6zB7dkmWFL.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||NGT Committee asks DDA to submit report on dumping in floodplains||The National Green Tribunal (NGT)-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC) wrote to the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on August 4, accusing it of “concealing facts” on the continued dumping of debris and waste in the Yamuna floodplains and asking it to submit a “comprehensive report”. The two-member YMC has given the DDA more time to submit a report.“From media reports and videos on social media...it is evident that the reports given to YMC were not reliable. The claims had clearly been made without checking the ground situation and amounted to concealment of facts,” YMC’s letter stated. The YMC had ordered an inspection of the floodplains underneath the Signature Bridge and the Sarai Kale Khan flyover by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and DDA after complaints of dumping of debris and biomedical waste surfaced on July 27. “DDA is requested to institute an efficient and reliable system to prevent ingress in the floodplains. The delay in responses is also highlighted and is resulting in public apprehension that nothing is being done. You may wish to fix accountability as the officers who have been reporting to YMC appear not to be conversant with the ground reality and depend on others without checking,” it said. The committee also said that despite it asking DDA several times to augment the number of security personnel given the size of the floodplains, repeated cases of fresh encroachment and riverside dumping, it has not been done. “Also, it is shocking that debris is still lying on the site, despite DDA claiming that the 4,600 cubic metres of construction and demolition debris has been collected and the floodplains are free of such dumped material”, it said. YMC also asked DPCC that the joint inspection report be submitted and “punitive” action be taken against the violators polluting the floodplains. In response to the letter, DDA initiated another inspection of the floodplains on August 4. DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said, “An inspection was taken up by the DDA on July 29 and again on August 4. It was found that the debris had been lying after construction work undertaken by different agencies. The DDA took up the matter with the respective agencies and they have agreed on clearing it expeditiously. Also, a systemic change is being put in place so that it is not repeated in the future. Besides, adequate security personnel had already been deployed.”Hindustan Times (on July 28 and August 1) reported on the unabated dumping of construction debris as well as it being levelled and flattened at various locations, including Mayur Vihar, Sarai Kale Khan and at the Signature Bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ngt-committee-asks-dda-to-submit-report-on-dumping-in-floodplains/story-b1pSR4TUDM2ks0GleJujtO.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||HC tells Delhi govt to take action against illegal online health service aggregators||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Delhi government to take action in accordance with law against the online health service aggregators who have been operating illegally and collecting samples for Covid-19 tests. The move came after a plea was filed contending that such entities were “misrepresenting themselves as medical diagnostic laboratories”.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan directed the government to take action in accordance with law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the case against any such entity which is operating illegally in violation of the law, after hearing all stakeholders.The bench said a decision would be taken as expeditiously as possible and practicable after all stakeholders, including the alleged violators are heard.The court was hearing a plea seeking a ban on allegedly illegal online health service aggregators from collecting diagnostic samples for testing of Covid-19 virus. The petitioner in the case — doctor Rohit Jain— in his plea filed through advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, had contended that such health service aggregators pose the “biggest threat to life and safety of the common people”.It had also sought directions to the Centre, Delhi government and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to issue “guidelines for registration and minimum standards for sample collection centres operated by online aggregators and the minimum qualification for taking samples by representative of aggregators”.The petition had contended that many of the online health service aggregators are operating illegally as they are neither accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) nor approved by ICMR or any other regulatory body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-tells-delhi-govt-to-take-action-against-illegal-online-health-service-aggregators/story-pC2NEsaXm6ihFRAL2MjswI.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||Man granted bail illegally kept in jail, DG prisons apologises to high court||The Delhi high court Thursday directed the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) to conduct specialised module training for jail superintendents, deputy superintendents and assistant superintendents with a focus on their duties and obligations and rights of prisoners. The direction came after a prisoner was illegally detained in jail even after being granted bail.A bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad said the training was necessary so that such incidents do not happen again. The court was hearing a plea by a prisoner who was detained for 10 days even after being granted bail.The person was granted bail by the trial court on May 18 in a cheque bounce case but was released only on June 25. The jail authorities had earlier told the court that the petitioner was not able to secure the sureties required to be submitted along with the bail bond. It said that the accused could give the sureties only on June 15 and hence the delay in releasing him.On the last date of hearing, the court had pulled up Tihar authorities for their failure to release the man. It had asked the jail authorities to furnish the data of prisoners released during the past three years.On Thursday, a status report was filed by advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel of the Delhi government and advocate Chaitanya Gosain on behalf of the director general (prisons) Sandeep Goel tendering “an unconditional apology for the inappropriate explanation given by the superintendent, Central Jail-I, Tihar jail, for unlawfully detaining the petitioner between June 20 to June 25 .The report further submitted that at least 1.5 lakh prisoners have been released during the past three years and the direction of the court to compile the data relating to such prisoners would be a stupendous exercise and need a lot of time.Goel, who was present during the video conferencing hearing, apologised to the court. He submitted that in order to prevent any such mistake in future, the prison (headquarters) has constituted a committee to randomly inspect jails concerning detention of prisoners and their release.“Further, a circular has been issued informing all concerned that no person must be detained without any valid reason and that the official concerned will be held responsible in case of a lapse,” the status report said.He assured the court that after a lot of introspection, it has been decided that course correction is warranted within the department. He said that 14 law officers are also being appointed on a contractual basis soon and they will be available in each of the jails t advise and guide officials and prisoners.Following this, the court said officers posted in the jails would attend online workshops arranged by DSLSA, tailor-made for making them aware of the rights of prisoners and their duties with respect to inmates. The matter would be now heard on September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-granted-bail-illegally-kept-in-jail-dg-prisons-apologises-to-high-court/story-f18odXvJzOmJxInYyOqnWL.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Eye on Mohali MC polls: Board to decide on delimitation of wards||The local bodies department of Punjab has set up a board to decide on the delimitation of the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) wards and on allotment of 50% wards reserved for women.The civic body elections were scheduled for OctoberDelimitation involved bifurcation, trifurcation, merger or removal of sectors from the wards.The board comprised director local bodies or Mohali deputy commissioner as chairman, supported by MC commissioner, former Congress councillor Kuljit Singh Bedi and local resident Amarjit Singh. The board will submit its report soon. The civic body had initiated the process to establish ‘ward bandi’ (delimitation) for preparing the list of its wards. MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg added that plans were being worked out for the same.Board member Kuljit Singh Bedi said the board would be deciding on delimitation of the wards. The idea is to simplify ward bandi by adjusting the number of sectors in a ward or redefining its limits, he added The MC elections were last held in February 2015. During that time, only the data of 2014 was taken, and the number of voters decided accordingly. After six years now, the population in Mohali has also increased and new sectors have become overpopulated. Therefore, in the steps to be taken for ward bandi, it was necessary to readjust the ward limits. The population of sectors 66 to 69, sectors 76 to 80 and the old areas under MC had increased exponentially, so ward bandi must be framed accordingly, Bedi added. In the last term the Congress had 14 councillors and the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party won 23 seats. The Azad group led by former mayor Kulwant Singh won 10 seats and two seats were won by independent councillors. In the 2015 elections, 27 councillors including 10 councillors of the Azad group, 14 councillors of Congress and two independent councillors elected Kulwant Singh as mayor, but later in August 2017, he joined SAD. The elections will be held in 50 wards and the MC has already submitted details of the wards and their populations to the local bodies department. Out of 2.36 lakh people voting, 25,000 belong to the scheduled caste (SC) category. Five seats have been reserved for SC candidates, two for women (SC) , three for backward classes (BC) and two for women (BC). There are 43 general category seats, of which 23 are for women and 20 for men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eye-on-mohali-mc-polls-board-to-decide-on-delimitation-of-wards/story-e3bZflfrykAL9Gk83XCIdJ.html
06-08-2020||Noida||Traffic violations increase as businesses reopen||The Noida traffic police department has recorded a significant jump in traffic violations in July as the city went into Unlock mode. Over 60,000 fines were issued for various traffic violations in the month alone, the highest in any month so far.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Traffic police, said that the traffic department this year issued 55,424 fines in January and 27,245 in February. “Then the lockdown was announced (From March 25) and restrictions on vehicular movement came in place. In March, a total of 19,823 fines were issued and the numbers decreased to 11,541 in April. However, from May, the violations started increasing as the city went into Unlock 1.0. In May and June, 19,402 and 56,434 challans were issued, respectively,” he said. The traffic department recorded the maximum challans – 60,180 – in July, and collected Rs 1.70 crore as fines in the month. Most of these challans are for riding two-wheelers without helmets and driving a car without seatbelts. Of the fines issued in June, the maximum were for riding bike without helmet (20,128), wrong side driving (9,117), driving without seatbelt (6,850), triple riding (985), using mobile phone while driving (455), red light jump (748), black film (631), faulty number plates (1604), speeding (1896), etc.DCP Traffic said that people should always follow traffic rules. “Noida roads are relatively smooth these days and there is no traffic jam. We feel that traffic will increase in the coming days. People should follow traffic rules for their safety,” he said. In 2019, the Noida traffic police had issued 6,99,708 fine and collected ₹14.76 crore fine throughout the year.The number of vehicles is increasing on the city roads as people have resumed travelling for work or leisure. Noida Entrepreneurship Association (NEA) has over 1,800 members who run factories and industry in the district and 90% of them have resumed services with limited manpower, said NEA vice president Sudhir Shrivastava. “This shows that life is returning to normal. We feel that in the coming days, more vehicles will be on the roads. At present, factories have limited staff. Some workers/employees have not joined work, and some of them have gone to their hometowns,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/traffic-violations-increase-as-businesses-reopen/story-3nN3dZcgUwDt8H4qVIMzcK.html
06-08-2020||City||Patients in home isolation told to dispose of medical waste in yellow bags R||The Greater Noida authority has asked asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in home isolation and those in home quarantine to dispose of biomedical waste such as used masks, gloves among other items separately in yellow coloured garbage bags.The authority officials said that kin of asymptomatic patients and suspected patients who are isolating or quarantining at home need to buy yellow coloured bags for storing waste, and these bags will be picked up by a private agency. The hazardous waste will then be treated by a second private agency hired by the authority.“We have issued an official order and made it compulsory for the people to buy a yellow bag and store the waste in it. We have also engaged a private agency AG Enviro Infra Pro Private Limited to collect the waste from the houses where infected or suspected patients live. This agency will store the hazardous waste such as mask, gloves and other such waste collected in the yellow bags,” said Deep Chandar, additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.The authority has tasked Synergy Biomedical Waste Private Limited to treat hazardous waste. “AG Environ will collect the hazardous waste from houses and then hand it over to Synergy that will treat this waste scientifically at its Meerut plant. We have taken effective measures to ensure that the risk of others being infected out of this hazardous waste is eliminated,” said Chandar.The authority has asked the district health department to ensure all households with asymptomatic and suspected patients make due arrangements for segregation and collection of biomedical waste in line with the new order. One kilogram packet of yellow garbage bag containing at least 40 of them costs around ₹135 in the marker, said officials.Residents, many of whom had been demanding separate waste collection, have welcomed the authority’s move and want its strict implementation. “The Greater Noida authority must enforce this rule strictly because it can be risky to dispose of hazardous biomedical waste casually. The authority should have enforced this rule ever since Covid-19 cases had started to surface. We hope that it will be enforced on priority,” said Harendra Bhati, founder of Active Citizen team, a citizen’s group.“Those in home isolation or quarantine should also help the authority by segregating the hazardous waste and hand it over to the designated person only,” said Davendra Tiger, president of Greater Noida federation of RWAs, an umbrella body of resident welfare association.Till August 5, the Gautam Budh Nagar district had 254 patients in home isolation.Greater Noida authority estimates that at least 20 kg of biomedical waste from households with Covid-19 patients will be collected daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patients-in-home-isolation-told-to-dispose-of-medical-waste-in-yellow-bags-r/story-ceMWtGW0wP6Ab7915Yp27J.html
06-08-2020||City||Symptomatic or not, Ghaziabad to test those with co-morbidities through RT-PCR||The Ghaziabad health department will now test asymptomatic people with co-morbidities for the coronoavirus disease Covid-19 throught the gold standard RT-PCR method if they test negative for the virus through rapid antigen tests.Experts welcomed the move and encouraged the government to go adopt an even aggressive testing scheme.The new measures expand on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines that required those showing symptoms after having tested negative for antigens be tested through the RT-PCR method for confirmation. Officials said the Uttar Pradesh government, in an order issued on August 5, approved the new measures to reduce the fatality count due to Covid-19. The co-morbidity list includes diabetes, kidney or heart ailments, cancer, organ transplant, HIV, liver ailments, old age and even obesity. Ever since the introduction of antigen testing on June 26, it has become the primary testing method in Ghaziabad, accounting for over 57% of the total 118,546 samples tested so far. The test has returned a positivity rate of 2.46% (number of positive test results per 100 tests).“But so far only those who showed symptoms after a negative test were tested again using the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method. With the new directions from the state government, we will now include symptomatic as well as asymptomatic persons having co-morbidity, for the subsequent RTPCR test,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.The reason for the re-test using the RT-PCR method is because the antigen tests have a low sensitivity value, meaning true positive cases may not be captured efficiently. However, the tests have been preferred as it is affordable and quick. The district has nine sample collection centres where anyone with an ID card could go and provide their samples for antigen testing as well as RT-PCR test free of cost. Till August 5, the district has taken up 23874 subsequent RT-PCR tests and of these, 1,060 returned positive while the reports of 5057 tests are awaited. “The new measure will help reduce fatality rate as most deaths are of people who had co-morbid conditions,” said Pandey. “In my opinion, rather than testing those with co-morbidities twice, the authorities should perform only RT-PCR tests on them. Testing through rapid kits come in handy in cases when such persons arrive for treatment in hospitals and the doctors need to know immediately if they are positive or not,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “In any case the new measures are welcome as it will help early detection and early treatment.”The officials said that the state government also directed that the door-to-doo surveillance exercise in all residential wards should be completed within 7-10 days. Teams have been tasked to record people who may be affected by influenza-like illness (ILI) or severe acute respiratory illness (Sari). ILI cases are those with symptoms of fever and cough, and Sari are ILI cases that require hospitalisation.“The urban centres should have 10% more teams for intensive surveillance activity while 10% additional teams should be formed as reserve. The surveillance works will also be taken up outside the containment zones and suspected cases (like those of ILI and Sari ) will also be identified with the help of local councillors and residents’ welfare associations (RWAs),” the directions by UP chief secretary, RK Tiwari, read. The chief secretary has also directed that in districts where the sample positivity rate is over 5%, more testing/sampling was required. In an earlier order on July 23, the UP government had assigned different targets of conducting 900, 500, 350 and 250 RT-PCR tests per day which will total 30,100 such tests per day in the state. Both Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar were assigned 350 RT-PCR tests per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/symptomatic-or-not-ghaziabad-to-test-those-with-co-morbidities-through-rt-pcr/story-h4vLGNCF5qHXtgduPbUSJI.html
06-08-2020||City||Eight booked, two arrested for shooting at Jewar gang-rape victim’s brother||The brother of a 38-year-old woman -- she was one of four women gang-raped near Sabota village, around a kilometre away from Yamuna Expressway in 2017— was shot and injured by a group in Jewar Kasba on Monday (August 3).The man, the sole surviving male member of the family, sustained bullet injuries to his legs and was admitted to a private hospital for treatment. He said that the suspects involved in firing at him had been picked up for questioning in the gang-rape case too, but were later released.His brother was murdered in 2017, while trying to stop the rape of his women relatives in 2017, while three others had died in mysterious circumstances. The man injured in Monday’s shooting said his family had suspected the role of some neighbours in the gang-rape incident as well. “Based on our information, the police had picked up some of them for interrogation but later released them. They were angry with us ever since,” said the man, who is recovering in a private hospital in Jewar. According to the police, the incident took place on August 3 evening. The suspects — Munna, Sartaj and some of their relatives got into a quarrel with two others — Mustaqeem and Khatoon — allegedly over a loan of ₹ 600.“I had gone to see what had happened in the neighbourhood. Munna, his brothers Sartaj and Adil, and relatives Shah Alam, Nasir, Jameel, Kadir, Adil and Sagheer started beating me up without provocation. Munna and Sartaj later shot me with a countrymade gun. I sustained two gunshot wounds to my legs and collapsed,” the victim, a scrap dealer said. The man’s nephew said his uncle lives in Palwal and had come home for Eid-al-Adha celebration. “My uncle has sustained bullet injuries in both legs and he is in the ICU. We are frightened about our safety,” he said. The gang-rape incident took place on May 25, 2017, when the scrap dealer was travelling from Jewar to Bulandshahr in a Maruti Eeco with his family members, his driver and the driver’s wife (34). The then SSP, Gautam Budh Nagar, Love Kumar had said six members of a Bawaria gang in a Mahindra Scorpio had stationed themselves near Sabota village. They waylaid the Maruti Eeco and held the occupants at gunpoint in a field. “The scrap dealer, his brother-in-law (42), nephew (27) and driver (52) were held at gunpoint while the scrap dealer’s wife (37), sister (37) and sister-in-law (52) and the driver’s wife (47) were gang-raped. The gang leader, Raju, also shot the scrap dealer at point-blank range when he tried to stop the assault on his family,” Kumar had said after the arrest of the four accused in the case on July 23, 2017.When contacted, Sriparna Gongulee, additional commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, said she is not aware of Monday’s shooting incident. “I will direct the officials to investigate the matter and act against the accused,” she said. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said a case has been registered against eight persons under IPC sections 147 (rioting), 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) . “Monday’s incident took place over some monetary dispute between two groups. This incident is not related to the gang-rape. Police have arrested Munna and Sartaj and launched a search to arrest other named suspects. There is no law and order issue in the neighbourhood,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-booked-two-arrested-for-shooting-at-jewar-gang-rape-victim-s-brother/story-5miuPTLK96A6dDrxUVKErM.html
06-08-2020||City||Buddha nullah cleanliness drive in Ludhiana: Encroachments marked for removal; shifting of 500 dairy units likely||After completing the demarcation process of Buddha nullah as per the records of the revenue department, the third party (contractor) has commenced upon marking the encroachments alongside the nullah.The project is expected to complete within 20 days, following which the municipal corporation (MC) will initiate the proceedings to raze those encroachments. The matter was discussed during the meeting of a committee constituted by local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra for shifting of dairy units situated on the banks of the nullah. The meeting was held under the chairmanship of mayor Balkar Sandhu on Wednesday evening and deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal among others also participated.INCREASED WIDTH TO PREVENT FLOODINGIn the second week of July, MC, revenue department and irrigation department had commenced the demarcation process, which is being taken up to increase the width of nullah that has been overflowing in the past years during the monsoon season. During the meeting, the officials also deliberated upon the proposal to shift over 500 dairy units situated at Haibowal and on Tajpur road. As demanded by the dairy owners’ association, the civic body is working to allow change of land use (CLU) of the existing dairy complexes for commercial and industrial purposes.The MC will also finalise the CLU fee and forward the proposal to the local bodies department for a final approval. The project to shift the dairy units has been hanging fire for a long time. Additionally, sites are being identified to shift these units to the areas falling outside the MC limits. Earlier last week, a special task force constituted for cleaning the nullah had also directed the officials to plan out a modern dairy complex, where these units could be shifted. It was suggested that such a complex should have the facilities to treat dairy waste and cow dung.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The dairy units have to be shifted as the nullah is getting polluted due to dumping of dairy waste into it. The rates of CLU are being finalised and we are also scouting for locations in the nearby villages where the dairy units can be shifted.”FLOATING GARBAGE BARRIER BEING SET UPUnder the initiative to clean the nullah and stop solid waste from getting into Sutlej river, a floating garbage barrier is being installed near New Kundanpur area by the MC.The initiative was taken by member of special task force Colonel (retd) Jasjit Singh Gill and the project is being taken up by Lets Clean Ludhiana Foundation, an NGO, and Munjal foundation.The barrier has been made with the help of drums to restrict solid waste floating in the nullah at a point, from where it will be lifted out. With this, the nullah will not get choked and solid waste will not get into the Sutlej.Colonel Gill said, “Barriers installed in Sidhwan canal were successful. A special machine is also being developed to lift the accumulated waste from the barriers, but till the time it is not ready, MC machinery will be used.” MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said more barriers will be set up if the present project is successful. A monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had also asked the MC to stop dumping of solid waste in the nullah that added to pollution in the nullah and the Sutlej.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/buddha-nullah-cleanliness-drive-in-ludhiana-encroachments-marked-for-removal-shifting-of-500-dairy-units-likely/story-4aWPWj3LkOdsGFLayQWXTM.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||HC sets aside PU order on not granting affiliation to DAV Management Institute||The Punjab and Haryana high court has set aside Panjab University’s (PU) decision to not grant affiliation to the Institute of Management at DAV College in Sector 10 and directed that an inspection be carried out over there again. The high court bench of justice Arun Monga also directed PU to set up a new committee without those associated with such panels in the past and carry out another inspection within two months. PU would then have to take a decision again on affiliating the institute. Till then the MBA programme of DAV College would continue. The court acted on the plea of the DAV Institute of Management challenging PU’s 2019 decision to not allow continuation of the MBA programme when it was newly established in 2017. “For every student, the alma mater carries a certain sense of pride for the rest of his life. In the present case, a peculiar situation has arisen owing to the institutional clash of country’s two premier institutions, the alumnae of 2nd academic Sessions are facing the paradox of no alma mater,” the bench observed. The institute had applied for extension of affiliation in November 2018 for the 2019-20 session, but PU slept over the matter till it got a wake up call when a case was filed before the high court. The entire process for affiliation or its refusal was to have been completed by PU by May 15, 2019, till which time, however, the university was still considering grant of extension of affiliation for the 2018-19 session even though it had commenced by July/August, 2018. “This entire lackadaisical approach/demeanour of the university in such nonchalant manner does not inspire confidence, to say the least. University ought to be mindful of the students whose future life and career is at stake and who have taken admission on the implicit assurance that retrospective temporary extension of affiliation would be granted by university like in the past. Why can the university not adhere to the strict timelines as laid down by the Supreme court ?” the bench asked. On PU not following University Grants Commission regulations while constituting the inspection committees, the court said: “What seems to be bothering the University inspection team is not whether or not the infrastructure as required has been provided by the Institute or not, but rather the sourcing of the said infrastructure.” The bench was referring to a report of an inspection committee, adding that objections did not point to what was required, but rather that the requisite infrastructure was available. The court also took exception to the fact that Dr Anupama Bawa, a varsity teacher, was associated with the inspection committee which gave the final report, even as she had given a dissenting note on an earlier occasions. She was not only associated with the committee but made its chairperson as well . “The reasons contained therein (in the report) do not pertain to lack of infrastructure or office staff or faculty or any other such thing, but rather a personal outlook of said professor. She felt that over the years, the MBA degree of Panjab University had lost its brand equity,” the bench said, to the report given by professor Bawa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-sets-aside-pu-order-on-not-granting-affiliation-to-dav-management-institute/story-IO0FZw80Z7ogWuXkXQHtTL.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Capacity-building workshop held for Ludhiana MC officials||Project director of Swachh Bharat Mission, Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC), Puran Singh, on Thursday conducted a capacity-building workshop for municipal corporation (MC) officials at the civic body’s Zone-D office ahead of Swachh Survekshan 2021 wherein the agenda of a garbage-free city was also discussed.During the workshop, officials were apprised of the tool kit of survekshan and steps that can be taken to improve the city’s ranking. The officials were also directed to give swachh rankings to hotels, NGOs and societies by organising competitions to promote cleanliness. As per information, assessment will be on 6,000 marks on criteria including waste management, citizen feedback, condition of public/community toilets, certifications like ODF+ etc. The results of Swachh Survekshan 2020 are still awaited.One of the officials, requesting anonymity, said that Singh slammed the authorities for their failure on parameters including solid waste management, imposition of ban on plastic carry bags and poor condition of public toilets. He also directed authorities to ensure 100% ban on door-to-door lifting of garbage in the city and impose a ban on use of plastic carry bags. Also, awareness drives should be organised in the city and residents caught littering should be fined.MC secretary Neeraj Jain said, “Guidelines have been issued to all the sanitary inspectors and officials of the health branch to ensure cleanliness in the city and steps to be taken to keep the community toilets clean. Further directions have also been issued to enforce a complete ban on use of plastic carry bags in the city. Awareness drives would also be conducted in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/swachh-survekshan-2021-capacity-building-workshop-held-for-ludhiana-mc-officials/story-6Vcu8jtLDFWk4wu6ZRRBnJ.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two UP residents held for drug peddling in Ludhiana||Two men were arrested for drug peddling on Thursday after 500-gram opium was recovered from their possession, police saidThe accused have been identified as Mohammad Alam, 30, and Imran, 28, both natives of Uttar Pradesh and currently living in Chhawani Mohalla.Inspector Gopal Krishan, station house officer at Salem Tabri police station, said they were apprehended when they were going towards Hussainpura village to deliver a consignment.The SHO added that the accused smuggled the drugs from Uttar Pradesh and Malerkotla to sell in the city. Alam is already facing trial in a drug peddling case, he added. The accused were produced before a court and remanded to one-day police custody. A case has been registered under Sections 18, 61 and 85 of NDPS Act at Salem Tabri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-up-residents-held-for-drug-peddling-in-ludhiana/story-QEk7tvVtkAlumT50IdhSLN.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||3 of family hurt in road mishap in Chandigarh||Three members of a family selling boiled eggs near Dusshera ground in Sector 56 were injured after being hit by a Verka truck on Wednesday night. The victims have been identified as Ramesh, his wife Geeta and son Neeraj. They were rushed to GMSH-16 and discharged after treatment. Ramesh said the truck was parked inside the Dusshera ground and hit them after breaking the railing on the median. A case has been registered against the unidentified truck driver at Sector 39 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-of-family-hurt-in-road-mishap-in-chandigarh/story-M2Cdzmtb7yCjEYXraTDm8N.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Second postmortem of man found dead under mysterious circumstances conducted||The second postmortem of a 76-year-old businessman found dead under mysterious circumstances in Sector 10, Chandigarh, was conducted at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Thursday. The report is awaited.The postmortem conducted earlier had pointed towards hanging as cause of death. The second was done after the family suspected he had been murdered. The 76-year-old owner of an auto parts factory in Delhi had come to the city about two weeks ago and was found dead in his son’s house in Sector 10 on Sunday. Initially, the family said he hung himself in the washroom with a turban. Cops did not find a suicide note and initiated inquest proceedings. But, a day later, the family had sought through investigations after his care taker was found missing. The care taker was later detained and questioned by police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-second-postmortem-of-man-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-conducted/story-4yvkK58Wa0spXfNTixRNpM.html
06-08-2020||City||55 Seechewal, Thappar models based ponds to be developed in Jalandhar||To ensure recharge of depleting groundwater table and using treated water for the irrigation purposes through eco-friendly ways, the district administration will develop 55 ponds based on the Seechewal model and the Thappar model in Jalandhar in the current financial year. All 11 blocks will have five model ponds each.Rural development officials said that Seechewal model is a water treatment model designed by environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal, under which sewage water can be purified and used for irrigation. Similarly, Thappar model, designed by the Thappar University in Patiala, is a technically refined model to treat and use waste water.ADC Vishesh Sarangal said that construction has been started at 11 villages of different blocks in district under MGNREGA and convergence. Funds, between Rs 16-17 lakh, will be incurred on construction of each pond.Under these models, officials said used water draining out from houses and other sources, before flowing into the pond, passes through three wells where solid and oily waste are segregated.He said that the refined liquid then flows into the pond and remains stagnant there for at least seven days, which helps kill germs naturally. Then it can be used to irrigate crops through pumps.He said that this model helps in recharging groundwater table as sewage water will be treated in three wells and the same will be used for irrigation and farmers will not have to depend on other sources.He added that Punjab government is making efforts to stop groundwater depleting by plantation of saplings, increasing green cover, promoting maize and other crops which use less water, drip irrigation, and installing rainwater harvesting systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/55-seechewal-thappar-models-based-ponds-to-be-developed-in-jalandhar/story-oMx0NF9uP5PqCk63LYd4wK.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: GMCH-32 to send proposal to Panjab University for conducting MBBS exams||After Medical Council of India (MCI) advised its affiliated colleges to not promote MBBS students without holding examinations in a letter on Tuesday, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, has decided to put up a proposal before Panjab University to conduct the exams in a staggered manner. GMCH-32 is an affiliated college of PU.However, PU has decided that students of current batches of the varsity and its affiliated colleges will be assessed on the basis of internal assessment and their performances in previous semesters and they have been promoted provisionally.“We will conduct examinations for all MBBS batches as advised by MCI. I have asked officials to prepare a proposal for this, which will be sent to PU,” said BS Chavan, director-cum-principal, GMCH-32.The medical college had written to PU earlier for conducting post graduate examinations, however, the latter had requested GMCH-32 to seek special permission from the Chandigarh administration, which was granted.“If special permission is required again, we will put it up before the administration,” Chavan added. Regarding students’ preparation, the principal said theory classes are being taken online, but, there is an issue with the remaining practical work for which a solution will be found.“Exams for all batches will be conducted in a staggered manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-gmch-32-to-send-proposal-to-panjab-university-for-conducting-mbbs-exams/story-EKIwecKxr67ga3gEPjr5GP.html
06-08-2020||City||209 test positive for Covid-19, nine succumb to virus in Ludhiana||A day after witnessing the biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, the city reported 209 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday. Besides, nine succumbed to the virus in the district.With these fresh infections, the total count of cases has reached 4,385, of which 1,423 are active cases.The death toll has now reached 138. Those who died, include a 66-year-old female who died at DMC&H while three women from BRS Nagar and Field Gunj and New Shanti Nagar died at CMC and DMC and Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Besides a 72-year-old man from Baba Than Singh Chowk, a 75-year-old man from Atam Nagar, a 40-year-old man from Bau Ram Da Vehra, a 32- year-old man from New Subash Nagar.Those who tested positive include eight healthcare workers, three women and nine cops. 50 deaths in six days The virus has claimed 50 lives in just six days as nine patients died on August 1, eight on Sunday, followed by nine more on Monday, six on Tuesday and nine deaths were reported on Wednesday. Sharing details civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that efforts are being made to keep people safe from Covid-19. He said that a total of 226 patients (209 from Ludhiana district and 17 from other states/districts) tested positive in the last 24 hours. He added that to date, a total of 68602 samples have been taken, of which 61,304 people tested negative and result of 2,371 samples are awaited. He said that 11 Covid-19 patients died today (nine from Ludhiana while one each from Fatehgarh Sahib and Sangrur district). He said that to date, 23,970 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present 4,674 people are under home quarantine. On Thursday, 403 persons were placed under home quarantine. Similarly, 954 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/209-test-positive-for-covid-19-nine-succumb-to-virus-in-ludhiana/story-m5n8ir46fPoqN9pFQCJvMJ.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Forest department felicitates winners of Vrikshabandhan lucky draw||The department of Forests and Wildlife, Chandigarh, announced the winners of the lucky draw organised under ‘Vrikshabandhan’ on August 3 to mark Raksha Bandhan. As part of this programme, over 1000 participants tied rakhis to green trees and plants at Sukhna Lake, Botanical Garden on August 3 and took a pledge to conserve nature. Vrikshabandhan was organised as a part of the ongoing Van Mahotsava campaign, underlining the department’s purpose to save trees. The campaign saw a large number of participants who sent their selfies that will be published in the department’s newsletter ‘The Jungle Book’.The winners are Seema Rani, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Dhanas, Binu Dogra, principal of Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, Chandigarh, Ranjana Sharma and Vivek Sharma.The winners were picked through a draw held in the presence of chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai and deputy conservator of forests Abdul Qayum. While talking about the initiative Dalai said, “We are delighted to receive a good response. It gives a sense of relief and shows the like-mindedness between the department and general public towards conservation of nature which further motivates us to come up with different activities in the future as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/forest-department-felicitates-winners-of-vrikshabandhan-lucky-draw/story-Y0e5Bizfzkg7Kszs9MuwSN.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||4,492 applications received for admissions to pre-nursery to Class 8 in Chandigarh govt schools||The education department has received 4,492 online applications for admissions to pre-nursery to Class 8 in just a week. The registration process was started on July 31 and will continue till August 14.The highest number of applications have been received for admissions at Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS) Sector 10 followed by GMSSS Raipur Khurd with 352 applications and GMSSS, Sector 40 with 342 applications.There are 17,867 seats up for grabs in 115 government schools as per data uploaded by the UT education department on their website. For admissions, the schools have been divided into 20 clusters. Separate forms are required to be filled for each cluster. Around 4,000 seats are available for entry-level admissions that will be held through a draw of lots.Director School Education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We are expecting a lot more applications to come in.”Allocation of seats for pre-primary classes will be done before August 21, primary classes before August 28 and upper primary classes before August 31.In accordance with the Right to Education (RTE) norms, the admission in government schools is done as per the neighborhood concept (school nearest to the residence).There are a total of 115 government schools in the city, including 40 senior secondary schools, 53 high schools, 13 middle schools, 8 primary schools, and one nursery school. Only those candidates who are presently not studying in any of these government schools will be eligible to apply for admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-492-applications-received-for-admissions-to-pre-nursery-to-class-8-in-chandigarh-govt-schools/story-SDj1GT3CWCUglaSxso8YwL.html
06-08-2020||City||J&K Bank fraud case: ED conducts searches at Ludhiana bizman’s house, office||Teams of Enforcement Directorate (ED) from Srinagar zone and Delhi raided the house and office of a Ludhiana-based businessman on Thursday in connection with a case against Hilal Rather, son of former Jammu and Kashmir finance minister.The teams of ED carried out searches at the office and residences of a local industrialist to check the business dealings with Hilal Rather who is booked in a multi-core bank fraud case.The teams initially conducted searches at the businessman’s house in Sarabha Nagar and thereafter visited the factory unit located near Katani Chowk on Ludhiana-Chandigarh expressway and seized some documents from the premises. The team reportedly also visited the local J&K Bank Branch to collect some documents. The ED team from Jalandhar had also joined the raid to exert pressure on the industrialist. Requesting anonymity, an ED official said that the raids were conducted at 16 locations in Jammu and Kashmir, Ludhiana and Delhi.It was also stated that Hilal had routed the loan amount procured from J&K Bank in the Ludhiana-based company.The central probe agency has filed a money laundering case against Hilal Rather and others, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), taking cognizance of a CBI FIR and Income Tax Department probe against him that pertains to a ₹177-crore alleged bank fraud.The raids are aimed to gather more evidence, the agency officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-bank-fraud-case-ed-conducts-searches-at-ludhiana-bizman-s-house-office/story-OphmmO6wRpBl8tyWS97vBL.html
06-08-2020||City||Himachal crosses 3,000 mark as 131 more test positive for Covid-19||Himachal Pradesh on Thursday recorded 131 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 3,047, officials said.This is also the biggest single-day spike in virus cases in the hill state. The state has crossed the 3,000 mark in 139 days since the first case was reported.Of the new cases, 47 people tested positive in Kullu district, 21 in Hamirpur, 16 in Solan, 14 in Una, 9 in Sirmaur, seven each in Mandi and Bilaspur, four each in Kangra and Shimla and one each in Kinnaur and Shimla. Kangra chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said Kangra district’s tally of Covid-19 cases has reached 500 after four more people tested positive for the virus. Among the patients is a 42-year-old man from Dari locality of Dharamshala town. A 35-year-old woman and her six-year-old daughter, residents of Charri village in Shahpur sub-division have also contracted the disease. They are primary contacts of a Covid-19 patient. The fourth patient is a 45-year-old man from Baidi village. He has a travel history to Bihar on July 30. Three patients have been shifted to Covid-care centre Dadh and the fourth to Covid-hospital Dharamshala. Six people have tested positive in Sirmaur district. Deputy commissioner RK Pruthi said all new cases are from Paonta Sahib.Active cases in the state are 1,142 while 1,815 patients have recovered. The state has reported 12 deaths due to the infection and 1.58 lakh people have been tested for Covid-19 till date. Solan is the worst-hit district in Himachal Pradesh with 758cases followed by Kangra with 500 cases. Sirmaur has 370 cases, Hamirpur 339, Una 264, Mandi 227, Shimla 188, Chamba 137, Bilaspur 134, Kullu 86, Kinnaur 46 and Lahaul-Spiti has four cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-tally-now-2-936/story-Z28bDVASPuxE3HtEGw98pM.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Rural medicos at loggerheads with health dept find a supporter in minister Bajwa||Rural development and panchayati raj minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa has thrown his weight behind nearly 750 rural medical officers (RMOs) who have been at loggerheads with the health department for alleged discrimination in assigning of Covid-19 duties.The health department, meanwhile, says some RMOs have not been reporting for dutyBajwa, himself recovering from Covid-19, was on Thursday all praise for the RMOs for doing fabulous work in these challenging times.“I have learnt about their grievances and the challenges they are facing. I will be joining office in a couple of days and all their issues will be resolved soon. I urge them to continue working diligently to save the poor and needy,” he added.The RMOs, who come under the panchayati raj department, have accused health department officials of being biased against them since they were deployed on Covid-19 duties in March.The health department officials say some RMOs have been absent from Covid-19 duty.On July 24, additional chief secretary health Anurag Aggarwal had issued orders to all deputy commissioners from across the sate to ensure that the RMOs attended duty and to ask for an explanation from those defying orders.The RMOs reportedly did not take very kindly to being deployed at the help desk at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.“The RMOs were primarily deployed for Covid duties but the health department is using them for non-Covid duties. At Bathinda and Barnala the rural medical doctors were asked to perform postmortem and medico legal duties. We had objected to it, following which orders were issued against us that we are remaining absent from duty,” said Dr JP Narula, state president of the Rural Medical Services Association.He said that since minister Bajwa was battling with Covid-19 the delegation of doctors had decided to meet him next week.Dr Narula also claimed that in Ludhiana 62 rural medical officers were managing frontline duties on rotation at different Covid care centres since March.With rural medicos involved in Covid duties, rural health services, particularly care of elderly villagers has been hit badly.The association has demanded that RMOs on non Covid duties should be deployed in the rural dispensaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rural-medicos-at-loggerheads-with-health-dept-find-a-supporter-in-minister-bajwa/story-yxvV86KXZzedF64lQVBlQK.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Police team responding to complaint attacked by pitbull in Bathinda||A police team had to run for shelter after a ferocious pet pitbull attacked them at Telian Wala Mohalla here on Wednesday night.Kotwali police station officiating-in-charge Gurmeet Singh said an emergency call was received about a group of residents engaging in hooliganism and troubling women in the locality. A team led by sub-inspector (SI) Amritpal Singh reached on the spot, the rowdy group objected to the police’s intervention and allegedly manhandled the cops on duty. In the meantime, one of the accused men’s dog attacked the cops and bit the SI. The SI was rushed to a doctor. His condition is said to be stable, the official said.The accused are one Mohan Lal and his wife Sudesh Rani, Sumit, Sahil and Bunty. They have been booked under Sections 353 (criminal force to deter public servant), 289 (negligent conduct with respect to animal), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 148 (rioting) 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence) of the Indian Penal Code. No arrests have been made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-team-responding-to-complaint-attacked-by-pitbull-in-bathinda/story-oyDqnyBQInevqVDvyGQ1oN.html
06-08-2020||City||75th anniv of atomic bombings: Dalai Lama calls for elimination of nuclear weapons, demilitarised world||On the 75th anniversary of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Tibetan spiritual leader The Dalai Lama urged governments, organisations and individuals to rededicate themselves to make peace the centerpiece of human lives.“Despite many great developments that also took place, the 20th century was an era of violence in which some 200 million people were killed, including the horrific use of nuclear weapons. Now, in our increasingly interdependent world, we have a chance to make this a more peaceful century,” the spiritual leader said.When conflicts arise, the Dalai Lama said, they should be settled through dialogue, not the use of force. We need to eliminate the threat of nuclear weapons, with the ultimate aim of a demilitarized world.“War means killing. Violence leads to counter violence. We need to put an end to combat and the production of weapons and construct a more peaceful world,” he said.“We human beings have created many of the problems in today’s world. As long as we have strong negative emotions and we view our fellow beings in terms of ‘us’ and ‘them’, there will be a tendency to try to destroy them,” The Dalai Lama said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/75th-anniv-of-atomic-bombings-dalai-lama-calls-for-elimination-of-nuclear-weapons-demilitarised-world/story-Jsp8krsDhzk9xvkCV3m6nN.html
06-08-2020||City||Jai Ram contradicts police panel report on migration from HP’s border villages||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday contradicted a state police panel report that pointed towards the exodus from border villages along China border, stating that “no migration was happening”.“I don’t know where did you get these this inputs,” the CM said while replying to a query. “No migration is happening in border villages of the state. People there are highly patriotic and are ready to fight the enemy and even make supreme sacrifice if need arises, he added. The CM said a panel of five superintendents of police (SP), who are battalion commandants, visited four dozen border villages of Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti after the Chinese aggression in Galwan valley last month. “They talked to people about the issues. The residents of these frontier villages have said it on record that they are going nowhere. Nobody talked of migration,” Thakur claimed. He, however, said that locals had some issues related to development which will be resolved at the earliest.On July 25, while citing the police panel’s report during a press conference, director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu had said migration from border villages was a threat to the national security. He had said the panel implied that people were migrating from the border areas due to poor infrastructure and a lack of economic activities. Besides strengthening road and communication infrastructure, the panel specifically recommended increasing economic activities, like tribal tourism and marketing of local flowers and produce, to repopulate the areas.Meanwhile, the CM also said the development of border areas was top priority of the state government. “A lot of development projects in these areas are ongoing which I think should not be discussed in open,” he said. “Foremost is the Rohtang tunnel inauguration of which is expected to be inaugurated in last week of September. The tunnel will facilitate quick movement of forces to the border areas,” he added.‘TEMPLES TO REMAIN SHUT’Replying to another question, Thakur said as of now, there is no plan to reopen temples in the state.“Once, we were almost ready to reopen the temples but the decision was withheld in wake of rising Covid-19 cases,” he said. The CM said monsoons are here and the threat of viral and bacterial diseases outbreak always looms large. “So, the temples are not opening in the rainy season at least till August 31. After that, the government will consider reopening the shrines when the situation is under control,” he added.CM GETS ROUSING WELCOME IN KANGRAThe chief minister was accorded a rousing welcome on his arrival at the Gaggal Airport in Kangra district for a three-day visit. Vidhan Sabha speaker Vipin Singh Parmar, Industries Minister Bikram Singh, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Sarveen Chaudhary, Forests Minister Rakesh Pathania, MP Kishan Kapoor, MLAs Vishal Nehariya, Arun Mehra, Reeta Devi, Arjun Singh, Hoshiar Singh, Mulkraj Premi, Ravi Dhiman, former MLAs and other dignitaries were also present on the occasion to receive the Chief Minister.BJP workers flouted the social distancing norms while welcoming the CM at Kachehari market of Dharamshala town as the police watched helplessly. Police had told the BJP workers to line up keeping in mind the social distancing norms. However, as soon as the CM arrived there, the upbeat BJP workers almost mobbed him trying to hand over bouquet and flowers.FOLLOW UP DEVELOPMENTAL PROJECTS TO ENSURE TIMELY IMPLEMENTATION: CM TO MLASChief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday urged the MLAs to follow up on the ongoing developmental projects in their respective constituencies to ensure time-bound execution of these works.He was presiding over a meeting of ministers, MP, MLAs and district-level officers of Kangra to review the progress of ongoing projects in the district.Thakur directed the officers to ensure time-bound completion of all the developmental projects to check price escalation, besides ensuring that people could harp the benefits of development.He said special focus must be laid on implementation projects announced by him.The CM said various departments must ensure that all the announcements are implemented within the stipulated time period. He said the government is laying special stress on development of Kangra since it the biggest district in the state.He said though the Covid-19 pandemic has affected the pace of development, the government is striving hard to meet the deadlines. The CM said the Covid-19 situation is under control in Kangra despite being the largest district population-wise. “Authorities must ensure that people follow social distancing and use face masks. All social, cultural and religious gatherings must also be avoided,” he added.“Vacant posts of doctors and paramedics will be filled up at the earliest in health institutions of the district. Efforts will also be made to provide specialist doctors in all major hospitals of the district,” he added.The chief minister said the state government has constituted a cabinet sub-committee for finding the unspent money under different projects. He said mechanism will be evolved to divert the amount with the consent of local representatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-contradicts-police-panel-report-on-migration-from-hp-s-border-villages/story-dSPY2UCNkZCRAuqdvGdOgI.html
06-08-2020||City||Focus on prevention of Covid-19 instead of virtual programmes: Agnihotri to HP govt||Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri on Thursday lashed out at the Himachal Pradesh government over its virtual programmes and said they should focus on preventing and controlling the spread of coronavirus instead of focusing on politics.In a statement issued here, Agnihotri said recently about Rs 45 lakh were spent when chief minister Jai Ram Thakur planted a tree in Peterhoff Hotel in Shimla during Vanmahatsova which was also propogated online.He said virtual programmes are very expensive and asked the state government to justify laying foundation stones and inauguration of developmental projects when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) used to oppose online programmes during for Virbhadra Singh’s regime.Accusing the state government of failing to control Covid-19, Agnihotri said it is not right to boast of the progress in the state by showing fake figures. He said the state government has weakened the institute of legislature. “Name plates of underseving people are put on MLA priority works. These name plates will be removed when the Congress will come to power in the state,” he added.“Stern action will also be taken in the future against those officers who are giving preferences to unconstitutional forces,” he said.Agnihotri said some people are engaged in money laundering during the pandemic which is a matter of concern and should be stopped. He also lashed out at the government over rising suicide cases in the state amid the pandemic.“More than 2,000 persons have died by suicide ever since Jai Ram Thakur led state government came into power which has never occurred during any government’s regime,” he said, adding that it is a matter of concern and also exposes the state government’s claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/focus-on-prevention-of-covid-19-instead-of-virtual-programmes-agnihotri-to-hp-govt/story-pwzWdFZfJjMX1f612dG2XO.html
06-08-2020||Dehradun||Orange alert issued for Uttarakhand, heavy to very rainfall predicted for next 3 days||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday afternoon issued an orange alert for the next three days for Uttarakhand, predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall across the state.The Met department said that intense spells of rainfall are likely to occur at some places in six of the state’s 13 districts.An orange alert indicates rainfall ranging from 6 cm to 20 cm and it means that authorities should be prepared for any rain-related incidents or disasters.From Friday, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in Pithoragarh, Bageshwr, Nainital, Champawat, Dehradun, Pauri and Chamoli districts of the state. Lightning is also likely to occur. As a result of rainfall, a total of 110 roads in the state, including national and state highways, were blocked due to landslides and falling of debris from mountains as of 4 pm, according to officials from the state emergency operations centre.However, all the roads leading to the Char Dham shrines were open. Only National Highway 58 was blocked near Totaghati in Tehri Garhwal district, informed the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/orange-alert-issued-for-uttarakhand-heavy-to-very-rainfall-predicted-for-next-3-days/story-vbXoIAeqwaNyCWScTT4wAM.html
06-08-2020||City||Four Covid-19 positive patients die in Uttarakhand, state tally rises to 8,623||Uttarakhand on Thursday reported 369 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 8,623. On Thursday, four deaths of Covid-19 positive patients were also reported from the state, including three from AIIMS Rishikesh and one from Doon Medical College Dehradun. A total of 102 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now with 16 patients dying due to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The rest of the positive patients died due to co-morbidities and other causes, added health officials. Over 60 personnel of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) also tested Covid-19 positive from bordering Uttarkashi district in the state in two days. On Thursday, 14 army personnel also tested positive from Bageshwar district in Uttarakhand. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Thursday evening, 369 fresh cases included maximum 109 from Haridwar, followed by Dehradun(68), Almora (5), Bageshwar (21), Chamoli (9), Haridwar (38), Nainital (33), Pauri (2), Pithoragarh (2), Tehri (30), US Nagar (56) and Uttarkashi (34). All 34 cases reported from Uttarkashi were of ITBP personnel who were contacts of earlier positive cases. On Wednesday, 30 ITBP personnel had tested positive. Of 8623 Covid-19 positive case so far, Dehradun district has reported maximum of 1938 cases, followed Haridwar (1739), US Nagar (1448) and Nainital (1,372). Many of 298 fresh cases were reported in the case of people who had travel history from Port Blair, Delhi-NCR, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Dubai and Saudi Arab. But in a large number of cases (105 cases), travel history was not available. The fresh cases included 142 contacts of earlier positive cases, including the 34 ITBP personnel. Fourteen cases were detected at flu clinics and during antenatal check-up and eight healthcare workers from different districts also tested positive. Also, 194 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Thursday with a maximum of 53 from Haridwar district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 28.14 days, while the infection rate is 4.80%. The state has so far tested over 1.90 lakh samples of which results of over 9,000 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 370 containment zones in seven districts including maximum 326 in Haridwar, followed by 28 in US Nagar, 10 in Dehradun, three in Uttarkashi and one each in Tehri, Bageshwar and Champawat. On Thursday, Nainital’s additional district magistrate (ADM) KS Toliya and one of his staff members tested positive in rapid test after which they were isolated in a hotel. Dr. Rashmi Pant, additional chief medical officer of Nainital confirmed the development and said that their contact history is being checked to find others who could have been infected. Meanwhile, in US Nagar district, a day after a BJP legislator tested positive on Thursday the mayor of Rudrapur municipal corporation also tested Covid-19 positive. The corporation office has been sealed for three days and police are preparing list of his close contacts, an official said. “The mayor, Rampal Singh has tested Covid-19 positive in an antigen test. He has been admitted to the district hospital. A list is being prepared of his close contacts so that they could be quarantined,” said Avinash Khanna, deputy chief medical officer, US Nagar. As the news spread about the mayor testing positive, many locals panicked who came in close contact to him since he participated in several programmes on Wednesday on the occasion of Ram temple foundation laying ceremony. Earlier, mayor of Kashipur municipal corporation Usha Chaudhary and her husband Hemendra Chaudhary were tested Covid-19 positive. They are under treatment in Kashipur. In Haridwar district, a police post which was temporarily handling the affairs of Bhagwanpur police station and Mandawar border check post has also been sealed after three police personnel tested Covid-19 positive. Kali Nadi post in Bhagwanpur block, was temporarily designated as makeshift police station since past one week after the Bhagwanpur police station and Mandawar check post were sealed due to police staff testing positive. Sanitisation is being done in the whole police post premises and posters have been put up cautioning passers-by and informing people about the police post being sealed and that all official work will temporarily take place at Tejupur police post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-60-itbp-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-in-uttarakhand-in-48-hours-tally-rises-to-8-552/story-MmkWfhI5IlOJcRGq06y1DM.html
06-08-2020||City||HP police ropes in IIT Mandi to develop technology for crime detection||At a time when the crime rate in the state has begun to increase amid the ongoing coronavirus crisis, the Himachal Pradesh police has roped in Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi, to develop technologies that will help detect crime. Director general of police Sanjay Kundu said, “The main objective to rope in IITs is to bring synergy between the police and technology. This will help us use modern technology to detect crime. Shortly, an MoU will be signed with IIT Mandi.” IIT experts will help the police develop a plan for precautionary measures to curb crime after analysing data. One of the main objectives of the proposed Mou between the police and IIT is to establish institutional cooperation between the police department and IIT Mandi, to set up an institutional mechanism for interaction of faculty, researchers and students of IIT Mandi with state’s police officers on use of technology in policing, use of modern technology to address and predict crime. IIT students and the police will set up up an institutional mechanism for interaction with staff and officials . The institutional mechanism would be named Police-Technology Synergy Convention (PTSC) with the director of the IIT and one more member nominated by the director as members. The DGP may himself be part of the PTSC or nominate two senior officers as members. The ADG, CID may be appointed as the nodal officer. A member nominated by the DGP may be the convener.Technology experts at the institute will impart training and hold capacity building programmes to meet the mission of the HP Police and IIT Mandi. The objectives include setting up an institutional mechanism for interaction of students, researchers and faculty of IIT, Mandi with the HP Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-police-ropes-in-iit-mandi-to-develop-technology-for-crime-detection/story-EYhz3iM7pNHrEEyOMV6wgM.html
06-08-2020||City||Pune reports 1,512 fresh Covid-29 cases, 31 deaths on Thursday, as per state data||Pune: The state health department recorded 1,512 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 31 deaths on Thursday. This takes the progressive positive count in Pune to 66,648 and total deaths to 1,670, as per state data. Meanwhile, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 1,440 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 27 deaths on Thursday, taking the progressive positive count to 62,037 and the death toll to 1,456. The PMC also reported 1,196 people being discharged after they were declared as cured, taking the count of such people to 43,606.Currently, there are 16,975 active cases in the city of which 674 are critical, with 425 on ventilator and 249 in ICU without ventilator. There are 2,277 patients undergoing oxygen therapy in various hospitals, according to PMC data. The civic body has conducted 5,208 tests on Thursday and a total of 3,02,945 tests have been conducted till date in the city.At least 16 deaths were reported from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH) on Thursday, five deaths from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), two from Deoyani hospital, and one death each from Inamdar hospital, Kasturba hospital, Bharati hospital, AICTS hospital.Five deaths of residents from outside the city limits were also reported, including four from DHM and one from SGH.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-1-512-fresh-covid-29-cases-31-deaths-on-thursday-as-per-state-data/story-2RoGY9i1cuO3uOrMKZEBSI.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Moderate rain likely over the weekend in Chandigarh||After just cloudy skies on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light rain up to 20mm on Friday and chances of moderate rain up to 50mm over the weekend.“A warning for heavy rain over 60mm has been issued for Punjab, mostly in northwestern and southern parts. In Chandigarh, moderate rain is likely from Saturday evening onwards. This will continue till Monday. Thunderstorms with winds blowing over 45km per hour can also be expected,” said an IMD official.On Thursday, the maximum temperature went up from 36.5 °C on Wednesday to 36.7 °C, four notches above normal.The minimum temperature on the other hand decreased from 28.6°C to 28.2°C, but was still five degrees above normal. The forecast for the next three days predicts day temperature between 32°C and 34°C and night temperature around 27°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/moderate-rain-likely-over-the-weekend-in-chandigarh/story-tYyAZOVckp9rxaplzsejNL.html
06-08-2020||City||Heavy rainfall to continue in Himachal, yellow warning issued for August 9||Heavy rainfall is very likely to continue throughout Himachal Pradesh for the next few days as the state meteorological department on Thursday issued a yellow warning for middle and lower hills for August 9.State MeT director Manmohan Singh said rainfall is very likely to continue throughout the state till August 12. Monsoon was normal in the state on Thursday as heavy rains lashed Solan district while light to moderate rainfall occurred at many places in the state. Maximum temperatures in the state deceased by one to two degrees and minimum temperatures were normal.Highest rainfall in the state at 67mm was witnessed in Kandaghat of Solan district followed by Kangra’s Guler which received 53mm rain. Mashobra in Shimla district received 42mm rain, Dharamshala 37.4mm, Kasauli in Solan district 36mm, Kufri 29mm, Dalhousie 26 mm, Paonta Sahib 25mm, Shimla15.2mm while Solan, Bilaspur and Palampur witnessed 10mm rain each.Maximum temperature in Shimla was 24.1°C while it was 17.6°C in Kufri. Manali recorded 24.8°C maximum temperature, Dalhousie in Chamba district 22.8°C while Dharamshala recorded 28.2°C. Maximum temperatures in Solan was 30°C, Bilaspur 32°C, Hamirpur 31.8°C, Una 35.8°C and Nahan 30.6°C. Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded 24.6°C maximum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rainfall-to-continue-in-himachal-yellow-warning-issued-for-august-9/story-JMREeP9LcNHV0dzYzKS85H.html
06-08-2020||City||Charging ₹8 for carry bag costs Zirakpur store ₹32,000||Ruling that traders did not have legal or moral right to charge extra for a carry bag, the District Consumer Disputes and Redressal Forum, Mohali, on Thursday imposed a fine of Rs 30,000 on Zirakpur store.The action came on the complaint of Karan Singla, a resident of Nirvana Society, Sector 49, Chandigarh, who besides the refund of Rs 8 charged for the carry bag, will also be paid Rs 2,000 as compensation by Brand Factory, Cosmo Plaza, Zirakpur.Singla had informed the forum that he had bought a shirt from the store on February 10, 2019, and was charged Rs 8 extra for a carry bag. He claimed that the store had no right to charge for the carry bag, as it was difficult for him to carry the shirt without one. Despite repeated notices, the opposite party (OP) did not respond and was proceeded against ex-parte. “We feel that a carry bag is definitely a part and parcel of the sale by the OP that had no legal or moral right to charge Rs 8 extra for it. Such malpractice should be curbed with a strong hand. There is definitely unfair trade practice adopted by the OP,” stated forum president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma and member Natasha Chopra in their order. “It is also possible that the OP continued this practice for years and collected a huge amount. In order to curb such malpractice, it is important to impose special cost on them, so that correct message should go in society and such traders think a thousand times before adopting this practice again,” the forum said.The forum, thus, directed the store to deposit Rs 30,000 in its Legal Aid Account and pay Rs 2,000 as compensation to the complainant within 30 days, failing which the complainant will be entitled to interest at 12% per annum on the compensation amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/charging-8-for-carry-bag-costs-zirakpur-store-32-000/story-ViVgJ3AFYEXmWRgloQlbbI.html
06-08-2020||City||Meat shop owner assaulted, robbed of ₹26,000, mobile phone in Ludhiana||A woman and her accomplices have robbed of a man of ₹26,000 and a mobile phone in Daresi on Wednesday evening. The victim, who owns a meat shop in Daulat Colony, said that the accused had also assaulted him before robbing him. The victim has been identified as Mohammad Saif, 25, of Gulabi Bagh Colony. In his complaint to the police, he said that his ex-girlfriend Soniya orchestrated the attack on him. The incident took place when Saif was returning home and when he reached near New Madhopuri, one of the accused Dalip intercepted him while his aides started assaulting him with sharp-edged weapons and robbed him of ₹26,000 cash and his mobile phone.When he raised the alarm, they fled the spot.ASI Om Parkash, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 379-B (snatching with hurt, wrongful restraint or fear of hurt), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Daresi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/meat-shop-owner-assaulted-robbed-of-26-000-mobile-phone-in-ludhiana/story-uZBO0VOXZQ6ZAdzCbuGaHO.html
06-08-2020||City||38 students from Ludhiana to take part in district-level online competitions||As many as 38 students of Ludhiana government schools have been selected to compete at the district-level Geet Gayan competition to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.Over 637 students participated in the block-level competition that was held last week. A total of 1,349 students across the state have been selected for district-level competition. A jury has already started shortlisting the students and a final list will be out on August 9.Based on the performance of students, the state education department has allotted them first and second positions. Of the 38 students, 19 have bagged first positions, and the remaining secured the second position in the online competition. District education officer (elementary) Rajinder Kaur, said, “The students are participating in all the competitions and the videos uploaded by the teachers shows that children are working hard. I appreciate the students and teachers for their efforts. Through these competitions, students will learn about the teachings and life of Guru Tegh Bahadur.”Students who bagged the first position are Sumandeep Kaur, Government Primary School, Paddi, Tasveer Chann Singh of GPS Uksi, Nitin of GPS Malak, Seema of GPS Br Sunet, Harshdeep Kaur of GPS Samrala Girls, Sandeep Kaur of GPS Ramgarh Bhullar, Japneet Kaur of GPS, Purain, Neha Kumar of GPS Ghuman, all Class 5 students. Class 2 students include Karanvir Singh of GPS Mehdudan, Harsimrat Kaur of GPS Boothgarh Banja, Khushi of GPS Bhambian Khurd. While Simarjeet Singh of GPS Haibowal Kalan, a student of Class 3 bagged the first position.From Class 4, Davinder Singh of GPS Khanna 8, Deepa of GPS Kohara, Khushi of GPS Manjri, Gurminder Pal of GPS Macchiwara 2, Aran Singh of GPS Takhran, Bikhushpreet Kaur of GPS Narangwal and Ranjot Singh of GPS BR Raikot Boys bagged the first position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/38-students-from-ludhiana-to-take-part-in-district-level-online-competitions/story-8amMjwwVG4Fu1TZAvHDj8J.html
06-08-2020||City||Ludhiana cop on patrolling duty dies in hit-and-run||A PCR head constable was killed and another cop was injured after a speeding truck hit their motorcycle and drove off in Dhandhari on Wednesday evening.The deceased, Paramjit Singh, 50, was deputed on patrolling duty on PCR motorcycle number 68 with ASI Hardev Singh.In his complaint, the ASI stated that he, along with head constable Paramjit Singh, was going to Dhandhari bridge from Yard Chowk during patrolling duty on Wednesday.Meanwhile, a speeding truck hit their motorcycle from behind, throwing them on the road.Paramjit suffered serious injuries and was rushed to a local hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries.In the mishap, Paramjit’s carbine and their motorcycle were also damaged.ASI Gurmeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said the unidentified truck driver had been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code.The police are looking for clues in the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area.PEDESTRIAN KILLEDIn another hit-and-run, a speeding motorcycle claimed the life of a 55-year-old pedestrian on National Highway 44 near Ladhowal on Wednesday.The victim, Joginder Pal, of Ladhowal, was crossing the road when the motorcyclist hit him and fled the scene.The Ladhowal police have traced the owner from the registration number of the vehicle. ASI Ram Kishan, the investigating officer, said the bike was registered under the name of one Mohit of Kakowal Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-cop-on-patrolling-duty-dies-in-hit-and-run/story-rj2bFHj8iTdJwmJqNvo6wI.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur seeks bail to attend son’s wedding||Suspended station house officer (SHO) Jaswinder Kaur, now in judicial custody for alleged corruption charges, has applied to the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court for interim bail to attend her son’s wedding on August 14. The court has sought a CBI response to Kaur’s bail plea by August 10 even as her case has been listed for a hearing on August 11.On June 29, CBI booked Kaur, then SHO of Manimajra and middleman Bhagwan Singh, on the complaint of Manimajra resident Gurdeep Singh that she had asked him for a bribe in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him.Kaur and Bhagwan were booked under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.Kaur, who was absconding for over three weeks, surrendered before the CBI court on July 25, following which she was sent to four day police remand and then to judicial custody. Her case is now listed on August 10.She filed a petition on August 6, seeking interim bail from August 13 to 15 for participating in and performing necessary rituals and ceremonies for the marriage of her son in Chandigarh.“The petitioner being mother has to participate in the marriage function, perform necessary ceremonies and rituals as per custom and also meet and greet the guests who will come at the marriage function,” she said in the application.Kaur has said in her plea that she will neither visit the Manimajra police station nor will she directly or indirectly meet or communicate with persons or witnesses connected with the present case. Her movement will be restricted to her residence and the hotel, which is the wedding venue.Kaur has said she will abide by any condition imposed by the court for bail, furnish the bail bond and surrender at the place and time specified by the court. REQUEST FOR CCTV CAMERA FOOTAGEJaswinder Kaur has filed another application seeking directions from the CBI official investigating the case to take “custody of the DVR of the police station, Manimajra, to preserve the CCTV recording of June 30 from 10am to 4pm and to provide the footage to the applicant,” as it would be required by her during evidence or trial of the case.The court has issued notice to the CBI for its response on August 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/suspended-sho-jaswinder-kaur-seeks-bail-to-attend-son-s-wedding/story-QmIapAeQC6LVpsLdVTfhwL.html
06-08-2020||Lucknow||When it counts, only peers stand by retired scorers||Cricketers in India keep getting money even after retirement as the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has made provisions to help them and their families even after their death. But there seem to be nothing for the scorers, who keep maintaining records meticulously, sitting in one corner of the ground. A few retired scorers on the BCCI’s panel faced serious health problems during the lockdown. One of them passed away. In most cases, the 140-odd scorers, including the present ones, kept sharing the burden of treatment and hospitalisation of their colleagues among themselves as no other support was allegedly forthcoming. Koushik Saha of Kolkata passed away in hospital after suffering from diabetes, whereas M Nagaraj of Bengaluru and Mumbai’s Ramesh Parab had to struggle a lot for the financial support for their treatment. The 64-year-old Parab remained in ICU for 35 days and his present and former colleagues contributed Rs 2.80 lakh for his successful treatment. “ We spent our entire life counting and maintaining the records of cricketers. Are we not entitled to any benefits at this stage of life?” asked Mumbai’s Vivek Gupte. “Like cricketers and international umpires, we scorers also need retirement benefits, pension and support for medical treatment. We are also an integral part of the system,” said Gupte, who wants all scorers on the BCCI panel to approach their respective state cricket associations to put pressure on the board to take care of the scorers also after their retirement. He wants to BCCI to float a medical group insurance policy for all scorers, active as well as retired, to cover all ailments, hospitalisation and medicines etc. The board should also help with a lump sum ex gratia amount, in cases of emergency, to both active and retired scorers, he said. The others who joined the group of retired scorers include Tapash Roy, Suhas Sapre, Gautam Roy, Narayan Lakhotia, MS Rahman, BV Venkatesh, R Bhaskar, Vishwas Ghosalkar, Uday Gharat, T Chennakesavalu, D Ravichandran, Narendra Nalwaya, Saurabh Chaturvedi and OP Sharma. “We chose to write letters to our respective state associations to take up our cases with the board,” said Gupta who, along with 16 others, faced a sudden axe from the board just before the start of the cricket season last year. “This wasn’t the right way to axe all 17 without any prior notice. The scorers’ job calls for much less physical involvement. Scorers are seated indoors (more often in air-conditioned comfort). The fitness levels (required) are restricted to normal fine eyesight and hearing ability, and normal physical fitness with abilities to concentrate and follow the game for long hours,” he added. “Therefore, trying to equate the rule followed for umpires and match referees for scorers too, is incorrect. Ability, together with the required physical fitness, should be taken into consideration rather than the age,” he said, adding, “The retirement age should be restored as per BCCI announcement of 65 years subject to an annual medical test after 60 by BCCI panel medical practitioner and further extension, if any, would be given only subject to successful clearance.” Besides the scorers in Mumbai and Saurashtra, retired scorers in Uttar Pradesh too have decided to approach the board through UPCA in this regard. “For 35 years, I did only scoring and nothing else. Now at this stage of life, I am struggling for survival, including meeting expenses for my routine medical treatment,” said Saurabh Chaturvedi, who did the scoring in over 1,000 plus matches. “I demand that the board at least consider a fixed monthly pension and or fix a lump sum package at the time of retirement of scorers in recognition for the service rendered for the past so many years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/when-it-counts-only-peers-stand-by-retired-scorers/story-vHD5dhCxMcDgT5bwA0kgJL.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||19-year-old gets life term for murdering dhaba owner in 2016||A 19-year-old youth from Assam was awarded a life sentence by the Chandigarh district court in a 2016 murder case, the first major judgment announced during the lockdown following the Covid-19 outbreak.The arguments were heard and the order announced via video conferencing.Despite the plea of the accused for leniency as he had no criminal record, JP Singh, additional public prosecutor, submitted that he was undeserving of the same as he had committed murder.After hearing both the parties, the court of additional district and sessions judge observed: “Looking to the serious nature of offence, the child in conflict with law does not deserve any leniency. Punishment must be deterrent so as to protect the society from such offenders. Sentencing has to commensurate to the gravity of offence. Hence prayer for leniency is declined.”The court awarded him “rigorous imprisonment for life with possibility of remission, commutation etc and to pay a fine of ₹50,000.” Out of this amount ₹45,000 shall be paid to the victims and ₹5,000 to the state.The court directed that the youth “be provided with educational services, skill development, alternative therapy during his stay in the place of safety.” The district child welfare committee has also been directed to evaluate the progress of the youth now living in a juvenile home, ensuring that he is not ill treated.The case dates back to July 1, 2016, when an FIR was registered at police station Sector 36 under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the youth, then a minor. Eshwar Taal, a 25-year-old tubewell operator from Sector 42 complained to the police that his father Mahipal and his brother, all from Assam, used to run a dhaba near the powerhouse in Sector 42 and sleep in the powerhouse building. Some days later, the helper, also hired from Assam started working for them and one night when the father and the helper were drunk they had an argument. When Taal returned from work at around 6.15 am the next day he found his father dead with his throat slit and injury marks on his face.The helper was missing with his belongings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/19-year-old-gets-life-term-for-murdering-dhaba-owner-in-2016/story-6ruHmR9KiyvMUPFe3FkSRP.html
06-08-2020||City||16-year-old Mohali girl raped for a week in captivity, labourer held||Police on Thursday arrested a 21-year-old man for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl for seven days after holding her captive in his room.The accused, identified as Charanpreet Singh Manu, is a labourer. Inspector Amardeep Singh, station house officer, Balongi station, said Manu, who knew the victim, took her to his rented room in Balongi village, confined her there and raped her repeatedly for a week. He was arrested from his room and the girl was rescued.A local court on Thursday sent the accused to one-day police custody.He has been booked under Sections 376 (rape) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code at the Balongi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-year-old-mohali-girl-raped-for-a-week-in-captivity-labourer-held/story-HHVz072S7TXjMsG0CrjghN.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Apply for Panjab University’s postgraduate courses by August 31||Panjab University has extended the last date to apply for admissions in various postgraduate courses till August 31, 2020. Earlier, the tentative last date to apply for both undergraduate and postgraduate courses was August 8. PU’s dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla said as the decision regarding examinations/results of UG courses was awaited, the last date had been extended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/apply-for-panjab-university-s-postgraduate-courses-by-august-31/story-FON7R8wpZHWXMg1ILHwMiN.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Hooch tragedy: Register murder case against Capt, says AAP state chief Bhagwant Mann||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann on Thursday blamed the Congress government for the loss of 110 lives due to consumption of spurious liquor in three districts of the Majha region. He also demanded that a murder case be registered against chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.Mann said, “The chief minister, who also holds the excise and home portfolio, is responsible for the tragedy and a murder case must be registered against him.” He said his party will no longer address the CM as ‘Captain’ as he had undermined the honour accorded to the position. “AAP has been demanding that a murder case be registered against all involved in the spurious liquor tragedy that led to the death of 110 people since the first day. All kinds of mafias have been enjoying the government’s patronage from the last 15 years,” he said. “Earlier the reins of the mafia were in the hands of the Badals. Now, they are in the hands of the Congress MLAs, ministers and the CM himself,” Mann said.He alleged that the liquor mafia active in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Batala (Gurdaspur) areas were connected to illicit distilleries at Rajpura, Ghanour and Khanna, which indicated that the liquor mafia was calling the shots under the patronage of the CM’s wife and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur. He demanded a time-bound inquiry into the matter by a sitting high court judge or the CBI. “These mafias are controlled by the who’s who of the ruling party through police stations and the civil administration,” he said.AAP also demanded that a liquor corporation be setup in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooch-tragedy-register-murder-case-against-capt-says-aap-state-chief-bhagwant-mann/story-MwZGh65rcskHuGU4s04z3K.html
06-08-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka records 5,619 new Covid-19 cases||As many as 5,619 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Karnataka on Thursday taking the state’s count of coronavirus cases to 1,51,449.The active cases in the state now stand at 73,958 while 74,679 people have been discharged.So far, a total of 2,804 people have died due to Covid-19 in the state, while the average recovery rate in Karnataka is 49.3 per cent.Meanwhile, India’s Covid-19 tally reached 19,64,537 on Thursday after 56,282 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-records-5-619-new-covid-19-cases/story-E26ULBQdnWgfXlTwzOcIlJ.html
06-08-2020||City||Mohali’s Covid-19 count tops 1,100 with sharpest surge of 68 cases||With 68 new Covid-19 cases, the steepest spike in a day so far, Mohali crossed the 1,100 mark on Thursday. This is also the highest number of Covid cases any of the tricity towns have recorded so far. Panchkula confirmed 65 cases on July 21, while Chandigarh’s highest count remains 64. Thursday’s tricity tally at 179 is also the highest so far after the 143 cases on Wednesday.Of the 1,119 confirmed cases, 625 patients have recovered and 17 have died. On Thursday, 26 patients were discharged from the hospital, bringing down the active cases to 477.Among the 68 new cases, 21 are from Dera Bassi sub-division, 25 from Kharar area and 22 from Mohali. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, who reviewed the status of the pandemic with the health department officials on Thursday, said the Covid spike management plan was prepared ahead of time and had now been put into action. Under the plan, besides Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, the Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, has been started with 200 beds for asymptomatic patients. “Another 800 beds can be pressed into use if needed. Another CCC will be set up in Dera Bassi. Private hospitals have been put on alert and told to reserve more beds for isolation cases,” he said, adding that a dedicated facility had been set up at the Mohali civil hospital for Covid-positive pregnant women. Besides the infrastructure upgrade, testing capacity has been enhanced. Antigen testing has been commenced, allowing availability of test results within 30 minutes. “Our target is to test at least 100 contacts of positive patients in a day to check the spread of virus,” the DC said. Another TrueNAT machine for detecting of coronavirus has been installed at Dera Bassi. Besides this, a dedicated call centre will soon be started to provide quick medical consultancy to patients opting for home isolation. “Doctors from the centre will remain in touch with the patients. Video calling facility may also be extended to patients,” Dayalan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-s-covid-19-count-tops-1-100-with-sharpest-surge-of-68-cases/story-zbMrmHRBSKq7C99HR4U9FI.html
06-08-2020||Lucknow||Parts of Uttar Pradesh witness thunderstorm, lightning||Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning occurred at isolated places in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, the Meteorological Department here said.Monsoon has been normal in the state, it said.Dudhi (Sonbhadra) recorded 5 cm rainfall; Jhansi and Bahari (Bareilly) 4 cm each; Kalpi (Jalaun) and Attra (Banda) 3 cm each; and Karvi (Chitrakoot), Chunar (Mirzapur), Lalitpur, Hamirpur and Basgaon (Gorakhpur) 2 cm each, according to the weather department.Etawah was the hottest place in the state with a maximum temperature of 36.8 degrees Celsius.Rain or thundershowers are very likely at many places over eastern Uttar Pradesh and at a few places over the western part of the state over the next 24 hours, the MeT department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/parts-of-uttar-pradesh-witness-thunderstorm-lightning/story-4o6woHaQB8EGj38vAP3WYK.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||IIM Sirmaur commences academic session, virtual classes to be held||Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Sirmaur, started its 2020-21 academic session on Thursday. In view of the pandemic, classes will be held virtually. The academic session was virtually inaugurated by chief guest Ajay S Shriram. Shriram is board of governors chairperson and the chairperson and senior managing director of DCM Shriram Limited.IIM Sirmaur director professor Neelu Rohmetra welcomed all dignitaries and students and said that amid the pandemic the year has opened a new dimension of learning. “The pandemic forced us as an institution to rediscover and innovate to convert the challenge of connectivity posed by the remote location into an opportunity to connect globally,” Rohmetra said.  She stated that IIM Sirmaur was starting two new regular programs - a PhD programme and MBA (tourism and hospitality management), apart from its flagship MBA programme. She said IIM Sirmaur was the only IIM in the country to launch a tourism management programme.Shriram told students that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, their first year will be challenging as it will mainly involve e-learning to begin with. He encouraged students to give priority to their coursework. He emphasised on the ten traits of a good leader which are value system, networking, optimism, open mind, agility, empathy, humility, communication skills, digital expertise and family roots.Founder chairperson Feedback Infra (P) Ltd and member of the board of governors Vinayak Chatterjee encouraged students to place equal emphasis on courses which are generally neglected over numbers and analytics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/iim-sirmaur-commences-academic-session-virtual-classes-to-be-held/story-ORBWZNw63r3fcWyRtfVQMI.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab hooch tragedy: Suspects will be probed irrespective of political affiliation or rank, says inquiry officer||Amritsar: Jalandhar divisional commissioner Raj Kamal Chaudhary on Thursday initiated an inquiry into the hooch tragedy that has claimed 113 lives in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts. Interacting with officials of the three district here, Chaudhary said that no suspected person irrespective of his or her affiliation to any political party or rank in any government department will be out of the probe’s purview. “The responsibility of everyone concerned will be fixed by finding out where the negligence was,” he said. “I have 21 days to complete this probe and I will bring out the truth and put it up before the government. The main parts of this investigation will be the police and excise departments, because these two are responsible for stopping the sale of illicit liquor,” he said. DETAILS OF DISTILLERIES During the meeting, he asked the joint commissioner, excise, Punjab, for details of distilleries running in Punjab, their owners, the products containing ingredients such as ethanol and methyl alcohol, quantity of products made and sold in two years, the excise officials deputed in these distilleries and the areas affected by the tragedy. Besides, he sought the report about the method of transportation of industrial spirit made in the distilleries. The details of where this spirit is manufactured and sold was also sought apart from details of bottling plants. FACILITATORS TO FACE MUSIC, TOO From police officials of the three districts, he sought the report of the investigation so far, details of items seized and those arrested, copies of first information reports (FIRs) and the method adopted to probe the case. He asked them to present statements of victim families and residents of affected villages. The commissioner asked them to share details about what has been done by the police under Red Rose drive launched in May by the Punjab Government to curb the drug problem. “Action will not only be taken against those indulging in selling illicit liquor at the lower level but also against those facilitating this racket,” he said. He said that he would visit victim families and residents of affected villages. “There were people who died but their autopsy was not conducted. Such cases will be part of the probe,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-hooch-tragedy-suspects-will-be-probed-irrespective-of-political-affiliation-or-rank-says-inquiry-officer/story-ds6JzmE2VgT5ycEb7fitkI.html
06-08-2020||Bangalore||Eight products to mitigate Covid-19 launched by Karnataka Deputy CM||Eight products aimed at mitigating Covid-19, developed by various start-ups at Bangalore Bioinnovation Centre (BBC), were launched on Thursday by Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwathnarayan through an online platform. The BBC is an initiative of Karnataka Innovation and Technology Society (KITS), Department of Electronics, IT, BT and S&T, Government of Karnataka. The products are Padma Vitals+, developed by Dr Madan Gopal of Cardiac Design labs, Mallis Cordytea, developed by Dr Moushmi Mondal from Mallipatra Nutraceuticals and CD4 Shield developed by Dr Vijay Lanka and his team from Stabicon. Other products are BeamRoti and Immune Booster daily drops, developed by Dr Srinivas from Aspartika, VegPhal - Fruit and Vegetable Sanitiser (by Deepak Bhajantri from Krimmi Biotech) and water sanitizer kitchen tap and antimicrobial HVAC module (by Ravi Kumar of Biofi). Congratulating the start-ups, Dr Ashwathnarayan, who holds the portfolio of IT, BT and Science and Technology, said these technologies and products add to the list of earlier products launched and developed by the start-ups at BBC. He said the launch of the products show that Karnataka has emerged as a leading state in developing solutions to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, which is a result of the robust Innovation ecosystem present here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/eight-products-to-mitigate-covid-19-launched-by-karnataka-deputy-cm/story-MCI74T0xdBadGUI31HlmIO.html
06-08-2020||Lucknow||UP records highest single-day spike of 4,586 Covid-19 cases, 61 deaths||Uttar Pradesh recorded the highest single-day spike of 4,586 Covid-19 cases and 61 deaths on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 1,08,974, an official said.The death toll due to the disease rose to 1,918, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said.The number of active cases in the state has gone up to 43,654 and 63,402 have been discharged from hospitals after treatment, he said.Over 27 lakh tests have been performed in the state so far, he said, adding that the network of 61,350 COVID help desks has helped identify over three lakh people who have symptoms and their samples have been sent for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-4-586-covid-19-cases-61-deaths/story-qzRvmcLb771adnumuDCdUO.html
06-08-2020||City||Pune divisional commissioner reduces paperwork of pvt hospitals for Covid cases||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has streamlined the admission procedure for Covid patients at private hospitals. The hospital management has to fill 4-5 forms against the previous practice of 17-18 forms. Rao said, “At every review meeting, private hospitals raised the issue that time was lost in filling various forms. Even manpower was unnecessarily needed to fill 17-18 forms for Covid patients.” The senior official said that the administration appointed a three-expert committee to address the issue. The panel found that private hospitals need to fill and submit the same information at various offices, including Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), district collector, municipal corporation and charity commissioner. The experts suggested that these agencies can also get the information from a single platform.” Rao said, “Based on the panel’s recommendations, the form-filling exercise has been reduced to four and five.” The commissioner said that private hospitals are voluntarily approaching the administration to convert their hospitals into Covid care centres. Rao said, “A private hospital had to use its beds to quarantine 45 staff. When I suggested that the infected staff will be shifted to a civic-run quarantine facility, the hospital agreed to turn the hospital into a Covid care centre. Hence, we got 45 beds for critical patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-divisional-commissioner-reduces-paperwork-of-pvt-hospitals-for-covid-cases/story-S3idMBsOGR1bjRNKWugLSO.html
06-08-2020||Pune||Minor girl dies in Chakan road accident||A 13-year-old girl died after she came under the wheels of a dumper at Chikhli in Pimple Gurav on Tuesday afternoon. According to police, the deceased, identified as Vibhuti Sanjay Safriya (13), was riding pillion on a two-wheeler with her father Sanjay Safriya, when the dumper hit their vehicle from behind leading to the accident. The victim fell under the wheels of the dumper and was killed instantaneously, police said. The body was taken to the YCM hospital for the post mortem. Police arrested the driver, identified as Ganesh Rajaram Vagere (27), a resident of Thergaon, and charged him with rash and negligent driving leading to the death of the minor. Sangvi police are investigating the case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/minor-girl-dies-in-chakan-road-accident/story-Cx0c78mZShvFlSDxPdlImI.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray reviews Maharashtra’s preparedness for heavy rains||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday took stock of the state administration’s preparedness in the wake of the incessant heavy rains in Mumbai and other parts of the state, including Kolhapur where the Panchganga river was flowing close to the danger mark. A statement issued by the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said Thackeray asked the authorities to remain alert and ensure citizens do not face hardships.He spoke to the authorities concerned and officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), it said.Mumbai city received 331.08 mm rainfall while the suburbs received 162.3 mm downpour from Wednesday till 8.30 am on Thursday. The city witnessed strong winds at a speed of 106 km per hour while elsewhere it was 70 to 80 kmph, it said.The chief minister asked the officials concerned to take up clearing of the uprooted trees ona war-footing.He also praised the railway police and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel for their efforts in rescuing 290 passengers from two local trains stranded on flooded tracks near Masjid Bunder in south Mumbai on Wednesday.The statement said a railway employee was killed due to electrocution from a motor pump in Masjib Bunder while one person was injuredwhen a tree fell on him in Kurla.Water-logging in different parts of the city was cleared fast by the civic staff, it said.There were 361 incidents of uprooting of trees and branches and 15 incidents of wall collapse in Mumbai, it said.Thackeray asked Konkan and Pune divisional commissioners to focus on shifting to safer places those living near the rivers, whose water levels were rising due to heavy rains, in Kolhapur, Raigad and Ratnagiri districts.There are 16 NDRF teams deployed in rain-hit areas of the state out of which four have been sent to Kolhapur.Thackeray asked the authorities concernedto remain alert in view of the water level in the Panchganga (Kolhapur), Kodavali (Ratnagiri) and Kundalika (Raigad) rivers flowing close to the danger mark.State Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar visited the control room at the secretariat here on Wednesday night to take stock of the rain situation and arrangements being made to evacuate citizens stranded in the flood-prone areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-reviews-maharashtra-s-preparedness-for-heavy-rains/story-YKXeQUqjcqun5NORwVkSCI.html
06-08-2020||Pune||Served as CM for 277 days, Nilangekar was second after Antulay to resign due to court ruling||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the demise of Shivajirao Patil Nilangekar’s demise on Tuesday saying “he served the state diligently, especially working for the welfare of farmers and the poor’, many remembered him for his political skills. After all, as Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee chief between 1991-1992, Nilangekar ensured his party bagged 38 of the 48 Lok Sabha seats in the state.Nilangekar had a couple of other distinctions too. He is remembered as ruling the state merely for 277 days and was the second CM of Maharashtra after AR Antulay to have resigned due to indictment from the court.Nilangekar resigned in 1986 from the post of the chief minister when the Bombay High Court passed strictures against him after “fraud” was alleged in the results of the (MD) examination of Mumbai University in 1985 “at his behest” to help his daughter Chandrakala and her friends.“When Mumbai University declared the results of MD (obstetrics and gynaecology) examinations during November 1985, eyebrows were raised as Nilangekar’s daughter was among the other students cleared it with handsome marks,” said Chitra Lele, professor, political science at SNDT University. There were around 34 out of 47 students who cleared the exam that year.Dr Mahesh Gosavi, an assistant medical officer at the King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital and whistle-blower smelled fishy in the case and approached the court, which eventually ruled against Nilangekar.Interestingly, it was the same courtroom in Bombay High Court that ruled against both Nilangekar and Antulay. Around four years before the verdict on Nilangekar, the same courtroom in Bombay High Court, which convicted Antulay in “cement scam”. Antulay, eventually resigned after two years in 1982.“Despite serving for a brief period, Nilangekar was for a long time remained a political force in Latur district, his hometown, and Marathwada region,” said Lele.By late 1990s when Congress sidelined him, his daughter-in-law Rupa Dilip Nilangekar joined BJP and defeated father-in-law during 14th Lok Sabha polls. The late CM’s grandson Sambhaji Nilangekar, also a BJP member, was a minister in Devendra Fadnavis cabinet.Following Nilangekar’s exit, another stalwart from Marathwada YB Chavan was made the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/served-as-cm-for-277-days-nilangekar-was-second-after-antulay-to-resign-due-to-court-ruling/story-mfodYVPgOjPoiazsS9jqlO.html
06-08-2020||Pune||Pune district crosses 1-lakh grim mark of Covid-19 positives, overtakes Thane||puneletters@htlive.com Pune: Pune district on Wednesday breached the one-lakh grim mark of progressive positive cases with overall tally reaching 101,262. With Thane reporting 99,563 cases, Pune district has become the second worst affected district in the state after Mumbai, which has so far reported 119,240 cases as per the state health department. In the past 24 hours, Pune district reported 2,386 cases while the number of deaths was 92, taking the toll at 2,434. The district has 101,262 Covid-19 cases, 59,443 recovered patients, 2,434 deaths and 39,385 active cases as per state health department. Within the district, PMC’s share of progressive positives is 65,136 as 1,282 fresh positives were reported and 63 deaths took the death toll to 1,639. PCMC’s share of progressive positives is 24,683 as 740 fresh positives were reported and 14 deaths took the death toll to 445. Rural Pune accounted for 364 fresh cases which took the progressive positive count to 11,443 and 15 deaths were reported which took the death toll to 350. Of the total cases in Pune district, 65,860 have come in July alone, out of the total cases reported which posed major challenge before the administration with beds began short. To meet the demand for beds, administration has started setting up three jumbo facilities. Dr Bharat Purandare, infectious disease expert from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital said, “There is a curve for the virus which every city follows, first the virus reaches its peak and then its forms a plateau and then it starts falling, but the time to reach its peak depends on the demographics and so Mumbai which is so congested reached its peak faster than us and Bengaluru and Hyderabad are following us now. Hopefully, in the next 2-3 weeks, we will see the number of cases fall after we touch that plateau. Also Pune is seeing many patients coming in from other districts and even other states like Karnataka. Almost 10% of the patients in our hospitals are from outside district which adds on to the city’s case number and deaths.” As per the state health department’s report, Pune district includes parts of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), three cantonment boards and rural parts of Pune. While Pune is recording a sharp spike in the number of cases, Pune is also testing extensively. The number of tests per million for the district, 45,931, is higher than the state average, 17,745, and also the national average 15,124. The district reported the first Covid-19 positive case on March 9 when two passengers who were part of a tourist group that had returned from Dubai had returned to their house on Sinhgad road which falls under zilla parishad. This was also the first case in the state. The next day as the contact tracing process began, the district also reported Maharashtra’s first case of local transmission when the driver who drove the couple in a cab from Mumbai international airport their home in Pune. As the number of cases started going up drastically, the city has come across serious problems, including bed shortage, shortage of drugs and patients being overcharged. Although the administration brought in drastic measures, including complete lockdown and also declaring the entire district as a containment zone on April 20to bring down the number of cases. Even as the process of unlocking the city and commercial activities have started with some conditions in place, the number of cases have been rising.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-crosses-1-lakh-grim-mark-of-covid-19-positives-overtakes-thane/story-8elqCu0lKsN5H5P9xRTALN.html
06-08-2020||Pune||Don’t rake up religious issues for political gains, says former Union home secretary Madhav Godbole||Engaging in religious issues to gain public attention will distract India’s capability and development process, said city-based bureaucrat and former Union home secretary Madhav Godbole, after the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram Temple at Ayodhya, on Wednesday.Godbole resigned as the Union home secretary after Babri Masjid was demolished in 1992, subsequently taking voluntary retirement. He held several high positions in the bureaucracy and the government.The city-based bureaucrat has penned a book ‘The Babri Masjid-Ram Mandir Dilemma: An Acid Test for India’s Constitution.’“I hope this is not the beginning of a new chapter. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been saying that this is just the beginning and next would be Mathura and Kashi,” said Godbole.“Reopening religious issues affect and divides the society at large. Politicians rake up religious issues for political gains,” he said.Stressing on the need of a political consensus among all parties regarding no changes to be made to the character of religious institutions, Godbole said, “There is parliamentary legislation and the character of any religious institution must not change and these issues must be discussed in national integration council and this body has been put in the limbo.”“Religion must be separated from politics,” he added.Godbole lamented that the Parliament which was supposed to keep the government in check for its excesses has failed to discharge its constitutional duty.“Parliament as a body is non- functional and they must function to be effective in making the government adhere to the constitutional and secular principles of the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/don-t-rake-up-religious-issues-for-political-gains-says-former-union-home-secretary-madhav-godbole/story-Ymhem0pqaCeeRCiMI07aRN.html
06-08-2020||Pune||Ram temple event celebrations take place in Pune under strict police vigil||The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic restrictions, along with strict police vigil had an impact on the celebrations of the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram Temple at Ayodhya, on WednesdayThe restrictions are imposed in certain parts of the city under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and guidelines of social distancing stipulated by the central and state health departments.Pune unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) celebrated the event at its office on Jungli Maharaj road where the city president Jagdish Mulik offered symbolic puja and distributed sweets to the party men and office bearers present.“This is one of the historic movements not just for us for the entire country. We celebrated the event by following all the guidelines issued by police,” said Mulik.The Akhil Bhartiya Brahman Mahasabha president Anand Dave along with the organisation members also performed puja of Lord Ram, distributed booklets on the temple movement and sweets at a temple in Sadashiv peth.The Pimpri Chinchwad unit of BJP celebrated the event by distributing sweets and performing and performing puja even as Pimpri-Chinchwad police had served notices to some of the workers.The BJP workers were served notice on Tuesday under section 149 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).PCMC commissionerate officials incharge for security stated that notices were served as preventive measure.BJP officials said that the celebrations took place peacefully with social distancing and adherence to the guidelines of the government.Both the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad police had intensified night patrolling in the wake of the event and ensured that social distancing guidelines were followed. Sensitive areas were given additional police bandobast.Earlier on Tuesday, Pune rural police issued an order warning action against people circulating inflammatory, misleading and objectionable content on social media.In the city, the Muslim dominated areas were peaceful and it was business as normal for the residents. The city police had also conducted a series of meeting with community elders regarding the event and spoke at length about communal harmony and peace in the society. Strict police watch was maintained across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ram-temple-event-celebrations-take-place-in-pune-under-strict-police-vigil/story-YqtT4pHNxyg2LDYsoTSJHJ.html
06-08-2020||Noida||Noida: Covid-19 cases more than doubled in a month||The total number of people who have tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar has more than doubled in a month, official data showed on Wednesday.The district, adjoining Delhi in western Uttar Pradesh, had recorded its first-ever Covid-19 case exactly five months ago on March 5 and had 2,765 cases by July 5.The district recorded 100 new cases on Wednesday and its infection tally reached 5,644, showing a rise of 104 per cent in a month, according to official statistics released by the Uttar Pradesh Health Department.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe number of deaths linked to the novel coronavirus rose from 28 to 43 during the month-long period. On the brighter side, the mortality rate among positive patients dropped from 1.01 per cent to 0.72 per cent on Wednesday, it showed.In terms of recoveries, Gautam Buddh Nagar’s performance improved from almost 64 per cent to nearly 83 per cent. There were 2,765 total cases a month ago, of which 1,759 patients had recovered from Covid-19 by July 5. By August 5, there were 5,644 total cases and 4,669 recoveries, according to data issued on Wednesday.In terms of active cases, the district had 978 patients under-treatment for Covid-19 on July 5. The figures had risen up over 1,000 and fallen below 700 during the month-long period, but currently stands at 932.Uttar Pradesh had 8,161 active cases on July 5 which rose to 41,973 a month later, while the virus-linked mortalities increased from 785 to 1,857 during the period, according to the official data.The number of recoveries rose from 18,761 to 60,558 in the span of a month across the state, it showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-covid-19-cases-more-than-doubled-in-a-month/story-Y4fUov2YIjzdIodcR3vnpN.html
06-08-2020||Pune||Flood fears haunt Kolhapur and western Maharashtra as heavy rains lash region||The state government on Thursday sounded a flood alert for Kolhapur district as heavy rains battered western Maharashtra during the past forty eight hours, leading to rising water level of the Panchganga river and water logging in many parts of the district.The Panchganga river in Kolhapur was flowing well above the alert level mark on Thursday morning following heavy rainfall in the area, district disaster management cell officials informed. The river’s level at the Rajaram Bridge scaled 41.7 feet which is more than two feet above the alert level of 39 feet while the danger level is at 43 feet.At the same time, water level of Krishna river, in which Panchaganga merges at Shirole village, has also started rising.According to the highway control, as many as nine state highways and 25 other roads in the district have been affected as a result and traffic has been diverted via safe routes. Given the grave situation, district collector Daulat Desai appealed to people living on the river banks to immediately move to safer places. “Since the rains stopped on Thursday morning, the water level of the river is expected to remain steady. We have shifted people and livestock from villages including Chikhli and Ambewadi, which are flood-prone, to safer places. We are prepared to handle any situation,” he said. Kolhapur’s Guardian Minister Satej Patil assessed the situation and directed the administration to remain alert and prepared for any flood-like situation in the district. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed four teams in Kolhapur district as a precautionary measure. Neighbouring Sangli district also witnessed heavy rains during the past forty eight hours following which the district administration has appealed to the residents living on the banks of the Krishna, Warna and Koyna rivers to remain in a state of alert citing rising water levels in the rivers.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy to very rainfall in Kolhapur and surrounding regions throughout Thursday. Kolhapur has received an average daily rainfall of 150 mm in the past 24 hours, which led to increase in the river water levels in the district.Unprecedented rains on August 6 last year had wreaked havoc in western Maharashtra, especially in Kolhapur and Sangli districts, leaving at least 60 people dead while thousands of animals were flown away in flooded rivers and there were serious losses to property. The flood situation that lasted for four days due to incessant rainfall had cut of Mumbai-Bangaluru highway. This year, many parts of Maharashtra are facing severe waterlogging and flood-like situation following incessant rainfall over the past several days. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said on Thursday that 16 NDRF teams have been deployed in several parts of the state in the wake of heavy rainfall.“The state government has deployed 16 teams of NDRF in various parts of state in the wake of heavy rainfall over the last two days. Five of them have been deployed in Mumbai, four in Kolhapur and two in Sangli. Punchganga is nearing its danger level in Kolhapur. The local authorities have been put on alert,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday assured all possible support to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray regarding the situation prevailing in Mumbai and surrounding areas due to heavy rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/flood-fears-haunt-kolhapur-and-western-maharashtra-as-heavy-rains-lash-region/story-Bg3BmBqfUuHkkLdn1QgyJK.html
06-08-2020||Bangalore||Rain batters several parts of Karnataka, flood situation looms large||Battered by torrential rains, several parts of Karnataka are facing a flood-like situation for the third consecutive year, putting lives and property at risk.Several districts of the state’s coastal, Malnad and north interior regions are receiving heavy rains and the showers are expected to continue, while there are reports of landslides in hilly areas of Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru districts.With flood-like situation in several parts of the state, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who is currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection at a private hospital here, has ordered immediate release of Rs 50 crore for emergency relief.“In wake of heavy rains in several parts of the state, I have instructed the Chief Secretary to review the situation and issued instructions to DCs (Deputy Commissioners) to closely monitor the situation & take necessary measures. Also ordered immediate release of Rs 50 crores for emergency relief purposes,” he tweeted last night.A statement released by the CMO on Thursday said, Yediyurappa has directed the district in-charge Ministers to take precautionary measures in the wake of heavy rainfall across the state.He instructed the ministers to remain in their constituencies and tour the damaged areas and also directed them to undertake relief distribution and other necessary measures.“Rs 50 crore has already been released and if necessary more funds would be released. The ministers can take decisions regarding emergency works,” he added.Revenue Minister R Ashoka said he had spoken to Deputy Commissioners of all the districts and given them necessary instructions to respond immediately to the situation.He has called for a meeting of the disaster management authority later today.Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he will be holding a meeting with the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) regarding relief and rescue measures to be taken.Parts of districts in coastal and Malnad regions are currently under red alert and rains are likely to continue there.Officials said, “... depending on the situation we will downgrade the alerts, it (rains) is likely to reduce during the next couple of days...wind speed is also high some parts, it may also reduce.” In Kodagu district along with widespread rains, landslides have also occurred.There have been landslides at Brahmagiri, near Talacauvery, the origin of river Cauvery.“At least four to five people- including the Talacauvery temple priest and family are currently missing...rescue teams have reached the spot,” officials said, adding that sensing danger the priest had been asked to vacate the house earlier but he did not.This is the third consecutive year that Kodagu is facing floods and landslides.Several parts of north Karnataka, especially the border district of Belagavi are also facing flood situation as inflow has increased in Krishna river and its tributaries due to heavy rains in neighboring Maharashtra and also in the district.With inflow increasing in Tungabhadra river, there is flood like situation in parts of Ballari district also.There is a similar situation in Uttara Kannada district that is battered by rains and heavy winds.The swollen Gangavali river has caused flood like situation in parts of the district.Due to continuous rains in coastal and Malnad region several rivers including Netravati are swollen and gates of the dams have been opened.There are also reports of heavy rains and wind causing destruction to crops in parts of Dharwad and Haveri among other districts.The Karnataka government had recently said it has identified 1,989 villages and over 51 lakh people in 19 districts as flood prone.As a temporary arrangement for those who will be affected by floods, as many as 1,747 relief centres have been identified- they are schools, anganwadi centres, community centres among others, Minister Ashoka had said recently.In August 2019, Karnataka witnessed one of its worst natural calamities when heavy floods affected 103 taluks in 22 districts, killing more than 80 people and displacing nearly seven lakh people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/rain-batters-several-parts-of-karnataka-flood-situation-looms-large/story-CvRpDDzjJ4ETh4oMOSsFIP.html
06-08-2020||Latest||Capital loss: An era ends with the passing of Sadia Dehlvi||A handful of families can rightfully claim to be true-blue Delhiwallahs — the earliest settlers of Delhi. Sadia Dehlvi belonged to one such family of traders who took on the name Dehlvi upon making this city their home. Sadia, 63, died at her home in Nizamuddin East after a long battle with cancer. Her son, musician Arman Ali Dehlvi was by her side. The last rites were performed on the morning of August 6. Saddened by the untimely demise of historian and writer Sadia Dehlvi Ji. Delhi will remember her as a true dilliwali and a historian of the people. RIP pic.twitter.com/I59ri3vbT5In her lifetime, Sadia donned many hats —an author, journalist, scriptwriter. She also wrote a column for Hindustan Times. She would narrate stories and talk about the tehzeeb of Dilli with such soulfulness that you would be transported to a mystical place — a Delhi that is now lost. Her home was a warm place filled with the laughter of friends, the music that her son made, and of course, food. Her wit was distinct, just like the aromas wafting out of her kitchen. Her dastarkhwaans were legendary, transcending food.   Sadia Dehlvi, author and friend, passed away this evening after a long, brave struggle with cancer. May she and her loved ones be always loved by her Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya #lifeA post shared by  Mayank Austen Soofi (@thedelhiwalla) on Aug 5, 2020 at 10:07am PDTAuthor and close friend of Sadia’s, Rakhshanda Jalil wants to celebrate her life. “I want to remember her for the sparkling person that she was. She was a great raconteur and could really spin a story with a twinkle in her eye. She was a great cook and her benchmark was her mother; if her mother nodded in approval, that meant it was alright. Family was important for her.”Read: Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya: Celebrating the mystic’s life and timesA devotee of the Chishti order of Sufism, Sadia was most at peace at the dargahs of Ajmer Sharif and Nizamuddin Auliya. Haji Syed Salman Chishty, Dargah Ajmer Sharif, says, “It’s tragic and there really are no words to express the loss. Sadia Aapa has always been so full of life and a great human being. Her home was the essence of Tehzib-e-Dilli — the immaculate culture as well as hospitality of Delhi. A great lover and devotee of Chishty Sufi tradition, she frequently visited Ajmer Dargah Sharif. Sadia Aapa had a special connect with Khawaja Gharib Nawaz and would spend hours in Dargah Sharif meditating as well as interacting with mystics, faqirs and deekers. For us, visiting Delhi will never be the same.”Author Bhaichand Patel, who had been friends with Sadia Dehlvi for over three decades, talks about Sadia’s love for life. “I have known her since 1986. I had just come to Delhi at that time. She knew everybody in town, and came from a distinguished family. She was a wonderful person, very bright, brainy and a learned person. She was always helpful to people, everybody loved her. She also had a wedding reception at my home and a lot of VIPs came including the Giani Zail Singh who was the President that time. And when she was young, she was prettier than any movie star,” he says.Sadia spent a considerable time in Old Delhi, and at her family’s ancestral home, Shama Kothi in Central Delhi, forging strong ties with the people there. Of one such family of hakeems, Munib Ahmed Khan, recalls his time with her. “Sadia aunty was a very strong person. She was a fighter all through her life. Our families go back a long way. Mine is a family of hakeems, so we were close to people who would make Unani medicines. I knew her for as long as I can remember,” he says.  Totally Silent Here... Except for the Sai-Sai of Morning Breeze #lifeA post shared by  Mayank Austen Soofi (@thedelhiwalla) on Aug 5, 2020 at 9:48pm PDTAuthor and lawyer Saif Mahmood remembers her as a feisty woman: “I had known Sadia Apa forever. Our families had known each other for three generations. She fought orthodoxy and cancer alike. She typified the old Shahjahanabadi culture even while driving the image of the traditional Muslim woman away from the stairs of the Jama Masjid and bringing it centre stage. Her mannerism, on one hand, made her look like a post-modern elitist woman of the kind you see on European screens, and on the other, evoked that certain sense of plainness which is characteristic only to the streets of Purani Dilli. To me, it seems that she will pop out from somewhere, laal gulaab in hair, and say: chalo ab ho gaya rona dhona, celebrate me now.”Read: Reviving Delhi’s long lost and forgotten home recipesHer aura was such that even those who hadn’t met her, or had only seen her socially a few times, were immediately besotted. For chef Sadaf Hussain, who has seen the bylanes of Purani Dilli through her lens and stories, and how she has narrated those, meeting her was on his wish list. He says, “I never got to meet her but her work has inspired me, and it was the meeting I wanted to do this year. She and her family used to say, “we are the real Dehlvis”. This added swag to her personality,” adding, “If you ask me how I would give an ode to her, I would say I will make nihari.”Abhinav Bamhi of Faqirchand and Sons Bookstore says that it was her unmistakable aura that attracted everyone. “I have seen her at our shop a few times, and met her at book launches, literary events and cultural evenings. She always had this charisma — everyone going around her, people greeting and coming up to her. I enjoyed admiring her assertively profound presence and aura. She had such an amazing Dilliwali vibe that one could feel the culture in her, that urdu ka andaaz and mystical sufi vibe. These are some things that will stay with me forever,” he says.Anuj Bahri, of Bahrisons Booksellers, says that she would visit them often, and in true Dilli style, he pens an ode to her: Dilli ki nazaakatKo dekha hai kareeb seTum woh lau hoJo dilli ke dil se roshan rahe giThe night was cooler, the moon shone a bit brighter and there was a whiff of jasmines somewhere close. Delhi would never forget you, Sadia.Follow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/books/capital-loss-an-era-ends-with-the-passing-of-sadia-dehlvi/story-LphXVeSGdAGPOVtCU07kkN.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Abrogation of Article 370 an internal matter, other countries have no business interfering: Venkaiah Naidu||Chandigarh: Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday said that the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir is an internal matter of India and other countries have no business interfering. “Other countries have no business interfering or commenting on our internal matters. Every country is expected to take care of its citizens, safeguard its interests and focus on internal problems,” Naidu said while delivering the first Sushma Swaraj Memorial Lecture organised by Panjab University, Chandigarh, via video-conference. Without naming Pakistan, Naidu said, “I advise not only our neighbour, who made this comment, but also all countries that they should not interfere in the internal affairs of others. We are a democratic country and we have a track record that we discuss issues, understand their pros and cons and then take decisions in the larger interest of the country.” On August 5, 2019, the Centre had revoked Article 370, which granted special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. “It (Article 370) was an issue that concerned the country’s unity, integrity, safety and sovereignty,” said Naidu, who is the chancellor of Panjab University.REMEMBERING POPULAR SUSHMA Sushma Swaraj, the former external affairs minister who died in August last year, had graduated from the university’s department of laws in 1973. The vice-president said that she was the most popular external affairs minister India has had in recent times. “She used to articulate the position of India on all issues in an efficient manner. She had the ability to convey everything in a sweet manner but she was firm on commitments,” he said. He recalled her contribution to parliamentary debates and contribution to public service. Naidu advised Panjab University to organise lectures every year “to remember the great leader it has produced. She is an ideal personality worth remembering every year.” Besides organising the memorial lecture every year, Panjab University plans to set up a chair in Sushma Swaraj’s name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/abrogation-of-article-370-an-internal-matter-other-countries-have-no-business-interfering-venkaiah-naidu/story-7nM5SF90hiN1IuCK8dqQqK.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Court rejects Indrani Mukerjea’s bail plea in Sheena Bora murder case||A special CBI court here rejected the bail plea of Indrani Mukerjea, the prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case, noting that the possibility of the accused influencing prosecution witnesses cannot be ruled out.After failing to secure bail multiple times on medical grounds, Mukerjea in December last year filed another plea, seeking bail on “merits” of the case.Special CBI court judge JC Jagdale rejected the plea on Wednesday. The court observed thatsome important case witnesses like Rahul Mukerjea, son of accused Peter Mukerjea, and Vidhi, daughter of Indrani Mukerjea and her former husband and co- accused Sanjeev Khanna, were yet to be examined.“There is no doubt that the accused is an influential and wealthyperson. Therefore, the possibility of influencing prosecution witnesses cannot be ruled out,” the judge said.While arguing for bail, Indrani Mukerjea told court that the prosecution’s case was “false and baseless” and she had nearly 120 documents to prove it.She submitted that there is no scientific evidence to prove that the crime happened.She pointed out inconsistencies in the evidence put forth by the prosecution to prove her role as a conspirator and one of the killers of her daughter Sheena Bora.She also raised doubt about the “credibility and legality” of the probe.Indrani Mukerjea claimed there are numerous contradictions in the testimonies of prosecution witnesses, including accused-turned-approver Shayamwar Rai.“They have either contradicted their own statements, or the statements of other witnesses, or the prosecutions story itself,” she had submitted.However, the judge in his order observed that in the middle of trial, the court cannot declare that the part evidence is either wholly reliable, or partly reliable, or totally unreliable.“At the present juncture, the court cannot conclude that the evidence led by Shyamvar Rai (approver) has falsified or suffered from fatal infirmities due to cross-examination of the said witness,” the court noted.The judge further observed that at this stage, the trial court cannot pass a final conclusion about the evidentiary value of the witnesses.“In my opinion, the accused and the advocate concerned should co-operate with the trial court to finish the said trial,” the judge added.Indrani Mukerjea is currently lodged at the Byculla women’s jail in Mumbai.Last month, the court rejected her another bail plea, citing the risk of contracting coronavirus in the wake of the disease outbreak in the jail.Sheena Bora (24) was allegedly strangled in a car by Indrani Mukerjea, her then driver Shyamvar Rai and Sanjeev Khanna in April 2012.Her body was burnt in a forest in neighbouring Raigad district.Indrani Mukerjea was arrested in August 2015.Former media baron Peter Mukerjea was also later arrested for allegedly being part of the conspiracy. He is currently out on bail, which was granted by the Bombay High Court earlier this year.His 17-year-old marriage to Indrani Mukerjea ended during the period of incarceration as the two got divorced in October last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/court-rejects-indrani-mukerjea-s-bail-plea-in-sheena-bora-murder-case/story-wieCJSSigivY3lHZGUKrZP.html
06-08-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19: HAL donates ambulances to Karnataka govt hospitals||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) has donated two ambulances to Bowring & Lady Curzon Medical College & Research Institute (BLCMC&RI) in Karnataka on Thursday.Under BLCMC&RI, there are three major government hospitals - Bowring & Lady Curzon Hospital, HSIS Gosha Hospital and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Super Specialty Hospital which are presently converted as Covid hospitals for emergency treatment in the state.“These specialised ambulances can be used for transporting patients who require medical monitoring while in transit and non-invasive airway management,” said R Madhavan, Chairman and Managing Director, HAL.The ambulances are equipped with facilities such as air conditioning, basic life support system, analog oxygen delivery system, auto-loader stretcher trolley with floor mounting mechanism, said the release.A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was also signed between HAL and BLCMC&RI to up-keeping and maintenance of ambulances by BLCMC&RI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-hal-donates-ambulances-to-karnataka-govt-hospitals/story-GFCSZdun6RHsG55OS0Jy5H.html
06-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt to declare all jails as containment zones||Alarmed by the recent discovery of 67 infected jail inmates and staffers at Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Central Jail (BMCJ) and Pakur’s divisional jail, the state government is all set to declare prisons across the state as containment zones to ban any unauthorised entry and exit, officials said on Wednesday.A decision in this regard has been taken and a formal order is likely to be issued soon.Confirming the development, inspector general (IG), prison, Birendra Bhushan said, “It has been decided to declare all jails across the state as containment zones to impose complete lockdown there. Sampling would also be ramped up. Besides, many other decisions are also taken for effective containment of the pandemic.”Bhushan added, “An order in this regard will be issued soon.”As many as 54 people, including 32 inmates and 22 staff of BMCJ, were found infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus on August 3. Among the infected inmates, two are politicians. Besides, 13 prisoners lodged in Pakur divisional jail were also found infected with the virus.The spike in Covid cases among jail inmates has prompted the government to take strict measures to seclude the large number of inmates and staff from outside exposure.At present, Jharkhand has around 26,000 prisoners lodged in different jails across the state. The total capacity of these jails, however, is approximately 20,000.Elaborating on the decisions taken, the IG (Prison) said, “Prisoners’ meetings with their relatives would remain suspended. Usage of telephone booths by inmates would not be allowed during lockdown period. All the cells would not be opened simultaneously for prisoners’ movement inside the jail premises. Only one cell would be opened at a time.”“Besides, movement of jail staff too would be restricted. No one would be allowed to venture outside,” he said.The IG also informed that in order to contain the spread of the disease, a decision has also been taken to improve the food quality by adding more nutritious items and immunity boosters like eggs, lemon tea, and ‘kaadha’.“We are also trying to set up a dedicated 100-bed Covid hospital for jail inmates at Ranchi’s Khelgaon sports complex. Every jail has already set up an isolation centre in its premises,” Bhushan said.In order to prevent panic among inmates, the jail administrations have been asked to initiate counselling sessions for prisoners.Through amplified sound systems, the inmates are being informed about the pandemic’s nature of spread and its recovery pattern. They are being motivated to take it positively and that there was nothing to worry about as all possible steps were being taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/j-khand-govt-to-declare-all-jails-as-containment-zones/story-2fCc7f8LvGeJP6oQy5BLvO.html
06-08-2020||Bangalore||K’taka Minister urges people to exercise caution amid Covid-19||With rains in several parts of Karnataka amid Covid-19 pandemic, state Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Thursday asked the people to maintain caution and contact the Health department helpline in case of any symptoms. “There is heavy rain in several districts of the state’s coastal, Malnad and north interior regions. People have to observe utmost caution during these rains amid corona infections. In case of any symptoms like fever, cough and cold immediately call the health department helpline 104,” Sudhakar tweeted.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs of August 5 evening, cumulatively 1,51,449 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 2,804 deaths and 74,679 discharges.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban tops the list accounting for 64,881 cases. Regarding Bengaluru, Sudhakar said, there are 4,276 beds across 11 Covid care centres in Bengaluru.“As of today morning, 936 of them i.e., 27.79 per cent are vacant. Out of the 3,346 patients, 306 patients are due for discharge today,” he said in another tweet.Aimed at availing beds at Covid hospitals for symptomatic patients and those in need, the government had decided to shift all asymptomatic patients to Covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/k-taka-minister-urges-people-to-exercise-caution-amid-covid-19/story-mN0dlZRQrj0bL53A86txBK.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||Covid-hit private bus operators demand relief from Delhi government||Private bus operators in the national capital have sought relief from the Delhi government in the wake of losses due to the coronavirus pandemic, saying 65-70 per cent of their vehicles are still off roads. Claiming that “the whole ecosystem stands the risk of collapse,” the Delhi Contract Bus Association office-bearers, in a letter written on Wednesday to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot, urged for waiver of road tax from April to December this year. The association represents contract carriage and all India tourist bus operators catering to schools, offices, national and multinational companies and tourists. “The transport operators are under acute financial strain and about 65-70 per cent of their vehicles are still off the road. In the present critical situation of the trade, the bus operators are devastated. The situation is aggravated by depletion of their finances in meeting obligations like staff salaries, taxes and interest on EMIs,” said the association general Harish Sabharwal. Due to shortage of demand, their operations are becoming economically unviable, and it has become very difficult to pay the taxes for vehicles due since April, he said. “In sync with your government’s endeavours to help the citizens of the state during these tough times and to provide them the much-needed relief, it is earnestly requested to your good self to issue needful directions to the Transport Department in this regard,” said the letter to the chief minister, requesting a tax waiver. Due to the pandemic, the financial crisis in the passenger transport segment has reached its peak. Unless the governments provide the timely and necessary support to the sector, the whole ecosystem stands the risk of collapse, Sabharwal said. Gurmit Singh Taneja, working president of the Delhi Contract Bus Association, said there was no revenue generation for school bus operators, as schools were closed indefinitely. “As per the guidelines of the Supreme Court, the school buses are painted with yellow colour and they run on CNG and cannot be used anywhere else. But during lockdown they have incurred costs like EMI’s, staff salaries, insurance, parking charges, Road Tax and several government compliances, borne by the operators,” Taneja said. Domestic and international tourism is at a standstill due to the pandemic and hence there is no earning for tourist buses as well.  Office goers are working from home, IT-sector, multinational and national organizations are still closed, he said. There is no revenue generation and financial inflows as mostly payments from business houses and companies are restrained and existing finances with small bus operators as well as that of big bus operators are depleting fast, Taneja reasoned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-hit-private-bus-operators-demand-relief-from-delhi-government/story-5mApNxAqV6tc0YzMkYY2TK.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Rain intensity reduces, transport services resume in Mumbai||A day after heavy showers pounded Mumbai and neighbouring areas, the rain intensity reduced on Thursday morning and water receded in some flooded areas, leading to gradual resumption of rain and road transport services, officials said.However, some areas in south Mumbai, which witnessed a record rain on Wednesday, were still water-logged, they said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted moderate to heavy rainfall in the city and suburbs and intense showers in some parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region in next 24 hours.The Colaba observatory in south Mumbai recorded 330 mm rainfall in the 24-hour period ending at 5.30 am on Thursday while the Santacruz weather station in western suburbs recorded 146 mm during the period, IMD Mumbai centre’s deputy director general K S Hosalikar said.“Rains have reduced since night, but Colaba has been setting up another record for August rainfall,” he tweeted.While some areas of south Mumbai were still inundated, water receded in most other parts of the city and suburbs, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.According to BMC’s update till 8 am, areas like BPT Colony at Wadala, Nair Hospital in central Mumbai, Maharshi Karve Road and Sakkar Panchayat area in south Mumbai were still water-logged.Except for the Dahisar subway, no other subway was inundated and there was also no water-logging in Hindmata, Parel TT and Mumbai Central areas.A Central Railway Spokesperson said local train services resumed around 7.45 am between the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Thane on the main line and between CMST and Vashi on the harbour line after inspection of tracks, signals and overhead systems.On Wednesday, due to heavy water-logging on tracks between CSMT and Kurla, the suburban services on CSTM-Thane main line and CSMT-Vashi harbour line were suspended from 4 pm.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and railway authorities on Wednesday rescued 290 passengers from two local trains stranded on flooded tracks between CSMT and Sandhurst Road stations.The Western Railway local train services, which were also suspended on Wednesday due to water-logging on tracks between Churchgate and Mumbai Central stations, resumed early Thursday morning, an official said.Bus services of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST), the city civic body’s transport wing, also resumed, the BMC said, adding that services were diverted to alternate routes in a couple of locations.South Mumbai was the worst affected due to heavy rain on Wednesday and several streets at the Marine Drive, Mantralaya and Kalbadevi witnessed heavy water-logging for the first time in recent years.Hosalikar said intense rainfall was likely in north Palghar as a radar image indicated intense clouds over the area. The cloud cover over Mumbai and Thane was comparatively less, he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/34-roads-9-national-highways-closed-due-to-severe-flooding-in-maharashtra-s-kolhapur/story-1EiavwC1gtTSez4auzUB0N.html
06-08-2020||Pune||Water stock in Pune dams rises after heavy rains||Heavy rains in the catchment areas of four dams around Pune, which provide water to the city, increased the storage in these reservoirs.According to the irrigation department, the cumulative water storage of four dams- Temghar, Varasgaon and Panshet and Khadakwasla- stood 45.1 per cent as on Wednesday evening.A senior official from the department said thatthe Khadakwasla reservoir is filled 61 per cent and the water level may reach to 100 per cent by Thursday due to incessant rains.Water will be released from Thursday from Khadakwasla, he said.A senior IMD official said that the water storage in the dams is likely to increase as good rainfall is expected in the catchment areas in the next few days.Moderate rainfall with isolated heavy spells are expected in Pune district, while isolated heavy to very heavy showers are expected in the ghat (hilly) areas, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/water-stock-in-pune-dams-rises-after-heavy-rains/story-ilpv6wBtPmrlxAkyZvuEKK.html
06-08-2020||Lucknow||5 drown as boat capsizes in UP’s Mau||Three children and two women drowned when their boat capsized in the swollen Saryu (Ghaghra) river in Uttar Pradesh’s Mau district Wednesday evening, officials said.Eleven people have been rescued but a 15-year-old girl is missing, they said.The boat was carrying people from Chakki Musadohi area in Mau district and the bodies were found near Teliakala village in Deoria district, Deoria DM Amit Kishore said.The boatman possibly lost control because of the river current, he said.The five deceased have been identified as Savita (48), Sarita (42), Karan (10), Kishan (7) and Arjun (5). The children were brothers.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked senior officials to rush to the spot and ensure quick relief and rescue work, an official spokesperson said in Lucknow.The CM has also extended an assistance of Rs 4 lakh to the families of each of the deceased, he said. PTI COR SAB ABH ABH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/5-drown-as-boat-capsizes-in-up-s-mau/story-gAqFnXjnonZr1uzvrGEeLO.html
06-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugramwale: Days of her post-multiplex life||The coronavirus pandemic has made theatre-going seem like a habit from some dead civilisation. So, spare a thought for those poor folks who consider the multiplex manager their “soulmate” because of his exclusive access to film tickets.One such committed movie-goer Jyotika Bhaskar, who enjoys a great bonding with a multiplex manager, presides over the world from her 11th floor apartment overlooking Gurugram’s Golf Course Road. In her early 50s, she lives with her daughter and has a passion for pursuits that necessitates outings into the wider world outside—Ms Bhaskar loves hanging out with friends in multiplexes and malls. The pandemic has made all these things impossible.Helping us prepare a part of Covid-era history’s first draft, Ms Bhaskar generously responds to a set of questions about ‘daily life these times’ we have been putting to people from diverse backgrounds. The pictures are taken through the mobile screen that connects her to this reporter.Five outdoorsy things you’ll do after the pandemic is over.1. I will visit Tina, my mother, in her Delhi home in Ishwar Nagar, and give her the tightest squeeze ever. This pandemic is making us do such strange, unnatural things, like seeking permission from our loved ones before greeting them the way we used to. Asking permission to hug your own mom??? Yeh kya baat hui? Cruel coronavirus.2. I’ll go get a plate of gol gappas from the Harish Bakery in Sector 56. For me, his crunchy gol gappas, with the yummiest khatta meetha jal jeera paani, are pure magic. Not to forget the fact that my loyalty always makes the folks there give me two extra ones. Have tried chaat and gol gappas at many other places too, yes, but nothing beats these in the quaint market of (Sector) Chhappan.3. I cannot wait to pack my stuff and head out with the loved ones to the hills in Himachal. I like to drive myself in the plains, but let my sister, Monisha, or brother-in-law, Sunil, take over the steering wheel once the hills begin. This journey to Manali, with a break in Kasauli for two days, is just the thing that invigorates my being. The mountain roads through which we pass are beautifully interspersed with furious looking white-water rivers. I always stop to dip my feet into the cold water. It’s thrilling.4. I’ll go to my most favourite shopping place — Lajpat Nagar (Delhi). Being a proud Gurgaonwale, I do go to the malls but Lajpat Nagar is something I have missed a lot in these months. I’ve known some of the shops there since the time I was a child. Such as the pressure cooker repair man who never writes anything on paper but knows which cooker belongs to whom; the gota zari embroidery shop; the dry fruits shop and of course the momo lady! Kahaan gaye yeh sab? Are they still there or not? How are they coping these days?5. My once-a-week movie watching has come to a halt because of this pandemic. While everyone has family members’ mobile numbers, doctor’s number, etc., saved on speed dial, I have the number of multiplex manager Prateek. For the past many years, I have been watching the latest releases in a nearby multiplex where I’m treated like a VVIP. Just have to send one message on phone and Prateek promptly books my ticket, and even keeps the popcorn and coffee ready for me. He also knows of my favourite seat in the theatre—J6! I’m sure that these days Prateek must be missing me as much as I am missing him. Once I couldn’t get the ticket and was crying openly in front of the box office when he approached me and said, “Ma’am, you never have to worry about the ticket, please don’t cry!” This happened some 8 years back and since then Prateek has been my soulmate!The view outside your window at the moment.A green garden, trees and lots of birds. At a little distance, a very sad lonely Rapid Metro bogie is standing by itself on the tracks.What’s going on in your mind right now?Was that it, or is this it? Was the life before corona? Or is the life this, during corona?Objects in your house that give you solace in self-isolation.My kitchen bartans (utensils). My utensils and my kitchen kept me sweaty and upbeat through these crazy, messy, emotional, up-and-down days. I cooked and cooked and cooked. My pressure cookers, kadhais, non-stick pans— all called out to me all the time. During these months my daughter, Mahima, and I decided that we would ourselves make all those dishes that we love to eat. Together we rustled out peach upside down cake, banana bread, kung pao chicken, fried rice, biryanis, and so many more dishes. I also pulled out old family recipes. Seriously grateful to my kitchen for keeping me sane in these tough days of self-isolation. Hope I live to see that much-awaited post-pandemic dawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugramwale-days-of-her-post-multiplex-life/story-8ag56Dam2sCXMMvhdJYoLL.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Scheme to give free sanitary napkins to 22.50 lakh BPL women, girls launched||The Haryana government on Wednesday launched a scheme to give a packet of free sanitary napkins to about 22.50 lakh women and girls below the poverty line every month for a year.A scheme was also started to provide fortified flavoured skimmed milk powder under the ‘Mukhya Mantri Doodh Uphar Yojana’ for children aged 1-6 years in anganwadi centres, and pregnant and lactating mothers under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS), an official statement said.It would reach about 9.03 lakh children and 2.95 lakh pregnant and lactating mothers visiting 25,962 anganwadi centres in the state. Under the ‘Mahila Evam Kishori Samman Yojana’, adolescent girls and women between 10 to 45 years of age of below poverty line (BPL) families would be provided free sanitary napkins every month for a year. Each packet would contain six sanitary napkins, it said.Apart from this, the Education Department has also prepared another scheme under which 6.50 lakh girl students would be provided six sanitary napkins every month. Speaking after launching these schemes here, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar urged all the deputy commissioners (DCs) to include the ‘Mukhya Mantri Doodh Uphar Yojana’ in their flagship programmes and make targeted efforts towards addressing the problem of anaemia and malnutrition among women and children in their respective districts.On the occasion, the chief minister also distributed packets of skimmed milk powder to five beneficiaries of the ‘Mukhya Mantri Doodh Uphar Yojana’, including three children and two pregnant women. He also distributed packets of free sanitary napkins to some beneficiaries of the ‘Mahila Evam Kishori Samman Yojana’. Packets of skimmed milk powder and sanitary napkins were also distributed simultaneously to the beneficiaries of both the schemes in all the districts of the state who joined the programme through video conferencing, the statement said.Expressing concern over the problem of malnutrition and anaemia, Khattar said there are a few districts in the state like Nuh, where the problem of anaemia among women and children is comparatively high. He asked the DCs to ensure effective implementation of the ‘Mukhya Mantri Doodh Uphar Yojana’ in their respective districts, saying that the fortified flavoured skimmed milk powder to be distributed under the scheme would play an important role in reducing malnutrition. This milk would contain nutritious elements like protein, calcium, magnesium, B-12 as well as vitamins-A and D, which would replenish the micro-nutrients and vitamins in the body, the statement said.Under this scheme, around 200 ml of fragrant skimmed milk would be given per day for six days in a week to the children between 1 and 6 years of age in anganwadi centres and pregnant and lactating mothers.Khattar said apart from the government, other government organisations and NGOs working in the field of women and child development could also play a vital role in the effective implementation of these schemes at the grassroots level and also encouraging the beneficiaries to take maximum benefit under this scheme.  He said the BJP-led government has been working by focusing on ‘4-S’ --’Shiksha (education), Swasthya (health), Suraksha (security) and Swamlamban (self-reliance)’. Speaking on the occasion, Minister of State for Women and Child Development Kamlesh Dhanda said the two schemes would not only give a major boost to ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ campaign but also help in addressing the problem of malnutrition among women and children. She said an amount of Rs 256 crore would be spent on both these schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/scheme-to-give-free-sanitary-napkins-to-22-50-lakh-bpl-women-girls-launched/story-4yPwwjdxpdGd8DfT87ZBEN.html
06-08-2020||Lucknow||Three women part of coronavirus vaccine trial||Three woman students in their early twenties have shown courage to take the corona vaccine trial in Gorakhpur.“It was our decision to be a part of the trial which aims to save lives,” said the women participating in the human trial of the vaccine being done by the Rana Hospital and Trauma Centre in Gorakhpur. “I got to know about the trial and approached the hospital,” said one of them.The women are 18, 22 and 24 years of age and are pursuing graduation and post graduation in Gorakhpur.In all, 10 individuals have been given doses, including a farmer, PG students and an employee of a private organizations. “All the 10 volunteers are normal. They were examined under the routine check -up and were found fit and healthy,” said chief administrative officer of Rana Hospital, Venkatesh Chaturvedi.Asked what inspired them to come forward for trial of the vaccine, the 24-year-old woman volunteer replied, “I myself felt that I should volunteer. I contacted the hospital and they said yes after my health check-up.”All the three women are back to their normal lives and are in touch with the hospital. They will be screened again after a few days. Trial of the vaccine made by Bharat Biotech is being done at 12 places in the country and two Uttar Pradesh hospitals are also part of it. “A farmer from Gorakhpur is now part of the trial as a volunteer, while others are staff of different private offices and two PG students,” Chaturvedi said.This is Rana Hospital’s third trial in a span of one year. Earlier, trials for typhoid and Japanese Encephalitis vaccines, with a sample size of 100 volunteers, were completed in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/three-women-part-of-coronavirus-vaccine-trial/story-S1EdKU3hq2TAylsFOYotsN.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Colaba battered by heaviest one-day rain in August since 1974||The heaviest one-day rain in August in 47 years in Mumbai, home to India’s financial markets and the central bank, inundated large parts of the mega city and disrupted businesses and services.The Colaba weather station recorded 33.2 centimeters (13 inches) of rainfall in the 24 hours through 8:30 am Thursday, the highest downpour for a single day in August since at least 1974, according to the India Meteorological Department. More spells of moderate to heavy rainfall are forecast for Thursday, accompanied by strong winds of as much as 80 kilometers per hour.Follow latest updates on Mumbai rains here “It’s not a very regular thing” to witness intense showers continuing for several days, K.S. Hosalikar, deputy director general at the weather department’s Mumbai center, said late on Wednesday.Heavy showers in the city may hamper its fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Mumbai is among the worst affected cities in the country, which has more than 1.8 million confirmed infections and close to 40,000 deaths.Gusty winds, sometimes over 100 kilometers per hour, damaged the signage on the top of the 29-story building housing Asia’s oldest stock exchange in downtown Mumbai, and the fire brigade was called in to ensure it didn’t crash to the ground, BSE Ltd.’s Chief Executive Officer Ashish Chauhan tweeted Wednesday evening.Also read: 290 passengers rescued from two stranded trains in MumbaiThe Reserve Bank of India, located a short stroll away from the BSE, is due to announce its monetary policy decision at noon local time on Thursday. Mumbai’s municipality reported small urban landslides that blocked traffic, waterlogged streets and falling trees that damaged electricity poles in certain parts of the city. A lake that supplies Mumbai with water began overflowing.Authorities asked residents to stay indoors even as several offices are shut with employees working from home due to coronavirus-related lockdowns. As many as three cranes collapsed at Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust on Wednesday, but no one was injured.Local trains were suspended in some areas, while buses were diverted. Uddhav Thackeray, chief minister of the state of Maharashtra, of which Mumbai is the capital, asked local authorities to stay alert. The municipal corporation made arrangements for temporary shelters in some schools to move people from flooded areas, it said in a Twitter post.Disruptions due to rains, which often flood roads and low-lying areas, are a regular occurrence in Mumbai during the monsoon season, as authorities in the mega city of 18 million grapple with crumbling infrastructure.The Santacruz weather station recorded 16.2 centimeters of rainfall in the 24-hour period that ended at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. The center witnessed 26.9 centimeters of showers in the 24-hour period by Aug. 4 morning, while Colaba got 25.2 centimeters, according to the weather office.Rains have been 1% below normal across the country since June 1, according to the weather office. About 79% of the country received normal to excess showers during the period, while rest got deficient rain, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heaviest-one-day-rain-in-august-since-1974-batters-mumbai-s-colaba/story-Iqd72SiepiazvKGNF6lSQO.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||290 passengers rescued from two stranded trains in Mumbai||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Railway Protection Force (RPF) rescued 290 passengers from two local trains stranded on flooded tracks between the CSMT and Sandhurst Road station here on Wednesday, said a Central Railway spokesperson.The city was battered by incessant rains during the day.Two local trains -- one heading in the direction of Karjat in the north and another heading for Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) in south Mumbai -- came to a standstill in chest-high water around 4 pm.The joint operation was over at 10 pm with all the passengers rescued, said Shivaji Sutar, chief spokesperson of the Central Railway.While the NDRF rescued 39 passengers using inflated boats, the RPF rescued 251 passengers, he said.At Masjid station, the water was above the platform level and it was impossible for the stranded passengers to get down and walk because of the drainage channels along the tracks, he said.Both Central and Western lines witnessed heavy water-logging on tracks due to heavy rains.Early in the morning, Western Railway services were badly hit due to waterlogging between Virar and Dahanu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/290-passengers-rescued-from-two-stranded-trains-in-mumbai/story-06fvkHUGyRSTTOk2SdbMFN.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Intense rainfall with strong winds likely in Mumbai today: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday predicted intense rainfall over Mumbai during the next 3 hours.“Intense rainfall along with strong surface winds of 40-50 kmph at isolated places are likely over Mumbai during the next 3 hours,” the IMD said. Various parts of Mumbai are suffering from waterlogging due to incessant rainfall.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday assured all possible support to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray regarding the situation prevailing in Mumbai and surrounding areas due to heavy rainfall.Earlier, IMD predicted heavy downpour in the region.“Widespread rainfall with scattered heavy to very heavy falls and isolated extremely heavy falls most likely to continue over Konkan and Goa (including Mumbai) till August 6 and over Madhya Maharashtra (ghat areas) till August 5 and reduce thereafter,” IMD said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/intense-rainfall-with-strong-winds-likely-in-mumbai-today-imd/story-oqiHePqvQ3zAetL8ApylLP.html
06-08-2020||Lucknow||Major UP rivers flow above danger mark, 536 villages in 16 districts hit by floods||Major rivers in Uttar Pradesh continued to flow above the danger mark at some places of the state where 536 villages in 16 districts have been hit by floods, officials said on Wednesday.The Sharda river in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Palia Kalan, the Saryu river at Barabanki’s Elgin Bridge, Ayodhya and Ballia’s Turtipar, and the Rapti at Gorakhpur’s Bird Ghat were flowing above the red mark, Relief Commissioner Sanjay Goyal said.He said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked senior officers to maintain strict vigil on all bridges and embankments.As of now, all bridges and embankments were safe. There are reports of some problem in embankment on Saryu (Ghaghra) in Ballia which is being attended to, Goyal said.Sixteen teams of the NDRF, SDRF and provincial armed constabulary (PAC) have been deployed for search and rescue works. Besides 2728 boats have also been deployed for rescue operations.The chief minister has directed officials that vigil be maintained on the water level of all rivers and people be shifted to safer areas well in advance. He has said that social distancing be maintained in shelters set up in flood affected areas.A total of 160 flood shelters have been set up in the state. As many as 657 flood chowkis have also been set up, the relief commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/major-up-rivers-flow-above-danger-mark-536-villages-in-16-districts-hit-by-floods/story-I2nhuTbHSVDjw1X8H2vaUI.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai rain latest updates: Stadium damaged, nearly 300 people rescued from local trains||Mumbai received the highest rainfall of the season within just 12 hours on Wednesday besides the highest-ever wind speed, the city’s civic body BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.The India Metrorological Department (IMD) has predicted more rainfall for Thursday saying in its morning bulletin that the southwesterly monsoonal flow over the Arabian Sea will continue over the next 24 hours.Here are the latest developments:* According to the BMC, Mumbai recorded 215.8 mm rain, followed by 101.9 mm in eastern suburbs and 76.03 mm in western suburbs. Upscale areas of the city like Malabar Hill and Peddar Road received 309 mm rainfall.* The Colaba weather observatory in south Mumbai on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day precipitation in the last 22 years for the month of August, an IMD official told news agency PTI.* Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday assured all possible support to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray regarding the situation prevailing in Mumbai and surrounding areas due to heavy rainfall.* Three units of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are active and have been asked to be ready for immediate help in case of an emergency, the civic body said. It has opened temporary shelters for stranded passengers and others at its schools.* The personnel of NDRF and Railway Protection Force (RPF) rescued 290 passengers from two local trains stranded on flooded tracks between the CSMT and Sandhurst Road stations on Wednesday. The joint operation was over at 10 pm with all the passengers rescued, said Shivaji Sutar, chief spokesperson of the Central Railway.* The torrential rains caused extensive damage to the DY Patil Stadium in Nerul. Sanjay Kumar, who is the Commissioner of Navi Mumbai Police, informed about the damage on Twitter. He also posted pictures of the damage.* Vihar lake, one of the reservoirs supplying water to Mumbai, overflowed on Wednesday at 10 pm due to incessant rains in its catchment areas since Tuesday. Vihar is the second lake after Tulsi which has overflowed.* Several videos of rain havoc in Mumbai went viral on social media on Wednesday, showing floodwater inside shops, building compounds and slums.* The Arabian Sea swelled and the water spilled over the outer road at Girgaon Chowpatty in south Mumbai on Wednesday afternoon. According to local residents, this was the first time they witnessed such heavy waterlogging on the road outside the chowpatty, Marine Drive and several other areas in south Mumbai.* Meanwhile, orange alert has been issued for other districts in Maharashtra like Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Pune, Kolhapur and Satara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-rain-latest-updates-stadium-damaged-nearly-300-people-rescued-from-local-trains/story-xUd9yvKpXtAFZMDEDa2QCO.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||Thieves make off with ATMs from two kiosks in Delhi||Two incidents of theft of ATMs from two separate kiosks were reported within a few hours between Tuesday night and early Wednesday, the police said. The first incident was reported late Tuesday night from outer Delhi’s Narela, from where unidentified thieves made off with the currency dispensing machine from the kiosk of a nationalised bank. The exact amount that was in the machine at the time can only be ascertained after the bank officials submit the details, police said. The other incident was reported around 4am Wednesday from Rajokri village, south Delhi, from where unidentified thieves uprooted and made off with a cash dispensing machine from a kiosk. “We are waiting for a complaint from the bank concerned. We will then know the amount of cash stolen,” said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya. The police said they are scanning CCTV camera footage from the ATM booths and nearby areas for clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/thieves-make-off-with-atms-from-two-kiosks-in-delhi/story-Oz4tPV5sHCF00qs7FnHtcL.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt survey to find avenues to bolster its income||The Delhi government will conduct a study to find ways to improve revenues, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday.The move comes a day after the government sent notices to around 10,800 companies in the city for paying lesser or no tax between January and March this year. The Delhi government’s tax collection in January-March this year has gone down by over ₹2,000 crore compared to the same period last year.On Wednesday, Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s finance minister, held a meeting, for the second consecutive day, to discuss ways to increase government’s revenue collection. Sisodia on Wednesday directed the Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi (DDC) to prepare a detailed study to improve the revenue base in Delhi and submit its report in two months. The DDC is a policy think tank of the Delhi government. Its chairperson is chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and vice-chairperson is Jasmine Shah, who is also the media advisor to the CM.Talking about the scope of the study, Sisodia said the DDC would have to suggest short and long-term measures to improve revenue collection. He also directed DDC to consult with experts in the field and organisations working in public finance while carrying out the study.“The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has put a huge strain on government revenues in the national Capital territory (NCT) of Delhi. Therefore, all out efforts need to be made towards revenue augmentation so that the government is able to undertake all necessary works and programmes for the welfare of people of Delhi,” Sisodia said after the meeting. According to Delhi’s economic survey for 2019-20, Delhi is ranked position is 19th in terms of its own tax revenue as the percentage (4.73%) of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) during 2018-19.  “For 2018-19, Uttar Pradesh’s tax revenue as percentage of GSDP is 9.1%, Kerala’s is 7.7%, Rajasthan 7.2%, Maharashtra 7.1% and Andhra Pradesh 7%. Looking at Delhi’s trend itself, its tax revenue to GSDP was 6.18% in 2009-10, which reduced to 5.38% in 2014-15 and further reduced to 4.73% in 2018-19. In comparison, the average tax revenue for all states as a percentage of their GSDP was 5.94% in 2009-10, which increased to 6.25% in 2014-15 and further increased to 6.69% in 2018-19,” the government said in a statement. DDC vice-chairman Jasmine Shah said the Delhi government’s early call for opening the economy and a robust healthcare strategy has set the right conditions for an economic revival. “The DDC will perform a rigorous study on the improvement of the revenue base of Delhi. We will involve the field experts to perform this study. Today, the Delhi model of fighting against Covid-19 has become a model for across India and we are confident that with time and a proper strategy, we will be able to overcome the revenue deficit too,” he said. In a bid to improve Delhi’s revenue deficit, the trade and taxes department of the Delhi government has started analysing the returns by taxpayers registered under GST. On Tuesday, Sisodia held a meeting with the officials, in which it was said that of the 15,000 taxpayers analysed so far, nearly 970 taxpayers have not filed returns for 2020-21 from January to March. The Delhi government has also found that this year, nearly 10,800 companies paid lesser or zero tax from January to March. Taking cognizance of these findings, the Delhi government has prepared a list of defaulters. The deputy chief minister has appealed to all the companies to immediately deposit their taxes. He also said that the Delhi government will take stringent action against the defaulters. “The Delhi government has evaluated 15,000 companies so far but in the future up to 7 lakh companies registered under GST will be evaluated. The Delhi government will take strict action against all the defaulters after the evaluation,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-survey-to-find-avenues-to-bolster-its-income/story-YwaqO6mFp4PbdWgIJCb49O.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Dreams of a father||He will remember the year 2020 for the rest of his life, he says. Not because of the coronavirus pandemic, though.“It’s the first time somebody in our family scored such marks in high school,” says Beni Prasad Bansal. In his early 50s, the newspaper vendor is talking of his son. “Akshar got 97.6% in his 10th standard board exams.” Since Mr Bansal is wearing a mask, it is impossible to make out his happiness, or perhaps his pride, from his face. And he is too soft-spoken, too restrained in his demeanour to betray such vain feelings through his voice. Nevertheless, he must be believed when he says that he has no reasons for any regrets at the moment.The gentleman feels confident in his talented son enjoying a career that will be superior to his. He himself has been a newspaper seller for decades. Since 1992, this tall quiet man has been standing every morning (his back always straight and erect unlike the passing crowd about him) on the same spot in central Delhi, with his cycle decked with the morning’s newspapers. On this late morning, he has already delivered the papers to the houses of all his regular clients—he stuck one folded copy very deftly in a shop’s shuttered metal grills—and is now patiently waiting for chance customers, just like the vegetable seller standing next to him. He shall go home as soon as all the newspapers are sold. Relatively free for the time, Mr Bansal gives an account of the 10th standard results of the rest of his family to give perspective to his son’s performance.His daughter, Aishwarya, completed her 10th some years back. “The students were given grades instead of marks the year she cleared 10th. She had gotten B.” The young woman is employed as an analyst in a Noida-based company, and is currently working from home due to the pandemic. Mr Bansal himself scored 73% in 10th. “I had to quit studies after clearing the 12th board exams because of problems at home.” Suddenly shifting his voice to a flat feeling-less tone, he talks of his “old ambitions of setting a private business, but the dreams could not become real.” His wife, Rekha, scored more than him: 80%. She is a home-maker.His father, Sri Narayan Das, who retired as a bank clerk in 1996 scored... Mr Bansal doesn’t know. He calls up his father on mobile, who tells him that it all happened too long ago for him to remember. All he recalls is that he barely managed to pass. “Back then 10th pass people would get jobs as bank clerks, I think,” says Mr Bansal.And then there was Vimla Devi, his mother. “My mother studied till fifth standard. Women weren’t encouraged to study much in her times.”Mr Bansal isn’t sure of what his son’s plans are, but for now the boy wants to pursue science as his principal subject. And he aims to score similarly illustrious marks in the 12th standard board exams, too. The vendor doesn’t want his son to pick up his profession. “I have no complaints with my newspaper selling career, but it demands high labour with not much money in return.” Gesturing towards the dailies arranged on his cycle’s handle bar, he says that nobody could predict the front-page tomorrow—will it be all good news or speak of calamities still to happen? “That’s the thing with future... you don’t know what it will be like.” But his son has surprised him by exceeding his expectations and “Akshar’s tomorrow should be definitely better than his father’s or grandfather’s... that’s all I pray.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-dreams-of-a-father/story-yVxHLF5xjyc4g4elPUyzjP.html
06-08-2020||Ranchi||Covid-19, chicken pox, road accident fail to stop Jharkhand girl from cracking UPSC||Kolhan had a reason to cheer after Mumal Rajpurohit beat of bouts chicken pox and Covid-19 and a road accident to crack UPSC 2019, while Shantanu Kumar Singh from Bhumij tribe, two brothers from a family and the son of a police official from Birsanagar also cleared the exam, the results of which were declared on Tuesday evening.Mumal, daughter of Jamshedpur chief forest conservator Jabbar Singh, was happy to have achieved a 173rd All India Rank (AIR) in UPSC this year in her fourth attempt.“I got infected with chicken pox 21 days ahead of my preliminary exams, met with a road accident a day ahead of Mains and had tested positive for Covid in Delhi two months before the interview round. Time management is the key to crack the civil services exams,” said Mumal on Wednesday.Meanwhile, Kansa panchayat in Dhalbhumgarh block of Jamshedpur (East Singhbhum) district was also full of celebrations as Shantanu Kumar Singh, son of Kansa mukhiya Purna Chandra Singh, secured AIR 654 .He is perhaps the first tribal youth from the district to have cracked the UPSC.He is presently posted as a trainee deputy collector in Jamtara after cracking the JPSC. His father was a bank employee prior to becoming a ‘mukhiya’ after retirement, while his mother Lakshmi Rani Sardar is a government teacher.Former Jharkhand chief factory inspector Arun Kumar Mishra’s son Kumar Shivashish secured AIR 108.Another UPSC ranker from Jamshedpur, however, is Priyank Kishor from Birsanagar locality of Jamshedpur who secured AIR 61 in his second attempt this year.He had secured AIR 214 last year and was under training in the Income Tax department.“But, my dream was to become an IAS and hence I tried again. Thankfully, this time I have been able to achieve my goal,” said Priyank, son of Hazaribag sadar DSP Kamal Kishor.Besides, a Chaibasa family had more than one reason to rejoice as cousin brothers Saurav Kumar Gupta and Anubhav Gupta succeeded in clearing the civil services exams with AIR 115 and 472 ranks this year.Another aspirant, Rishi Anand from Sahara Garden, Adityapur secured AIR 143 in UPSC 2019.He presently works in a Bengaluru firm after passing out of IIT.Jusco employees Mihir Mishra and Bhavna Mishra’s son Mayank Mishra cleared the UPSC-2019 this year with AIR 172 rank. Mayank did his B-Tech from BITS-Pilani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-girl-beats-covid-chicken-pox-road-accident-to-crack-upsc/story-KzTePEK9wjOlq4wTPZUE5L.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Electricity bill-related issues hassle Chandigarh residents||Residents are a harried lot as the UT electricity department is charging four months’ bill in one go, even as many are struggling with the monthly expenses amid the lockdown. Besides, the department is also not sending hard copies of bills and has reduced the time given for payment, say residents. “It is very difficult for the residents, particularly, retired senior citizens to pay large amounts,” said Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation. “In addition to it, the department is also not giving the benefits of four months’ lower slabs. The electricity charges are levied depending on the slab of consumption. For every month ,there are two slabs, but with four months’ bills being charged in one go, instead of getting benefits of lower slabs four times, residents are only getting it only once. This is disturbing the monthly budgets of tresidents,” added Puri.NO HARD COPY OF BILLSResidents also complain that not all power consumers are receiving hard copies of the bills. “Residents have to check the bills online and sometimes, they get an SMS. This is also creating confusion. The administration should either allow for staggered payment of the bills, or relax the deadline for the payment of the bill by 15 days,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh (FOSWAC).RK Garg, a city-based RTI activist, said, “The electricity department has skipped the mandatory 15 days’ time to pay electricity bills. On August 4, I received the department’s message on my mobile regarding the bill. I was surprised to see that the due date is on August 14. So, the electricity department has not given mandatory 15 days’ time to pay hefty bills.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bill-related-issues-hassle-electricity-consumers-in-city/story-OJJMzGhDVzhceEI8w27oCL.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Teen, youth nabbed for damaging PCR vehicle with brick in Chandigarh||Police have apprehended a 16-year-old juvenile and arrested a 22-year-old man for damaging a PCR vehicle by throwing a brick at it in Mauli Jagran on Tuesday. The accused arrested was identified as Akash, alias Sumit, 22, a resident of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula. In her complaint, constable Poonam said she, along with driver Ashok Kumar, was patrolling in the PCR vehicle in Mauli Jagran around 1.40pm. When they reached Charan Singh Colony School, two boys threw a brick at the PCR and fled towards Rajiv Colony. The brick smashed the PCR vehicle’s left window. Ashok chased them, but they managed to escape. A police team later nabbed the duo. They were booked under Sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code at the Mauli Jagran police station.Akash will be produced before a court on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/teen-youth-nabbed-for-damaging-pcr-vehicle-with-brick-in-chandigarh/story-4OBo87DnSMK0LZnZZvahkJ.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||CM asks BMC, other civic bodies to be on high alert||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took stock of the monsoon situation in Maharashtra, especially in Mumbai and asked civic bodies to stay on high alert as heavy rainfall has been predicted in Mumbai for the second consecutive day on Thursday.He has also appealed to citizens to not venture out of their homes unless in dire need. He has also ordered the authorities for better coordination to handle situation arising out of the heavy downpour. “Municipal corporations, police, power supply authorities have been directed to ensure that the citizens do not face any hardship. Authorities have been directed to restore outage of power, clear waterlogging by acting swiftly. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority has been asked to avoid any type of mishap due to heavy rainfall,” the statement issued by the chief minister’s office stated. Shaft panel of Jaslok hospital falls off due to rainAs Mumbai was battered with heavy rain for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, a shaft panel of Jaslok Hospital and Research Centre, covering three floors, fell off due to strong winds. However, no one was injured in the incident. A statement issued by the hospital stated, “Due to incessant rainfall and heavy wind pressure this afternoon, one of the shaft panels of the hospital building got loosened and was blown away. However, no one was hurt due to the incident as our team quickly acted in time. We are committed to the well-being of our staff and patients with all safety measures in place.”All-time high August rain for Dahanu Dahanu recorded its all-time highest 24-hour rainfall, beating a 75-year-old record, on Wednesday with 383.1mm rain over 24 hours. The previous record was set on August 14, 1945 with 353.3mm rainfall. This is the first year in over a decade when the weather station at Dahanu recorded more than 300mm rain in 24 hours in August. According to rain readings from Palghar district administration, Palghar recorded 460.6mm rain over 24 hours while Zhar recorded 460.4mm, Boisar 452mm, and Tarapur 447mm. However, since the India Meteorological Department (IMD) does not have weather stations there, rain readings were not taken by them. Independent meteorologists explained why Dahanu, Palghar and areas north of Mumbai received more rain between Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. “The offshore trough (strong wind currents over the Arabian Sea coast) formed due to the low pressure system in Bay of Bengal keeps shifting. It had earlier shifted northwards allowing more rain in areas north of Mumbai. The same system moved slightly towards the south, leading to heavy rain for Mumbai, Raigad and Ratnagiri,” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay. Spotted deer rescued from Goregaon drain A male spotted deer was displaced during heavy rains on Tuesday and got stuck in a large drain at Goregaon (East). The forest department, in coordination with wildlife groups Spreading Awareness on Reptiles and Rehabilitation Program (SARRP) and Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare (RAWW), rescued the deer and took it to the animal rescue centre at Sanjay Gandhi National Park. The animal was examined and will be rehabilitated back to the wild. “The rescue operation was conducted in a strategic manner where the rescue teams secured it from both the sides while a team entered through the manhole with the help of a ladder,” said Pawan Sharma, president, RAWW.Flight operations disruptedStrong winds led to flight diversions and go-arounds at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport on Wednesday.According to air operator Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL), seven flights had to go-around. While MIAL said that no flights were diverted, airport sources said three flights were diverted between 5.30pm and 7pm.According to sources, SpiceJet 7304 had to divert to Surat, IndiGo 6E 969 had to divert to Ahmedabad and IndiGo 755 had to divert to Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-asks-bmc-other-civic-bodies-to-be-on-high-alert/story-EmCURKFzxV41oIHL0RSASO.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Paperless ticket project launched in Delhi’s buses||The transport department in Delhi on Wednesday started on a pilot basis a provision for contactless ticketing, with all buses on route number 473 which connects Badarpur with Anand Vihar ISBT for three days, said state’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot. Currently, buses in Delhi are operational but with restrictions — not more than 25 passengers at any given point of time. Each of these passengers have to be seated. All conductors were given online training to assist commuters, during the three-day pilot run by a team of Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology in Delhi, said Gahlot. He also added that the aim of the initiative is to minimise physical exchange of cash and tickets between commuters and conductors, in the light of the Covid pandemic.The passengers have to scan QR codes on their mobile phones during the travel through a mobile application designed for the purpose. The required fare can be paid through Google Pay and other UPI-based payment systems supported by the mobile application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-paperless-ticket-project-launched-in-delhi-s-buses/story-uNzmlSUcil0c5gsSq3tOOK.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai washed out, again; SoBo worst-hit||If not for the pandemic and lockdown, Mumbai would have witnessed monsoon mayhem on Wednesday, with citizens stranded in trains and at railway stations, roads waterlogged and hours-long traffic snarls. Nevertheless, the heavy rain with gusty winds led to several incidents of severe waterlogging, tree collapses, partial house or building collapses with properties damaged as signages of prominent buildings got blown away. The island city, especially south Mumbai, was the most affected and many new locations that have never been inundated during the monsoon in the previous years such as Girgaum Chowpaty, Nariman Point, and Babulnath were heavily waterlogged. No injuries were reported. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), waterlogging was reported at nine prominent locations in the island city, four locations in the eastern suburbs, and three locations in the western suburbs, with many areas submerged in two- or three-ft deep water. A total of 142 instances of tree or branch collapses were reported across the city, of which 112 were reported from the island city alone, 13 from the western suburbs, and 16 from the eastern suburbs. According to the India Meteorological department (IMD), the Colaba weather observatory recorded 229.6mm rain in nine hours (8.30am to 5.30pm), heaviest rain for the season for south Mumbai, and the Santacruz observatory recorded 65.8mm. Wind speed was 65kmph gusting to a maximum of 72kmph in south Mumbai between 4pm and 5pm. The visibility was less than 600m. A high tide of 4.41-m was reported at 1.19pm, and 1.4-m at 7.27pm. Waterlogging was reported at Hindmata, Dadar TT junction, Gandhi Market in Sion, MIES college, Gol Deol, JJ junction, Thakurdwar junction, Shaikh Mistry Dargha road, and Bhendi Bazar junction; Andheri subway, Dahisar subway, and National College at Bandra in the western suburbs; Postal Colony, Chembur, Chunabhatti Bunder Bhavan, CMT Kurla Road, and around Mankhurd railway station in the eastern suburbs. The government-run JJ hospital witnessed waterlogging at the emergency ward. All patients were shifted to other wards. “Thankfully, due to heavy rain, we didn’t get many emergency cases,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, dean of the hospital.The signage of Bombay Stock Exchange, atop the BSE building at Fort was blown away due to gusty winds. Ashish Chauhan, CEO of BSE tweeted on Wednesday evening, “The signage on top of the BSE building toppled due to heavy wind and incessant rain today. We are seeking the help of fire brigade to ensure that the signage doesn’t fall to the ground and injure anyone or create property damage for anyone. Please bear with us.” Mumbai also reported six instances of partial house collapses, where a wall or balcony of a building collapsed, three of which were in the island city, and three in the eastern suburbs. BMC repeatedly urged citizens to stay indoors, or stay put. Maharashtra minister for environment, Aaditya Thackeray tweeted: “Requesting all to remain indoors. Mumbai is lashed with high velocity winds and extremely heavy rain as we all can witness....While we’ve asked all to stay home, the police and urban/ rural local bodies staff are on streets and are braving the stormy rains. Please stay home and stay put wherever indoors you are across the entire belt receiving rains.” BMC on Wednesday evening said, “All officials of the fire brigade and the gardens department are out on the streets, removing collapsed trees off the streets to ensure smooth traffic.” Local train services were severely impacted on both the central and western line. Local trains on the CR were suspended due to waterlogging between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Thane and on the harbour railway line between CSMT and Vashi railway stations. On WR, a tree fell on overhead wires between Marine Lines and Churchgate railway station. Services were suspended between Churchgate and Mumbai Central stations. BEST diverted its buses on more than 32 routes in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-washed-out-again-sobo-worst-hit/story-CnPCieEK2aLORbKzKErqkL.html
06-08-2020||City||5-year-old swept by currents, holds onto a tree||Five-year-old Mamta Lalka was walking with her parents and two siblings around 2am on Wednesday after their hut in Shenwari farm in Dahanu got damaged due to torrential downpour. While heading towards their pucca house in the same area, they were crossing a nullah when Mamta slipped and was swept away by currents. Her father, Vijay, looked for her but couldn’t locate her in the dark. Meanwhile, Mamta, who knows swimming, saw a tree and held on to the branch so as to not be swept away by the strong current, said Rahul Sarang, Tehsildar, Dahanu. “Vijay contacted us as day broke and when we went to the spot, we found Mamta still hanging on to the tree branch,” said Sarang. With the help of some local youths, Mamta was rescued from the nullah and was taken to Saiwan government hospital.Palghar district collector Dr Kailas Shinde said he will recommend Mamta’s name for bravery award to the Maharashtra government and the same will be sent to the Centre. “I will present a strong proposal on her behalf as Mamta showed her presence of mind and did not get scared despite the torrential downpour,” said Shinde. Meanwhile, the tehsildar has done a panchnama of the hut which got damaged. The revenue department will render compensation to the family as per government rules, said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-year-old-swept-by-currents-holds-onto-a-tree/story-AkMnccfFM0hYoTetT6fIuK.html
06-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: SAD speaks out against termination of contractual MC junior engineers, sub-divisional officers||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has come out in support of the 50 contractual junior engineers (JE) and sub-divisional officers (SDO) of municipal corporation (MC) who were served cessation notices by their contractor after the MC raised objections over their performance.Leader of the opposition in MC House, Harbhajan Singh Dang, former mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria, among other SAD leaders, met mayor Balkar Sandhu on Wednesday over the issue.One-month notice periods of over 35 staffers in the bridges and roads department has ended, and notices have been served to 15 JEs and SDOs working in operations and maintenance in the last few days.The leaders said that on one hand, the government was making tall claims of providing employment to the youth, and on the other, MC’s move would result in unemployment at a time when the youth was already struggling to find jobs.Dang said, “The MC is terminating those who were employed during SAD-BJP tenure. The employees are performing well. Also, the MC will face staff shortage if these people are terminated. The mayor has assured that he will look into the matter.”Mayor Sandhu said, “The contracts of only a few JEs and SDOs will be renewed as per requirement and on the basis of their performance. The services of operation and maintenance staff will also be terminated if their performance is not found up to the mark.” One of the MC employees requesting anonymity said that the civic body was not satisfied with the performance of the employees but the civic body had cited financial crisis as the reason behind the terminations. It has also come to light that many of the employees were taken aboard on the recommendations of the then SAD-BJP leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-sad-speaks-out-against-termination-of-contractual-mc-junior-engineers-sub-divisional-officers/story-wCl6aPY0FAB65MPJOP850O.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Lake water levels increase to 37.36% from 34.95%||The seven lakes that supply water to Mumbai have shown slight increase in water stock as water level reached 37.36% on Wednesday morning, up from 34.95% useful water content on Tuesday morning. The water level in the lakes was 89.96% this time last year. The current water stock is sufficient to supply water to Mumbai for a little over 100 days. Owing to the heavy rainfall since the past two days, Vihar lake situated inside Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) overflowed at 10pm on Wednesday, according to the civic body. Vihar lake, with a capacity of 27,698 million litre, is the second lake to overflow in the city. Earlier, Tulsi lake, also situated in SGNP, had overflowed on July 28. However, Vihar and Tulsi lakes do not have significant contribution towards drinking water supply to Mumbai. Starting Wednesday, Mumbai has imposed 20% water cut in the city owing to meagre rainfall in catchment areas. Between Tuesday and Wednesday morning, rainfall added 33,411 million litre (ML) water to the seven lakes, taking the total the water content to 539,307ML on Wednesday. However, this is much less compared to the stock this time last year when there was 1,301,984 ML water in the seven lakes. In 2018, the water level was 1,2,18,692 ML. About two weeks ago, on July 21, the water stock in the lakes was at 28%. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) supplies 3,850 million litre water per day (MLD) to Mumbai as opposed to a demand of 4,200MLD. After the 20% water cut, BMC will supply 3,080MLD water to Mumbai, according to information from BMC. In the past 24 hours, Upper Vaitarna received 97mm rainfall, Modak Sagar received 141mm rainfall, Tansa received 83mm rainfall, Middle Vaitarna received 99mm rainfall, Bhatsa received 88mm rainfall, Vihar received 105mm rainfall, and Tulsi 154mm rainfall. The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems — the Vaitarna system which supplies to the western suburbs and the island city and the Bhatsa system which supplies to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lake-water-levels-increase-to-37-36-from-34-95/story-irpKFanDuNYipAFLhQUcHL.html
06-08-2020||City||Waterlogging, tree collapse reported in Kalyan, Bhiwandi||Heavy rains lashed Kalyan and Bhiwandi on Wednesday, leading to waterlogging, tree collapse and electrocution of three cows in the city. Major waterlogging was reported below Mankoli bridge on Mumbai-Nasik highway, near Bhiwandi as continuous downpour was reported in Thane and its neighbouring cities since Tuesday night. However, traffic police said there was no disruption of traffic flow due to waterlogging. “The traffic was smooth compared to other days as fewer vehicles were on the streets on Wednesday morning. The road parallel to the bridge was waterlogged, hence we deployed traffic cops and warden at all the points of the stretch to manage the traffic and avoid disruption,” said an officer of Narpoli traffic unit. Bhiwandi recorded 43mm rainfall since the past two days. Sudesh Naik, 30, who took the bypass road on Wednesday morning, said, “Water had covered the entire road below the bridge and the vehicles were moving very slow. Usually there is a lot of traffic jam on this stretch, but many skipped the road on Wednesday because of rain, owing to which traffic was normal.” Kalyan also received continuous downpour leading to waterlogging at several spots with Kalyan- Dombivli receiving 88.6mm rainfall over 24 hours. Three cows were found electrocuted at Kalyan (East) on Tuesday night, following which locals complained to the electricity board. An official from Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) said, “The cows were walking near the electric pole amid heavy rain and got electrocuted. Our officials visited the spot. We are doing the needful to avoid such tragedy hereafter.” Waterlogging was reported at Sant Tukaram nagar, Chikanghar in Kalyan (West) due to the rise in nullah water. There were reports of water entering the houses from Rambaug in Kalyan (West), Kolsewadi and Raja Ram Nagar in Kalyan (East). A total of 11 tree fall cases were reported with Kalyan Dombivli fire department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/waterlogging-tree-collapse-reported-in-kalyan-bhiwandi/story-2DCL7RkGD1M4S7tdFYomIO.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||7 deaths, 752 fresh infections reported in Haryana||Seven people succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday in Haryana as the state reported 752 fresh infections, pushing the cumulative number of positive cases to 38,548, a health bulletin said. Two patients battling the infection died in Faridabad, while one patient each died in Gurugram, Karnal, Jhajjar, Panchkula, and Kurukshetra. With this, the death toll has risen to 455. As per an official communication, a 64-year-old retired armyman of Jhajjar’s Dighal village succumbed to the infection on Wednesday. Faridabad continued to report the highest number of cases as 169 new infections were detected there followed by 74 in Panipat, and 64 in Gurugram. Other districts where fresh cases were recorded included Sonepat (32), Rewari (45), Ambala (68), Rohtak (51), Karnal (16), Hisar (15), Palwal (23), Jhajjar (8), Mahendergarh (35), Bhiwani (4), Panchkula (19), Nuh (7), Kurukshetra (9), Sirsa (33), Fatehabad (20), Yamunanagar (23), Jind (5), Kaithal (10), and Charkhi Dadri (22). There were total 6,133 active cases in the state after 734 patients recovered on Wednesday. Meanwhile, health minister Anil Vij said FIRs have been registered against 11 sanitiser brands after the samples of their sanitisers collected from various districts failed. A notice has been issued to cancel or suspend the licence of the respective brands, Vij said. According to the health minister, about 248 samples were collected by the food and drug administration of Haryana and reports of 123 samples have been submitted. At least 14 samples have failed the test. While the products of nine brands were found substandard, in five other brands, excessive quantity of methanol that acts as a toxin was present. Vij said instructions have been given to recall the entire stock of failed brand sanitisers from the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-deaths-752-fresh-infections-reported-in-haryana/story-uRpmJFGE9e6Fz7NSNCrJGP.html
06-08-2020||City||69% of Ambala’s Covid cases, 76% deaths reported in July||Ambala recorded a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in July, when the district saw 69% of its total cases.As per the figures of the health department, the district added 1,251 cases to its tally in July, which reached 1,810 by Wednesday. In case of fatalities, the district logged 76% of total deaths in July (13 deaths). Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “Undoubtedly, the positivity rate rose in July, but we did extensive sampling in several areas of the district and the addition of rapid antigen kits also helped in containing the virus. As per rough estimates, the number of samples taken in the first three months is less than those collected in July.”“Special sampling camps were held at the cloth market earlier in the month and at the areas that we considered high-risk zones, including Ambala Sadar. We knew that activities will gradually increase after ‘Unlock 1’, so we increased the sampling that added to the number,” he added. In July, the Ambala health department collected 20,458 samples from the district. The first case in Ambala was reported on March 28, and the count reached 292 by June 30. However, in next 31 days, it rose to 1,543. The number of fatalities were only three by June end, which reached 16 till the beginning of August. Ambala had reported its first death due to Covid-19 on April 1. Maximum 105 cases were reported on July 13 after most of the contacts of longest infection chain at the cloth market tested positive. Now, there are 302 active cases in the district, while the recovery rate has improved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/69-of-ambala-s-covid-cases-76-deaths-reported-in-july/story-G7mHCd2T9jmLPNLkGXZTvO.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar govt to distribute free sanitary napkins to 23 lakh women every month||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said under the ‘Mahila Evam Kishori Samman Yojana’, the state government will give six packs of sanitary napkins for free every month to about 23 lakh women and adolescent girls. Speaking after launching ‘Mukhya Mantri Doodh Uphar Yojana’ and ‘Mahila Evam Kishori Samman Yojana’ here, Khattar said the education department has also prepared a scheme under which 6.5 lakh girl students would be provided six sanitary napkins every month. Khattar asked all deputy commissioners (DCs) to include ‘Mukhya Mantri Doodh Uphar Yojana’ in their flagship programmes and make targeted efforts towards addressing the problem of anaemia and malnutrition among women and children in their districts. He said the state government has been laying special emphasis on the overall development of women and children. Under the ‘Mukhya Mantri Doodh Uphar Yojana’, fortified flavoured skimmed milk powder would be provided to children between one and six years of age in anganwadi centres and pregnant and lactating mothers under the integrated child development scheme. Khattar distributed packets of skimmed milk powder and free sanitary napkins, which were also given to the beneficiaries of both the schemes in all districts who joined the programme through videoconferencing.Khattar said Nuh was among the districts where the problem of anaemia among women and children was comparatively high. He said his government has been working by focusing on 4S — shiksha (education), swasthya (health), suraksha (security) and swavalamban (self-reliance). He said now, another ‘S’ has been included to denote ‘swabhiman’ in order to ensure that people live with self-respect. Minister of state for women and child development Kamlesh Dhanda said Rs 256 crore would be spent every year on these schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-govt-to-distribute-free-sanitary-napkins-to-23-lakh-women-every-month/story-6BMJJuwsrV85PBs5bgagnO.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Amid lockdown, pandemic, citizens make Ganesh idols at home||For Balu Ganpat Chavan, 46, a head constable in Central police station in Ulhasnagar, Ganeshotsav means childhood memories. However, given the risk amid the Covid-19 pandemic this year, Chavan decided to sculpt a clay idol. In the three days that he got last week, after four months on Covid duty, he got his Ganpati idol ready. Like Chavan, many residents have decided this year to make their own idol. “During this tough time, we need the blessings of the lord, so missing the celebration was not an option. I decided to sculpt the idol with my son who cleared Class 10. However, with my busy schedule, it seemed difficult. Last week, I finally got leave for three days and bought clay from the market. I sculpted a two-foot tall idol and am now waiting for it to dry, so we can paint it,” said Chavan, a resident of Belavli in Badlapur. “I had done it earlier as a kid, but making the idol with family made it special.” Dombivli-based artist Sharad Patil, 37, who is renowned for sketches, too is on a similar mission. “Last year, we got our idol from a friend, but it is not advisable to get it from outside this year,” said Patil, who lives at Star colony, Dombivli (East). The Bhoir family from Khadakpada in Kalyan thinks lockdown is an ideal time to make the Ganesh idol at home. Vishant Bhoir, 31, an interior designer, said, “We shifted to this house last year and wanted to make our own idol, but it was not possible as I was busy with work. This year, we are home and have lot of free time. I started work on the idol and my five-year old daughter, Saisha, too joined in.” Instead of immersing the idol in a water body last year, the Bhoirs had immersed it at home and saved the mud. The family has made an 11-inch idol from the same mud. “It took only four hours for me to finish shaping the idol. My daughter, too, stayed up with me to work on the idol. In these depressing times, the quality time with family seems like the greatest reward,” Bhoir said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-lockdown-pandemic-citizens-make-ganesh-idols-at-home/story-M09xDwTGtTfzHBUIS514ZN.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Amid gusty winds, portion of DY Patil stadium falls, 3 JNPT cranes collapse||A portion of the roof of DY Patil Stadium in Nerul collapsed due to incessant rain and strong winds on Wednesday afternoon. Three cranes also collapsed in Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), while a mobile tower fell on the old Vashi bridge. However, no injuries were reported in any of the incidents. Reports of several tree falls, vehicle damage and waterlogging leading to major traffic jams across the city were reported on Wednesday. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported over 80mm rainfall and more than 40 tree and branches fall cases during the day. The city received 62.42mm rainfall between 3pm and 6.30pm. Navi Mumbai police commissioner Sanjay Kumar said, “There was huge damage to the iconic DY Patil Stadium as a portion of its roof behind the audience section collapsed. Three cranes at JNPT in Uran collapsed on the jetty due to the strong wind. A mobile tower fell on the old Vashi creek bridge leading to a traffic jam. There were no injuries in any of the cases.” The traffic on the old Vashi Bridge, which is used by commuters travelling from Mumbai to Vashi, was brought under control several minutes after the incident. However, several areas, including Palm Beach Road, saw traffic coming to a halt due to bikers slipping, autorickshaws overturning due to strong winds Sumit Renose, a Vashi resident who was travelling on a bike on Palm Beach Road, said “I saw several bikes slipping due to the wet road. Some of us took refuge near a pipeline as visibility was low due to rain. An autorickshaw overturned right in front of our eyes.” Roofs of around 15 hutments in the quarry area of Mahatma Gandhi Nagar in Nerul were blown away, leaving more than 50 residents shelterless. NMMC later shifted them to a civic school in Nerul. NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar reviewed the situation and directed the disaster management cell to immediately remove trees and branches to ensure free flow of traffic. Several vehicles, including ones parked inside housing premises, were damaged in the city due to incidents of tree fall. One such incident took place at Hiranandani complex in Kharghar. The police commissioner said, “There are reports of tree fall from all over the city. There was a serious problem in Hiranandani Complex in Kharghar where trees fell on both sides of the road. The area was cleared.” “To ensure speedy relief to the residents we have help centres at all the eight ward offices in the city and 24x7 emergency control rooms at the five fire stations. They are all monitored by the central emergency control room at the NMMC headquarters,” Bangar said. Residents can call on NMMC headquarters central emergency control room on toll free number 1800222309/2310 or on landline number 27567060/61.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-gusty-winds-portion-of-dy-patil-stadium-falls-3-jnpt-cranes-collapse/story-o8Imjvd6ykc0ZtQ7v44FWI.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||RPF rescue 290 stranded train passengers stuck in flooded tracks||The railway protection force (RPF) and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rescued 290 passengers from local trains on Central Railway (CR) that got stuck in flood waters on Wednesday evening. Due to heavy rainfall, two local trains got stuck near Masjid Bunder railway station. Zonal railway called NDRF and fire brigade to assist in the rescue operation. According to railway officials, there was 17 inch water on railway tracks near Masjid Bunder railway station on Wednesday evening. Local train services are stopped when water levels on tracks reach 8 inches. RPF formed teams and began rescue operations to remove passengers from trains at 5pm and it went on till late Wednesday evening. “The passengers were rescued by RPF and shifted to shelter homes opened by the civic body. One local train was stuck on railway lines towards Karjat and the other towards Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). We will be awarding RPF personnel for their bravery,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, CR. Owing to heavy rainfall, local train services on both the Central and Western Railway were suspended. On CR, services were suspended between CSMT and Thane and between CSMT and Vashi railway stations. On Western Railway, services were severely affected due to tree fall and waterlogging on tracks near Marine Lines and Charni Road railway stations. Train services were suspended between Mumbai Central and Churchgate railway stations. The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) also diverted its buses on more than 76 routes on Wednesday due to 17 flooded roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rpf-rescue-290-stranded-train-passengers-stuck-in-flooded-tracks/story-WfWUwDZSj6VQLnSNHXysII.html
06-08-2020||City||Gallery wall of residential building collapses in Thane; no injuries||Six families were evacuated amid heavy rains after a portion of the gallery of a residential building collapsed in Wagle Estate, Thane on Wednesday afternoon. No one was injured in the incident and all the families were shifted to a nearby civic school. Thane city recorded 138mm rainfall between 8.30am and 9pm on Wednesday and 93.8mm overnight. The gallery wall of the first floor of Krishna Bhawan, a 32-year-old structure in Wagle Estate, collapsed. Santosh Kadam, chief of regional disaster management cell, Thane, said, “The access route to the first floor of this four-storey building was blocked, so we had to use a ladder and evacuate residents from the gallery. There were no injuries. The building was not in the list of dangerous buildings.” The rescue operation was completed in half an hour. Suresh Sahni, a 37-year-old building resident, said, “The gallery was not very sturdy, and hence we had provided additional outside support, which collapsed during heavy rains. We heard a loud noise and found a rumble of bricks and cement in the pathway below. With no other option during lockdown, we continued to stay in this premises. We shall now repair the building based on a structural audit.” Thane saw waterlogging in five areas and 11 tree fall incidents till Wednesday evening. An eight-foot-wide boundary wall of a private hospital in Owla, Ghodbunder Road collapsed on a nearby house in the morning. While there were no injuries, one side of the roof of the house got damaged in the incident. However, the civic body has not shifted the residents of the damaged building. Nikhit Tandel, 29, a resident of Owla, said, “There is a nullah adjacent to the hospital which gets clogged and overflows during rains every year. We have complained several times as this leads to waterlogging in hospital premises, housing quarters adjacent to the hospital and tribal hutments next to the hospital as well. Water started rising around 4.30am and receded around 8am, and the wall collapsed around 6.30am.” Meanwhile, eight two-wheelers got damaged in a tree fall incident within the premises of Rutu Estate, adjacent to the Thane municipal commissioner’s bungalow in Patlipada. Metal shade of a grocery store fell down on nine houses of two chawls in Indira Nagar, Wagle Estate at 9.30pm. There are no casualties. “Four houses of Adarsh Chawl and five houses of Jai Ambe Chawl were affected,” said Santosh Kadam, chief of regional disaster management cell, Thane. Thane municipal commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma visited the disaster control room on Wednesday night to oversee the preparedness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gallery-wall-of-residential-building-collapses-in-thane-no-injuries/story-KfJQKdo2uwCViAtxNxpphN.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||State intelligence officer dies from Covid-19||A 52-year-old police inspector posted with the State Intelligence Department (SID) succumbed to Covid-19 at the city’s Saifee Hospital on Wednesday night, taking the death toll in Mumbai Police to 56.Inspector Azam Patel developed a fever a week back and was admitted to Saifee Hospital, said a police officer. “He showed symptoms of Covid-19 following which a test was conducted and his reports came positive. Two days ago, his oxygen levels started decreasing and after he complained of breathlessness, he was put on the ventilator,” said senior police inspector Sukhlal Varpe of the Worli police station.Patel’s father Yusuf Patel, who was admitted to a government hospital in Pune, died two days ago due to some illness.The 52-year-old was earlier posted at Worli police station and was transferred to SID seven months back. He had worked in several units of the Mumbai crime branch for more than 10 years and was posted with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for three years. Patel had also worked in several police stations in south Mumbai, added the officer.Patel is survived by his mother, wife, son, and daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-intelligence-officer-dies-from-covid-19/story-KlA6FSBbz4GseXjxHHel5N.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Parents complain against PTAs over school fees||As the pandemic and the resultant financial loss led to parents urging several private schools to reduce their fees, parent teacher associations, which are expected to help parents address their grievances, are posing as obstacles.Several parents said that even as a large number of them had urged the school management to reduce fees, PTA had not spoken in their favour. “We have been urging parent representatives on the PTA executive committee to put our issues in front of the management, but they seem to be in favour of the school. In fact, the school has also used many of those members against parents to threaten them to pay full fees,” said the parent of a south Mumbai-based school which recently discontinued online classes for students whose parents have requested a cut in the fees. After several requests in this regard were sent from parents of private schools to the government, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad had said the school PTA can recommend a fee reduction as per the rules. As per the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011, schools in the state have to get any revisions in their fees approved by the executive committee of the PTA. The committee consists of the school principal as the chairperson, a parent as the vice-chairperson, a teacher as secretary, a teacher and a parent as joint secretaries and a parent and a teacher from every class as joint members. Arundhati Chavan, president of the PTA United Forum, said the apathy of several parents to be a part of the PTA is a key factor that allows private schools to act as per their whims. “Over the past few years, we are seeing a certain disinterest among parents in participating in PTAs and raising their voice. This is really bad for the parent community. This issue then gets highlighted in a situation like this where there are so many unaddressed complaints.”Meanwhile, parents from several schools said the PTA had not been formed as per the due process. “There are many schools where elections to PTA don’t take place and people close to school management get appointed as parent representatives. However, this does not mean that the government cannot do anything. The government can step in and conduct audits of schools and take action if procedural lapses are found,” said Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide Parents Association. Education commissioner Vishal Solanki said, “We cannot comment as the matter is subjudice.” A government resolution released on May 8 stated that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year and have to allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR, however, was stayed by the Bombay high court on June 26 in response to a petition by several organisations of private school owners. The petitioners had argued that the government cannot regulate fees of private schools as per the current rules.What parents can do:The executive committee of PTA has to approve any revision in the fee structure and such revisions have to be declared in advance. The PTA can check expenditure and income of schools and urge the school to reduce fees if expenditure is found to be less If 25% or more parents are unhappy with the PTA’s decision with respect to fees, they can approach the divisional fee regulatory committee (DFRC) and oppose the PTA’s decisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parents-complain-against-ptas-over-school-fees/story-WDWlTgel8BjyvKD3bca7YJ.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Reverse migration of workers has started, no need for Shramik specials: State to Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state to file a detailed affidavit on the number of trains arranged to transport migrant workers to their native places, number of migrant workers who boarded the trains, and the cost and loss incurred by the state for the same since July 11. The directions were issued after the state informed the court that there was a reverse migration of workers returning to Mumbai, and hence the petitioner’s demand to arrange trains was an exercise in futility. The court also said that in light of the fact that receiving states were not willing to allow the workers to return, the state should first take the opinion of the receiving states and only if they agree then the state should arrange for trains or buses to take back workers. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice AS Gadkari, while hearing the public interest litigation filed by Centre for Indian Trade Unions, was informed by advocate Ronita Bhattacharya Bector that there were more than 13,000 migrant workers who wanted to return back to their native places in Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and other states and hence the Maharashtra government should arrange transportation facilities for them. However, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni strongly opposed the contention and submitted that there was a reverse migration of workers who were returning to Mumbai and hence the petitioners claim was unfounded. He further said that after the last hearing, they had received a list of around 8,000 migrant workers, who wanted to return to their hometowns, from the petitioner and other NGOs, hence eight trains were arranged and the railways was paid ₹69 lakh for the same. Kumbhakoni then submitted that less than half the workers actually boarded the trains, leading to the state suffering a loss of ₹42 lakh. He further cited an instance of Pune wherein the petitioner had sought transport arrangement for 383 migrant workers, but only 49 workers turned up. In light of these submissions, he said that the petitioner should be asked to deposit the amount accruing for the transport of workers whose list they submit. He added the state would then refund the amount for workers who availed the facility as the state could not be made to incur losses. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that as some states refused to allow workers to return, the state should ascertain the number of migrant workers wanting to return back and the state they belong to, and then contact the concerned state and find out whether the state was willing to allow trains to bring back workers. The court directed additional solicitor general Anil Singh to publicise the list after collating the information. The court also directed the state to file a detailed affidavit enumerating the grounds it had raised within seven days and directed the petitioner to file a rejoinder within a week after that and posted the matter for hearing after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/reverse-migration-of-workers-has-started-no-need-for-shramik-specials-state-to-bombay-hc/story-8YXXcWIpTtagbXZ7u3TUhO.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||28% decline in home quarantine cases as Mumbai’s Covid-19 curve flattens||The number of individuals in home quarantine has declined by 28% in the last one month as the Covid-19 curve continues to flatten in Mumbai. Similarly, the number of those in institutional quarantine has decreased by 62% during the same period. Now, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has instructed ward officers to close down vacant Covid care centres (CCC) as more than 90% are lying vacant.On July 4, 246,870 people were kept under home quarantine in Mumbai. This number decreased to 178,740 on August 4. During this period, 12,374 people were quarantined at private institutions like lodges, schools, colleges and hotels, among other facilities. By August 4, the number decreased to 4,674, as per data provided by BMC.Currently, with more cases of Covid-19 being reported from residential buildings, the civic body is focusing on quarantining people at home. “Earlier, we were getting infected cases from slums, and we had to isolate them at other places. Thus, we rented out hundreds of vacant places to keep them under institutional quarantine. But now, with the recovery in slums, the load on CCCs has decreased,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.Till June, almost 60% of the beds under CCC-1 and CCC-2 facilities were occupied by high-risk contacts, asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients. But now, almost 92% of the beds are lying vacant in all the wards.Cumulatively, BMC has 72,656 beds in CCC facilities. Of this, only 6,065 beds are currently occupied. Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of Nair Dental Hospital and in-charge of the jumbo centre at NESCO, Goregaon, said, “Due to overcrowding at slums, we didn’t have any option but to quarantine all the high-risk people along with the contacts of the infected people, in separate facilities. But now, as patients from residential buildings have enough space to maintain social distance from family members, we are allowing them to remain isolated at home.”BMC has instructed ward officers to hand over the vacant CCC facilities to their respective owners. “We will keep a certain number of beds in each ward as a precaution,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/28-decline-in-home-quarantine-cases-as-mumbai-s-covid-19-curve-flattens/story-iXdDhxU0kWl2RU58NVGT2M.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||State government scraps scheme to reduce farmer suicides||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to scrap Baliraja Chetana Abhiyan, a pilot project to counter distress among the agrarian community, and ultimately, reduce farmer suicides. However, the scheme failed to bring down suicides, following which the decision was taken, the relief and rehabilitation department said.“After taking a review of five years of progress, it was found that the scheme was not effective in giving desired results, as the number of farmer suicides has not declined. Hence, it has been decided to scrap the scheme,” the order states.The pilot project was started in Osmanabad and Yavatmal districts on July 24, 2015. It aimed at boosting the morale of distressed farmers in villages and to enable them to lead a responsible and purposeful life by the means of counselling and financial help. The project comprised 11 schemes under which the farmers were provided financial support for several requirements such as mass marriage, cancer treatment, preparation for competitive examinations, the first year of MBBS studies, accidental deaths etc. The state had also planned to extend the scheme to all the districts of Vidarbha and Marathwada region most affected with farmer suicides.“The scheme was started on an experimental basis and that too for two districts. Scrapping it now does not mean that it won’t be started again. We will be starting it in different districts this time. The decision on this is yet to be taken,” said Kishor Raje Nimbalkar, secretary, relief and rehabilitation department.As per the statistics from Yavatmal districts, 386 farmers had died by suicide in 2015, the year the project was started. The cases dropped in 2016 and 2017 with 272 and 242 cases respectively. But again, rose to 255 cases in 2018 and 286 cases in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-government-scraps-scheme-to-reduce-farmer-suicides/story-IcC7P4vV1IaLoHkdW9VJXN.html
06-08-2020||City||Worker bludgeons supervisor to death in Khanna||A construction worker bludgeoned his 52-year-old supervisor to death with bricks in Khanna on Wednesday.The victim has been identified as Damodar Mehto. According to Khanna City-2 station house officer Harvinder Singh, the accused, identified as Anil Kumar, fled the scene after the crime. Tejo Mehto, the brother-in-law of the victim, said incident took place over a ration theft. Anil had allegedly stolen some ration during the lockdown following which Mehto had made him publically apologise for it. He had been nursing a grudge ever since. On Wednesday evening, when Mehto was returning home, Anil smashed his head and face with bricks. The impact of the attack was so severe that the victim died on the spot.Some locals raised an alarm and tried to nab Anil but he managed to flee. The victim was the only breadwinner of the family and leaves behind three sons, a wife and a daughter. The accused has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/worker-bludgeons-supervisor-to-death-in-khanna/story-mFdcmv3ua8Sn5jCI0BeMNJ.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Finally, car with artwork gets registration number||The Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA) in Chandigarh on Wednesday issued registration number (CH01 CB 0370) to the multi-coloured Ambassador Grand Harit-C-1800 car. The car belongs to high court lawyer Ranjit Malhotra.On July 15, the single-judge bench of justice Jaishree Thakur had directed the administration to register the car within two weeks. The permission for the same had been denied in 2019.Malhotra had bought the car in 2019 from a counsellor of the European Union posted at Delhi for the vehicle’s body carried work by renowned Mexican artist Senkoe. “I opted for CH01 CB 0370 as I wanted something matching ‘PJE 37’, the number of our father’s car. This was the closest available,” said Malhotra. Earlier, the administration had even initiated the process of filing an appeal. “The case did not have any policy or monetary implications. So, it was decided by the administration to not file an appeal,” said UT’s senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/finally-car-with-artwork-gets-registration-number/story-8SqIIqLME9DVBsKGV99nVJ.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP office celebrates laying Ram Temple foundation stone with 3,000 kg ladoos||Mayor Raj Bala Malik and senior deputy mayor Ravi Kant Sharma on Wednesday distributed sweets among officers and employees of the municipal corporation commemorating the bhoomi pujan of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya.BJP party workers also marked the occasion by performing a yagya and distributing sweets all over the city. BJP’s Sector 33 headquarters Kamalam was also lit.“After waiting for 500 years, the historic day has finally arrived. The construction of the Ram Temple has begun and the stone laying foundation was done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. We are fortunate enough to witness that,” said Arun Sood, BJP state president.“As soon as the PM laid the foundation stone at 12.30 pm, 3,000 kilo desi ghee ladoos were prepared at Mansa Devi, Sector-34 gurdwara, Saketri Temple, Sector-20 mosque, Nada Sahib, Sector-18 church and Chandi Temple at Kalka. They were distributed at Snehalaya, old age homes, leprosy houses, divyang school and at other places,” Sood said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-office-celebrates-laying-ram-temple-foundation-stone-with-3-000-kg-ladoos/story-KB0LHC5i2OpkopGLHsyp7M.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Robber arrested for stabbing auto driver; one accused on the run||A 27-year-old robber was arrested on Wednesday after he and his accomplice stabbed an autorickshaw driver and stole ₹5,200 on Andheri-Ghatkopar road around 1am. The victim is currently undergoing treatment.After receiving information about Mohammed Sharif Shamshul Huda Khan, 46, being stabbed, Sakinaka police sent Prahlad Ghodke, inspector (law & order), who was on patrolling duty, to the spot. Upon inquiry, Ghodke learnt that the robber had gone to a nearby Metro construction site and assaulted the workers there. When the officer arrived at the spot, the accused attacked him with knives and bamboo sticks, said Kishor Sawant, senior inspector, Sakinaka police station. “Ghodke pulled out his service revolver and fired at the accused, but the bullets missed them. Meanwhile, one of the accused managed to escape while Ghodke arrested the other with the help of a beat marshal and locals,” said Sawant. The arrested accused, Mohammed Azhar Yusuf Shaikh, has eight cases of robbery, theft, house break-in and pickpocketing registered against him at Trombay police station. The other accused had been identified as Azaj alias Daku, 30. The police have booked both the accused under sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 307 (attempt to murder), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 4 and 25 of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/robber-arrested-for-stabbing-auto-driver-one-accused-on-the-run/story-Cz1IEOJXS3eGJ3zvCpH1qJ.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for raping 18-year-old||Jogeshwari police on Wednesday arrested a 21-year-old man for allegedly raping an 18-year-old garland seller, on the pretext of marrying her.According to the victim’s statement, they were friends since 2018. The accused later promised to marry her and sexually assaulted her on multiple occasions.In the month of August, she informed the accused about her pregnancy, but the accused refused to marry her. The victim then approached the police and a case was registered at Vanrai police station. However, the case was later transferred to the Jogeshwari police station.An officer from Jogeshwari police station said, “Following victim’s complaint, we have registered the offence under section 376 (2) (N) (committing rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354 (a) (sexual harassment) and 417 (punishment for cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-raping-18-year-old/story-qv7PdF06r1GbnmhI5s4MDI.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai readies for national cycle challenge||Cyclists may be in for a treat as Mumbai might soon experiment with setting up efficient cycling infrastructure in the city. The city’s civic body has registered for the Central government’s India Cycles4Change challenge and is looking at implementing a pilot project by October.Launched in July, the challenge aims to inspire cities to implement quick, cycle-friendly interventions in the wake of Covid-19, with the support of citizens and experts. At present, 95 cities have registered for the challenge, including Thane, Kalyan, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, and Nagpur in Maharashtra.Organisations like World Resources Institute, Smart Commute Foundation (SCF), and Project Mumbai are assisting the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in the challenge. “We had our first meeting on Sunday, during which we decided to undertake a survey of how Mumbaiites travel and also identify roads where pop-up lanes can be introduced,” said Firoza Suresh, Mumbai’s bicycle mayor.Linking Road, Carter Road, Lokhandwala back-road, NCPA-Chowpatty, and Juhu 10th Road have already been shortlisted for the pilot project, and traffic and civic authority permissions are awaited to begin setting up the infrastructure.A BMC official, who is coordinating with various organisations for the program, said, “We have been looking at cycling as an alternative mode of transport since 2018. We are working on creating a cycle track along the Tansa pipeline, and cycling as a last-mile connectivity option from the upcoming Metro stations is also being planned.”According to the Central government’s Smart Cities Mission, the India Cycles4Change challenge, in stage one, cities will have to implement at least one pilot intervention. The mission will then shortlist 11 cities that will receive support to scale-up their plans with the aid of national and international experts.Parin Visariya, senior urban development associate at ITDP India Programme, which is the knowledge partner for the challenge, said that the main aim of the challenge is to implement quick cycling interventions. “We have also sent survey forms to cities to understand the state of cycling in cities and what stops citizens from opting for cycling,” Visariya said.According to a survey by ITDP India, cycling is expected to increase by 50-65% as cities come out of lockdown. World over, cities are leveraging this opportunity to expand their cycling networks and public-bike sharing systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-readies-for-national-cycle-challenge/story-QqHtJuJMBEqgj4hZiTIS7I.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||‘Trees along Konkan wildlife corridor felled for mining, infra’||Despite a ban on tree felling at the Dodamarg-Sawantwadi wildlife corridor in south Konkan, petitioners before the Bombay high court (HC) have alleged deforestation across 639.62 hectare (ha) for mining, construction of roads, and rubber plantations for over 10 years.Through successive orders over the past decade, the HC in 2012 and 2013, based on 2011 petition by Awaaz Foundation, had directed the Union environment ministry and Maharashtra government to ensure the 38 km-long and 10 km-wide corridor in Sindhudurg district to be protected as an eco-sensitive area (ESA) where environmentally destructive activities are prohibited. The HC had reiterated its order in 2018, based on a 2016 petition by NGO Vanashakti, declaring the belt a ‘no tree felling zone’.“The wildlife corridor is being steadily denuded. After brazen disobedience of HC orders, the state has chosen to do little to protect the region’s ecology. Repeated reminders to authorities have fallen on deaf ears. Our only hope is the judiciary to intervene again,” said Stalin D, director, Vanshakti.On Wednesday, the HC bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice AS Gadkari, while hearing an interim application (IA) by Vanashakti through videoconferencing, directed the Union environment ministry to file their response regarding the steps taken to comply with previous HC orders. The matter has been kept for hearing on Friday.Parag Vyas, advocate appearing for the Centre told HC that the environment ministry would be finalising the Western Ghats eco-sensitive zone final notification by September. However, as per submissions by the petitioner and confirmation by the state forest department, the entire Dodamarg taluka and majority of Sawantwadi had been left out of the draft notification proposed by Maharashtra. “As far as the ESA declaration for this particular corridor is concerned, Maharashtra will have to inspect and submit a proposal demarcating the exact area proposed as ESA for the corridor,” Vyas said. The NGO’s affidavit alleged contempt by Central and state bodies for non-implementation of previous court orders for failing to declare the ESA even after seven years. The affidavit brought on record a March 2019 report highlighting deforestation across 639.62 ha area of the corridor, of which 229.38 ha or 35% green cover had been lost in Dodamarg taluka alone. The report used satellite images and assessed deforestation between 2009 - 2018. It further said tree felling across 52 villages in the corridor (26 in Dodamarg and 26 in Sawantwadi) had been undertaken across private lands for rubber and pineapple plantations, mining, procuring wood and construction of roads. Some villages had witnessed deforestation the size of 15 ha each. “Consequences of such rampant deforestation had come true upon the occurrence of a massive landslide in village Asaniye in Dodamarg on August 6, 2019,” the IA said.Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) said, “The state is committed to notify the proposed area as an ESA. We have appointed Wildlife Institute of India Dehradun to identify the exact coordinates and area of the corridor, which will be sent as a proposal to the state and then the Centre. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, execution of the study has been delayed.”Sushant Khandekar, sub-divisional officer, Sawantwadi said any cases of tree felling, even on private land was handled by the forest department that had identified a tree officer for such inspections.Sawantwadi deputy conservator of forest Samadhan Chavan said, “We had identified 76 major spots in both talukas where tree felling took place over 10 years mostly across private land. Cases have been filed in each case and fines collected. The process is ongoing. No tree felling has taken place on government or forest land since the HC’s 2018 order.” The HC bench on Wednesday also listed and clubbed another application (to be heard on Friday) filed by Awaaz Foundation that prayed for the completion of the ESA declaration process of the corridor as well as a restraint on mining.STATE RENEWED CONSENT FOR MINING IN CORRIDORThe Kolhapur regional office of the state pollution control board renewed an iron ore mining license at Kalne village in the Dodamarg-Sawantwadi belt last year. Operations to handle 7.5 lakh metric tons of iron ore per annum up till March 31, 2021 across 32.25-hectare area at Kalne, were allowed. Mining activity in the area led to the destruction of 32.2 ha green cover. MPCB had said mining operations were first issued permissions in 2009 much before the petition to protect the area had been filed, and renewing such consent is permissible for any proposed ecologically sensitive area as well.“There has been a conspiracy by vested interests since the Madhav Gadgil panel recommenced Sawantwadi-Dodamarg as an ESA banning mining. First, the vested interests diluted the Gadgil panel recommendations against the wishes of local people and ecologists. They then lobbied to exclude villages of this area from the proposed ESA contrary to HC orders,” said activist Kailash Anerao.WHAT’S AT STAKE AND WHY THE ESALocated in Sindhudurg district, Dodamarg-Sawantwadi belt lies in the heart of the biodiversity hotspot, the Western Ghats. The area is a source of perennial water bodies. Dodamarg taluka has 62 villages while Sawantwadi has 82. The forest department had identified 25 biodiversity-rich villages within this corridor through a rapid assessment in 2013. According to the forest department, seven tigers were photographed at Dodamarg from 2014-2019 and there is evidence of 22-25 tigers using this landscape. The wildlife corridor is also home to leopards, elephants, and a host of biodiversity. It connects the Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary in Kolhapur to Bhimgad Wildlife Sanctuary in Karnataka. It is an integral part of the Sahyadri-Konkan wildlife corridor through which several wild animals move. The 38kmx10km corridor is home to 303 plant species, 127 types of trees, 66 types of shrubs, 29 types of climbers, four types of bamboo, 15 kinds of grass and 99 types of medicinal plants. It also has leopards, sloth bears, wild buffalo, pangolins, king cobra, civet cats, and several residents and migratory bird species(Source: State forest department, petitions filed before the Bombay HC)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trees-along-konkan-wildlife-corridor-felled-for-mining-infra/story-UEnzWc1A9ZRmxkOKVOXllN.html
06-08-2020||City||Ludhiana gyms reopen to tepid response||With fear gripping the city amid rising cases of Covid-19, gyms opened to a tepid response on Wednesday with most of them wearing a deserted look.The owners who were allowed to reopen the gymnasiums after more than five months of lockdown said all precautions had been taken but residents were still fearful.Owner of Aura Gym in New BRS Nagar and president of Punjab Gym Welfare Society, Navneet Singh, said, “Very few residents turned up for a workout on Wednesday. We have taken all the necessary precautions including frequent sanitisation of the machines, thermal screening of visitors, checking with pulse oximeters etc. No one including the trainers is allowed to enter or exercise in the gym without a mask.” Navneet Singh said, “As per the guidelines issued by the government, the gym owners are not providing facilities like spa, sauna and swimming pool. Further we are also not organising high intensity group classes like aerobics and zumba. The others have also been advised to put the group classes at halt as it might spread the disease.Another gym owner in Model Town extension, Jagdish Sra, said, “Tepid response was expected. But we have been receiving calls from residents concerned over precautions being taken at the gym and it was expected that they would show up in the coming days. With this, the owners would at least be able to bear the fixed charges like electricity bills and rent, which were a burden on our shoulders during the lockdown.”ENTRY IN BATCHES TO AVOID CROWDINGFor avoiding crowding in gyms, the owners are now preparing batches for entry. Owner of a gym in Dugri market, Harpreet Singh, said, “The residents are slowly showing up at the gyms. I have already directed my staff to prepare batches. Customers will be allowed to exercise only at a particular time.”President of Gym Ekta Welfare Association Monu Bhardwaj said, “The government has allowed the owners to allow residents inside their gyms as per the capacity and area of the gym keeping in mind that a distance of 6 feet is maintained. We have advised gym owners to allow only 10-12 people at a time.”A resident of South City exercising at Aura Gym, Chanakya, said, “It was a new experience going back to gyms. But with the precautions being taken by owners, it was easy for us to exercise without any fear.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-gyms-reopen-to-tepid-response/story-UGC6tVfhMxSNUm852PXn2H.html
06-08-2020||City||Father among 4 arrested for pushing Kurukshetra girl into flesh trade||Kurukshetra police have arrested four members of a 17-year-old girl’s family for allegedly forcing her into flesh trade and extorting money from people by threatening them of implicating them in fake rape case.The accused are her father, two uncles and a cousin.The father of the victim had filed a complaint at the Kurukshetra University police station on June 15, accusing a resident of Azad Nagar of kidnapping her on the pretext of marriage.Kurukshetra superintendent of police Astha Modi said after registration of an FIR, the investigation was handed over to ASI Praveen Kaur. “During the investigation, it was found that the accused were using the victim to extort money and they had sent her to the Azad Nagar man, who had assaulted her sexually,” she added. “It was also found that the accused had taken money from the Azad Nagar man twice,” she added. Investigation officer Praveen Kaur said earlier, the accused father had filed a complaint of her daughter’s abduction and rape, but the girl later told the court that her family members forced her into the flesh trade. The accused have been arrested under sections 370 A (exploitation of a trafficked person), 389 (putting person in fear of accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion) and 384 (extortion) of the IPC. The Azad Nagar man has been booked under Section 6 of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The ASI said the four accused have been sent in two-day police remand, whereas the Azad Nagar man was at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/father-among-4-arrested-for-pushing-kurukshetra-girl-into-flesh-trade/story-ixMYEkOVVMWH3pk5cWgT2H.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC advises Bihar IPS to use digital platforms for investigation||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday rejected Bihar Police officer Vinay Tiwari’s request to be exempted from home quarantine and advised Tiwari to use digital platforms to conduct his investigation while in isolation. Tiwari is in Mumbai in connection with a first information report (FIR) filed in Patna, regarding the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Tiwari reached Mumbai on August 2 and according to Bihar Police authorities, he was forcibly quarantined by BMC. On August 3, BMC issued a clarification that Tiwari was asked to quarantine as per the guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government to contain the spread of Covid-19. The civic body also said it had explained to Tiwari the procedure to apply for an exemption from home quarantine. Following this, Bihar Police had sought an exemption for the same from BMC. In response, BMC on Wednesday advised Tiwari to use digital platforms to pursue his investigation and asked Tiwari to follow the state’s Covid-19 guidelines. Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu confirmed a letter had been sent to Bihar Police citing the prevalence of Covid-19 in Bihar and advising Tiwari to use digital platforms while quarantined. If Tiwari wishes to step out before the end of his quarantine, he must first get tested for Covid-19 and if the results are negative, he would be free to move around. Corporator Vinod Mishra, who is the leader of Bharatiya Janata Party in BMC, said, “I have written to the BMC commissioner regarding the matter. The reason to detain the said IPS officer proves malice behind the detention. Under no provisions of existing laws, directives, notifications such an order of undertaking investigations via digital platforms can be passed. This proves BMC administration is a puppet at the hands of the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-advises-bihar-ips-to-use-digital-platforms-for-investigation/story-OTcPXlZTvTiSzJULHmzWYK.html
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||BJP appoints Jat leader as in-charge for Baroda bypoll||The appointment of Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal, a Jat leader, as the BJP’s election in-charge for Baroda assembly bypoll on Tuesday is being seen as a step towards placating the majority Jat vote bank in the constituency. The election commission is yet to announce the schedule for the bypoll. Orders of his appointment were issued by BJP’s state office in-charge Gulshan Bhatia on the directions of Haryana BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar. Before Dalal’s appointment on Tuesday, Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, a Punjabi khatri, who was the party’s election in-charge for 2019 assembly polls, was ‘informally’ looking after the management for the impending bypoll, party sources said. Dalal’s appointment as poll in-charge is also significant in light of the acerbic remarks made two days ago by independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu, a Jat leader himself. Kundu had on August 2 raked up the ‘Jat versus non-Jat’ issue at a meeting of Sarv Jatiya Sarv Khap mahapanchayat at Chichrana in Baroda. The outburst probably was enough to hasten Dalal’s appointment, political analysts say. MLA Kundu, who addressed the khap leaders, shamed the Jat gathering on Sunday about Sanjay Bhatia’s continuation as the BJP ‘in-charge’ for the Baroda assembly bypoll. “Yeh 52% ka halqa hai. Thaara prabhari kaun hai. Bhatia…. Doob ke mar jao. Apne lath tha lo. Mangan ki zaroorat koi naa... (This constituency has 52% Jat votes. And who is your in-charge? Bhatia (Sanjay). You should be ashamed. Get ready for a fight. There is no need to make requests for anything),” said Kundu, a former BJP worker who won from Meham assembly seat as an Independent after being denied a party ticket. State BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar, however, said since the Karnal MP was also the party in-charge for Sonepat district, he was taking care of Baroda assembly seat. “Sanjay Bhatia will continue to look after the Baroda assembly constituency even now. However, agriculture minister JP Dalal will be the election in-charge,” Dhankar said in response to a query. Fifteen Jat candidates of the saffron party, including Dhankar, were routed during the 2019 assembly polls. Only five made it to the state assembly. Political analysts attributed this outright rejection by the Jat electorate, which constitutes about 25% of voters and are the single largest influencers, to the BJP’s approach of having a non-Jat chief minister at the helm. The state BJP recently replaced Subhash Barala, a Jat leader, as the state unit president with another Jat, Dhankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-appoints-jat-leader-as-in-charge-for-baroda-bypoll/story-STJ2ZcgUxunbYQc2TdnUfO.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Artis, prayers: Maha BJP celebrates Ayodhya Ram Mandir bhoomipujan||To mark the bhoomipujan of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, the state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) held celebrations at the party office on Wednesday, with the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis even breaking into a song popular during the 1992 rath yatra campaign. “This is a dream come true for many generations and of millions. It is a matter of great fortune and providence to be able to witness this historic moment,” said Fadnavis on the occasion. The former chief minister, along with state party chief Chandrakant Patil, national joint organizational secretary V Satish, state organisational secretary Vijay Puranik, former ministers Ashish Shelar and Vinod Tawde, present at the celebration, were among several others who had participated and witnessed the 1990s BJP movement for the Ram Mandir leading upto the Rath Yatra in 1992. The leaders worshipped the framed portrait of Lord Ram, saw the bhoomipujan being done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on a grand screen and participated in a programme of bhajans organised on the occasion. “I have participated in all kar sevas, I am a Ram sevak and have been involved from Day one with the Ram Janmabhoomi. This is a dream come true. The temple was destroyed in 1522 back by a general of Babur to show us that they can destroy the culture of Hindus and even Lord Ram cannot save us. Now, after so many years, Lord Ram’s temple will now stand on the same very site. This is a beginning of new India and new identity for us,” said Fadnavis. While speaking to a TV channel, Fadnavis taunted the Shiv Sena saying it was surprising that only two parties, the Sena and All India Majlis-e-Ittehedul Muslimeen (AIMIM) had sought e-pujan for the Ram Mandir instead of a live event. “As a Hindutva party, how do you make a demand for just e-puja; this moment has come after 490 years. It’s an insult to people who have struggled, fought and lost their lives for the Ram Mandir campaign,” said Fadnavis. Meanwhile, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh also celebrated the day across the city and the state in localities and neighbourhoods by lighting diyas and organizing Lord Ram aartis in the evenings and reciting Hanuman Chalisa in the morning. “Even though the temples haven’t opened we are marking this auspicious occasion by lighting diyas outside our homes, while community events like reciting of Hanuman Chalisa and holding evening aartis is being carried out in housing societies, temple offices etc,’’ said Manoj Singh, RSS karyakarta from Goregaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/artis-prayers-maha-bjp-celebrates-ayodhya-ram-mandir-bhoomipujan/story-UIxrjfT99zatlizJucCCZK.html
06-08-2020||City||Dhanansu cycle valley project in Ludhiana on track, says Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said that the government was making all efforts to see that the Dhanansu cycle valley project was on track and made operational by year end. The CM was addressing a webinar organised by Hero Cycles to celebrate the production of 150 million cycles since 1956. Officials of the firm from across the world including the UK and Germany joined Punjab government officials at the webinar.The cycle valley is being developed on 380 acre land in Dhanansu. Hero Cycles is developing an anchor unit on 100 acres allotted to the firm in January 2019. Moreover, with the unveiling of the Hero Industrial Park at the upcoming International Cycle Valley in Punjab, Hero Cycles will be able to augment its manufacturing capacity to 10 million units annually by March 2021, said Pankaj Munjal, chairman and managing director of Hero Cycles. The company which owns a 43% share in the Indian market has so far produced 167.35 million units of bicycles–with 150.9 million coming from the Ludhiana plant alone. During the interaction, Munjal sought reduction in taxes on traditional cycles priced below ₹5,000 so as to benefit the poor. He also urged the CM to promote safe cycling lanes in the state. The CM assured him support on all counts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dhanansu-cycle-valley-project-in-ludhiana-on-track-says-punjab-cm/story-adK1z3dYTYyvCeYgcnZNuO.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||No clarity on transfer of Rajput case to CBI, says state after SC hearing||state government on Wednesday said there is no clear order from the Supreme Court (SC) to transfer the investigation into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The state expects the case to remain with Mumbai Police and plans to question Patna Police’s jurisdiction over the case as Rajput died in Mumbai on June 14. On Wednesday, while hearing a petition filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty regarding a first information report (FIR) filed in Patna that accuses her of abetting Rajput’s suicide, SC asked the Maharashtra government to file a status report on the investigation into Rajput’s death within the next three days. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta told SC that the Centre had accepted the Bihar government’s recommendation and transferred the case to CBI. However, the Maharashtra government said the case remains with Mumbai Police. Advocate Sachin Patil, standing counsel for Maharashtra government in SC, said, “The SC will decide the legality of the transfer of the case to CBI on the recommendation of the Bihar government. Patna police has neither jurisdiction to register the complaint nor to investigate it.” Sanjay Kumar, state chief secretary, said, “All parties have been asked to file their say and we will file it in due course. Our argument will depend on the situation on that day and what is allowed by the Apex Court. I am not aware if the notification related to the transfer of the case has been issued by the Centre.” An official from the state home department said, “The case registered by Patna Police has been transferred, not the one Mumbai Police is investigating. We will continue to investigate our case.” Another official from the department said, “Maharashtra government appeared in court through caveat in the petition filed by Rhea Chakroborty. We will present the current status of the case, claiming how the investigation is moving in the right direction; has recorded statements of 56 persons; and that there is no need to transfer the case. We have been saying this from day one. Secondly, as per the provisions in the Code of Criminal Procedure and a notification issued by the ministry of home affairs in 2013, the FIR should be registered at the place where the offence took place. Patna police registering the case and investigating it is bad in law and this will be argued in court.” According to the officials from the home department, SC is expected to take cognizance of the transfer of the case in the next hearing. “Due procedure has not been followed while transferring the case to CBI. Even if CBI takes over in the FIR already filed, the case will still have to be transferred to Mumbai,” said a home department official. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-clarity-on-transfer-of-rajput-case-to-cbi-says-state-after-sc-hearing/story-YsWVOfzox5Sy6XLWOnMe5J.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||MMRDA can cut 357 mangroves for Metro station at Sewri, Bhakti Park: HC||The Bombay high court on Wednesday allowed the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) to cut 357 mangroves for construction of Metro piers at Sewri and Bhakti Park station for Metro line-4, that connects Wadala in eastern suburbs to Kasarwadavli on Ghodbunder road in Thane.The bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Riyaz Chagla allowed MMRDA to cut 357 mangroves primarily after noting that Metro line-4 is a project of “immense public importance for the public transport.”The bench also took into consideration that all requisite permissions for the Metro line are already granted by various statutory authorities.The relief, however, is not unconditional. The bench has directed MMRDA to comply with the conditions imposed by authorities while granting permissions. Those include compensatory fire station over a hectare of degraded mangroves forest at Gorai where the authority will have to plant 4,444 mangroves saplings, bear the cost of the nursery, cost of raising and maintenance of the plantation for 10 years.Bhakti Park station on Metro line-4, 48 piers on the alignment covering about 1,200 square meters pass through CRZ-2 and mangroves forests. Besides, MMRDA will also require to construct a temporary approach road for carrying out the construction work. It was required to move HC given earlier court directives prohibiting development work in mangroves forests and a 50-meter buffer zone around mangroves unless HC finds that the work is of considerable public importance.Apart from connecting Wadala and Ghodbunder road in Thane, Metro line-4 will also provide inter-connectivity with existing Eastern Express Highway, Central Railway stations, Monorail, Metro line-2B (connecting DN Nagar in Andheri with Mandale), Metro line-5 (Thane-Bhiwandi-Kalyan), Metro line-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-JVLR-SEEPZ-Kanjurmarg- Vikhroli, and Metro line-8 (Wadala-General Post Office).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrda-can-cut-357-mangroves-for-metro-station-at-sewri-bhakti-park-hc/story-0srhtnHCD45GufjfL2Ou7K.html
06-08-2020||City||Fear of side-effects keeps plasma donors away in Haryana||Haryana has witnessed a lukewarm response to the call for convalescent plasma donation as only 49 people have come forward. Twenty patients who recently recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have donated plasma at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak, 16 in Faridabad, 11 in Gurugram and two in Panchkula, reveal the data obtained from the four plasma banks.The convalescent plasma therapy has been given to 25 patients in Faridabad, 17 in Rohtak, five in Gurugram and two in Panchkula. Haryana’s first plasma bank was set up at ESIC hospital in Faridabad in the second week of July and since then, three more such banks have come up in Rohtak, Gurugram and Panchkula. Head of the medicine department at PGIMS, Dr VK Katyal, said they have been taking plasma from people aged between 18 and 60 on the basis of their health conditions.“This therapy is a boon for a Covid-19 patient, whose kidney and liver are damaged. We are treating a 39-year-old patient, who is suffering from a liver problem. He has shown significant improvement after two convalescent therapies,” he added.On being asked about tepid response to plasma donation in Haryana, state’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Dhruva Chaudhary said 33% of the recovered patients have shown unwillingness to donate plasma.“Many recovered patients with kidney, heart, lung or liver diseases are not eligible for the donation. Moreover, women who have ever been pregnant and someone weighing less than 50kg are also barred from the donation,” he added.The nodal officer said nearly 17% of the recovered patients were found to be unfit for the donation as they suffered from various diseases. “About 10% recovered patients have given wrong details on helpline numbers introduced to enrol people for plasma donation. Many people are skipping donations so that they can offer it to their family members in the case they get infected. Few donors fear that they could witness side effects if they donate plasma,” Dr Chaudhary said. “A plasma donor should have normal weight, haemoglobin level above 12 and no history of diabetes or hypertension. Moreover, the donor should not have hepatitis B or C and HIV. The therapy will be administered to those with respiratory rate higher than 30 (normal is 20), oxygen saturation less than 90% (normal is 95 to 100%), or pus in their lungs,” the doctor added.‘Want to save it for my father’A 23-year-old recovered patient from Rohtak, who refused to donate plasma, said, “My father is suffering from diabetes and I want to save the plasma for him in case he contracts the infection.”“I am the sole breadwinner of my family and I didn’t donate plasma for the fear of side effects. I took this decision as a precautionary measure for my family,” said a 36-year-old man from Jhajjar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fear-of-side-effects-keeps-plasma-donors-away-in-haryana/story-O5ZotlaR7tzFYBMBfCjJEK.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Sheena Bora case: CBI court rejects Indrani Mukerjea’s bail plea filed in December||The special CBI court on Wednesday rejected the bail plea of Indrani Mukerjea, prime accused in Sheena Bora murder case. This was her fifth bail plea where she alleged that false witnesses and evidence have been planted by the prosecution against her. Indrani had moved bail plea on merits of the case in December last year. In her plea, Indrani had listed contradictions in the prosecution’s case and alleged that she has been falsely implicated for murder of her daughter. The court has rejected her contentions at this stage of the trial. The court had recently rejected her plea for interim bail.Indrani alleged that the skeleton recovered by the Pen police in May 2012 is not the same one discovered by Khar police three years later in 2015. The prosecution has alleged that after removing parts of the skeleton for further investigation, the Pen police buried the body at the same place, in a pit. The same as per prosecution was exhumed by Khar police. The prosecution alleged that the body exhumed was that of Sheena as the DNA of the ‘skeleton’ is a match with Indrani. However, Indrani has disputed this and claimed the skeletons are different. Indrani also questioned the credibility of the key prosecution witnesses - Shyamwar Rai, a driver who also allegedly helped in killing Sheena; Kajal Sharma - who help in writing letters on behalf of Sheena after her death and her son Mikhail Bora.The prosecution opposed her plea and contended that this is not the stage to test the credibility and reliability of the witnesses. The prosecution had cited the deposition of Rai, Sharma and Mikhail to show involvement of Indrani. “The witnesses have clearly stated about how Indrani was involved in the planning of the murder, its execution and later also in the destruction of the evidence by destroying the body of Sheena,” the prosecution argued adding that the medical evidence had also supported the prosecution case and corroborated the evidence of the other witnesses.The prosecution contended that looking at the gravity of the offence and status of the accused, she should not be released on bail. “She is a British national, the possibility of her escaping from the country cannot be out,” prosecution submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sheena-bora-case-cbi-court-rejects-indrani-mukerjea-s-bail-plea-filed-in-december/story-c4V4ZRgvtkzQSyl26vFe0I.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Disha Salian death: Cops request citizens to share info; father alleges harassment||Two months after the death of talent manager Disha Salian, Mumbai Police issued an appeal on Wednesday, asking the public to share any information they have related to her passing. An investigation into Salian’s death is underway. Meanwhile, Salian’s father Satish has written to Mumbai Police, complaining of harassment and victimisation by the media. Salian is believed to have died by suicide on June 8, when she fell off the 14th floor of a building in Malad where she lived with her fiancé Rohan Roy. So far, the police has recorded statements of Salian’s family, friends and the guards at the building. Vishal Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (zone 11), said, “We can’t say how she fell. Our investigation is on. Many people have been sharing information related to Salian on social media because of which we are appealing to all citizens to share any information they have related to her death so that we can also investigate in that direction.” Citizens with information concerning Salian’s death can contact the offices of Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner of police (north region); Thakur, Dilip Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Malwani division); or Jagdeo Kalapad, senior inspector of Malwani police station. Rumours about Salian have been circulating on social and news media over the past few weeks. On Wednesday, Salian’s father Satish wrote to Yadav, complaining of harassment. Previously, Satish had submitted a written complaint on July 13 alleging his daughter was being defamed on social media. In his letter, Satish alleged his family is being harassed by the media that is reporting “misleading news”, which could hinder the police inquiry. He also wrote that Salian’s family does not suspect anyone of foul play in her death. “News about her involvement with any politician or attending parties with big names of film fraternity, rape, murder are all stories cooked by these media people just to sell it to channels. These stories hold no truth. These are misleading the people and tarnishing my daughter’s reputation and my family’s reputation. These fake news are taking a huge toll on my family, health and we are being victimized by the media. We are completely satisfied with the investigations being conducted by Mumbai Police and have faith in them,” Satish wrote in his letter. Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner of police (north region), confirmed the police has received Satish’s letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/disha-salian-death-cops-request-citizens-to-share-info-father-alleges-harassment/story-eN7EGoN7GO38FpmJ1ixAFI.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||South Mumbai receives highest 24-hour August rainfall; strong winds cause chaos||Heavy rain and strong winds for a second consecutive day brought chaos to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) on Wednesday as trees fell, signages of buildings were blown away and waterlogging on roads and railways tracks caused disruptions. The downpour, however, helped Mumbai cross its seasonal average rainfall figure with two months of the monsoon season still remaining. The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 293.8mm rain in 12 hours (8.30am to 8.30pm Wednesday), which is the highest ever in August even for a 24-hour period since 1974, when records began to be kept, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The previous 24-hour highest rainfall was 261.9mm recorded on August 10, 1998.Maximum wind speed over the city was higher than that recorded when cyclone Nisarga had brushed past Mumbai in June. The wind speed recorded at Colaba was between 70kmph and 80kmph, which increased up to 107kmph between 5pm and 5.15pm. The wind speed recorded during cyclone Nisarga was 92kmph. The normal wind speed for Mumbai is between 10kmph and 15kmph during rainy days and between 25kmph and 30kmph on heavy rain days.The city has so far received 2,366mm rain between June 1 and August 5 (8.30pm) against its seasonal average of 2066mm. The Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs, has recorded 2,356.9mm rain during the same period against its seasonal average of 2260.4mm. In 59 hours till 8.30pm on Wednesday, the city has received 456mm rain. The weather bureau, however, said rain intensity is likely to reduce from Thursday and a yellow alert (heavy rain in isolated areas) has been issued after two days of red alert. “South Mumbai witnessed 30-50mm rain per hour, falling under the very intense rain spell category, on Wednesday. The low pressure area over north Bay of Bengal adjoining Odisha draws winds (pull-effect) from the Arabian Sea over coastal areas, and the upper air cyclonic circulation over parts of south Gujarat. Both activate strong monsoon conditions. These high speed winds characterise the intensity over coastal areas,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD, adding that the systems draw moisture from the sea, leading to convective cloud formation, which intensified over south Mumbai and later moved towards the suburbs. “Although similar weather conditions will last till Wednesday night, the situation is likely to improve on Thursday.”Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet, said, “The formation of such convective clouds (10-14km above mean-sea level) witnessed over south Mumbai on Wednesday was a rare event. We are witnessing such events, where convective clouds are dissipating and regenerating continuously due to overall changing weather patterns. This is a pre- or post-monsoon type rain phenomenon capable of giving high speed surface winds drawing continuous moisture from the sea.” Independent meteorologists said the wind pattern exhibited anti-clockwise nature due to a vortex formation (spinning column of air caused by weather factors enhancing monsoon conditions). “This brought rain clouds and pushed them to move over south Mumbai. They weakened rapidly after crossing south Mumbai, thereby leading to less rain over the suburbs,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, the United Kingdom. Meanwhile, water stock across seven lakes supplying water to Mumbai was 35% of the required amount. It was 90% last year by this time. “With very heavy showers underway over these areas, we expect improvement in levels over the next 48 hours,” said an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Deoras said Thursday evening onwards the weather in Mumbai region would stabilise. “No severe weather threat is expected during the weekend since at the most intermittent light showers are possible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/strong-winds-cause-chaos-downpour-helps-mumbai-cross-season-s-avg-rainfall/story-gShCQOm7JJOwPipDZ4SdzO.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Maha crosses 300,000 Covid recoveries; toll is 16,476||Maharashtra crossed the 300,000 mark of Covid-19 recoveries on Wednesday after 6,165 patients recovered from the virus in a day, taking the state’s tally to 305,521. The state had reported 12,326 recoveries on Tuesday, the highest so far since the first case was reported on March 9. The state also reported 334 Covid-19 fatalities on Wednesday, the highest so far in a day, taking the state’s toll to 16,476. However, according to the state health department, of the 334 deaths, 242 were from the past 48 hours, 60 are from last week and 32 from the period before last week. Covid cases in the state rose to 468,265 after 10,309 infections were recorded on Wednesday, pushing up the tally of active cases to 145,961. In four days before Wednesday, the number of recovered patients each day had been more than the daily case load. The number of recovered patients on August 1, 2, 3 and 4 were 10,725, 9,926, 10,221 and 12,326 against 9,601, 9,509 and 8,968 and 7,760 fresh cases, respectively. This has helped in pushing up the recovery rate of the state to 65.25% from 59.84% on July 29 and 54.08% on July 5. The national recovery rate stands at 67.19%.Officials said the process of flattening of the curve has begun. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, public health expert, who is also heading the communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state, said, “Plateauing [of cases] has started in Maharashtra according to my reading. But we will have to wait for another 12-14 days as more relaxations have been come into force only today [Wednesday]. We will have to see the number of new cases during this incubation period (14 days) and only then we can arrive at a conclusion.”Last week, the state health minister Rajesh Tope, too, had said the peak has arrived and cases will hit a plateau by mid-August. “In my view, the peak has arrived and cases will continue to rise for another 15 days. We are expecting a plateau or flattening of the curve somewhere around August 15. Once we hit the plateau, cases will start declining,” Tope said.The state government has allowed malls and market complexes to operate between 9am and 7pm from Wednesday. It has further allowed outdoor non-team sports such as golf, gymnastics, tennis, badminton and malkhamb with conditions of social distancing and sanitation.Mumbai, meanwhile, has maintained stability in daily fresh cases with 1,125 cases reported on Wednesday. Its case count stands at 119,240. Of these, 20,679 are active cases.On Tuesday, the city had recorded 709 cases, second-lowest spike since May 12, when it recorded just 426 cases. The city’s toll stands at 6,591, after 42 deaths were reported on Wednesday.Pune continued to contribute maximum cases in the daily tally, as it recorded 1,282 cases on Wednesday, taking its total infections to 65,136. Pimpri Chinchwad, satellite city in the Pune Metropolitan Region, recorded 740 cases and is the third highest contributor in the state.The state, meanwhile, continues to struggle with high fatalities. As many as 1,482 deaths have been reported in the past five days as against 6,988 deaths in entire July, 5,638 in June, 2,286 in May, 449 in April and 10 in March. With 16,476 total deaths, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state is 3.52% as on Wednesday. It continues to be second highest in the country after Gujarat, where CFR is 3.86% with 2,533 deaths (65,599 cases) till Tuesday, according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department. Maharashtra, however, still has highest number of deaths across states in the country.The state’s positive rate stands at 19.40%, up from 18.57% on July 5. So far, the state has tested over 2,413,510 people, and of them, 1,945,245 have tested negative. Currently, 36,466 people have been kept at institutional quarantine facilities and 943,658 people have been home quarantined across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-crosses-300-000-covid-recoveries-toll-is-16-476/story-As4R1f5PIKot3Hducdt9wJ.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Slums see surge in Covid patients who are not high-risk contacts: BMC||From June-end to the first week of August, the city’s slums have seen a 53% rise – 6,174 on August 3 from 4,041 on June 29 – in the number of Covid patients, who are not high-risk contacts of earlier positive cases or those whose source is not yet identified, data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) revealed. BMC officials denied the possibility of community transmission, wherein people get infected, even if they are not in contact with an infected person, stating the source in the 6,174 cases is in a way interlinked with the earlier positive cases, but it has not been able to establish it. Of the 6,174 cases, 3,370 cases are from slums in the suburbs – Kurla (545), Malad (544), Dahisar (536), Andheri West (628), Mulund (524) and Bhandup (593). Areas such as Bandra West and Bandra East have only 44 and 31 such cases, respectively, followed by Marine Lines and Dongri with 44 and 21 cases, respectively. A senior BMC official from the public health department said, “The spread in those who are not high-risk contacts of those testing positive is due to layers of contacts or via common touch points. There is no community transmission in the city, and also community transmission cannot be announced by BMC, but only by the state or Central government.” Manish Valanju, assistant municipal commissioner of L Ward that covers Kurla, said, “We are tracing 19 high-risk contacts behind every positive case in slums. However, we cannot trace and quarantine every person in the vicinity, considering many also come under the bracket of low-risk contact. It is possible that these people have got infected through common touch points. Also, many times those testing positive in slums do not give information about their high-risk contacts.” Kishore Gandhi, assistant municipal commissioner of T Ward that covers Mulund, said, “In slums, many do not give correct information due to stigma. On a daily basis hundreds use the same toilet that a positive patient might end up using. We trace maximum closest contacts from slums, but not all.” BMC had launched an initiative, ‘Chase the Virus’, on May 26. Among other targets, ward officers were given the task of tracing or “chasing” maximum contacts of Covid-19 patients, moving them to institutional quarantine facilities, and breaking their contact with the community around them. From the earlier target of 10 high-risk contacts for every one Covid-19 patient, BMC increased it to 15. Currently, on an average, BMC is tracing up to 10 to 20 high-risk contacts per positive patient across the city. Overall, BMC has traced 19.95 lakh contacts, of which 7.05 lakh are at high risk. Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a private health consultant from the city, said, “If those testing positive in slums are not high-risk contacts of Covid patients, there is a possibility that they are low-risk contacts. In this case, we need to monitor the low-risk contacts, too, for symptoms, considering there is a possibility of them carrying the virus further, especially with the relaxations.” Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Mumbai recorded 1,125 fresh cases and 42 new deaths, taking the city’s tally to 119,240 and toll to 6,591. The number of discharged patients in Mumbai was 91,673 with a recovery rate of 76.88%, and active cases stood at 20,679. The fatality rate was 5.52%, and the doubling rate 80 days. Dharavi, an earlier hot spot, recorded only one new case, bringing the area’s case count to 2,589, of which 2,254 have been discharged. On August 4, Mumbai conducted 7,244 tests, taking the total tests to 5.67 lakh, with an overall positivity rate of 20.83%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/slums-see-surge-in-covid-patients-who-are-not-high-risk-contacts-bmc/story-eh39NZLPLlPppL5QZLKAyI.html
06-08-2020||Mumbai||Spice-based formula can target the Sars-Cov-2 virus in 60 minutes, claims IIT-B||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B) have developed a spice-based formulation that rendered the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid -19 inactive within an hour, in laboratory tests. Dr Rinti Banerjee’s group at IIT-B’s department of biosciences and bioengineering validated the efficacy of the nutraceutical and phytopharmaceutical formulation called Picovrid, using the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). RT-PCR is globally considered a gold standard test for Covid-19. The tests were done at the civic-run Kasturba Hospital, which was among the first facilities to treat Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra. “The active ingredients in our formulation have a direct action in disrupting lipid and protein layers, degrading the outer lipid envelope of Sars-Cov-2, thus inactivating the virus,” said Banerjee, a Madhuri Sinha chair professor. Picovrid as a nutraceutical comprises constituents that are approved and within limits laid down by the Food Safety Standards and Authority of India (FSSAI). As a phytopharmaceutical, Picovrid-P contains approved Ayurvedic spices and natural emulsifiers, which are above food limits but at doses that are one-tenth of those found in conventional Ayurvedic formulations. Picovrid is available in the form of an oral syrup, herbal water, flavoured beverages, oral liquid shot, capsules, gels, infusion bag of herbal tea, flavoured milk and yogurt. The team has filed a patent application for the two technologies. A manuscript about the technology is also being prepared for publication in international journals. Having tested the formulation against Covid-19 positive swab samples with success, the team undertook a pre-clinical evaluation of Picovrid on lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced lung injury in rats. Globally, LPS-induced lung injury is among the most commonly-used rodent models for studies on acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). A viewpoint article published in the medical journal Lancet in July stated that the Covid-19 pandemic has witnessed an increase in patients with ARDS in intensive care units across the world. Introducing one dose of Picovrid in LPS-induced lung injury in rats showed a significant reduction in the levels of bronchoalveolar IL6, which is a complication that Covid-19 patients develop. Banerjee’s lab has developed various technologies for respiratory diseases, including ARDS, over the years. The team said Picovrid has a multi-pronged strategy – immune boosting, anti-viral and anti-inflammatory. “As an anti-viral, Picovrid directly inactivates the virus and is therefore useful for early Covid-19 cases. As a prophylactic, it can be of use for those at risk of being exposed. As an anti-inflammatory, our formulation is useful for those progressing towards severe disease because it reduces IL6 levels and reduces the cytokine storm associated with complications of Covid-19 which is a leading cause of mortality.” said Banerjee. As a nutraceutical, the technology is ready for commercialisation and is available for licensing. As an Ayurvedic formulation, since all actives are already approved as per Ayurvedic Pharmacopoiea and texts, the technology has the advantage of a short timeline to commercialisation with phase III integrated clinical trials according to AYUSH guidelines unlike the longer path of three stage trials for new chemical entities, new drugs or vaccines. Talks are ongoing for clinical trials, which may be conducted post-licensing over the next two months. Nagpur-based Government Medical College is one of the locations where a clinical trial has been registered with Clinical Trials Registry – India (CTRI). “It [the formulation] definitely holds promise. It looks very good with the information we have at this point. But let’s get a feel of what it looks like in the clinical trial phase. However, I think it will do very well there,” said Dr Om Srivastava, infectious disease specialist and a member of the state’s Covid-19 taskforce, who was not involved in developing the technology. Banerjee said the technology is also affordable because a 14-day course is expected to cost around ₹300 in comparison to current drugs that cost in the range of ₹9,000 to ₹44,000. “The pre-clinical results are very promising, and if clinical trials of the technologies validate the pre-clinical findings, the formulations hold promise in different forms for prophylaxis on one hand and as a two-pronged affordable therapy for Covid-19, addressing requirements of both antiviral effects and cytokine reduction, on the other,” said Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/spice-based-formula-can-target-the-sars-cov-2-virus-in-60-minutes-claims-iit-b/story-e3cYueJVJAWxfNsxlF0mIN.html
06-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s active cases lowest in two months||At 725, the number of active cases in Gurugram is the lowest in the last two months, according to district-level data. Officials attribute the decline in the number of active cases to increased testing and high recovery rate.Data shows that on June 2, the total number of active cases in Gurugram was 775 when the total case count was 1,063. With a test positivity rate of almost 37% at the time, the cases grew exponentially and in the first week, it crossed the 1,500 mark. For the next many days, almost 130 to 230 new cases were being reported. By June 16, the active cases had climbed to 1,722 with the total case load of 3,682. In July, however, a decline was visible as the daily growth rate of cases in the month reduced to 1.7%, which in June was 12.6%.The number of active cases was 1,091 on July 29, which came down to 991 by July 30, further to 883 on August 2 and finally to 757 on August 4. Health officials said that in the last one week, less than 100 new cases were reported every day. Dr. Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist, said, “Samples of nearly 2000-2500 people are being collected daily but not too many people test positive. On Tuesday, at least ,2519 samples were collected, for 1,466 antigen tests and the rest for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. Out of the total samples, only 68 were positive. Within a week’s time, the active cases can come down to 500.”Another reason for decline in active cases is high recovery rate, according to Ram Prakash. Gurugram’s current recovery rate is over 90%. “Not many patients are sick. Patients are mostly asymptomatic, home isolated and are easily getting recovered,” he said. In the last one week, per day recovery numbers exceeded the new cases, showing its impact on the active cases figure.Dr. Virender Singh, chief medical officer, said, “The test positivity rate has come down due to increased surveillance and testing. It is less than 8%. Every day more than 2000 tests are being conducted to identify new cases. Special focus on worst affected areas also helped in the declining numbers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/active-cases-lowest-in-two-months/story-WjQKaLzDTYM8amDGCWXZYK.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||12-year-old battles for life after being sexually assaulted, stabbed multiple times||A 12-year-old girl is battling for her life at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) after she was allegedly sexually assaulted inside her home before being stabbed multiple times with a pair of scissors on Tuesday, the police said. Police are yet to identify or nab the alleged perpetrator(s). A case of attempt to murder and sexual assault under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been registered at the Paschim Vihar West police station, a Delhi Police spokesperson said. Police said the girl’s parents and sister work at a nearby garment factory. They had gone to work and the girl was alone in the single-room house when the crime took place. The building where the family lives has many rooms which have been rented out to other people, mostly factory workers. Police are questioning her neighbours. “Investigators are questioning people living in the building and the neighbourhood as well. Since the crime took place in a room, the role of someone she knew has not been ruled out. The CCTV cameras installed in the neighbourhood are also being scanned for clues,” the spokesperson said. Joint commissioner of police (western range) Shalini Singh said the crime was reported to police control room around 5.30pm Tuesday by a neighbour who spotted the injured teenager coming out of her home.  An investigating officer, who did not want to be named, said a police team was dispatched and the personnel rushed the critically injured girl to a nearby government hospital. But on ascertaining her serious condition, doctors there referred her to AIIMS. The police officer said according to neighbours,they had found the girl, drenched in blood, walking out of the single room accommodation. “They said the child fell unconscious before she could tell them anything. There was a deep stab wound to her head apart from other injuries to her abdomen and other parts of the body,” the officer said. When the police team went inside, they found blood splattered all over the room and a bloodstained pair of scissors on the floor. A sewing machine in the room suggested that the alleged perpetrator(s) used the pair of scissors kept there to attack her. “Prime facie, it appears that the suspect used the pair of scissors to try and kill the girl. The exact sequence of events can be ascertained only when we record the girl’s statement or after we nab and question the suspect(s),” the officer said. On Wednesday, Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) took suo motu cognizance of the crime and issued a notice to the station house officer (SHO) of Paschim VIhar police station, demanding by August 8 a copy of the first information report (FIR), detailed action taken report and other information related to the case. “Reportedly, the girl was brutally raped and the culprit(s) tried to kill her. Presently, she is fighting for her life in AIIMS, Delhi. It is reported that she was attacked with blunt objects and has injuries all over her body. This is a very serious matter,” the notice, signed by DCW chief Swati Maliwal, read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/12-year-old-battles-for-life-after-being-sexually-assaulted-stabbed-multiple-times/story-mFrppTZ02buEksrqkSSpzN.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||25-year-old stabbed to death, friend injured while fighting robbers in Tilak Nagar||New Delhi: A 25-year-old man was stabbed to death and his friend suffered critical injuries while fighting three masked bike-borne robbers on the street near a public park in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar on Tuesday night. Both of them were stabbed in their thighs, apparently with a knife by the assailants, who robbed them of their laptop, Rs 45,000 cash and a cell phone, police said on Wednesday. One of the victims, Ranjan Mishra,25, ran for nearly 100 metres on the road to save his life by hiding at a dark spot behind the park. Police suspect he bled to death, while his friend Dheeraj (identified only by his single name in police records) was rescued from the spot by three passersby, who admitted him to a hospital.A police officer associated with the investigation said it seems that the two friends had a scuffle with the robbers. “Mishra was stabbed in his right thigh and Dheeraj on his left thigh. Mishra died of excessive bleeding. A case of murder, attempt to murder and armed robbery has been registered,” he said. Police said they were scanning CCTV cameras in the neighbourhood for clues about the suspects.Ranjan and Dheeraj worked in a private company but lost their jobs due to Covid-19 pandemic and had recently started a business of delivering products of a leading food and beverage company from their office in Vishnu Garden, police said. The two lived in a rented home in Sagarpur area.“We only found one injured man (Dheeraj) on the road and did not know that his friend was also attacked and he was hiding behind the park. Dheeraj fell unconscious in the car before he could tell us about his friend (Ranjan Mishra). If we knew about him, we would have taken him to the hospital too,” said Ashish Vohra, who along with two friends and a local resident rushed Dheeraj to Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital in their car.  Vohra, a property dealer who lives in Tilak Nagar, said he was returning home with his friends – Deepak Chopra and Amit Dhawan – after attending a birthday celebration in Kirti Nagar. “When we reached near the park, we saw three men whose faces were covered with white towel fleeing on a bike, brandishing firearms or knives. As we turned on the road towards my home, we spotted a man bleeding on the road signalling for help. His scooter was lying nearby,” said Vohra. The three friends stepped out of the car. Dheeraj fell unconscious after just telling them that he has been robbed. A local resident reached the spot and the four rushed Dheeraj to DDU hospital after informing the police. “While the doctors were administrating life-saving injections and medicines to the injured men, the police brought another injured man almost half an hour later. The second man was declared brought dead due to excessive bleeding. The policemen told us that the other victim was found near the park, nearly 100m away from the spot where we had found his injured friend,” Vohra added.  Mishra belonged to Samastipur in Bihar and is survived by his parents, wife and a six-month-old child. He had returned from his home town a week ago, Mishra’s brother-in-law Hari Krishna told the police.Joint commissioner of police (western range) Shalini Singh praised the effort of Vohra and his friends and said that Dheeraj may also have died due to excessive bleeding had he not been taken to the hospital in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-year-old-stabbed-to-death-friend-injured-while-fighting-robbers-in-tilak-nagar/story-qXJcQKTbINpYTvptjwyg1J.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||Man hacks couple in front of kids, poisons himself minutes later||A 50-year-old man allegedly stabbed a couple to death in front of their two children and then killed himself by consuming poison in outer Delhi’s Narela on Wednesday morning, police said. While the suspect was conscious when police officers reached the crime spot, he fell unconsciousness minutes later, and died in a hospital later that day.Police identified the couple as Mohammad Hashim (28), who was a motor mechanic and Minnat Khatoon (25), a homemaker.The alleged murderer Mohammad Mushtaq, an e-rickshaw driver, stabbed the two multiple times with a meat cleaver, killing them on the spot, said a senior police officer associated with the investigations.According to the police, the two families often quarrelled over minor domestic matters such as disposing waste water and garbage outside their houses. The police also said that the murdered man and the alleged killer had a heated argument on Saturday, after their vehicles collided. The senior officer the alleged murdered was alive when police reached the scene after a neighbour informed them of the attack.A case of murder was registered at Narela police station based on the neighbour’s statement.“We caught him from the terrace of his house and were interrogating him when we saw him frothing from his mouth. While telling us about the petty disputes he had with the couple, he fell unconscious. We rushed him to Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital where he died during treatment,” said the officer.Deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Gaurav Sharma said that around 2.40 am, Narela police were informed that a person with blood on his clothes had escaped the couple’s house after killing a woman. A police team reached the spot and met the caller, a neighbour, who told them he had seen the 50-year-old rickshaw puller attacking the couple at their house.The neighbour told the police that he saw, through his window, the man allegedly attacking the woman with a weapon while she slept. He said the woman was trying to fight him away and screaming for help. When her husband came to her rescue, the man allegedly stabbed him as well.The couple’s two children, aged two and four years, were in the same room where their parents were stabbed, the officer said, quoting the neighbour’s statement.Police said that after stabbing the couple, the man went to his house changed his blood-stained clothes, cleaned blood from the chopper while his wife and three children were sleeping. He later went to the terrace, where he consumed some poisonous substance.“The neighbour told us that the killer was hiding on the terrace of his house. We went there and caught him. However, by then he already had consumed the poisonous substance,” the officer said, adding that the blood splattered on the walls suggested that the couple had fought with the killer in a bid to save their lives.Sharma said they recovered the meat cleaver. The couple hail from Bihar and had shifted to Delhi around two years ago.The alleged killer had lived in the neighbourhood for more than 17 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-hacks-couple-in-front-of-kids-poisons-himself-minutes-later/story-EMlSDbpEmP9jc3RkDLPB3H.html
06-08-2020||Gurugram||Woman battling for life after former classmate stabs her 30 times||A 23-year-old woman was stabbed 30 times allegedly by a former classmate at her house in Sector 14 on Tuesday night. The woman, who suffered injuries on her ear, neck, chest, and stomach in the attack, was rushed to a private hospital in the city and later referred to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi. A surgery was performed on her but her condition was still stated to be critical, said police on Wednesday evening. The suspect was arrested from the spot. He was produced before a court on Wednesday and granted bail.The police said the incident took place around 9.30 pm on Tuesday, shortly after the victim had returned with her husband from her parents’ house in Delhi. The suspect , identified as Vivek Kondal, reportedly came to the woman’s house on a motorcycle and knocked at here door. He then entered the house and asked her in-laws to call the woman. He told them that he wanted to talk to her urgently regarding some serious issue. As soon as the woman came out, Kondal pulled out a pocket knife and stabbed her 30 times. The father-in-law of the woman jumped in and tried to save her, and in the process sustained injuries. He immediately raised the alarm, following which some neighbours gathered and caught hold of Kondal and informed police control room. The woman’s husband was taking a bath at the time of the incident, police said.Police commissioner KK Rao said that Kondal and the victim were classmates at a college in Delhi University and the man had been stalking her since then. “The woman has received at least 30 stab wounds. Kondal has told the police that he thought the woman was also fond of him, but when he approached her last December, she turned down his proposal and made fun of him,” Rao said. He allegedly told investigators that he was angry that she had rejected his advances multiple times and got married instead to a Gurugram-based man in February. Kondal, police said, is a resident of Delhi and a student of postgraduation. A case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 452 (house-trespass) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 14 police station. Investigators claimed that Kondal was also injured as he fell down while trying to flee. Later, he was caught hold of and assaulted by locals before being handed over to the police. “We are checking if the suspect has a criminal history and from where he procured the knife. We are also investigating if he was involved in similar cases in the past. During questioning, he told the investigating officer that he had approached her several times, but she would turn him down saying that she was not interested in getting married to him and always advised him to study well. Earlier also, he had clashed with the woman’s parents and had broken the window panes of their house in Delhi in a fit of rage,” said Rao. The father-in-law of the woman said that he has suffered injuries while trying to save the woman. “We are not aware if Kondal was stalking my daughter-in-law and that he would attack her. We are still under trauma due to this incident and scared of sending our son out of the house, even for work,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-battling-for-life-after-former-classmate-stabs-her-30-times/story-CNGSGfGNNnjFB34tBUyQhJ.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi traders festoon markets, light lamps to celebrate Ram temple in Ayodhya||Markets in different parts of the national capital Wednesday set up large LED screens to play the live telecast of the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya. Most of these markets, which have remained more or less deserted owing to social distancing norms that are in place on account of Covid-19 pandemic, donned a festive look and were festooned with brightly coloured lights, balloons and decorative pieces. The market associations also used their social media groups to urge residents to light lamps to mark the occasion and also distributed sweets among shoppers. People gathered in front of the LED screens at the markets of Greater Kailash-1 M Block, Green Park, Kailash Colony, Krishna Nagar, and Ashok Vihar to watch Prime Minister Narendra Modi lay the foundation stone to formally mark the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, which is round 600km from Delhi. Large banners and hoardings of Lord Ram and the proposed temple were spotted at these markets. The Rani Jhansi Road near the Jhandewalan temple in North Delhi was dotted with saffron flags. Traders at Sadar Bazar, Chandni Chowk, and Khari Baoli markets too had put up saffron flags and large cut-outs of Lord Ram to mark the occasion. Rajendra Sharda, president, GK-1 M Block market association, said, “Around 100-150 people gathered in the morning to watch the live telecast. We distributed 250 packets of laddoos (sweets) as prasad after the telecast. It was a great feeing to see the event bring together people from all walks of life even during the pandemic. We took care of social distancing norms during the programme.” At many places in Old Delhi, traders organised special aartis (rituals) and lighting of lamps. On the Church Mission Road, traders performed an aarti. At the Krishna Bazar Chowk, conch shells were blown just as the rituals of the groundbreaking ceremony began in Ayodhya. Members of Green Park residents’ welfare association (RWA) said they had raised concerns over the setting up of a screen by the market association amid the Covid-19 situation. “We had taken up the matter with the police and the area subdivisional magistrate and urged them that a gathering must be avoided at this time. But the rain played spoilsport and not many could gather on Wednesday,” said Lalit Kumar, general secretary, Green Park RAW. In Vasant Kunj Sector A, residents invited a bhajan (prayer songs) singer to the small community event at the neighbourhood temple. “We have organised a “bhajan sandhya” from 7pm-9pm to celebrate this historic moment. Also, we have ordered around 500 earthen lamps and residents have been urged to come out and light them,” said Amit Aggarwal, member, Vasant Kunj Sector A RWA. Suresh Goel, 70, a resident of Vasant Vihar recalled the 1990s and the tension that had flared between communities after the Babri Masjid demolition on December 6, 1992. “I have been able to witness both events during my lifetime. Delhi was on high alert then. After decades, the temple is being built, which is a moment of joy for all of us,” Goel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-traders-festoon-markets-light-lamps-to-celebrate-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-6V2twE5ZR3ps3iTPe04HwL.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||Restrictions imposed at JNU non-teaching staff complex after 30 test positive for Covid-19||The South Delhi district administration on Wednesday organised a compulsory Covid-19 testing camp at a housing complex for non-teaching staff inside the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) campus after at least 30 residents tested positive for the virus in the last two weeks. The university had restricted movement at the Saraswatipuram housing complex last week. JNU registrar Pramod Kumar said they had organised another testing camp with the south district administration’s help on July 23. “Around 30 persons tested positive from Saraswatipuram, a housing complex for non-teaching staff. The district administration asked us to restrict movement in the complex completely. Some students have also tested positive. The university has sent them to AIIMS Jhajjar for quarantine.” Kumar said at least 40 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in the university to date, including both students and staff. “Sawaswatipuram had majority of the cases because the children of many staff members work outside the campus,” he said. In an order issued on July 29, Kumar said, “In view of the increasing number of cases of Covid-19 in the university, a visit was made by a Rapid Response team on July 24. The areas affected were Saraswatipuram, Poorvanchal, Paschimabad, and Dakshinapuram. Maximum clustering of cases were seen in block number 2, 5, 6 and 7 of Saraswatipuram and it has been decided to restrict the area. No moment should be allowed.” The movement in the complex that has around 272 houses will remain restricted till August 11, the order said. Pranjal Patil, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Vasant Vihar, said the district administration had written to the university to restrict the area around Saraswatipuram. “The university had then requested us to conduct another round of antigen testing on Wednesday. We did not send any staff to the campus since university has its own security team and they are taking care of people quarantined at the campus. We are closely monitoring the situation,” she said. As a precautionary measure, JNU has installed barricades at several locations in the housing complex and security guards are being assigned round the clock. “The university has given the responsibility of taking care of the residents at the complex to its security officials. We have shared the numbers of security personnel with the residents and they can directly contact them for groceries and other essential stuff,” the registrar said. A senior security official at JNU, who wished not to be named, said, “The housing complex is like a small containment zone inside our campus. The security personnel are working round the clock to help residents. We make regular announcements requesting residents not to step out and maintain social distance at home as well.” The university has advised students to avoid non-essential movement in the campus and asked residents aged above 60 and below 10 to stay indoors. Students have been advised against inviting outsiders. On July 7, two students had tested positive in Periyar hostel, following which the hostel was sealed and around 50 students were isolated for 14 days. The hostel has now been de-sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/restrictions-imposed-at-jnu-non-teaching-staff-complex-after-30-test-ve/story-0yUgUncCrgWZGyxvNfXuoM.html
06-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt panels suggest ways to hospitals to bring down Covid deaths||Equipping Covid-19 wards with more high-flow nasal oxygen systems, scaling up plasma therapy administration in earlier stages of treatment, early transfer of severe patients to intensive care units (ICUs), and preparing for a ICU bed augmentation strategy for a potential second wave of the pandemic – these are some of the suggestions submitted to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Wednesday by committees set up by him to monitor Covid-19 mortality rate in hospitals.The government, however, did not share any data from the findings of the committee. A senior official said that the report is being further analysed and more inputs would be shared in a few days.Last week, the chief minister’s office had shared data which suggested that Covid-19 deaths in the city had dropped by 44.50% between July 1 and 12 compared to the corresponding period in June, citing data summarised from records of the health department.On July 30, the chief minister set up four committees to look into Covid deaths more specifically covering 10 hospitals – both public and private – that include Lok Nayak Hospital, GTB Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital, Max East & West, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, RML Hospital, Jaipur Golden Hospital, Sir Balaji Action Medical Institute, Escorts, and St. Stephen’s Hospital.“The CM on Wednesday convened a meeting with the committees which were constituted last month to inspect the 10 hospitals (government and private) in the city with the highest mortality rate, and give hospital-wise recommendations on following standard operating procedures and protocols. In the meeting, each of the four committees submitted their reports and presented recommendations to the CM Arvind Kejriwal, to induce measures for the betterment of Covid patient care services and reducing mortality rate in the hospitals,” said Kejriwal’s office in a statement.As per the summary of the reports shared by the CM’s office specifying hospital-wise recommendations to reduce mortality rate, the GTB Hospital was suggested to equip Covid wards with high-flow nasal oxygen systems and scaling up of convalescent plasma therapy. High-flow nasal oxygen (HFNO) systems is a supportive facility administered to Covid-19 patients for enhanced oxygen supply and control of the respiratory rate.For Safdarjung Hospital, which comes under the central government, and Lok Nayak Hospital, which is Delhi government’s biggest covid hospital, the committees recommended developing of early warning scorecards to ensure prompt detection and shifting of patients from the wards to the critical areas and high-risk cases to be transferred to ICU at the earliest sign of deterioration.For Safdarjung Hospital, the committees also opined that the number of covid ICU beds should be increased in case there is a second wave.For three private hospitals in the city, which include the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Sri Balaji Action Medical Institute and Jaipur Golden Hospital, the committee suggested that they should ensure early detection of complications in patients on prolonged ventilation and management as per protocols and more timely application of HFNO.“The CM reiterated on Wednesday that all steps should be taken to bring Covid deaths to zero. During the inspection by the committees, it was found that the death rate in all these hospitals has decreased as compared to earlier. The CM is personally monitoring all critical Covid-19 patients. Due to the direct intervention of the CM, immediate steps have been taken to reduce the rate of deaths in Delhi. On July 16, a checklist was sent by the health department to the hospitals for Covid patient management which further helped reduce deaths due to Covid. As a result, the deaths in Delhi have come down to just 11 today,” the statement issued by the CM’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-panels-suggest-ways-to-hospitals-to-bring-down-covid-deaths/story-gsE5PkQtdvsqANrE6SsCaI.html
06-08-2020||Pune||Pune: 1,282 fresh Covid-19 cases, 63 deaths on Wednesday||The city on Wednesday reported 1,282 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 63 deaths, according to the state health department. This takes the progressive positive cases in Pune city to 65,136, as per state data. However, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in its daily report recorded only 1,101 fresh positive cases on Wednesday taking the progressive positive cases to 60,597. At least 17 deaths were reported, as per PMC data, taking the virus-related death toll in the city to 1,429. At least 11 more deaths were reported from outside the PMC jurisdiction. The number of patients requiring critical care has increased to 675 on Wednesday, according to PMC data. Also 1,159 persons were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; which puts the discharged count at 42,410. According to information given by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department, of the total 675 critical patients in Pune, 425 patients are on ventilator and 250 patients are without ventilator. At least 2,273 patients have been given oxygen support. Of the 17 deaths reported on Wednesday, the youngest among the deceased was a 41-year-old male from Hadapsar area admitted to the Sassoon General Hospital, who had respiratory failure and pneumonia. The oldest among the deceased was an 80-year-old male also from Hadapsar area admitted to Sassoon Hospital who died due pneumonia and Covid infection. Virus Tracker (figures till 7.30 pm on August 5) PMC New cases: 1,101, total cases: 60,597 New deaths: 17, total deaths: 1,429 New discharges: 1,159, total discharges: 42,410 Critical patients: 675, admit but stable: 16,083||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-sees-1-282-fresh-covid-19-cases-63-deaths-on-wednesday-as-per-state-data/story-QuDC3x0N1fNbuGhD6xjX9L.html
06-08-2020||Pune||Showers dampen malls and hotels’ return to business in Pune||Pune: City malls and hotels saw decent visitors on day one after Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) allowed them to restart their business from Wednesday. However, many possible customers chose to avoid stepping out of their homes as it rained throughout the day. “Despite a pretty wet Wednesday, we received an encouraging response with customers coming in throughout the reopening day. As a specialty destination dealing in furniture and decor, we usually focus on conversions rather than plain walk-ins and it was heartening to see double digit conversion on Wednesday,” said Mahesh M, CEO, Creaticity, Yerawada. DoubleTree by Hilton Hotel Pune, Chinchwad, also saw customers after it was reopened. “In Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, we got permission to reopen slightly earlier than the Pune counterpart. Still, the business is as slow as the first day as today [Wednesday] is actually the second day. The customer query count is more than yesterday. We received queries even during the lockdown days from regular customers,” said Aditya Malla, general manager, DoubleTree by Hilton Hotel Pune, Chinchwad. Along with standard operating procedures (SOPs) set by the government, DoubleTree has its additional set of preventive norms for staff and visitors. “We have added SOPs like — Hilton clean stay, Hilton event ready — which is helping people to stay more alert regarding hygiene inside hotel and its premises,” said Malla. “Good to see people following social distancing norms inside the mall. I am a regular visitor and feel excited to step in again after the lockdown. Today, I brought sunglasses for my sister,” said Vishal Kakaliya, a resident of SB Road after visiting The Pavillion. “With stringent SoPs in place, we have seen customers more responsible and cooperative in following the virus norms. We are expecting a gradual increase in footfall in the coming days,” said Rahil Ajani, centre director, The Pavillion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/showers-dampen-malls-and-hotels-return-to-business-excitement-in-pune/story-QIWduxCjlD4ZnyMkfLisXJ.html
06-08-2020||Pune||Pune pvt hospitals describe pandemic an ordeal; patients complain of overcharging||Pune: Private hospitals have been at the forefront of fighting the Covid-19 pandemic as the government’s public health infrastructure is seen incapable to deal with the situation. Despite the civic administration promising to look into issues highlighted by private hospitals, complaints remain unresolved. These include harassment in the form of compulsory documentation and updating data, poaching of staff, price cap leading to losses and also imposing more taxes for biowaste disposal. Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) hospital association has written to the district administration and state several times to provide relief, but is yet to get any answer. Dr Sanjay Patil, who heads the Hospital Board of India said, “Private hospitals are facing the load because the government has ignored its public health infrastructure for many decades. Private hospitals and doctors are putting in all their efforts to battle the virus pandemic even as PMC’s hospitals and health facilities are lying unused. Many private hospitals have volunteered to provide support to the government. Majority of Covid-19 cases prefer private medical care citing government hospitals’ lack of infrastructure facility and expertise. Government hospitals are not upgrading their infrastructure, for example PMC’s Dalvi hospital, Naidu hospital and even Kamla Nehru hospital lack critical care and it leaves private hospitals overburdened. When the H1N1 epidemic broke out, it was decided to set up another infectious hospital and upgrade Naidu hospital.” There are around 100 private hospitals in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad offering its services to Covid patients. The government plans to include some of the 700 nursing homes into the Covid network. According to Patil, manpower is another issue private hospitals are struggling with along with lack of coordination between various government authorities, including the central government. Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director, Sahyadri hospital, said, “We are facing severe staff shortage as the government is taking away the resources which private hospitals cannot afford because we have to pay them as per the original norms otherwise we will run into fund crunch as there is no help from the government. PMC is also not releasing the credit it owes us. The civic body owes us about Rs 9 crore out of which 50% is due to Covid treatment. Also, the documentation process keeps almost 4-5 staff busy. We have asked PMC to at least provide a data entry operator, but are yet to get any help. Updating data is a huge task and failure to do so invites the administration’s attention. We not only have to update the date on website, but also WhatsApp message it sometimes. Why can’t the government agencies coordinate among themselves and share the information.” The price cap norm put in place by the government had left private hospitals record over 70% loss in addition to the non-Covid surgeries being postponed indefinitely. Dr Rao said, “The government is not giving any relief, but is adding to our troubles. PMC has imposed a 15% excess tax on biowaste disposal when we had asked for its waiver.” While private hospitals claim that they are being harassed by the administration and running into losses, cases of Covid-19 patients being fleeced by private hospitals have also been reported. A senior citizen who was admitted to a private hospital was charged Rs 7.5 lakh as he was admitted in the hospital for over a month. His son said, “My father was admitted on July 4 and was in ICU for over 20 days. He was diabetic and also had high blood pressure. Although most part of the bill was covered by insurance, we still had to pay close to Rs one lakh at the time of discharge.” Amar Bhosale, a construction site labourer whose father was admitted at Symbiosis Lavale as he needed ventilator support which was unavailable at cantonment hospital under Khadki cantonment, said, “We were charged close to Rs 3.15 lakh. My father was admitted on July 22. After much argument and a letter from an MLA, my father was admitted under the Mahatma Phule Jyotiba scheme. However, before the scheme was put in place, we had to pay close to Rs 1.5 lakh out of which I have already paid Rs 60,000 and the rest should be paid at the time of discharge.” Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, nodal officer for Covid-19 for the district, said, “There have been about 15 complaints from patients, Covid and non-Covid cases, for overcharging. We are trying to resolve them and some notices have also been issued. It is observed that generally hospitals take advantage of the grey areas in annexure C as per the government general resolution (GR) as it does not mention which are costlier medicines. The price is capped for ICU beds too at Rs 9,000 and for PPE kits we have told that hospitals must divide the charge for the kit if it is being used for multiple patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-hospitals-in-pune-describe-pandemic-an-ordeal-amid-complaints-from-patients-about-overcharging/story-aRG23JVsp2w0RQ96TKg3dJ.html
