07-08-2020||City||MLA Talwar, family test positive in Ludhiana||Congress MLA (Ludhiana East) Sanjay Talwar has become the latest political leader to get infected with Covid-19. His family members, including his wife Meenu Talwar, two sons Kunwar and Kanav, and his brother Ajay Talwar have also tested positive for the virus. His parents, however, are not showing any symptoms as of now and their samples will be collected soon. The MLA and his family members have been home quarantined at his residence in Ram Nagar area.As per information, a relative of Talwar had tested positive a few days ago following which the family members got themselves tested. The MLA’s PA, Kawaljit Bobby, said, “A relative of the MLA had died around 10 days ago following which the family had gathered for his last rites. One of the relatives who had come there, tested positive for the virus two days ago, following which the MLA and his family members got the tests done. The infected persons have mild symptoms and are in home isolation after consulting doctors at Community Health Centre (CHC). The health department has been informed.”OTHER POLITICOS INFECTEDCouncillors Manpreet Grewal, Rakesh Prashar and Sukhdev Sheera, senior Congress leaders Kamaljit Singh Karwal, Ashok Prashar Pappi and the party’s former district president (R) Gurdev Lapran recently tested positive for the virus. Besides, senior BJP leader Gurdev Sharma Debi, Sunil Moudgill and former district president Ravinder Arora had also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mla-talwar-family-test-positive-in-ludhiana/story-OtruCdJRNS6UTcQpBRsQrO.html
07-08-2020||City||Noida: Use of drone cameras banned in view of CM’s visit||NOIDA The Gautam Budh Nagar police have banned the use of drone cameras for two days from Friday, in view of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s visit to the district. The CM, who arrived in Greater Noida on Friday evening, is expected to inaugurate the Covid-dedicated hospital in Noida Sector 39 on Saturday. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that apart from inauguration of the hospital, the CM will also make an inspection of integrated control room in Sector 128. “Adequate number of doctors and paramedics have already been deployed in the new hospital. He (the CM) will also chair a review meeting with the officials of all the districts of western Uttar Pradesh about the Covid-19 situation in their areas,” Suhas said. The 400-bed hospital has been developed jointly by Tata group and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the officials said. According to sources in the district administration, the CM will meet with people’s representatives and his party workers late Friday. Meanwhile, the security has been beefed up across the district. The GB Nagar police have already imposed section 144 of CrPC in the district, which restricts assembly of more than four people at a place. “In view of the chief minister’s tour to the district and using powers under section 144 of the CrPC, I order that operation of drone cameras would be totally prohibited in GB Nagar on August 7 and 8,” said an order issued by Ashutosh Dwivedi, deputy commissioner of police (law and order). The CM will spend the Friday night at the Gautam Budh University guest house in Greater Noida, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-use-of-drone-cameras-banned-in-view-of-cm-s-visit/story-3PVz0CNE5lsjnC7wzxKryK.html
07-08-2020||Noida||Noida: Five of gang arrested for duping people by switching their ATM cards||The Noida police on Thursday arrested five members of a gang for allegedly duping people by switching their ATM cards. About 34 stolen cards from the four suspects, the police said.According to police officers, the suspects were traced following an investigation into a case lodged on February 2 based on a complaint by a Nithari-based man who had alleged that his ATM card had been swapped by the suspects who had withdrawn ₹ 2.75 lakh from his bank account.The suspects, who were arrested around 9.30 pm on Thursday from near Nithari, were identified as Sandeep (single name), Rajendra Singh and Deepak Singh— residents of Hapur district, and Umesh Kumar and Omkar (single name) —residents of Noida.“The suspects would go to different ATM kiosks across the district and would swap people’s ATM cards with similar ones on the pretext of helping them with their transactions. They used to get hold of the people’s PIN (personal identification number) while pretending to help them with the transaction, and would carry withdraw money later,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.While tracing the money withdrawn from the Nithari-based man’s account, it came to light that the money had been used to purchase expensive electrical gadgets like TV sets, fridges among others, the police said.The police suspect that the gang has been active in Gautam Budh Nagar, Hapur, Bulandhshar among other districts for the past few months, and is working on how many cases the suspects’ gang was involved in and how much money they made by duping people.“All of them have an extensive criminal history. Sandeep and Deepak are also wanted under the Gangster act in Hapur and Gautam Budh Nagar respectively, while Umesh has also been to jail for thefts,” said the DCP.Along with the 34 ATM cards, the police also recovered three motorcycles, two knives, and a few electronics bought with stolen money from the suspects.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-five-of-gang-arrested-for-duping-people-by-switching-their-atm-cards/story-2blGgWNWRtACCtpquzphBJ.html
07-08-2020||City||Two criminals arrested after separate encounters in Greater Noida||Greater Noida The police on Thursday night arrested two wanted criminals after separate encounters and recovered illegal weapons from their possession. In the first case, the police arrested a member of Anil Dujana gang from Badalpur. The member, who is a murder suspect, has been identified as 25-year-old Kapil Kumar, a resident of Dujana village, the police said. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that the police received information about movement of two suspects on a motorcycle in the Badalpur area. “The police team set up barricades and signalled the suspects to stop for checking. However, the duo opened fire at the police team and tried to escape,” he said. The police chased the criminals and also opened fire in which Kapil was injured in leg and fell off the bike, the official said. Kapil was apprehended while his accomplice Amit managed to escape, the police said, adding that a countrymade gun and two live cartridges were recovered from his possession. Chander said the suspect was wanted in 14 cases of murder, attempt to murder, Arms Act, robbery, and Goonda Act, among others. In the second case, the police arrested a murder suspect, identified as Gaurav, 26, a resident of Surajpur in Greater Noida. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the encounter took place near Chaina canal in Jarcha at 10:30pm. “The suspect was riding a motorcycle which had no registration number plate. He tried to escape after opening fire at the police team when signalled to stop. The police team apprehended him after an encounter and found a countrymade gun in his possession,” he said. Gaurav received a bullet injury in his left leg and was rushed to district hospital for medical aid, the police said, adding that he was wanted in nine criminal cases in Greater Noida. Both the suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-criminals-arrested-after-separate-encounters-in-greater-noida/story-tOPvu7CdKhwHm3yTd3HXEO.html
07-08-2020||Noida||Noida: 34-year-old painter arrested for killing 70-year-old woman||The Noida police on Friday arrested a 34-year-old painter for allegedly killing a 70-year-old woman in her house in Sector 15 on July 27. The suspect had also stolen jewellery and other valuables from the woman’s house after killing her, the police said.The septuagenarian, Santosh Kumar, who used to live alone, was found dead in her house on July 28 by a Delhi-based family friend who had been sent there check up on her after she didn’t reply to calls and messages from her children living outside India. A murder case had been registered at the Sector 20 police station.The suspect was identified as Rajesh (identified by his single name in police records), a resident of Sector 16, who works as a painter. According to police officers, he had worked at the woman’s house a-year-and-a-half ago and had been called by her in the afternoon of July 27 for another painting job in the house.“In his statement, the suspect has said that he was passing by her house when she called him in for a small painting job. She had gone to the kitchen during which time he saw her purse nearby and picked up ₹1,500 kept in it. When the woman realised that money was missing, she threatened to call the police and before she could scream for help, he overpowered her and then strangled her to death with a curtain and dumped her body in the washroom,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.After her death, the suspect also stole her gold chain, a television set, and a stabilizer from the house after ransacking her cupboards, said the police, adding he had been working in the area for the past nine or 10 years. The woman’s neighbours had seen him go inside the house on July 27.Part of the stolen money, the gold chain and stabilizer were recovered from the suspect’s house while he had sold the TV to someone else for ₹4,000.Noida police had questioned more than 25 people in the case before the suspect was identified. The suspect was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-34-year-old-painter-arrested-for-killing-70-year-old-woman/story-C9Nr2rSHkj29tjSx9c95KM.html
07-08-2020||City||Cardiac arrest patient dies as family scrambles to secure ventilator in Ludhiana||An 80-year-old man, who suffered a cardiac arrest, succumbed at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H) on Wednesday even as his family members tried in vain to secure ventilator support for him. He was rushed to the hospital in the morning but due to non-availability of a ventilator, he was referred to the civil hospital. The family, however, refused to shift him, prompting civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga to intervene. But by then, it was too late.This is the third such case in the fortnight wherein kin of patients were seen scrambling for ventilators. Earlier, a 49-year-old man died on the way to the civil hospital after being referred by DMC&H. Another 54-year-old of Dholewal area died at the civil hospital on August 4 due to unavailability of ventilator. Both were Covid-19 patients.When contacted, medical superintendent, CMC&H, Anil Luther said, “It is unfortunate that a precious life was lost but we are hard-pressed due to the increasing number Covid-19 patients. We have 21 (invasive and non- invasive) ventilators but all are occupied.” He added that the district has 84 patients, who are either on oxygen or on ventilator support. Besides, there are other critically ill patients with other ailments. “We have arranged nearly 10 more ventilators today and the number will be increased to 31 in the coming days,” said Luther.Rakesh Kumar, son of the deceased, Vishav Nath, lamented, “If so many Covid patients will keep thronging the hospitals, where will patients with other ailments go. I was told that my father died of heart attack. He could have been saved if facilities were available.” Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga reiterated that there is immense pressure on both government and private hospitals due to the increasing number of patients. He added, “We urge everyone to act responsibly and wear masks while going out in public, maintain distance and wash hands frequently. If the infections come, doctors will be able to offer treatment to patients with other ailments as well,” said Dr Bagga. Dr GS Grewal, former president of Punjab Medical Council, said, “While focusing on Covid patients, we have forgotten about other patients. Even before the pandemic outbreak, the critical care units used to remain occupied. The government has to rework its strategy to ensure enough ventilators for other patients too,” added Dr Grewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cardiac-arrest-patient-dies-due-to-unavailability-of-ventilator-at-cmch-ludhiana/story-6xOCDE6i1fxwR8HzX6zhRM.html
07-08-2020||City||Noida: Traffic police prepare plan to ease congestion at Pari Chowk||Noida: The traffic police and transport department in a meeting decided to deploy measures to ease traffic at Pari Chowk in Greater Noida. As per plan, no commercial vehicles such as buses, autos or taxis would be allowed to halt at Pari Chowk for pick or drop passengers. However, three bus stops have been designated – Sector P-3, Sector Alpha – 1, and Sector Omega II – from where the buses would halt instead.Pari Chowk is a junction where traffic coming from Surajpur, Kasna and Noida converges. A large number of inter-state buses and city autos also occupy a significant amount of space which adds to traffic woes.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Traffic, said the meeting was held with all stakeholders to ease the traffic situation. “Pari Chowk witnesses traffic jams in even normal days due to a large number of vehicles coming from different cities. This sometimes chokes the area and motorists such as office goers, students, etc, get stuck. We have designated three bus stands at some distance where the buses, autos and other commercial vehicles can halt to pick up and drop commuters. This will unclog the Pari Chowk area,” he said, adding that the plan would be deployed soon. The first bus stop has been designated in Sector P-3 where buses going from Greater Noida to western Uttar Pradesh will halt. “Commuters going to Aligarh, Meerut, Agra, Bulandshahr, etc. can board buses from there. These buses will run on the internal road and reach Zero Point without visiting Pari Chowk. From there, they can go to the Yamuna Expressway and continue their journey,” he said. A bus stand for vehicles going from Greater Noida to Noida has been designated near Sector Omega II. This bus stand is located between Pari Chowk and P-3. These buses would navigate through Pari Chowk but they would not halt there to drop or pick up passengers. The third bus stop has been designated near Sector Alpha 1 roundabout where vehicles coming from Noida to Greater Noida would halt. These buses and commercial vehicles would cross Pari Chowk but won’t halt there. Around one lakh vehicles navigate through Pari Chowk on normal days. Alok Singh, a resident of Sector Alpha – 1 in Greater Noida said that the traffic is relatively smooth at Pari Chowk due to the Covid pandemic and the lockdown. “The traffic may increase once normalcy prevails. We feel that the new bus stand is a good experiment and it may ease traffic at Pari Chowk if it is properly enforced on roadways buses and autos,” he said. The traffic police are also conducting enforcement drives to ensure autos having only valid permits ply in the city. “Autos registered in Delhi, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Bulandshahr, etc. would not be allowed to ply on Noida roads. On Thursday, we seized 37 autos and one bus for permit violation in Greater Noida,” the DCP Traffic said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-traffic-police-prepare-plan-to-ease-congestion-at-pari-chowk/story-7hB7FHGdZsNxxq6VHTlXnJ.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Odd-even rule back in Chandigarh’s congested markets||The Chandigarh administration on Friday reintroduced odd-even system for opening shops in congested markets of the city. It will come into effect from Saturday.In addition to ‘rehri’ markets, the internal market of Sector 8 that houses various eateries will also open on odd-even basis. In the Covid-19 review meeting chaired by UT administrator VPS Badnore, it was also decided that the scooter repair market in Sector 43 will remain closed on all Sundays and some shops in the mobile market at Sector 22 will remain shut for the next six days.The order on congested markets were issued on the basis of recommendations received from the committee headed by the UT finance secretary to contain the spread of infection. It was constituted in the wake of a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases in the last one month and reports of violation of social distancing norms in congested markets. Under the system, odd- and even-numbered shops in the market are opened an alternate days. On August 8, shops with even number will open, and August 9, odd-numbered shops will open.All booths, shops and SCOs that are joined together will be considered as a single unit. In such cases, the lowest number will be considered for deciding odd and even. For example, if SCO numbers 1 and 2 are joined together, it will be treated as a single SCO with number 1.Subdivisional magistrates will coordinate with markets associations for smooth functioning and strict enforcement of the orders. The administration will review the decision after a week.During the meeting, Badnore directed all three chiefs of medical institutions to take greater care of co-morbid patients and to ensure that fatalities are kept at the minimum. He also directed the PGIMER to start rapid antigen testing, so that a large number of people could be covered in a short time. The administrator said that dedicated teams in ambulances could carry kits to take samples and conduct tests on the spot in different areas.Markets to be coveredInternal market, Sector 8Patel Market, Sector 15Palika Bazar, Sector 19Sadar Market, Sector 19Azad Market, Sector 20Palace Market, Sector 20Booth Market, Sector 21Shastri Market, Sector 22Janta Market, Sector 27Krishna Market, Sector 41Market near Burail Chowk||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/odd-even-rule-back-in-chandigarh-s-congested-markets/story-oUksS9DIADlBwHMkE98hMP.html
07-08-2020||City||Sukhbir leads protest against police over missing ‘saroop’||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday led a protest against the police for failing to recover the ‘saroop’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib that went missing from Ardaspur Sahib Gurdwara at Kalyan village in the district more than two weeks ago. Staging a ‘dharna’ along with party activists in front of the office of the senior superintendent of police (SSP), he slammed chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur for allegedly maintaining silence on the issue. “Why did the organisations, which were propped up by the Congress, keep away during the lockdown, leaving it to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to help people in distress? Even now, these organisations are silent despite more than fifteen days have passed since the ‘saroop’ dating back to the World War era went missing.” The SAD, he said, will never play politics on the issue. “We have come here only because the district police have failed in their duty. We will stage a ‘dharna’ in front of the SSP’s office till August 18 demanding recovery of the ‘saroop’ and arrest of the culprits. If the police fail to make any headway by then, we will announce our next course of action,” he added. “We have never taken any false oath like Capt Amarinder Singh who played with the sentiments of the Sikh community. He vowed in the name of the Gutka Sahib to deceive the people into voting for the Congress in the 2017 assembly elections.” SAD leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Charanjit Singh Atwal, Surjit Singh Rakhra and MLA Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra also spoke on the occasion.Chandumajra said the Patiala police had swung into action and recovered the lost mobile phone of Preneet Kaur within 20 four hours but could not do the needful when it came to the missing ‘swaroop’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sukhbir-leads-protest-against-police-over-missing-saroop/story-syhvhIN8VOZPj85ze9Lv5N.html
07-08-2020||City||Noida: Residents suffer power cuts in city’s 10 sectors||NOIDA: Amid the rising humidity, residents from several sectors of the city have complained of long power outages and voltage fluctuations. In some sectors, local faults led to outage of about eight hours, residents said. According the residents of Sector 137, they had to face a power outage that lasted for more than eight hours from 8.30pm on Thursday to 5am on Friday after the supply line was broken by the sewer cleaning crane. Other sectors also suffered outages of up to three hours due a faulty power supply line and tripping of the substation. Parveen Singh Taragi, estate manager of Logix Blossom County in Sector 137, said that his area had a power outage that lasted for nearly eight hours from Thursday night to Friday morning. “The supply lines were broken by the cranes cleaning the drainage. We immediately complained about it to the power discom, but its staff took their own time in rectifying the fault. As a result, all the societies in our sector had no option other than to bank on diesel generator sets for over eight hours,” he said. Similarly, the residents of Sector 77 complained that they have been facing power outages of two or three hours daily for the past 10 days. “On Thursday evening, when we tried to lodge our complaints with the power discom, Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), it did not take down our complaints as all the phone lines were hung up. All the residents are fed up of this sorry state of affairs,” said Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Grihapravesh, a high-rise in Sector 77. Kumar further said that the demand-supply gap is not an issue during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The distribution and transmission bottlenecks and dilly-dallying approach of the staff are largely responsible for the avoidable power cuts, as well as tripping,” Kumar added. Similar complaints were raised by the residents of sectors 25, 27, 28, 29, 36, 37, 92, and 93A, among others. When contacted, Virendra Nath Singh, chief zonal engineer of PVVNL Noida, denied long outages across the sectors. “I regularly conduct reviews of the power situation, and it was not as if there were four to five hours of outages across all the sectors. Some parts of the city might have been affected due to the falling of trees or a local fault caused by rains. But otherwise the power supply is uninterrupted. Our staff fix all the faults as soon as possible,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-residents-suffer-power-cuts-in-city-s-10-sectors/story-xiUn10czZNi3fPhYcxZ1JJ.html
07-08-2020||City||Notices to 5,584 companies for not filing GST returns||New Delhi: The Delhi government has sent notices to 5,584 companies for not filing GST returns and 36 similar notices to those who failed to have filed VAT returns, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said in a statement on Friday.So far in 2020, the Delhi government has collected around ₹3,777 crore in taxes, as against ₹5,792 crore in the corresponding period (January – July) the previous year, the statement read.Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio in the Delhi cabinet, said: “Several sectors such as e-commerce, insurance and financial services were not affected by the pandemic.”While around 935 companies under these sectors have paid no tax for the first quarter (April – June) of the 2020-21 financial year, as many as 2,017 have paid less than 50% of what they had in the first quarter of the previous financial year (2019-20), he said.There are 35 such companies who have not filed tax returns for the fourth quarter of 2019-20 as well as the first quarter of 2020-21. Also, as many as 10,800 companies paid lesser than what is due for the fourth quarter of 2019-20, the statement said. “Delhi government will strictly scrutinise the reasons behind not filing tax returns by these companies from unaffected sectors,” said Sisodia, adding that the government has so far scrutinised 15,000 companies.The statement further said, “The extended time period granted for the filing of GST return for the first quarter of 2020-21 got over in July 2020. The Delhi government is also identifying the taxpayers evading tax. The department has been able to recover ₹10 crore from two such defaulting companies in the last week. The department is also analysing the tax payment profile of such taxpayers along with their overall tax profile in the previous quarters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/notices-to-5-584-companies-for-not-filing-gst-returns/story-m3Wc2PoK7OMrEznw1a75CN.html
07-08-2020||City||Residents say Greater Noida not implementing medical waste disposal plan strictly||Two days after the Greater Noida authority asked all households to dispose of biomedical waste separately in yellow coloured garbage bags, many residents alleged that the authority is neither implementing the directives strictly and nor is it raising any awareness about it.“The Greater Noida authority does not seem to be serious at all in implementing this plan to make sure that disposal of biomedical waste such as used masks, gloves among other items is done separately in yellow bags. The body has not created any awareness among the general public about the initiative, and so far has not discussed it with residents’ bodies,” said Davendra Tiger, president, federation of Greater Noida residents’ welfare associations (RWA)—an umbrella body of RWAs.On Wednesday, the authority had asked residents to buy yellow garbage bags to store used masks, gloves, and other biomedical waste to minimise the risk of infection spread through waste. A private agency (AG Enviro Private Limited) has been roped in to collect these bags and the hazardous waste would be handed over to another private agency (Synergy Private Limited) that will treat it in its plant in Meerut. The authority had also released the mobile phone number of a private vendor from whom the residents could buy the yellow garbage bags.However, the residents said the vendor had refused to provide the with the bags. “When we called the vendor, he said he will only take an order of a minimum of 25 kg. He refused to deliver 1kg that contains 40-50 bags. Why did the authority release a number that doesn’t any purpose?” said Harendra Bhati, a resident of Sector Beta 1 and member of Active Citizen Team—a citizen’s group.The vendor, on the other hand, said he was never contacted by the authority.“The Greater Noida authority did not contact me before releasing my mobile number. I only sell bags in bulk for wholesale customers, and I cannot deliver small orders,” the vendor, Neeraj Kumar Gupta, said.“We arranged the contact details of the vendor from the internet to help the residents. However, the residents are free to buy the yellow bags from any vendor in the market,” said Ramesh Chand, senior manager, Greater Noida authority.Residents, however, maintained that there was a lack of communication from the authority’s side.“Many people in our society are in home isolation or under quarantine, and many such people are yet to store the biomedical waste as per the rules. Many others are unaware of the authority’s plans to handle such waste which appears to be only in papers and not on the ground. Releasing a number of a vendor who does not supply bags for retail purposes shows the authority is not serious in its intention to treat this waste. The authority should have made detailed plans to store, collect and handle biomedical waste, ” Bhati said.Meanwhile, the authority said it provides at least 40 yellow bags everyday to the kin of Covid-19 positive patients and is working on creating awareness among residents.“We get a list of patients who test positive from the district health department on a daily basis. Subsequently, our team contacts such families to provide them with a yellow coloured bag to dispose of biomedical waste. We are trying to create awareness about the new directive to make sure the hazardous waste is collected separately and treated as per norms,” said Deep Chander, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-say-greater-noida-not-implementing-medical-waste-disposal-plan-strictly/story-6picQzKdE95eRAXUjf5DaN.html
07-08-2020||City||Noida: Private hospitals launch post-Covid clinics||NOIDA: To assess their patients suffering from cardiac and psychological issues, some private hospitals in Gautam Budh Nagar have started post-Covid care clinics. These clinics will provide consultations of senior doctors to the Covid-19 patients who have been discharged from the hospitals. At the post-Covid clinics, the Covid-19 survivors will also receive supportive advice from the physiotherapists and nutritionists, which will enable them to resume normal life at the earliest. These services will also be available to all those who were in home quarantine, hospital authorities said. Manisha Jindal, dean of School of Medical Sciences and Research (SMSR) at Sharda University, said that since scientific reports suggest that even after Covid-19 patients recover from the dreaded disease, there are lasting ill effects on their health, mostly related to heart, mental and chest issues. “To ensure the well-being of the Covid-19 recovered patients, Sharda hospital has opened a new facility to ensure regular check-up and treatment of the post-Covid patients. The facility provides services of cardiologists, chest specialists, psychologists, nutritionists, physiotherapists, psychiatrists and other specialists, as required,” she said. Jindal further said that the hospital, which is the only L-3 facility in the GB Nagar district, and SMSR had compiled all the disease and treatment related details of all patients treated there for Covid-19 infection. “We have treated over 1,000 Covid-19 patients so far, and also prepared a database of these patients so that whenever they come again to our hospital, we can start treatment with the help of their past records. Our call centre is also functioning to help the patients for further information,” the dean added. While launching the post-Covid facility in Fortis hospital, an L1 facility, on Friday, Dr Mrinal Sircar, director and head, department of pulmonology and critical care, said that while the recovery rate of the patients have improved over the past couple of months, it has also been noticed significant changes in patients recovered from Covid-19. “The changes include persistent breathlessness or cough, poor exercise tolerance, disturbed sleep pattern, mental health issues, cardiac complaints, lack of appetite, etc. We have realized that it is important to provide post-Covid care to these patients, to enable their complete recovery. This post-Covid clinic is to address such issues being faced by many patients who have recovered from Covid-19,” Sircar said. Speaking on the occasion, Hardeep Singh, zonal director of Fortis hospital, said, “We have been extending our efforts not only to combat the infection and save lives, but also offering them a post recovery treatment plan. The objective is to deliver overall care and offer support to enable patients to resume their normal lives,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-private-hospitals-launch-post-covid-clinics/story-DNT8iDaC6pBNkkpeBrnxxN.html
07-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Home isolation policy working fine, only a few such patients referred to hospitals||The home isolation option is turning out to be the preferred choice for asymptomatic patients and doctors alike. Data showed that fewer people in home isolation were being referred to higher care hospitals when compared to those admitted in L-1 category (mild cases) hospitals. The UP government allowed home isolation through an order on July 20 provided they strictly follow the protocols in place for it. According to records from the health department, only four out of the 299 patients in home isolation were referred for higher treatment to L-2 (moderate care) or L-3 (critical care) hospitals during the period between July 21 to August 6. The rate of referral stood at 1.33%. On the other hand, the referral rate at the of L-1 category ESIC hospital in Sahibabad was 2.99% with four out of 134 patients referred to higher hospitals. The referral rate for at another L-1 category hospital, SRM College in Modinagar, was 20.24% with 34 out of 168 patients referred. The home isolation and L-1 category hospitals cater to asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients. The three category hospitals are part of the UP government’s three-tier Covid healthcare structure. “We are strictly monitoring patients in home isolation regularly monitored with a team of doctors at the dedicated control room. Once a patient opts for home isolation, our rapid response teams physically inspects their house and allows it only if they meet criteria ,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The conditions for home isolation include the undertaking from the patient, a consulting doctor to declare the patient asymptomatic, round-the-clock availability of a caregiver for the patient, a minimum of two toilets at home and separate isolation room. Patients are also required to purchase pulse oximeter, thermometer, mask and gloves, among others. “In case a patient’s health worsens, they are referred to the appropriate L-2 or L-3 hospitals. We have strengthened our dedicated control room from where other activities like surveillance activities and monitoring of teams, facility allocation, etc and calls from public are being taken up and monitored regularly,” he added. Under the home isolation, the patients are marked as recovered after a period of 10 days and they are further directed to stay in home quarantine for a period of seven days as per guidelines. “During the period July 21 to August 6, 18 persons in home isolation were tracked when they did not respond to calls or provide their daily health status. About 540 ‘friendly watchers’ from neighbourhood of home isolated patients also got in touch with the control room if they suspected that the patients were trying to flout norms. In this manner, there is strict watch on patients in home isolation and also on their health status,” said an officer from the dedicated control room who wished not to be named. Experts said that under home isolation, a patient is more comfortable and had a better mental well being. “Since the patient is at home, they are more inclined to fight the illness than if they is admitted at a hospital. Before the home isolation was allowed, people were afraid to be tested as they feared that they would be confined to a hospital. Now, the numbers for those opting for tests is also on the rise,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. Overall, up to August 6, the referral rate from different L1 hospitals has ranged from 8.63% to 10.65%. According to official records, total of 554 patients were admitted to SRM College L1 facility till August 6 and 59 patients were referred. The other L1 ESIC Hospital on the other hand has referral rate of 10.08% with 73 patients referred out of total admission of 724 patients till August 6. The Divyajyoti Hospital at Niwari (which is temporarily shutdown at present) had admission of 626 patients and referred 54 patients to L2 or L3 hospitals. The L2 hospital at Sanjay Nagar on the other hand has a referral rate of 17.52% with admission of 765 patients out of which 134 were referred to higher L3 category hospital. At district’s only L3 hospital of Santosh Medical, a government acquired facility, 562 patients were admitted overall and it has 43 active patients admitted till August 6. However, the hospital also account for 25 deaths out of total of 64 deaths which have taken so far in Ghaziabad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-home-isolation-policy-working-fine-only-a-few-such-patients-referred-to-hospitals/story-zngOYH85lFVrra77ta7zhK.html
07-08-2020||City||AAP demands white paper on Covid-19 arrangements in Punjab||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday demanded white paper on Covid-19 arrangements in Punjab, saying the state government should make public as to where a whopping Rs 300 crore that the chief minister claimed of having incurred on the pandemic was spent. “The CM should bring out a white paper on the total expenditure and the donations received from the public,” said party MLA and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema at a press conference in Sangrur.Cheema alleged that the government has failed to combat the Covid-19 crisis in the past four months. “The spurt in cases by 1,000 cases every single day has deflated the government’s tall claims of having adequate combative measures in place. The body of a patient remained unattended at a Patiala hospital for 11 long hours. Another patient from Ludhiana died while waiting for a bed at a hospital,” he added.He said over 450 police personnel have tested positive for the coronavirus but the DGP was dragging feet on their testing in an irresponsible and uncalled for manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-demands-white-paper-on-covid-19-arrangements-in-punjab/story-yz07cvlY5Aj1foQHhYtriJ.html
07-08-2020||City||Multani disappearance case: Mohali court rejects 3 former UT cops’ plea to turn approver||A Mohali court on Friday rejected the applications of three co-accused in the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case to turn approver to seek pardon. The then inspector Jagir Singh, sub-inspector Harsahai Sharma and assistant sub inspector (ASI) Kuldeep Singh had filed an application in the court seeking permission to turn approvers. They along with former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini were booked on May 6 this year for the disappearance of Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee, in 1991. Saini is the prime accused in the case. Chief judicial magistrate Deepika Singh said the special investigation team (SIT) looking into the case can make a request in the court for pardoning the accused. “In the present scenario, it would be proper if the investigating agency independently applies its mind and moves an application for grant of pardon that no direct evidence is available with them. The agency should consider if it can collect the evidences so as to put all the accused on trial or make some of them as approver,” the court observed. Now, the SIT will file a petition on behalf of the three accused to turn approvers in the case, it is learnt. All the three former UT cops had recorded their statements under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) before the judicial magistrates in Mohali on different dates. While Jagir Singh had recorded his statement before judicial magistrate Amit Bakshi, Harsahai Sharma and Kuldeep Singh did the same before judicial magistrate Harjinder Kaur. Jagir Singh is also a co-accused along with then inspector Anokh Singh in another FIR in the same episode registered at Kharar Sadar police station on July 27 on charges of fabricating the evidences booked under Section 195-A (fabricating evidence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the complaint of Kharar (Sadar) station house officer, inspector Sukhvir Singh. Anokh was arrested and was sent to judicial custody after being on three-day police remand. Jagir and Anokh are also co-accused in the previous FIR registered at the Mataur police station against Saini in alleged disappearance of Multani. The two had got bail in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/multani-disappearance-case-mohali-court-rejects-3-former-ut-cops-plea-to-turn-approver/story-WLhYKKtH2q2xCfjJ5ZVOqL.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Applications invited for EWS seats in nine Chandigarh schools||The UT education department has put out a notice for 74 vacant seats under the economically weaker section (EWS) category in nine private unaided and recognised schools for entry-level classes.As per the department, parents will have to fill Google forms for the schools closest to them. The Google forms will be made available from August 10 onwards and can be filled till August 14. The link will be uploaded on the department website http://chdeducation.gov.in/ and can also be accessed from the District Education Office in Sector 19. Documents including income/caste certificate will have to be uploaded online with the Google forms.Parents can contact the schools between August 24 and August 26 to check the status of their wards’ admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/applications-invited-for-ews-seats-in-nine-chandigarh-schools/story-gsLAlvfvwPyO4qPgXHJRfL.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Capt clamps night curfew in Ludhiana, Patiala, Jalandhar dists from today||With surge in fresh Covid-19 infections in the state, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered night curfew (9pm to 5am) in the worst-affected Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala districts from Saturday.The CM also directed all big cities and towns to prepare integrated management plan for treatment of the disease in both government-run and private facilities.As Covid cases in the state has gone up to 20,891, with 1,050 infections reported on Thursday and 1,039 on Friday, the CM also announced a week-long trial of enforcement of the mandatory mask-wearing rule by making offenders stand at the spot for an hour with mask on. He was of the view that making the offenders sweat it out might help check the violations on this count, which had crossed 3.82 lakh.Taking questions in his weekly #AskCaptain Live session on Facebook, Amarinder also appealed to the people to get themselves tested early and start treatment in a proper hospital, urging them not to rush to private tertiary care facilities directly since good treatment is available in government hospitals. Expressing concern over the steady increase in Covid infections and positivity rate in the state, the chief minister said with the peak in Punjab is projected by August end or early September, one could not be certain how high the peak of daily cases may go.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capt-clamps-night-curfew-in-ludhiana-patiala-jalandhar-dists-from-today/story-oYmqLin8tJ7TRuyNSJc01L.html
07-08-2020||City||Ludhiana factory manager booked for causing death by negligence||Ludhiana Focal Point police booked a factory manager on Friday for causing death by negligence after he allegedly denied medical help to a worker who was electrocuted and died at the workplace on August 5. The victim has been identified as Mohakam, a resident of Focal point.According to co-workers of the victim, he was crying for help after the accident, but the manager, Surinder Sharma, did not call an ambulance, and neither did he make any arrangements to take him to the hospital.The victim’s father-in-law, Shyam Lal of Unnao, Uttar Pradesh, stated in his complaint that Mohakam worked at GM Foundry in Focal Point. He said that when he reached Ludhiana to receive the body, he found out that Mohakam did not get timely medical help. Assistant sub-inspector Gurmeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case has been registered against Sharma and he will be arrested soon.The ASI added that the police will record the statement of the victim’s co-workers to verify the allegation leveled by the complainant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-factory-manager-booked-for-causing-death-by-negligence/story-StOif5WwYjl3Pg8kz8M9IL.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Dushyant disagrees with SET findings, tussle with Vij escalates||A crisis is brewing in the BJP-JJP coalition government in Haryana. A day after home minister Anil Vij recommended departmental action against excise and taxation commissioner Shekhar Vidyarthi, deputy chief minister and JJP leader, Dushyant Chautala on Friday rejected the “allegations made by a special enquiry team (SET) against the IAS officer.” The SET report had blamed Vidyarthi for only giving verbal instructions to order the closure of liquor vends during the lockdown, dilly dallying the supply of information to SET and hampering the visit of the SET to a distillery. Chautala who hold the excise and taxation portfolio also said he was not in agreement with the SET’s observations pertaining to his department. The JJP leader said coming days would reveal the shape of his disagreement with the home minister on the SET findings, indicating the ongoing tussle between the two. The relations between the two have been bitter ever since Chautala as Hisar MP levelled allegations of corruption in purchase of medicines in health department, a portfolio held by Vij in the previous government also. Chautala had also filed a defamation case against Vij when the latter snapped at him with a “drug addict” remark. Defending the IAS officer, Chautala in a statement on Friday said that Vidyarthi is a senior officer and has done a commendable job regarding closure of liquor vends. Rejecting the adverse remarks of the SET pertaining to the functioning of excise and taxation department, Chautala said at a press briefing that the inquiry team did not take into account many aspects before making such observations. “Whether it is about the compliance reports of closing liquor vends in all the districts… the inquiry could have been done in a far better manner. I had ordered the closure of all liquor vends on the evening of March 26 and compliance reports came from all the districts by 11am on March 27,’’ Chautala said. He said that as per the Punjab Excise Act applicable in the state, no officer was allowed to visit a distillery. “Hence such a demand made by SET could not be considered,’’ he said. Chautala said since one of the distilleries is located in Punjab, the Haryana excise department do not have the authority to grant permission to visit. Taking a swipe at the police department which is under the home minister, Chautala said 14 FIRs were lodged regarding illicit liquor by the excise department. However, as per the SET report, the police could not conduct any investigation or take any action against any officer. The JJP leader said while the excise department has taken action against its erring superiors and given a strong message but the police investigation into the matter could not go above the driver-level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dushyant-disagrees-with-set-findings-tussle-with-vij-escalates/story-UUvlP0gpGeKHM5uOT2WgtK.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||International passengers can now apply for exemption from quarantine online||Passengers arriving at the Delhi airport in international flights can now fill their mandatory self-declaration forms online instead of queuing at the airport. Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL), the airport operator, on Friday said it has developed “AIR SUVIDHA”—a portal where passengers can fill the form and even apply for an exemption from mandatory institutional quarantine. The exemption from quarantine will, however, be awarded in case of special provisions only, officials said.DIAL said the forms available at AIR SUVIDHA, a first-of-its-kind portal, have been developed in collaboration with the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA), Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Ministry of External Affairs and Governments of various states and union territories.“As per MoCA guidelines, this facility will be available for all international passengers arriving August 8 onwards. AIR SUVIDHA will help make passengers’ journey more convenient and comfortable in a contactless way, as they won’t have to fill up physical copies of the forms on arrival,” DIAL said.It said, “With India establishing air bubbles with several countries, the number of international arrivals is likely to go up. This new online self-declaration and quarantine exemption portal will prove to be beneficial for government officials. They can take swift, informed decision on granting exemptions as well as find out how healthy the passengers are,” the airport operator said.However, the exemption from institutional quarantine will be considered only if a passenger falls under one of five categories—pregnancy, death in the family, serious illness, accompanied by children below 10 years and tested negative for Covid-19 via a recent RT-PCR test.Those seeking exemption under the five categories will need to fill up an e-form on the Delhi airport website—www.newdelhiairport.in—and submit supporting documents, including a copy of their passports, at least 72 hours before boarding their flight, DIAL said. However, there is no such time-bound mandate for passengers filling the self-declaration form, it said.“All applications will be routed to the respective state government depending upon the first port of arrival. Similarly, all self-declaration applications will be routed to Airport Health Organization (APHO), under the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. A copy of approval or rejection of exemption requests on specific grounds will be emailed to the passengers. Those who are to be exempted from mandatory institutional quarantine can show the same at the transfer area after landing, and walk out hassle-free. This process would not only help flyers, but also the authorities to complete the requisite formalities faster, and reduce congestion,” DIAL said.Usha Padhee, joint secretary, MoCA, said the e-platform prepared by DIAL will be used by all airports in the country and will help the states/health authorities to fast-track the process of clearances for international arrivals.Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL, said having an approved exemption form will not only ease the quarantine process but also mitigate the problem of inordinate delays while passengers queue up for the quarantine process.Further, passengers can also avoid the hassle of the filling physical copies of the self-declaration twice, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/international-passengers-can-now-apply-for-exemption-from-quarantine-online/story-StO0IL9XKYXxen3kSji2yL.html
07-08-2020||City||Liquor shops can stay open an hour longer||New Delhi: Liquor shops in Delhi can stay open an hour longer, the state excise department said on Friday. According to an order issued by the excise department on Thursday, liquor shops in the city will now open from 10am to 10pm instead of till 9pm earlier.The move, the Delhi government later said, is one of multiple strategies being implemented to increase the state’s revenue, which has taken a hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Before the coronavirus-forced lockdown, liquor shops in the city used to remain open till 10pm. However, the timing for their operation had been curtailed by an hour when they were allowed to open again from May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-shops-can-stay-open-an-hour-longer/story-WLECF1q3vyYYqM6wObqZDO.html
07-08-2020||City||Bhagwan Pashuram statue to be installed at park near Dholewal Chowk||Ludhiana Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, said on Friday that the government will be install a statue of Bhagwan Parshuram (sixth avatar of lord Vishnu) at Parshuram Ji Park near Dholewal Chowk in Ludhiana. Accompanied by mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, the deputy commissioner and other officials visited the site where this statue is to be installed.Besides, statues of Maharaja Agarsen, Sikh warrior Baba Banda Singh Bahadur, iconic freedom fighters Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna and Baba Maharaj Singh and father of Indian constitution, Dr BR Ambedkar, will be installed in different parts of the state, the minister said.Ashu said the initiative is an instrument to connect youngsters to their ancestors and is a mark of respect to great freedom fighters, reverend saints, valiant warriors and noted personalities, he said. He added that this would help create awareness among young generations about India’s and Punjab’s rich religious legacy, as well as historical and cultural heritage.The minister said that the statue of Baba Maharaj Singh will be installed in his native village of Uchi Rabbon in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhagwan-pashuram-statue-to-be-installed-at-park-near-dholewal-chowk/story-gKBQoJSj17TQ6ryy6vrQII.html
07-08-2020||City||Two nursing attendants killed in accident at Iffco Chowk||Gurugram: A 20-year-old man and a 19-year-old woman, both nursing attendants for homecare patients, died after the motorcycle they were riding was allegedly hit by a truck carrying garbage at Iffco Chowk on Friday morning. Police said the victims died on the spot. The truck driver abandoned the truck and fled from the spot but was later arrested by a team from sector 29 police station. According to the police, the incident took place around 8.45am when the victims, Vimal from Ferozabad and Hardevi from Jhansi, reached near the Iffco Chowk flyover. Police said both stayed at a hostel in Arjun Nagar and worked as on-call nursing attendants for homecare patients and with hospitals. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “At the time of the incident, they were returning from a private hospital and going to their hostel, when a truck, going towards Jaipur side at Iffco Chowk, hit their vehicle. Both suffered severe head injuries and died on the spot.” Police said the victims were identified through their identity cards and efforts were on to contact their families. “The truck driver works with a city based private waste management company. He told the police that he was carrying garbage and did not notice the motorcycle at the turning,” said the police official cited above. A case was registered against the truck driver under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 A (death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code at sector 29 police station on Friday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-nursing-attendants-killed-in-accident-at-iffco-chowk/story-wkOwLze2mdFIzYEwzgEUYP.html
07-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram health dept busts sex determination racket in Bahadurgarh||The district health department on Friday busted a sex-determination racket operating from Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar. One person has been arrested in the case, while another is on the run, said health department officials. On Friday, acting on a tip off, the health department took the help of a four-month pregnant woman to trace the network operating from Delhi and Bahadurgarh that took part in determining the sex of unborn foetus. The woman got in contact with a man, who was part of the nexus, and met him at the Delhi border. She was told to pay ₹25,000 on the spot to the middleman, according to the FIR filed in Bahadurgarh. The woman was introduced to another man, who took her to a diagnostic centre in Bahadurgarh, where she was asked to deposit ₹2,200 more for an ultrasound procedure.According to the FIR, the woman was told by the doctor present that the sex determination report would be given to her by the two men, who brought her to the clinic. However, health department officials along with the Jhajjar Police raided the clinic and arrested one person from the spot. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said, “We were suspicious of the activities happening in the border areas. We started investigating and managed to trace the network till Jhajjar. One man has been arrested from the spot, while the other one is absconding. Investigation is still underway against the doctor who conducted the test. He has been charged under the sections of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act, 1994. An ultrasound machine has also been seized from the spot,” Health department officials said that they are scrutinising documents of local ultrasound centres in Gurugram and would serve notices to them if anomalies are found in their registration documents. “There are 279 ultrasound and diagnostic centres operating in Gurugram. To track their registration and other documents, 12 deputy medical officers and two doctors have been designated. Notices will be served to those centres, which show irregularities in documents and against those whose registration has been cancelled but are operating illegally,” said Yadav. Earlier this month, the health department officials tracked a similar racket operating in Ghaziabad. Three men were arrested and a case was filed against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-health-dept-busts-sex-determination-racket-in-bahadurgarh/story-AUVfljSa1uXGMQvJjN9jXL.html
07-08-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 deaths; state tally at 8,901||Uttarakhand on Friday reported ten deaths of Covid-19 positive patients, the highest jump in deaths in a day in the state so far. The state reported 278 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 8,901. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Friday evening, the ten deaths include that of a 62-year-old woman at Doon Medical College (DMC) Dehradun, 56-year-old woman at DMC, 73-year-old man at DMC, 65-year-old man at AIIMS Rishikesh, 25-year-old man at AIIMS Rishikesh,70-year-old woman at AIIMS Rishikesh, 63-year-old woman at DMC, 60-year-old woman at Sushila Tiwari Government Hospital (STH) Haldwani, 45-year-old woman at STH and 38-year-old woman at STH.A total of 112 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now, with 16 patients dying due to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The rest of the positive patients died due to co-morbidities and other causes, added health officials. Anoop Nautiyal, from NGO Social Development for Communities Foundation, who has been analysing the Covid-19 data in the state, said ten deaths of Covid-19 positive patients is the highest single-day jump so far. “Previous highest number for single day deaths was five deaths on June 12, June 24 and August 4. With this, the mortality rate of Covid in the state has jumped to 1.26%, while the mortality rate at the national level is 2.05%. Also, 96% of the total deaths in Uttarakhand have been reported during Unlock 1, 2 and 3 phases in June, July and August. Only 5 deaths were reported during the four lockdown periods in March, April and May. Besides, 85% deaths have taken place in the three districts of Dehradun, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar”. Out of 8,901 fresh cases, a total of 5731 people have recovered successfully, bringing the recovery rate in the state to 64.39 %. The 278 fresh cases include maximum 85 from US Nagar district, followed by Haridwar (73), Nainital (34), Pauri (25), Dehradun (21), Tehri(16), Champawat (7), Uttarkashi(6), Pithoragarh (6), Chamoli (1) and Rudraprayag (4) Of 8901 Covid-19 positive cases so far, Dehradun district has reported a maximum of 1959 cases, followed by Haridwar (1812), US Nagar (11533) and Nainital (1406). Many of 278 fresh cases were reported in the case of people who had travel history from Russia, Nepal, Ladakh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi. But in a large number of cases (76 cases), travel history was not available. The fresh cases included 98 contacts of earlier positive cases. Five personnel of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) also tested positive in Champawat district. Two Russian citizens tested positive in Champawat and US Nagar respectively. Also, 304 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Friday with a maximum of 143 from Haridwar district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 28.14 days, while the infection rate is 4.79 %. The state has so far tested over 1.99 lakh samples of which results of over 9400 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 402 containment zones in seven districts including maximum 349 in Haridwar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-reports-biggest-single-day-jump-in-covid-19-deaths-state-tally-at-8-901/story-YwfkHXUcsfXkZyKNJVkngP.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Smart City Mission: Ludhiana MC to appoint traffic consultant for ₹26-crore road-safety project||Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has decided to rope in a traffic consultant for the ₹26-crore road-safety project being planned under the Smart City Mission. Earlier, the authorities were working on the project without consulting an expert, to which cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu raised objections.“MC officials are not technically aware about traffic rules, and requirements to make roads safe. We have been receiving complaints that speed breakers are not established properly and road markings are not in place. So, it has been decided that a traffic consultant will be appointed for the project. The matter was discussed when cabinet minister Ashu reviewed Smart City projects last week,” Sandhu said.All major roads will be covered under the project, and steps will be taken to increase visibility at night, including thermoplastic marking on roads and installation of cat eyes.MC officials said all main roads, chowks and entry points of the city will be covered under the project and measures will be taken to reduce road accidents which take place due to lack of precautions and road safety infrastructure.With no cat eyes and road markings, a large number of road mishaps occur every year in the district, especially during foggy weather conditions. 600 LIVES LOST IN ROAD MISHAPS ANNUALLYAs per data compiled by Punjab Police till 2018, on an average, 599 people die in road mishaps in Ludhiana district every year. As per data, as many as 673 persons died in 2016, while 518 lost their lives in road mishaps in 2017. At least 604 lives were snuffed out in road accidents in 2018.As per a report released by Tandrust Punjab Mission director KS Pannu in September last year, Ludhiana district has the second-most blackspots in the state with 91. In the report, Sahnewal bridge was said to be the most risky spot, recording 22 deaths in three years (2016, 2017 and 2018).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/smart-city-mission-ludhiana-mc-to-appoint-traffic-consultant-for-26-crore-road-safety-project/story-OfKpq1kEGityjS7OJVnu5I.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Readers’ take: Beggars should be encouraged to take charge of their lives, not bank on charity||You can’t miss the beggars. They are present at various spots around the tricity such as railway stations, bus stops, roundabouts, markets and religious places. The homeless and destitute, landless labourers and others stricken by poverty indulge in begging in the absence of any employment. Some children are forced to beg by the begging mafia and also made to indulge in crimes. On occasions the poor also encourage their children to beg. What the authorities need to do immediately is. 1. Hospitalise the ill and the infirm 2. Identify children who beg and send them to school 3. Arrest physically fit and mentally alert beggars under the Bombay Prevention of Begging Act 1959 or the Haryana Prevention of Beggary Act 1971. The problem will not disappear unless governments show the will to mainstream such people. SK Khosla, Chandigarh The dispensation needs to walk the extra mile to efficaciously deal with the menace of begging, especially in the new normal situation triggered by the ongoing battle against the Covid-19 pandemic. Should the dispensation want to take on the menace, it needs to crack the whip on those giving alms to the beggars, especially at light points. Police patrolling during peak hours needs to be beefed up. NGOs, sector bodies and the citizenry can play a pivotal role in at least minimising the menace, if not totally containing it. Ramesh K Dhiman, Chandigarh Begging has become a common problem in the tricity. The following steps can help eradicate it: - Compulsory and aided (ie free) education for children forced to beg, till Class 10. This will make children self reliant and provide them basic knowledge for socio-economic growth. - Secondly, if the government takes steps to form bodies/association similar to ASHA (accredited social health activist) so that women/young girls can be taken care of, it can end begging among them. Women in slum areas have no facilities with respect to hygiene and social and food security. If ways and means to this are provided by the government, people will stop begging. Thirdly, harsh steps ought to be taken against those begging and skills taught to them to start earning. Rajinder Preet Kaur, Rajpura Practice of begging is rampant, especially in metros and urban areas despite laws and measures adopted by state and Central agencies to curb it. There are organised gangs which exploit the innocents and force them to beg just for money. Rescue teams should be formed at district levels to identify such gangs, the members of which should be punished according to existing laws. The old and infirm who are forced to beg should be sent to destitute homes and children sent to rehabilitation and training centres. Offering alms to beggars at religious congregations, sites should also be made a punishable offence. Anil Vinayak, Amritsar One is overwhelmed with sadness in these times of Covid-19 to see people with small children and carrying babies in their arms, begging at street junctions and streets. Most of them are homeless which is dangerous in the Covid pandemic situation. Such people should be put up in rehabilitation centres set up by state authorities with the help of social and charitable institutes. They should be taught skill development techniques so that they can stand on their feet.Col TBS Bedi (retd), Mohali The beggars of the city can easily be resettled if the administration shows some intent and decides to use its existing available resources. They can be accommodated in night shelters made by the administration. And as the free ration scheme is already in place, food can be provided to these beggars irrespective of whether they possess ration cards or not. These people should also be provided skill training and education and made aware of the employment opportunities available under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, which would benefit them and fulfil the labour needs of the administration. Gurnoor Grewal, ChandigarhFirst of all it is really important to know what begging really means. It means asking for money, food and shelter from people without doing any hard work. We all have heard that hard work is the key to success and this should be the mantra everyone should follow. To stop begging, citizens have to take the initiative and instead of money give food and clothes to them. Once they run out of money the beggars will have no choice but to work. Secondly, the government should provide them free shelter so they will not be under pressure to pay extra for lodgings while they work. We should also encourage people who are working hard and trying to sell products, in whichever way possible, by buying from them. Ishita Nara The main concern of a person who begs is to make enough money for four square meals a day. So, they should be counselled first and given the assurance that they will earn while learning and put up free of cost in shelters. They should be imparted skills training and in that course of time should be paid for the work they do, like paid internships. Their children should be sent to government schools and teachers engaged to teach them in the shelters. The youngsters should also at the same time be given some vocational training to help them earn a living going forward. The government should come up with a law to ban begging and to start opportunities for beggars to live with dignity. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliBegging is a full time profession for many Indians but in a pandemic situation it can be a source of transmission. Those who are able bodied should be jailed for a short while and made to understand why begging should not be encouraged. Those who are on the streets should also be medically tested for Covid. A special fine should be imposed on people who feed them or give money to them to discourage this practice. Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhBeggary is deeply rooted in Indian society. Most religions promote giving of alms, which encourages beggars. From time immemorial, beggary has been encouraged as noble, but with close observation and wide experience, mankind has realised that it is a vice, not a virtue for any society. It is against human dignity to earn one’s livelihood without contributing anything to society. Beggars are a burden on the economy of the country and do not produce anything. Often, such people take to petty crimes too. What we needed is strict enforcement of Haryana Prevention of Beggary Act, 1971, duly adopted by the Chandigarh administration. UT adviser Manoj Parida has said he is helpless but the government cannot skip its duty. It must enforce the law, and must give relief to the citizens. However, the locals too need to show their determination to eradicate this evil and stop giving alms to the beggars as it promotes indolence and laziness because of which even children are forced to beg. Manoj Malik, Chandigarh Begging is a social blot and both a humanitarian and law and order issue and warrants a two-pronged resolution with a timebound road map. Those physically challenged, abandoned or others renouncing the material world for spiritual solace must be taken care of by the administration and society. It is appalling to see famished children sleeping on an empty stomach. In a welfare state, those who are starving should have the first right to public purse and resources. Free community kitchens should be set up for the really poor and needy. Traffic policemen/marshals must not be mute spectators to small children or young women with babies in arms walking from vehicle to vehicle at traffic light points. Organised gangs running the begging business should be busted immediately. As most beggars belong to a floating population who have made the tricity their base for making money they must be sent back to their native places. Parents of small children found begging should be counselled about family planning. However, they should not be treated unkindly for most of them are not here by choice. They deserve empathy because begging strikes at the dignity and psyche of an individual.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaOf course we have the Haryana Prevention of Beggary Act 1971 to nab the beggars and put them behind bars, but that is not the answer. If anyone has to be imprisoned it’s the begging mafia, the kingpins profiteering from this business and not the old woman knocking at your car window. We have to view and tackle beggary as a social problem. People take to begging out of poverty and helplessness. They need rehabilitation. It is true many of them get used to the free life and try to resist being mainstreamed, but then the UT authorities and the municipal corporation has to prevail. A road map has to be drawn to remove beggars from the streets in the next five years. First, an account should be taken of total number of beggars, by categories (men, women, children, sick, elderly etc), and the yearly increase in their numbers. Then, an assessment needs to be made for providing them shelters and jobs. They are our human resource. Some work, based on their skills, should be given to them, and children should be sent to schools. These people have to regain their self esteem, and realise their worth. Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala The sad part is that many beggars you see at light points suffer from highly infectious diseases such as leprosy, tuberculosis and now maybe even Covid-19. They also come in contact daily with the general public. Apart from medically testing such people they should also be hospitalised and given treatment. Other able bodied beggars be taken to task and punished and later counselled to start work. . Job opportunities should also be created for such people. The traffic police should not allow them to sit /stand or wander near traffic signals. The administration should arrange for shelters for the handicapped and aged beggars. Local residents should make it a point not to give them money.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, Mohali Having failed to eradicate beggary while spending crores on making Chandigarh a smart city, the administration looks to be trying to find the legal way out to evade responsibility when it comes to removing beggars from the streets. The number of people left to fend themselves on the streets have increased recently due to joblessness after the Covid-19 outbreak. Most of them cannot even afford one square meal a day. In an effort reach out to all such people volunteers of our Humble To Be Chandigarhian, a socially conscious group, has started distributing face masks to people who have no money to buy them in slum colonies and at conspicuous places such as the Housing Board Chowk. Yes, we are not at the Sukhna Lake as advocated by the adviser to the UT administrator, where the visitors hardly need a free mask and generally throw these within the precincts of the lake area. SC Luthra, Chandigarh ‘Bhiksha’ is an old tradition for saints of Hinduism, Jainism and Buddhism to get food. Even among Muslims, you have Zakat. ‘Langar seva’ in Sikhism takes care of food and shelter, and hence that fulfils the basic needs of a follower. The beggars perform no useful social function, and hence they are a burden on society. It is one of India’s biggest scourges and an embarrassment for all when foreign visitors see them. The superstitions and the orthodox mindset of our citizens, that giving to a beggar is charity, have to change. The main factors that lead to begging, such as unemployment, underemployment, landlessness, poverty, calamity, famines and destitution should be addressed. One solution is to set up penal labour colonies, where psychiatrist treatment, skill enhancement and basic education, medical facilities, recreation and nutritious food should be provided to beggars. A total ban at railway stations and bus stands should be enforced.Rajiv Boolchand Jain||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/readers-take-beggars-should-be-encouraged-to-take-charge-of-their-lives-not-bank-on-charity/story-yzjtwGY7Utuw8AhVvBzL5O.html
07-08-2020||City||‘Beef’ row: Two more suspects held, six arrests in the case so far||Gurugram A week after a 25-year-old driver was beaten up by a group of men on the alleged suspicion of transporting beef in his pick-up truck, the police on Friday arrested two more suspects, taking the total number of arrests in the case to six. According to the police, at least five more suspects have been identified and raids are being conducted to arrest them. The two suspects, identified as Sunil and Naveen alias Chela, both residents of village Rithoj near Sohna, were arrested by a team of Sector 10 crime branch from Vatika Chowk, Badshahpur, on Thursday night, the police said. They were produced in a district court and sent to police custody for a day. A crime branch official, requesting anonymity, said, “Prima facie, the two suspects do not have a criminal history. We are questioning them to ascertain more facts. They said that they had received input from one Ashok about the victim transporting meat in his pick-up truck, following which they tried to stop him. When he did not halt his vehicle, they cornered him near Sadar Bazar and used a hammer to open his truck, following which they assaulted him.” The police said Naveen was among the suspects near Sadar Bazar, who was seen hitting the victim, Lukman, with a hammer in a purported video that had surfaced online. Sunil was among the people present at the two locations, where the victim was assaulted, said the police. The incident had taken place on July 31, when Lukman, a native of Ghasera village in Nuh, was transporting meat in his pick-up truck to a shop near Jama Masjid.On Monday (August 3), the police had arrested the prime suspect, Monu, and Anesh. In a three-minute purported video of the incident, Monu, in a blue T-shirt, could be seen dragging the victim on the road before kicking him and then beating him with a hammer. In the video, at least two more suspects take turns and assault Lukman with a hammer and sticks before he is bundled into the truck. Two more suspects, Mahesh, 30, from Rithoj, and Pardeep Yadav, 28, a Rajiv Nagar resident, were arrested earlier in this week. The case was transferred to crime branch after a preliminary inquiry in which departmental action was taken against four police officials. Three officials were suspended on August 2 for ‘failing to take action on the spot’ while the station house officer (SHO) of Badshahpur police station was transferred to police lines for negligence and failing to control the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/beef-row-two-more-suspects-held-six-arrests-in-the-case-so-far/story-yB0MhAgFedGLeQGWHD3KfI.html
07-08-2020||Gurugram||Man kills mother after she refuses him money for alcohol||A 45-year-old man was booked for allegedly murdering his 65-year-old mother after she refused to give him money to purchase liquor in Bhondsi area on Thursday night, said police on Friday. Police said preliminary probe had revealed that Prem Pal had hit Ram Batheri several times with a sharp object on the head, neck, face, arms and legs. Till the filing of this report, Pal had been absconding.According to a complaint filed by the deceased woman’s nephew, Pal is an alcoholic, who often used to demand money from his mother and beat her up when she refused. Police said Pal was a driver but had been staying at home for the past four months since the Covid-19-induced lockdown was imposed. According to the police, the incident took place around 7pm at their house in Sarhaul ki Dhani in village Raysina. Police said Prem Pal demanded money from the victim’s monthly pension to purchase alcohol. When she refused, he went out of the house, returned with an object and attacked her before running away, said police. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “According to some neighbours, the accused was inebriated at the time of the incident.” In the police complaint, the victim’s nephew, Naveen, 33, a bus driver from Badshahpur, said, “A friend from Sohna informed me over the phone that Prem Pal had killed his mother. At 7.20 pm, I reached their house and saw her lying in a pool of blood. She had injuries on her head, face, arms and body. It seemed that she had been beaten up with a sharp object.” Naveen added in the FIR that Prem Pal was an alcohol addict. “He often used to ask for his share in property from his mother and there were several fights over his frequent demand for money to purchase liquor. He used to beat her up when she refused to give him money. He worked as a driver but since the lockdown, he had been at home for over four months,” added Naveen. A case was registered against the suspect under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Bhondsi police station on Thursday night, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-kills-mother-after-she-refuses-him-money-for-alcohol/story-OfQOnXQjlCbCJrR0kaGcUJ.html
07-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram doubling rate of Covid-19 cases improves to 108 days||The district’s doubling rate of Covid-19 infections improved to 108 days on Friday, up from 58 days on July 27, as per the data available with the district health department. The doubling rate indicates the time taken for the total number of Covid-19 infections to double. A higher doubling rate suggests a relatively slower pace of the spread of the disease. Confirming this improvement, health department officials also added that Gurugram’s daily growth rate of Covid-19 cases has also dipped from about 1.4% on July 27 to 0.87% on Saturday, indicating an even further slowing down of the outbreak than what was observed in July.For the eighth day in a row, Gurugram reported less than 100 new cases per day, leading officials to believe that the situation in the district is under control. State-level data too shows that Gurugram’s doubling-rate is the slowest among all of Haryana’s 22 districts, followed by Nuh (65 days). Neighbouring Faridabad, meanwhile, has a doubling rate of about 40 days, as of August 7. On the other hand, districts that were relatively free of Covid-19 earlier are now reporting new positives with increasing frequency.A state-level official with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program, seeking anonymity, said, “The rural districts are now coming into focus. Gurugram’s confirmed cases rose by only 5% in the last seven days, but Panchkula reported 53% of the new cases. Yamunanagar and Panipat are the other two districts where infections are growing at a faster rate.”Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said that the health department’s efforts have been able to break the chain of transmission of the virus. “We have been observing a declining growth rate and an increase in doubling rate for multiple weeks now. Without proper public health vigilance, the numbers would not have shown a downward trend, week after week. This means we have been able to test enough, isolate quickly and prevent fatalities,” said Yadav.The district’s recovery rate on Friday touched 91%, which is the second-highest in Haryana, preceded by a 93% recovery rate in Bhiwani. The number of recoveries outweighed daily new positives by 5% in the past seven days. In fact, Gurugram is now at number 34 in the list of India’s worst-affected districts (by caseload) shows data by the ministry of health and family welfare. Just a week ago, Gurugram was at number 25. Earlier on in the outbreak, Gurugram for several weeks remained in the top 20 of the worst-affected districts.Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and a former professor of community medicine, said, “While the numbers do provide some relief, it doesn’t mean we let our guard down. Gurugram may be past a peak, but there’s a lot we don’t know about the virus yet, and nationwide cases are still climbing. Social distancing is just as important as it was four months ago.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-doubling-rate-of-covid-19-cases-improves-to-108-days/story-WNv5WbvVltMSs7z61QWkrL.html
07-08-2020||Gurugram||Six revenue officials booked for illegal registries of EWS flats||Gurugram police on Wednesday booked 12 people, including six officials from the revenue department, for allegedly violating norms and corruption in selling flats meant for the economically weaker sections (EWS) category.The latest case comes in the wake of intense scrutiny on the district revenue department where earlier six other officials were booked for allegedly violating norms with regard to sale of small agricultural land.According to officials, between 2013 and 2017, allottees of certain EWS flats sold it in connivance with the revenue department officials. Haryana government rules require all private real estate developers to build flats under EWS category that cannot be sold and transferred for a period of five years after allotment. The allottee should be people domiciled in Haryana. The case names three EWS allottees --- Hemant Kumar, Kamlesh and Neeraj Kumar, all residents of Gurugram--- three buyers --- Girish Kumar, resident of sector 46, Bela Singh from Maharashtra, and Manisha from Delhi--- and the six revenue officials --- Om Prakash, Rupender Singh, Om Prakash Yadav, Inderjeet Singh, Ram Chander and Jagdish Bishnoi. Police said Girish Kumar was involved multiple illegal registeries. The police said that a case has been registered on the complaint of CM Flying Squad, a branch of the criminal investigation department (CID) at sector 29 police station against the suspects under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Prevention of Corruption Act. Investigating officer Sub-Inspector (S-I) Suresh Chander said that they had received the complaint in January 2019. The complaint alleged that the these properties were transferred to ineligible persons in violation of lock-in period of five years. “We initially began investigation of three registries and during course of investigation sought details of property registration by EWS plots developed by four developers. A large number of violations were found in registries of EWS plots from 2013 to 2107 after which a case was registered against three original allottees, three buyers and six officials of revenue department who served in Wazirabad and Gurugram tehsils, where these sales and registries were carried out,” said Chander. The FIR registered by police said that the CM Flying Squad had obtained information from the officer of district town and country planning (DTCP) regarding the construction and allotment of EWS plots. Officials in the CM Flying Squad said that they had sought details from four developers regarding EWS category flats and the probe revealed that around 75 per cent of these flats were sold within a year. It further said that registries were carried out in violation of rules and below circle rates, which led to loss of revenue and were carried out for pecuniary considerations.Ramesh Kumar, a city based RTI activist, said that he had filed two complaints with the district administration with regard to illegal registeries of EWS flats but no action was taken. “We hope that this criminal complaint would result in curbing such malpractices,” said Kumar. Subash Boken, spokesperson, Gurugram police said, “A case has been registered in this matter in sector 29 police station on the complaint of CM Flying Squad and the probe is underway.”On Saturday, six revenue department officials, including a tehsildar was booked under section 420 (cheating) of the IPC and under the Haryana development of urban areas and management act ,1975.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/six-revenue-officials-booked-for-illegal-registries-of-ews-flats/story-KzZvwzCEQTt4UEsIHqg4gL.html
07-08-2020||Gurugram||MCG starts work on a 2.5km pipeline to prevent waterlogging on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway||To prevent accumulation of rainwater on the Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has started work on installing a 2.5km-long drainage pipeline on the stretch, said officials on Friday.The 3km route is one of the worst-affected stretches in the city when it comes to waterlogging. With the pipeline, the civic body aims to link the drainage lines located on the service lanes of the expressway at Narsinghpur to the nearby Badshahpur drain.Such is the extent of waterlogging on this stretch that even a short spell of rain leaves the service lanes of the expressway and a few lanes of the main carriageway on the Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch heavily inundated. As recently as Wednesday, a brief spell of afternoon rain had left the entire stretch flooded, leading to Gurugram traffic police officials cautioning commuters to avoid the stretch via social media. Due to the limited availability of space to manoeuvre vehicles on the stretch, heavy traffic snarls are often witnessed on the expressway, especially on the Delhi-Manesar side.MCG chief engineer Raman Sharma said that the civic body has started work on a pipeline on the service lane of Narsinghpur and is aiming to complete the work by the end of this month.“Since Narsinghpur is located on the low-lying side, every monsoon season, a heavy gush of rainwater from the nearby high-lying areas starts flowing towards the expressway, leading to waterloggng. This also affects the traffic movement on the stretch. As such, MCG has purchased pipelines from the Haryana Sahari Vikas Parishad (HSVP) and has started work on the project. We are aiming to finish the project within three weeks,: said Sharma. As per MCG officials, the cost of the pipelines is ₹34 lakh, while, the estimated cost of the entire project is around ₹55 lakh. Earlier this year, prior to the start of the monsoon season, the civic body had installed six motor pumps on the stretch to prevent waterlogging. However, officials said that pumps failed to have a significant impact as they were frequently affected by power outages. “Because the nearby areas are located on an incline most of the rainwater that is channelled out with the help of motor pumps recede towards the expressway. As such, the pumps have largely proved to be worthless. In addition, there have been instances, where, because of power outages, we weren’t able to turn on the pumps on time. We had to arrange for diesel generators in such situations, which took time. As a result, by the time the pumps started working on an optimum capacity, 2-3 hours had already been wasted, leading to the entire area being flooded,” said NHAI officials privy to the matter. On July 21, the motor pumps started working only 2-3 hours after it had started raining. Due to power outage, the NHAI had to arrange a 65 kVA diesel generator on a short notice, leading to entire stretch being heavily flooded until evening.The problem of waterlogging is so acute on the stretch that commuters often avoid using it during the monsoon season. “For the last two years, I have been primarily using the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) to head towards Manesar during the monsoon season. Even a short amount of rain would leave the Khandsa-Narsinghpur stretch heavily waterlogged. It takes me more than 25 minutes to cross the stretch during peak traffic hours. Therefore as a precautionary measure, I often use the SPR and bypass the expressway completely,” said R Srinivasan, a resident of Sector 51.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-starts-work-on-a-2-5km-pipeline-to-prevent-waterlogging-on-delhi-gurgaon-expressway/story-MMJBIflzbQzrXRbVFON4xN.html
07-08-2020||Gurugram||Meeting between two families to arrange marriage ends in a murder||A meeting between two families to discuss a marriage proposal took a turn for the worse when the father of prospective groom allegedly stabbed the father of the prospective bride after he refused the alliance in Sohna on Thursday evening. Police said the victim was rushed to a government hospital in Sohna, where he died during treatment. Police said the victim, 48-year-old Bablu, his wife Kamlesh, their daughter and sons Ajay and Sunny had gone to a man named Rishalu’s house at around 7pm.Rishalu’s brother-in-law Ashok had been playing matchmaker between Bablu’s daughter and Rishalu’s younger brother Pappu’s son and convinced the families to meet on Thursday. Police withheld the name of the daughter and son suspecting them to be minors.The negotiations, police said, had been going on for six months and that Pappu was very interested in the alliance.Sunder Pal, in-charge, Fauwara Chowk police post, Sohna, said, “During the discussion, Bablu said that he was not in favour of the alliance since both were families were related through marriage, which would render this alliance as a marriage between near-cousins. Pappu took offence to this and got into a heated exchange with him. The argument escalated into a scuffle and in the melee, Pappu picked up a knife and stabbed Bablu in the stomach twice.”Police said the victim was rushed to a government hospital in Sohna, where he died during treatment. Police have booked five people -- Pappu and his wife Guddi, Rishalu and his wife Suman, and Ashok-- in the case under sections 302 (murder), among others, of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sohna City police station .Police said according to eyewitnesses, Pappu was inebriated at the time of the incident and acted in ‘a fit of rage’. In the FIR, Bablu’s son, Ajay, said, “After stabbing my father, they all fled from the house. We rushed my father to the civil hospital in Sohna, where he died during treatment.”Police said the suspects were absconding. The victim’s body was handed over to the family after the post-mortem on Friday and they have gone to their native village in Bharatpur, Rajasthan for the last rites, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/meeting-between-two-families-to-arrange-marriage-ends-in-a-murder/story-u9dfgAUOeMgmvW7RcR6kjL.html
07-08-2020||City||Delhi riots: Bail plea dismissed in murder of 85-year old woman||New Delhi:A Delhi court dismissed the bail applications of four persons in a case of alleged murder of an 85-year old woman, who choked to death when her house was torched during the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav dismissed the bail pleas of Arun Kumar, Ravi Kumar, Prakash Chand and Suraj Singh in the death of Akbari Begum.“A careful analysis of the statements of witnesses prima facie indicate that all the four accused persons were very well part of the unlawful assembly, which had put the house of the complainant on fire after committing robbery .“I find the ‘occular evidence’ of independent witnesses like Mohd Aijaz Hussain, Shakeel and Salam, which gives clear details of the individual role of the accused persons in the incident,” the judge said in his order on August 6.The court said that from the videographic description of the place of incident, it was prima facie evident that the house of Akbari Begum was targeted by the riotous mob.“Since a garment factory was being run by the complainant (Mohd Saeed Salmani) and his family members in their house, there was a lot of inflammatory material available in the house. The house caught fire and large-scale destruction took place and the unfortunate death of Akbari Begum (mother of complainant) also took place,” it said.It said if released on bail, the accused can threaten the witnesses in the case.During the hearing held through video conferencing, the counsel for the accused said Arun, Ravi, Chand and Singh were falsely implicated in the case and there was no legally sustainable evidence available against them.The police said the accused were not only part of the “riotous mob”, which had indulged in pelting stones, chanting slogans and committing vandalism, but was also part of mob that entered into the house of Begum and set it on fire after committing robbery.According to the charge sheet, on February 25, when the mob torched Akbari Begum’s house, other members escaped to the roof but the octogenarian could not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-bail-plea-dismissed-in-murder-of-85-year-old-woman/story-gY2d3rsXGdM4nRZqY1CTaP.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||Two held for stealing jewellery worth ₹1.7 crore after diverting car driver’s attention||A thief who struck twice in the past 10 months, and made off with cash and jewellery worth nearly ₹1.7 crore on both occasions combined, was arrested Friday along with his accomplice.After both incidents, he was caught the very next day by the same police team and every stolen penny and jewellery recovered. The suspects were identified as 20-year-old Sandeep (single name) and his accomplice Santosh.Police said they were part of a Thak-Thak or attention diversion gang. Police said such thieves often use the tactic of diverting the attention of a car’s occupants by either puncturing the tyres, throwing a greasy liquid on the bonnet or by simply scattering some currency notes on the road. The more recent of these thefts took place on Wednesday evening while a Gurugram-based builder and his wife were driving back from Central Delhi’s Karol Bagh after collecting jewellery worth ₹1 crore , said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south). The jewellery was for their daughter’s wedding, scheduled for November this year. “As they drove through the DBG Road market, Sandeep and Santosh drove close to the car on their two-wheeler, and spilled on the car bonnet some greasy substance that starts smoking when it reacts with the air. They then drew the attention of the businessman to the smoke, in the hopes of drawing him out of the car,” the DCP said. The businessman did get out to check, but he locked the vehicle from outside even as his wife sat inside with the suitcase containing the jewellery. “The two thieves, however, managed to snatch the case when the businessman opened the door to get back in the car,” said the DCP. Based on the businessman’s complaint, an FIR of snatching was registered at the DBG Road police station. On Thursday, a video clip of the snatching suspects happened to reach the special staff of the south Delhi district police team.“One investigator noticed the long hair of one of the suspects. Suspecting that this could be Sandeep, who was earlier nabbed by the same team in another case, we visited his home in Madangir to check on him. On finding him missing, we made further inquiries and got to know about his friend Santosh. We visited Santosh’s home in Inderpuri and found him gone as well,” the DCP said.Once they were certain that they had the right suspects, the police deployed informers to learn of their whereabouts and got to know that the duo was in Madangir area. “We caught them on Friday and recovered the entire stolen jewellery before they could sell it,” the senior officer said. Police said Sandeep was earlier arrested for stealing ₹70 lakh cash from a Faridabad-based builder in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas on October 17 last year. In that case, they had allegedly successfully diverted the builder’s attention to steal the cash from his car. “In that incident too, it was the CCTV footage that helped us nab him. The same police team had also recovered the stolen cash the very next day after the crime,” the DCP said. Saneep was released on bail in December in that case. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-held-for-stealing-jewellery-worth-1-7-crore-after-diverting-car-driver-s-attention/story-kOisSj0y5RJB3mh6XXeUcL.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||EDMC launches YouTube channel||In an attempt to better public outreach as well as cut down costs for the same, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Friday launched its official YouTube channel. A statement issued by the civic body said that in an effort to improve communication with people, EDMC will be streaming its daily information and education programmes as well as important public messages of the executive and deliberative wing on this channel.The first video posted by the corporation on its channel is about waste segregation at the source and how people could become ‘Swachhta Warriors’. “Traditional public outreach is expensive and social media can help dramatically cut costs and reach out better to the masses. It will also help increase public participation by creating greater awareness about issues such as sanitation,” EDMC commissioner Dilraj Kaur said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/edmc-launches-youtube-channel/story-gw8MO6au95BKHI2vuCYziI.html
07-08-2020||City||MC razes encroachment in Gandhi Nagar area||Taking action against encroachment done by the chairman of the Ludhiana market committee on the portion outside his building in Gandhi Nagar area, the Municipal Corporation (MC) on Friday razed the illegal construction.The civic body had served notice to Darshan Lal Baweja around 10 days ago and asked him to demolish the encroachment or face action.Municipal Town Planner (MTP), Surinder Singh Bindra said, “Notice was served to the owner as the stairs were constructed on the road portion and the MC had received a complaint against the same. The encroachment has been razed by the civic body on Friday.”Last month, the MC had also sealed the multi-story complex for violation of building bylaws. The MC had also recommended an FIR against the owner in the past over illegal construction. The MC officials said that the anti-encroachment drive will continue in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-razes-encroachment-in-gandhi-nagar-area/story-6lr3Am9MCP0pkmcfh5FJ9J.html
07-08-2020||City||11-year-old special needs Ludhiana boy tops state-level shabad gayan competition||Battling all odds, Param Sharma, a Class 4 student of Government Primary School, Ramgarh Sardaran, has topped in the state-level Shabad Gyan Mukable 2020, the results of which were declared by the state education department on August 6.Param clinched the top position with 58 marks under the children with special needs (CWSN) category. The 11-year-old suffers from spina bifida, a birth defect in which there is incomplete development of the spinal cord.Param’s guide teacher, Jagtar Singh, said, “Param is a multi-talented student and always keen to participate in co-curricular activities. His father, who is a music teacher, recorded his video and sent it to our WhatsApp group. ‘Harko Naam Sada Sukhdai’ shabad was sung by Param in the five-minute video.”Singh said, “Parm has no stage fear and confidently participates in all competitions. He is equally good in studies.”The boy’s father, Kapil Dev, drops him to school daily so that he can continue with his studies. “A week after he was born, we observed swelling on his back and doctors said he needs to be operated on. There were side effects and his head grew bigger. Param is able to walk with a walker. To stay in school for six hours, he wears a diaper.”“Param wants to learn every music instrument and also sings with me when I perform,” he said.District education officer, elementary, Rajinder Kaur, and deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh said, “From Ludhiana, three students participated in this category and this is a big achievement that Param clinched the first position at state-level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-year-old-special-needs-ludhiana-boy-tops-state-level-shabad-gayan-competition/story-IMYWFQWskNYlLvVSXxIjOM.html
07-08-2020||City||Manual scavenging: Sewerman inhales poisonous gas, hospitalised in Ludhiana||A contractual sewerman fell unconscious after inhaling poisonous gas while he was cleaning the sewer lines in EWS Colony of ward number 17 on Friday evening. The sewerman was rushed to a private hospital where his condition is said to be stable. As per information, the sewerman, Sagar, had entered the manhole in EWS Colony for cleaning the lines without any safety kit. After entering the manhole, he fell unconscious and was pulled out by co-workers.Area councillor Balwinder Singh Shanky slammed the civic body for its failure in protecting the sewermen. “Repeated requests have been made to the MC for providing safety kits to the men who enter manholes. The officials had earlier claimed that jetting machines had been made available but the practice of manual scavenging is still going on, that too without precautions. I will take up the matter with the mayor.” Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “Jetting machines have been provided for cleaning sewer lines and strict directions have been issued to stop manual scavenging. I have not yet received any information regarding the same, but action will be taken against whoever is found to be guilty.”Past incidentsJune 2019: 45-year-old Azhar Ali died while working in a sewer line at Noorwala RoadApril 11: A 27-year-old fell unconscious after being allegedly forced to clean a sewer line in ShimlapuriDecember 12, 2018: A contractual MC sewerman, Pradeep, 24, fell unconscious after he inhaled poisonous gas while cleaning the lines in ward number 3September 9: A contractual MC sewerman fell unconscious after inhaling poisonous gas in New Subhash NagarAugust 10: A contractual sewerman sustained burn injuries after hot water was released in the sewer lines by an industrial unit||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manual-scavenging-sewerman-inhales-poisonous-gas-hospitalised-in-ludhiana/story-aLTuBq8oMf0ni0SyiHUVbP.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University students protest, demand semester fee waiver||The students of Panjab University (PU) on Friday protested outside the administration block on the campus demanding waiver of semester fee amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The all-party protest was joined by student leaders of different organisations, including Students For Society (SFS), Punjab Students Union (PSU-Lalkaar), All India Students Association (AISA), National Students Union of India (NSUI), Ambedkar Students Association (ASA), Students Organisation of India (SOI), among others.PU had asked students to deposit their semester fee till August 10 to be allowed to attend the online classes.SFS leader and former PU Student Council president Kanupriya said, “Students in higher educational institutes such as PU come from varied socio-economic backgrounds. In the current pandemic situation, instead of giving relief, the authorities have furthered the fear by releasing such notices demanding fee from students.”During the protest, students raised slogans against the PU administration and demanded that the fee should be waived off for this semester. A joint memorandum was also submitted to the university by the students.Aman, a PSU-Lalkaar leader, said, “We are united, and in view of the present situation, we demand that the semester fee should be waived off. We registered a protest to mark our dissent against PU’s demand for fee.”A commotion was also reported the students and security guards when the former tried to enter the administration block of the university. A woman constable reportedly fell on the ground after being pushed around.“Security guards of the university manhandled the students and disrupted the protest. They have now assured us that a meeting will be held to discuss the issue,” said Chetan Chaudhary, former president of PUCSC.Dean Students’ Welfare S K Tomar said, “They have given me the memorandum of demands and I have forwarded that to the authorities. Now, the university will look into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-protest-demand-semester-fee-waiver/story-sIawOWCo9O4218grNmyvQJ.html
07-08-2020||City||19-year-old woman killed, sister injured in Ludhiana hit-and-run||A 19-year old woman died while her younger sister suffered injuries after a speeding Mahindra Bolero SUV hit them near civil hospital in Samrala on Friday afternoon.The victim was identified as Simranjit Kaur, 19, of Todarpur village, Samrala. Her younger sister Manpreet Kaur, 16, was admitted to Samrala civil hospital with minor injuries. The accused driver, however, fled with the vehicle.ASI Gurpartap Singh, who is investigating the case, said the sisters had come to the town for shopping. When they reached near the civil hospital, a speeding SUV hit them from behind. The vehicle tossed Simranjit Kaur in the air for at least six feet and she died on the spot.An FIR was lodged against the unidentified driver for rash driving and causing death due to negligence. The police are scanning CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-year-old-woman-killed-sister-injured-in-ludhiana-hit-and-run/story-63TBaWtfsUSltPf25Jt2mI.html
07-08-2020||City||Mission Fateh: Ludhiana doctors, administration collaborate to form expert team||The Ludhiana administration in collaboration with a team of medical experts has launched an initiative, ‘Sanjivani’, under the Mission Fateh of the Punjab government.The doctors on board are professor Bishav Mohan, professor Rajesh Mahajan, Dr Sandeep Chhabra, Dr Vipin (DMC, Ludhiana), professor HS Pannu (director, Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana), professor Mary John (CMC, Ludhiana), Dr Gurpreet Singh (critical care expert, Apollo Hospital, Ludhiana) and Dr Hitender Kaur Sohal (SMO, civil hospital, Covid nodal officer, Ludhiana). The team has assured residents that adequate beds are available in the district. To ease bed location for patients, the Ludhiana administration has also developed a mobile app, along with a weblink where residents can check real-time status of vacant and filled beds in all hospitals: ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district/.Accompanied by members of the Sanjivani group, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal went live on Facebook.Sharma assured that irrespective of any hospital where the Covid patient was admitted, the treatment will be monitored and overseen by this expert panel as and when needed by the treating physician. The panel members requested residents not to fall for false information and fake news and maintain social distancing and wear masks at all times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mission-fateh-ludhiana-doctors-administration-collaborate-to-form-expert-team/story-woUGbkP5WziTMUu4PqJEaM.html
07-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: Filing police complaints online remains a tough task||After the police department ordered to stop public dealing in the city police stations, a woman had a hard time lodging a complaint against her husband and in-laws who ‘pushed her out of the house for not bearing a male child’. On Friday, a woman carrying her infant in her arms waited outside the office of the commissioner of police to submit her complaint, however, she was asked to e-mail her complaint to the police.The woman expressed her helplessness in filing the complaint online but to no avail. She was sent back home after waiting for an hour.The police personnel said that the CP was not at his office when the woman had visited the police station. The official then asked her to drop her complaint in the complaint box.Due to rising Covid-19 cases, public dealing at the office of the commissioner of police and several police stations was deferred.However, Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal said that for those who are not tech-savvy can drop complaints at the complaint boxes outside the police stations. The police have already issued an email id cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in for people to send their complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-filing-police-complaints-online-remains-a-tough-task/story-Sd1lEvQZ0AcHyZcUWel3YI.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||UT education dept planning webinars, online classes for Ladakh students||The UT education department is planning to conduct webinars for students from Ladakh pursuing studies in the city.This was discussed in the standing committee meeting of administrator’s advisory council on education held on Friday at Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) Directorate in Sector 42 here.Committee chairman Lt Gen (retd) KJ Singh, who floated the suggestion, said, “There are around 500-600 students from Ladakh in the city who are now at home. Due to the pandemic, the livelihood of their families has also been affected and it is important for us to support them.”Besides providing seminars and lessons, Singh said the department will also be sending them stationery and other supplies to help them get through the lockdown. Singh said the suggestion has just been floated and details on what the webinars will be about are yet to be chalked out.UT education director Rubinderjit Singh Brar apprised about various activities conducted during the lockdown period in schools and colleges of Chandigarh. Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan mission coordinator Dr Manjit Kaur gave a detailed presentation about the activities held in this duration in government schools here. The presentation highlighted online teaching of schoolchildren and students with special needs. Other activities being conducted online were also a part of the presentation. Online admission in schools, PISA (Programme for International Student Assessment) preparedness and voluntary collaborations were also highlighted.RUSA mission coordinator Dr Dalip Kumar briefed about the major reforms highlighted in the New Education Policy, 2020. He also mentioned different online academic activities carried out during the lockdown, along with achievements of the students and colleges at national level.Vivek Atray, a member of the committee, opined that National Sports Day should be celebrated in a big way which would help the city residents, especially students, in physical fitness and mental wellness. He suggested that compulsory NCC training should be included in the calendar of activities in Chandigarh institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-education-dept-planning-webinars-online-classes-for-ladakh-students/story-cW5iwT9N3wRXAlgPVR8hRN.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||3 elderly men succumb to Covid in Chandigarh, toll reaches 23||As many as three deaths related to Covid-19 were added to Chandigarh’s tally on Friday, taking the toll to 23.The three men, all aged above 60, died over the past two days. Meanwhile, with 47 fresh cases, the city’s infection count climbed to 1,374, with 530 still active. Also, with 43 more patients recovering and being sent back home, the total number of those cured has touched 820.The first fatality has been reported from the civil hospital in Sector 48, where an 82-year-old man of Sector 7 died on Thursday. He was admitted to GMCH, Sector 32, with complaint of chest pain and breathlessness and found Covid-19 positive on July 24.“He was an old treated case of pulmonary tuberculosis and had the condition of diabetes mellitus. He was shifted to the Sector 48 hospital on July 27. He had suffered acute respiratory infection and was kept on oxygen there. On August 6, he was intubated and put on mechanical ventilation. He had a sudden cardiac arrest and could not be revived in spite of all efforts,” stated a health department release.A 77-year-old man from Sector 45 also died at the same hospital on Friday. A patient of diabetes and hypertension, he was diagnosed with the infection at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, on August 1. He had been on oxygen support.The third case is of a 62-year-old man from Sector 39, who was declared brought dead at GMSH, Sector 16, on Thursday. He tested positive for Covid-19 posthumously.FOUR DOCTORS AMONG 47 FRESH CASESAmong the fresh cases, there are four doctors and one attendant from PGIMER and GMCH.PGIMER medical superintendent Dr AK Gupta’s personal secretary has also contracted the infection.“My personal secretary and his brother have tested positive, following which I have been suggested to go for home quarantine for some time. I don’t have any symptoms right now,” said Dr Gupta. Meanwhile, after a senior assistant posted in the office of executive engineer (CP division 2, roads) in Sector 9 was tested positive, the premises were sealed. Others found infected include a private bank employee working in Mohali and a jewellery shop worker who lives in Sector 35.The new cases are spread across the city, including Sectors 15, 16, 20, 21, 24, 26, 32 , 35, 37, 40, 41, 46, 52, 55 and 56 besides Maloya, Burail, Manimajra, Dhanas, and Bapu Dham Colony. As many as 11 have come positive through antigen testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-elderly-men-succumb-to-covid-in-chandigarh-toll-reaches-23/story-QGTgaiHv5x46wg6FXsj27L.html
07-08-2020||City||Security guard hangs self from tree||A 25-year-old security guard allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree at Birmi village in Humran road, officials said on Friday.The man was found dead by passersby who noticed the body and informed the police about the incident.The body has been sent for a postmortem examination at the Ludhiana civil hospital. The victim was a resident of Birmi village and worked as a security guard in a factory.ASI Lakhwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the body was decomposing and suspected that he committed suicide two days ago. No suicide note was recovered from the spot, however, the police came to know that he was depressed over a matrimonial issue.The police are investigating the case.In another incident, a resident of Haibowal Kalan committed suicide by hanging himself at his residence. According to the family members of the victim, he was found hanging at his room on Friday morning when they broke open the door after the victim did not respond to persistent knocking.ASI Rajan T Singh said that the police are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-guard-hangs-self-from-tree/story-gSg3uAYlGVWRMeoF9yWxzO.html
07-08-2020||City||Admission process for PU-affiliated colleges in Ludhiana begins||The registration process for first year in Panjab University’s affiliated colleges has started and the last day to apply online is Saturday.The tentative merit list will be displayed by SCD Government College and Government College for Girls on their websites on August 9. Khalsa College for Women Civil Lines declared the merit list for BCom first semester on Friday. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the college authorities displayed the merit list at the college website and at the notice board to avoid gathering. Khalsa College for Women saw a top score of 113.97% in the general category list and a student with 111.11% score in the schedule caste list. Over 350 students have applied for BCom against 210 seats for the course. The merit list for BBA first semester will be displayed on August 8. Meanwhile, Arya College has started the counselling process for BCom first semester and 109 students have been admitted to the general category. The counselling process for reserve categories will be held on Saturday. Students have been asked to visit the college for the counselling process according to the time slots allotted to them. All students have been asked to wear masks and only a parent can accompany them to attend the counselling process. Important datesThe last date for admissions according to PU calendar is August 22The last date to apply is August 8 at SCD Govt College, Government College for Girls and Government College, Karamsar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/admission-process-for-pu-affiliated-colleges-in-ludhiana-begins/story-cQUdc6lBHtp7GHMhxHO51J.html
07-08-2020||City||Despite increase in cases, covid-19 testing misses its target in Punjab||AMRITSAR With no end in sight to the pandemic and no sign of cases going down, increased testing is seen a way to ensure that some of the population, at least, can be spared the covid-19 disease. Punjab, however, has failed to meet its target of conducting 12,000 tests per day for the past fortnight that started July 25 by a margin of 25% or around 43,000 tests (1.25 lakh tests done against targeted 1.68 lakh). The target was set after the state hiked the testing capacity in its government institutions from 9,000 to 12,000 tests per day. On Friday, the state added 12,168 samples tested, the highest single-day testing. As per the state’s media bulletin, Punjab reported 9,246 fresh cases, 5,743 recoveries and 248 fatalities due to the virus over the past two weeks. State covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said: “We are continuously directing district officers to increase daily sample collection. We have conducted more than 6 lakh covid-19 tests in the state and have to keep in mind out capacity. The daily samples being tested are increasing everyday.”“The state has limited staff to collect swab samples, as most employees remain busy in contract tracing. Not every health official is trained in sample collection and conducting rapid antigen tests. Most samples are being collected from Amritsar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar, and these are the traced contacts of the patients. Some people are still reluctant to get tested. Others think their family members will also be taken to hospital, if they are found positive,” said a health official, on the condition of anonymity.Officials added that four new testing labs had been set up at Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Mohali with a capacity of 250 per day to begin with, and it would be raised to 1,000 per day by August-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-increase-in-cases-covid-19-testing-misses-its-target-in-punjab/story-HnXChSZ4NvAjFr5Ju1HokN.html
07-08-2020||City||Authorities, passengers at Rohtak bus depot throw caution to wind||A day after the state government announced to ply Haryana Roadways buses with full capacity, the standard operating procedures (SOPs) were not followed by authorities and passengers at the Rohtak depot on Friday. A visit to Rohtak bus stand exposed the tall claims made by the state government and transport authorities of ensuring proper social distancing and conducting thermal scanning of passengers.Many passengers could be seen entering the bus stand without wearing a mask.Gaurav Kumar, a passenger, who boarded the Haryana Roadways bus from Rohtak to Gohana, said he was shocked to see that there is no facility of thermal scanning inside the depot.“Two men were conducting thermal scanning of passengers entering from both gates. However, many commuters entering the bus stand in their own vehicles are not being scanned, which poses a great risk to the lives of other passengers. My bus was not sanitised and many passengers boarded the bus without wearing a face mask,” Kumar said.Another passenger Manoj Dhayal complained that the conductors were issuing tickets without wearing hand gloves. “Precautionary measures are not being followed at the depot and the government has taken a wrong step by plying buses with full capacity. Now, the passengers are sitting close to each other and chances of spreading the virus has increased. The government is only thinking about generating revenue,” Dhayal said.A bus driver, requesting anonymity, said buses coming from other depots are not being sanitised.“We have been washing our buses daily in the morning but it is not possible to sanitise the bus after every route,” he said.Gulab Singh, general manager of Haryana Roadways at the Rohtak depot, said 91 buses commuted on different routes on Friday. “We are making efforts to ensure social distancing at the depot and in the buses too. Thermal scanning is being done outside the main gates of the bus stand,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/authorities-passengers-at-rohtak-bus-depot-throw-caution-to-wind/story-Vo8EYINLtC4pZlbmGJmMKJ.html
07-08-2020||City||TMC recovers ₹97.36 lakhs overcharged by Covid hospitals||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has recovered ₹97.36 lakh from private hospitals in the city which overcharged patients, between July 10 and August 1. The amount was additional charges imposed by these hospitals on more than 700 patients. However, the corporation has merely managed to return ₹4.17 lakh to the patients so far. In the second week of July, TMC chief Dr Vipin Sharma had set up an audit committee to check the bills imposed by private hospitals on Covid patients. The city has over 20 private hospitals dedicated to Covid treatment. The private hospitals, fearing action by the civic body, have started returning the excess amount charged on the patients. An official from TMC said, “Since we initiated the audit on bills of the private hospitals, from July 10-18, we found ₹27.14 lakh excess from 196 bills, from July 19 to July 25 an excess of ₹30.21 lakh was found to be imposed on 190 patients while 315 patients were charged an excess of ₹40.308 lakh from July 26 to August 1. As per our audit committee, 701 patients were charged an excess of ₹97,36,520.” The corporation though has not yet returned all the amount to the patients. A civic official said, “We have returned ₹4.17 lakh so far and the remaining amount will also be gradually returned after checking the bills. All the patients overcharged will get their dues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-recovers-97-36-lakhs-overcharged-by-covid-hospitals/story-y3iHJ4n7EkeNKRNNRLmQ5N.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||National registry for Covid-19: PGIMER to mentor hospitals in northern states||: Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has been nominated as mentor institute for Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh for establishing a “National Clinical Registry of Covid-19.”According to the plan of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, ICMR and AIIMS, the registry will be established in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and Covid care centres across the countryIt will initially include 100 centres with minimum 100 Covid-19 patients per month. The study will last one year. The detailed protocol of the study will be shared with a site after it is finalised after necessary approvals.“All such patients will be recorded in the registry, along with the laboratory investigation, co-morbidity, clinical history, etc. We will also record these details at PGIMER and guide the mentees,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/national-registry-for-covid-19-pgimer-to-mentor-hospitals-in-northern-states/story-OVaxKaP7S8wN4Si11HvMqO.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||All 25 juveniles at Chandigarh’s observation home clear Class 10, 12 exams||All 24 children, living in the Observation-cum-Special Home, Sector 25, have cleared their secondary and senior secondary examinations through the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS).This was shared by the Juvenile Justice Monitoring Committee, which monitors the implementation of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015 within the Punjab and Haryana high court’s jurisdiction.The committee is headed by high court justice Jaswant Singh.“He has issued directions to Paramjeet Singh, district and sessions judge, Chandigarh, and Ashok Kumar Maan, chief judicial magistrate-cum-secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, to closely monitor the facilities being made available to the children and submit regular reports,” the official statement mentioned.The special home’s superintendent shared that seven students had appeared for Class 12 board exams, with five securing first division and two scoring 57.42% and 57.33% marks, respectively.Remaining 17 students appeared for Class 10 exams. As many as 11 students obtained first division and six second division.Justice Singh has sought an assessment to establish the children’s area of interest and that they are suitably rehabilitated in a job-oriented vocational training.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-25-juveniles-at-chandigarh-s-observation-home-clear-class-10-12-exams/story-8kuNqIfYrUmAt9pP4ByaHP.html
07-08-2020||City||Hotel staffer held for raping foreign national in Hisar||A hotel staffer has been arrested for allegedly raping a 40-year-old foreign national in her room at a hotel in Hisar late on Thursday, police said. The woman is from Thailand. Hisar superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said the hotel worker has been arrested and the woman’s statement has been recorded.A case under Section 376-D (gangrape) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the hotel staffer and an unknown person.The woman’s medical examination has been conducted and the report is awaited, the SP said.A police official, requesting anonymity said the woman, who had come from Delhi, had checked into the hotel three days ago. “The woman has identified a hotel staffer. We are checking the CCTV footage of the hotel to identify the other accused,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-raping-foreign-national-in-hisar/story-7jWFr6ygSF0plrNjYtuDOO.html
07-08-2020||Noida||Noida: Covid-19 tally rises to 5,806, active cases 906||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Friday recorded 61 new Covid-19 patients, pushing the tally of cases in the district to 5,806, official data showed.However, the number of active cases stood at 906, as 71 more patients got discharged since Thursday, according to the data released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.So far, 4,857 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, the second highest among districts in UP after Lucknow (6,090), it showed.The district has so far recorded 43 deaths linked to coronavirus and the mortality rate among positive cases stood at 0.74 per cent, according to official statistics.The recovery rate of patients improved to 83.65 per cent from 83.26 per cent on Thursday, 82.72 per cent on Wednesday and 82.95 per cent on Tuesday, as per the statistics.Gautam Buddh Nagar (906) stands 11th on the list of districts in the state in terms of active cases. The maximum active cases are in Lucknow (5,284) followed by Kanpur Nagar (4,584), Varanasi (1,993), Allahabad (1,780), Bareilly (1,720), Gorakhpur (1,324), Jaunpur (1,273), Aligarh (1,103), Ballia (1,094) and Ghaziabad (1,038), according to the data. There were 44,563 active cases across Uttar Pradesh, while the death toll reached 1,981 with 61 fatalities since Thursday. So far, 66,834 patients have recovered across the state, showed the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-covid-19-tally-rises-to-5-806-active-cases-906/story-ap7AJHoy4N8ZN3kPkvyuOK.html
07-08-2020||City||From Non-SCS to IAS: CAT upholds Haryana govt’s decision to shortlist candidates on basis of written test||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) on Friday upheld the Haryana government’s June 9 order on Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) conducting a written test to shortlist Non-State Civil Service (Non-SCS) officers to fill five Indian Administrative Service (IAS) posts. The order comes two days before the HPSC will conduct the test on Sunday to prepare a panel of 25 candidates under what the state government states is a “rational and transparent system for evaluating the persons of outstanding merit and ability.” At least 332 Non-SCS officers from different state departments will appear in the written test for the first time in the state to shortlist candidates. The three-hour written examination will have 100 multiple-choice questions with five options. The examination will have negative marking and for every wrong answer, 25% marks assigned to the question will be deducted. “We do not find any merit in this petition and accordingly the same is dismissed,” justice L Narasimha Reddy, chairman of the division bench stated in the 15-page order. Surender Singh Dahiya, 52, who is additional director, agriculture department, had moved the CAT. His key contention was that June 9 notification of the Haryana government “indirectly” gave the HPSC the power to conduct a parallel examination even as the state did not have this power. The petitioner had argued that the impugned order was a clear encroachment into the powers of the central government. “By no stretch of imagination, the HPSC is entering the realm of central government or UPSC,” the Tribunal says. As per the order, the June 9 notification of Haryana government was only to conduct a written examination and that the HPSC will forward the list of 25 meritorious candidates for five vacancies to the chief secretary “purely on the basis of marks obtained” and he would then forward this list to the UPSC. “The HPSC is not assigned any other role whatsoever,” reads the order, pointing out that the plea of the applicant that the (June 9) order exceeds the legislative competence of the state “is difficult to accept”. The order states that the applicant could have a genuine apprehension in case he was required to compete in the written examination with fresh candidates. “However, here it is only officers who have put in eight years of service... that are eligible to apply and appear in the written examination,” justice Reddy stated. Referring to the “restricted nature of participation in the examination,” the CAT said it cannot be said that an individual candidate is being put to disadvantage of any nature. Justice Reddy has stated that just as there is no legislative background for determination of the ‘outstanding merit and ability’ of the candidate with reference to the ACRs, there need not be any such legislative basis for conducting a written examination. “It may be first of its kind. At the same time, it is a continuous process which needs improvement depending on the past exercise,” the ruling says. “From the above, it is clear that the written examination is proposed to be conducted for determining the outstanding merit and ability of the candidates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-non-scs-to-ias-cat-upholds-haryana-govt-s-decision-to-shortlist-candidates-on-basis-of-written-test/story-lm1bS1I27Qzh0iUXG0eP8O.html
07-08-2020||City||Kullu’s Sharan to become craft handloom village: Smriti Irani||Union minister of textiles and women and child development Smriti Irani on Friday said Sharan village in Kullu will be developed into a craft handloom village. On the occasion of the sixth Nation Handloom Day, Irani addressed handloom clusters across the country and designers at different institutes and craft handloom villages over video conferencing.“Sharan village near Heritage Village, Naggar, is among the 10 villages selected as craft handloom villages. This will not only promote the handloom industry but also boost rural tourism,” she said.The Union minister said National Institutes of Fashion Technology (NIFTs) will help promote handloom products in the country.She said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also stressed on boosting the handloom industry to strengthen the handloom sector.She said the mobile application for the ‘handloom mark scheme’ launched by the ministry on Friday will not only facilitate weavers but also provide consumers with genuine handloom products.The ‘My Handloom’ Portal will also help the consumers get information about the best handloom products, said Irani. “The Union government will provide all possible assistance to the handloom sector,” said the Union minister, adding, “We all must encourage local products so that the rural economy is strengthened.”A virtual exhibition was also held to link handloom exporters with buyers. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who joined the conference from Dehra in Kangra,said at present around 20,000 people were dependent on handloom for earning their livelihood.He said the Himachali shawl and cap, especially the Kullu and Kinnauri shawls, had earned worldwide fame and both the products have been patented and reserved under the Handloom Protection Act by the government of India.Thakur said the Union government had sanctioned ₹118.63 lakh and the state will contribute ₹13.40 lakh for the development of Sharan village.The CM said that during the lockdown, the cottage industry kept the rural economy afloat.“The state government is considering the ‘one district, one product scheme’ to popularise traditional products,” he said.Thakur said a grant of 10% was being provided to handloom entrepreneurs for the purchase of thread through the National Handloom Development Corporation.He said that training was also being provided to around 450 handloom weavers of the nine districts through HP State Handicraft and Handloom Corporation. The sale of handloom products is being done through 12 sale centres in the state and one in Delhi, the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kullu-s-sharan-to-become-craft-handloom-village-smriti-irani/story-GVCifpdj84uqgM2ElLuCBP.html
07-08-2020||City||Coordination between BJP-led state govt, party needed to accomplish ‘Mission Repeat’ in assembly polls: Jai Ram||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday stressed on effective coordination between the state government and the BJP to accomplish “Mission Repeat” in the 2022 assembly elections in Himachal Pradesh.He was addressing a meeting of organisational district Dehra at Bagli in Jaswan-Pragpur assembly segment of Kangra district. The CM said it is a matter of pride for the BJP workers that they are members of the world’s largest political party that is being led by JP Nadda, who is a leader from the hill state.“During Covid-19 pandemic, the state leadership maintained constant touch with the party workers upto the booth-level with the help of technology. The state government ensured that the virus outbreak does not hamper the pace of development and directed officials to identify unspent money with various departments so that the same can be used for developmental works,” he said.The CM said the government is also monitoring various ongoing developmental projects to ensure their time-bound completion.“The state has suffered estimated loss of over ₹30,000 crore due to the pandemic and the government was forced to take harsh measures,” he said, adding that the opposition was not shying away from playing politics even during a crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coordination-between-bjp-led-state-govt-party-needed-to-accomplish-mission-repeat-in-assembly-polls-jai-ram/story-Z2AJFzCjxmIWU4vHqhX4rK.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||Liquor shops in Delhi to remain open for one more hour||The Delhi government has extended timings for opening of liquor shops in the national capital by one hour.An official said the move will also help increase the government’s revenue.Before the coronavirus-forced lockdown, liquor shops in the city used to remain open till 10 pm. However, the timing for their operation had been curtailed by an hour when they were allowed to open again in May. According to an order issued by the excise department on Thursday, liquor shops in the city will now open from 10 am to 10 pm instead of the earlier timing of 10 am to 9 pm.“In pursuance to guidelines issued by chairperson, state executive committee, Delhi Disaster Management Authority, Government of NCT of Delhi vide order no..dated 31.07.2020, all L-6, L-7, L-8, L-9 and L-10 liquor vends are allowed to open from 10 am to 10 pm instead of 10 am to 9 pm with immediate effect till further orders,” the order stated.Of the 863 liquor shops in Delhi, around 475 are run by four government corporations -- the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation, Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation and Delhi Consumer’s Cooperative Wholesale Store.Around 389 liquor shops are owned by private individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/liquor-shops-in-delhi-to-remain-open-for-one-more-hour/story-cKrMliDm593NfG9d6sFB4H.html
07-08-2020||City||25 new Covid-19 cases in Himachal, tally rises to 3,075||Twenty-eight people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal on Friday, taking the state tally to 3,075, officials said. Of the new cases, 13 were reported in Chamba, eight in Shimla, four in Bilaspur and three in Solan. Also, 51 more people have been cured in the state.Chamba deputy commissioner Vivek Bhatia said among the 13 cases reported in the district, eight are from Dharog locality of Chamba town. They are primary contacts of people who had tested positive earlier. The virus spread from a 60-year-old senior citizen who had tested positive in random sampling and has no travel history. On August 5, sixteen people from the same locality had tested positive for the virus. In less than a week, 25 people were infected in the locality. Meanwhile, a 15-year-old girl, who had returned from Karnataka, has tested positive in NHPC colony and two cases are from Chaugan locality of Chamba town. A solider, who returned from Leh, has tested positive in Dalhousie. In Shimla, eight people have tested positive. Among them is an attendant of Himachal Pradesh power minister Sukhram Chaudhary, who tested positive for the virus on Thursday. Chaudhary’s two daughters have also contracted the disease. Till date, 1,61,202 people have been tested for Covid-19 in Himachal. The state has 1,119 active cases, 1,916 people have recovered and 12 have succumbed to the virus. Solan is the worst-hit district in Himachal Pradesh with 761cases followed by Kangra with 500 cases. Sirmaur has 370 cases, Hamirpur 339, Una 264, Mandi 227, Shimla 196, Chamba 150, Bilaspur 138, Kullu 86, Kinnaur 46 and Lahaul-Spiti has four cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-new-covid-19-cases-in-himachal-tally-rises-to-3-075/story-zXAwrlQLfvbWGOydVZm4RL.html
07-08-2020||City||Two-year-old boy becomes 18th Covid fatality in Mohali||A two-year-old boy from Phase 8 in Mohali died of coronavirus disease on Friday, taking the toll to 18 in the district. The boy was admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, after suffering for fever from six days and tested positive for Covid-19, said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. He is the first child to have died of the infection in the district.“The cremation has been performed according to the protocol. We will collect samples of his family members and trace other contacts,” said Dr Singh. 50 fresh cases in districtMeanwhile, with 50 fresh cases reported on Friday, the count has gone up to 1,169 in the district. While 25 cases were reported from Mohali city, 15 were from Kharar and 10 from Dera Bassi subdivision. Also, 23 patients recovered from the disease, taking the number of active recoveries and active cases to 648 and 503, respectively. Dr Singh said all the patients are admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, and most of them are asymptomatic and responding well to the treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-year-old-boy-becomes-18th-covid-fatality-in-mohali/story-MySWLwcukbItFRdWqACXjK.html
07-08-2020||City||Two factory workers killed in Jalandhar village||Jalandhar Phumann Singh, 40, and his brother Pala Singh, of Mundi Chohlian village, were killed after inhaling poisonous gases, after going down a well at their place of work, Kissan Mentha Plant, the police have said. Investigation officer of the case Kulwindar Singh said the victims were pulled out by co-workers and were rushed to the Lohian Khas clinic, where doctors declared them as brought dead. Another worker who also became unconscious is under treatment. The IO added that the Lohian Khas Police has proceeded under Section 174 (police to inquire and report on suicide etc) of the CrPC based on the statements of the workers and factory owners and sent the bodies for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-factory-workers-killed-in-jalandhar-village/story-JCgovn8UVvTnBewHgwOuCJ.html
07-08-2020||City||NMMC to construct more artificial ponds for immersions of Ganesh idols||After Thane civic body, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has decided to increase the number of immersion sites. The artificial ponds will now be constructed in many areas so that the residents can immerse the Ganesh idols closer to their homes, and avoid overcrowding at existing spots.The decision was taken by municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar during a meeting with top civic and police officers, including deputy commissioner of police Pankaj Dahane, to discuss the preparations for the festival.Bangar said, “This year we will set up more artificial ponds for immersions. Every locality will have these ponds so that residents can immerse the idols near their homes. This will help in reducing the crowd at natural ponds while making the celebrations eco-friendly. The ponds, equipped with water facility, tables for puja and arti, volunteers for immersion, will be ready before the ten-day festival sets in.”The executive engineers of every ward are instructed to survey their wards along with the local police officers to identify the locations for the artificial ponds. NMMC at present has 23 existing immersion sites.Bangar added, “Apart from ward-level artificial ponds, artificial ponds will also be constructed next to these 23 main immersion ponds in the NMMC jurisdiction. They too will be equipped with all facilities. The floral and other waste generated will be segregated at the spot and disposed of as per the norms. Strict instructions have been issued to ensure that no waste is thrown in the water.”The corporation will seek help from NGOs and Ganpati mandals to construct and maintain such ponds in their areas.“People will have to maintain social distancing and follow lockdown norms while installing and immersion of the idols. The state government has issued orders that the height of the idols for sarvajanik Ganeshotsavs will be four-feet and those at homes will be two-feet. We will spread awareness on it and appeal the residents to celebrate the festival while abiding by social distancing norms,” Bangar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nmmc-to-construct-more-artificial-ponds-for-immersions-of-ganesh-idols/story-CDmkBLTOcUqBNp7PpQH3xH.html
07-08-2020||City||MP Manish Tewari reviews ongoing development projects in Mohali||Member of Parliament (MP) Manish Tewari on Friday reviewed the ongoing development projects in the city at the municipal corporation (MC) office here in Sector 68.After going through a power point presentation, Tewari informed that he had been given an insight into the major projects executed in the past, the current projects that are under way and the future challenges that Mohali as a township faces over the next 10 years.He said an elevated road from ISB in Sector 81 to the roundabout on Airport Road is definitively a future need in terms of the ever-growing traffic congestion.Replying to a query on the cut in the MC budget, the MP said this is a challenge which not only Mohali but every urban local body across India is facing. “Our objective is not to just look at the immediate challenges, but also consider the city’s growth in a ten to twenty-year time frame.”Sharing the purpose of his visit, he said, “I wanted to get an overview about how exactly are we going to surmount the challenges as the city grows and develops.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mp-manish-tewari-reviews-ongoing-development-projects-in-mohali/story-4aI6fnHEDW2WApjC9jk5sO.html
07-08-2020||City||Three masked men rob grocery deliverymen of Rs 1.47 lakh in Ludhiana||Three motorcycle-borne miscreants robbed two deliverymen of Rs 1.47 lakh near Dhandhari Bridge in Ludhiana on Thursday. Complainant Balkar Singh, 38, of Dhillon Colony, said that he and his cousin, Goldy, 30, work for a firm which supplies groceries in the city. On Thursday, when they were returning home after work, three masked men intercepted their car and robbed them of the money they had collected from the customers. The accused allegedly thrashed them and even threatened them with a sword before fleeing with the cash. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ajmer Singh said a case under Section 379-B (snatching after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint in order to the committing of snatching) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against unidentified persons. Police are scanning closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-masked-men-rob-grocery-deliverymen-of-rs-1-47-lakh-in-ludhiana/story-677uZtkZXumgKk4V9WUKVL.html
07-08-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh sees record 63 Covid-19 deaths; 4,404 fresh cases||Uttar Pradesh on Friday witnessed a record 63 people people succumbing to Covid-19, pushing the death toll in the state to 1,981, an official said.  A total of 4,404 fresh cases were reported in the state during this period, taking the tally to 1,13,378.Presently, there are 44,563 active cases in the state and 66,834 people have recovered and discharged from hospitals, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said.On Thursday, 95,737 tests were conducted with which the number of total tests performed in the state has gone up to over 28 lakh, he said, adding that Uttar Pradesh is now among the state that has performed the maximum number of tests.There are 15,035 people presently in home isolation while 1,325 are being treated in private hospitals and 170 others in semi-paid facilities, Awasthi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-sees-record-63-covid-19-deaths-4-404-fresh-cases/story-uNeBeup1qwVyA2nBP2vwhN.html
07-08-2020||Patna||Bihar reports 3,646 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hrs, tally rises to 71,794||With 3,646 new Covid-19 cases reported in Bihar in the last 24 hours, the tally of coronavirus stands at 71,794, said the state Health Department on Friday.According to the daily bulletin issued by the state government, the number of active cases rose to 25,128 in the state.As many as 46,265 patients have been discharged and 400 have died due to the virus in the state, stated the department.Meanwhile, India’s Covid-19 cases tally crossed 20 lakh mark with the highest single-day spike of 62,538 cases on Friday, said Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The Covid-19 tally rises to 20,27,075 including 6,07,384 active cases, 13,78,106 cured/discharged/migrated and 41,585 deaths, according to the Ministry of Health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-reports-3-646-new-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hrs-tally-rises-to-71-794/story-oKqlpqHVBFyOg93FvljwwO.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||Seek help from Delhi govt to repay loan: Centre to DMRC||The Centre has asked the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation to approach the city government for financial assistance for repayment of the soft loan it had taken from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for various projects.The DMRC had received a total loan of Rs 35,198 crore from JICA.“We have received such a communication from the ministry recently. The same is being examined and processed,” said Anuj Dayal, Executive Director, DMRC.He responded to a query over reports that the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has directed all metros to write to their respective state governments for assistance regarding repayment of loans taken from external lending agencies.The loan was given to the Delhi Metro at a concessional rate of interest varying from 1.2 per cent to 2.3 per cent, and was repayable in 30 years with a moratorium of 10 years.Till now, the DMRC has repaid Rs 3,337 crore to JICA, and the balance liability was of Rs 31,861 crore.Delhi Metro operations have been closed for the public since March 22 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken to curb the spread of the disease.This closure of services in the past few months has led to a loss in revenue for the urban transporter worth around Rs 1,300 crore.On Friday, sources said, the DMRC has not yet approached the Delhi government on the loan issue.For financial year 2020-21, DMRC is required to pay Rs 1,242.83 crore (Rs 434.15 crore interest and Rs 808.68 crore principal) to the Centre towards JICA loan for the loan.The DMRC has paid Rs 79.19 crore on account of interest during this year, and a balance of Rs 1,163.64 crore (Rs 354.96 cr interest and Rs 808.68 cr principal) is yet to be paid during the current financial year, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/seek-help-from-delhi-govt-to-repay-loan-centre-to-dmrc/story-SBNAwH2DZqcvmlUDs4ZQHP.html
07-08-2020||City||Virus scare in political circles of Himachal after power minister tests positive for Covid-19||Amid rise in Covid-19 infections and state power minister Sukhram Chaudhary testing positive for the virus, most political leaders in Himachal Pradesh have gone into self quarantine as a precautionary measure. Sukhram Chaudhary, his two daughters and a personal security officer had tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Chaudhary shared the news on social media and urged people who came in his direct contact to quarantine themselves and get tested. The Shimla district authorities have sealed his government residence and started contact tracing.Former chief ministers and BJP leaders Prem Kumar Dhumal and Shanta Kumar along with their family and staff self quarantined themselves, a day after newly-elected state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Suresh Kashyap had met them on his way to Dharamshala. On Friday, Kashyap went into home quarantine since he had recently visited Nahan along with the power minister. “By the grace of God my Covid-19 report is negative. Still, I have decided to remain in home quarantine. I apologise if I have caused inconvenience to anyone,” Kashyap wrote in a Facebook post. His staff has also been quarantined. Kashyap had reached Dharamshala on Thursday and was scheduled to preside over a meeting of Dehra block unit of the BJP on Friday. He had met senior party leaders including Prem Kumar Dhumal, Shanta Kumar and former state party chief Satpal Singh Satti on his way to Dharamshala.The Raj Bhawan has also cancelled all engagements and appointments of governor Bandaru Dattatreya.The decision was taken as a precautionary measure. Sukhram Chaudhary had taken oath as the cabinet minister on July 30. The oath was administrated by the governor and as many as 50 guests, including chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, other cabinet ministers and government officials were present at the ceremony . Chaudhary had later addressed a press conference along with chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and two newly appointed ministers and also attended the cabinet meeting. The next day, he toured Nahan and was accompanied by state BJP chief Kashyap and food and civil supplies corporation vice-chairman Baldev Tomar.Former party chief and Nahan MLA Rajeev Bindal, marketing board chairman Baldev Bhandari and Pachhad MLA Reena Kashyap also attended the programmes organised by BJP workers to welcome Chaudhary.Sirmaur district BJP president Vinay Gupta accompanied the minister to Paonta Sahib, his home constituency, on August 1. Gupta and Bhandari have quarantined themselves. Chaudhary’s contact list may be long as several programmes were organised to felicitate him in Solan and Sirmaur after his swearing-in ceremony.He is undergoing treatment at Deendayal Upadhyay Hospital, Shimla, while his daughters have been shifted to the Covid-care centre at Mashobra.SHANTA TELLS CM TO CURB HIS VISITS Meanwhile, veteran BJP leader Shanta kumar has suggested the CM to curb his visits and follow the Covid-19 norms strictly. “I urge all political leaders to take extra precaution and follow the norms to prevent the spread of infection,” Shanta said in a statement issued here informing that he was self quarantining for 14 days. He expressed anger on political leaders breaking the rules and taking out procession in the pandemic town. “It is the political leaders who are flouting the rules even as the corona cases continue to mount,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/virus-scare-in-political-circles-of-himachal-after-power-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-X3vs1A9JgDmIeImL0ikDEN.html
07-08-2020||City||Hooch tragedy: BJP, BJYM workers protest outside Cong legislators’ houses||Workers of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, led by president Mahesh Sharma, staged protests outside the houses of Congress legislators, including state cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Surinder Dawar and Rakesh Panday, against the Hooch tragedy that killed over 100 people in the state.The activists had also planned to protest outside Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar’s house but it was called off after the latter, along with his family, tested positive for Covid-19. Joining the protestors, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s district unit chief Pushpinder Singhal raised slogans against the state government and accused it of patronising illicit liquor mafia. Demanding a CBI probe, Singhal said that recently, the police had busted a group involved in filling illicit liquor in premium scotch bottles, but the Congress government was mum over the issue.He further alleged that the government was trying to divert attention from the big fish by arresting small helpers and associates in the hooch tragedy. BJYM chief Mahesh Sharma alleged that cabinet minister Ashu was supporting Rajeev Joshi, the Ludhiana-based businessman who supplied methanol to the manufacturers of hooch. “Ashu said that Rajeev was merely a businessman and was not aware of the purpose for which the methanol was being used. Making such statements indicates that the cabinet minister was supporting Rajeev. The minister should clear his stand,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hooch-tragedy-bjp-bjym-workers-protest-outside-cong-legislators-houses/story-mZD6cCkddqGeekY1FRcSgI.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||Necessary security arrangements made for Independence Day: Delhi Police Commissioner||Delhi Police have made necessary security arrangements for the Independence Day celebrations in the national capital, the city’s top cop said on Friday. “Necessary security arrangements have been made for Independence Day, including to deal with threats from aerial objects like drones and microlight aircraft,” Delhi Police Commissioner SN Srivastava told news agency ANI.Srivastava said that the police have sought public cooperation so that no place is used to launch any terror attack. He added that several drives against unauthorised parking have been conducted in the run-up to August 15 so that roads remain clear. “In the absence of public transport, the number of private cars has increased on the roads of Delhi. We have conducted several drives against unauthorised parking so that roads remain clear and lane driving can be ensured,” said Srivastava. The Commissioner of Police also said that Delhi Police is trying its best to provide full security to people and many steps are being taken in this direction.Late last month, Delhi Police prohibited the flying of “sub-conventional aerial platforms” like UAVs, paragliders, and hot air balloons in the national capital till August 15 citing security reasons. The order, issued on July 31, shall remain in force till August 15.Unlike the previous years when dozens of guests and hundreds of school children took part in the main I-Day function at Red Fort in New Delhi, it will be a low-key affair this year, not only in the national capital but elsewhere in the country as well, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. HT had earlier reported citing officials familiar with arrangements being made at Red Fort that fewer guests have been invited for the event and school children will not be part of the festivities. Prime Minister Modi will be presented with a Guard of Honour by the Armed Forces and the Delhi Police, followed by the unfurling of the Tricolour, playing of the National Anthem and firing of the 21-gun salute. The Prime Minister’s speech shall be followed by the singing of the National Anthem and the release of tri-coloured balloons at the end. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/necessary-security-arrangements-made-for-independence-day-delhi-police-commissioner/story-mXlnbB2V5Ih91hXeBSi5tJ.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Families of 20 Tarn Taran hooch tragedy victims say were not allowed to meet Punjab CM||TARN TARAN: Family members of 20 of the 121 victims of Punjab’s hooch tragedy on Friday alleged that police did not allow them to enter Sri Guru Arjan Dev Sports Stadium in Tarn Taran, where Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had come to share their grief. Of the 121 people who died after consuming illicit liquor since July 29, 92 are from Tarn Taran and its adjoining villages. The family members of victims from Kang, Muglani and Sangha villages and Tarn Taran town said the police had played with their sentiments by keeping them waiting outside the stadium. The chief minister arrived at 9.50am and interacted with relatives of hooch victims in the stadium for about an hour. “My husband, Satpal Singh, died last Saturday after consuming illicit liquor. I was called to this event by the administration. I was told that I would be taken to the event from the municipal council (MC) office. When I reached the MC office at 8.30am, officials asked me to go to the stadium. I reached at 9am but the police didn’t allow me in,” said Manjit Kaur, 55, of Railway Road, Tarn Taran. “Whatever the government gives us as compensation is a different matter, but the police should have let us meet the chief minister,” she said. Rajwant Kaur, 28, accompanied with her two-year-old son, said, “I was here at 9am but was not allowed to enter. The police said there was no use of going inside. I waited for two hours but was not even offered water.” “Why were we called if we were not to be allowed inside?” said Paramjit Kumar of Kang village whose brother Parmodh Kumar died after consuming the illicit liquor. Jashanpreet Kaur, 22, said: “I showed my father’s Aadhar card at the entry point, but the police didn’t allow me in.” When contacted, Tarn Taran deputy commissioner Kulwant Singh said, “We had deployed officers to bring families to the event. The event was organised at a short notice. Sometimes, after the CM’s arrival, the security doesn’t allow entry at an event. There was no intention to stop the families. Rather, the event was for them. However, we are committed to providing the benefits to all victim families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/families-of-20-tarn-taran-hooch-tragedy-victims-say-were-not-allowed-to-meet-punjab-cm/story-tWrdjxs7HmKWcBblXQvmAN.html
07-08-2020||Patna||Bihar seeks dismissal of Rhea’s plea in Rajput death case in SC||Bihar government Friday sought in the Supreme Court dismissal of Bollywood actress Rhea Chakraborty’s plea for transfer of the Patna FIR against her to Mumbai in actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case, terming it “premature, misconceived and non-maintainable”.Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 and Mumbai Police, probing the case, has recorded statements of 56 persons including Bollywood directors like Aditya Chopra, Mahesh Bhatt and Sanjay Leela Bhansali. The 28-page affidavit of Patna Senior Superintendent of Police Upendra Sharma, filed through Bihar’s advocate Keshav Mohan, said the state police has the jurisdiction in the case as the consequences of the offence are in Patna as well where the old father of the deceased actor resides. Bihar Police has recorded the statement of as many as 10 people in Mumbai including Rajput’s friend Mahesh Shetty and the deceased’s former girlfriend and actress Ankita Lokhande during the probe on the FIR lodged by Rajput’s father, the affidavit said. “It is most respectfully submitted that the transfer petition filed by the petitioner u/s 406 of Cr.P.C is premature, misconceived and non-maintainable,” the IPS officer said in the affidavit filed in response of the apex court’s directives issued on Rhea’s plea earlier. Referring to legal provisions, the state said, “Therefore what transpires from the bare perusal of section 179 Cr.P.C is that the offence can be tried either at the place where the offence has been committed or the consequence ensues.” In the present case the victim is the informant, Krishna Kishore Singh who has lost his “young, vibrant son” due to the act committed by the accused including the actress, the affidavit said, adding that Patna Police has jurisdiction to register the FIR. The affidavit referred to non cooperation of Mumbai Police and interstate ramifications of the crime and said that considering these factors, the state government took note of DGP’s recommendation for the CBI probe and recommended accordingly to the Centre. Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput case: Bihar’s Gagandeep Gambhir to supervise CBI probe team“On the basis of preliminary investigation conducted by Patna Police, it surfaced that the various facts and evidences surrounding the present case may be obtained in Mumbai or rest of India and given the sensitivity of the matter and the inter-state ramification and presence of most of the accused in Mumbai, the Director General of Police, Bihar requested the Govt. of Bihar to recommend the investigation of the case to CBI,” it said. Non-cooperation of Mumbai Police with Patna Police is very much clear from the fact that they have not supplied any documents such as Inquest Report, Post Mortem report, FSL report, CCTV footage, it said. “It is most respectfully submitted that the Mumbai Police has been making lame excuses that only Mumbai Police has jurisdiction to investigate the offence which it has already been investigating despite the fact that no cognizable case,” it said. Seeking dismissal of Rhea’s plea, the state government said the actress has not mentioned anything to substantiate “bias except for the general and bald allegation that the complaint has been lodged due to influence of the informant of the case.” The FIR cannot be transferred merely on the apprehension of bias, it said. It dealt with the CrPC provision under which the transfer of FIR has been sought and said, “the object of section 406 CrPC has never been to transfer investigation from one state to another state.” “From bare perusal of the provision of section 406 CrPC, it transpires that the section provides for transfer of ‘cases and appeals’ from one High Court to another High Court or from a Criminal Court subordinate to one High Court to another Criminal Court of equal or superior jurisdiction subordinate to another High Court...the words “case or appeal” used in...has been used to mean trial and appeals pending before one court may be transferred to another court to secure the ends of justice,” it said. The affidavit said that in criminal proceedings the concept of jurisdiction cannot be applied like civil cases. It also referred to the incident in which an IPS officer of Bihar police was quarantined by civic body BMC in Mumbai. The top court had directed Rajput’s father Krishna Kishore Singh, Bihar and Maharashtra governments to respond within three days to the plea of Bollywood actress Rhea Chakraborty seeking transfer of an FIR, accusing her of abetting suicide of the actor at his Mumbai residence on June 14, from Patna to Mumbai. The top court had on August 5 said that the truth behind the “unfortunate” death of a “gifted and talented artist” should come out and asked Rajput’s father as also Bihar and Maharashtra to respond within three days to the plea of actress Rhea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-seeks-dismissal-of-rhea-s-plea-in-rajput-death-case-in-sc/story-ICJV7QfeehO7HVXH2x1FcK.html
07-08-2020||Ranchi||Govt to encourage sports & sportspersons, says Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Friday said his government was committed to encourage sports and sportspersons and will bring a new sports policy soon.The chief minister said this after he received information in his twitter handle that international woman football player Sangita Soren was making leaf-plates for subsistence at Dhanbad’s Baghmara area.Taking to Twitter, the chief minister asked the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh, to help her (Sangita) and her family with government aid.The chief minister said that his government will soon bring a sports policy to encourage sports and sportspersons.The CM was informed that the player was preparing paper plates for her livelihood. She had played for the country in several international matches.The Jharkhand government had earlier provided financial support to national-level archer Sonu Khatoon who was forced to sell vegetables in Dhanbad.The chief minister had earlier helped athlete Geeta Kumari who was forced to sell vegetables in the streets of Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district to get financial assistance from the district administration and also a monthly stipend to pursue her athletics career.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/govt-to-encourage-sports-sportspersons-says-jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren/story-wsQx03W4K0RmvFOqU8bCqJ.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||‘Unpardonable act, none will be spared’: CM Amarinder to hooch victims’ families||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday met families of the hooch tragedy victims in Tarn Taran district and said it was not an accident but “murder”, for which the culprits will be given strict punishment. The chief minister said properties of those responsible for the “unpardonable act” will also be confiscated. Singh said the death toll in the tragedy has risen to 121 with eight more people succumbing to spurious liquor in Tarn Taran, taking the fatality count in the district to 92, while 15 have died in Amritsar and 14 in Gurdaspur. “No one involved will be spared. Whoever is involved will be given strict punishment as per law,” he said while addressing families of the victims. The chief minister, who was accompanied by state Congress president Sunil Jakhar, announced an increase in the compensation from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh to the kin of the deceased. He announced a relief of Rs 5 lakh to those who survived the tragedy, but lost their eyesight. Singh also assessed the action taken in the case so far. Addressing the families, Singh said the hooch tragedy was “man-made”. “This is not an accident, but murder. Because when someone makes such a thing (illicit liquor), he knows well that it can be fatal and people will die. Therefore, as far as I am concerned, he is a murderer,” Singh said. “Those who have made this and who know people will die should be tried for murder. Those who do such things should be behind bars” he said, adding that many families have lost their sole breadwinner in the tragedy. “It’s hard to believe how people can even think of making such things (illicit liquor) and not even have fear of God,” he said. Handing over a cheque of Rs 2.92 crore for 92 victim families of Tarn Taran to the deputy commissioner, Amarinder Singh said anyone responsible, however affluent he might be, will not be spared at any cost. The chief minister said the investigation into the case is already underway and Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta has been directed to expedite it. The chief minister said to ensure that the culprits get exemplary punishment, special prosecution teams will be deputed to vigorously pursue these cases. He reiterated his government’s commitment to stand by the victim families in this hour of grief by providing jobs, education and other social security benefits to them. Earlier, Singh told reporters that the opposition parties were playing politics over the tragedy. “Politics is being played even when investigations have just started,” he said when asked about the Opposition taking names of some members from the ruling Congress in connection with the tragedy. Earlier in his address, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar hit out at the SAD-BJP alliance for allegedly nurturing the liquor mafia “which ultimately led to the tragedy of such a magnitude”. Jakhar said the tragedy was an outcome of criminal negligence and merits exemplary punishment to the perpetrators of this crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unpardonable-act-none-will-be-spared-cm-amarinder-to-hooch-victims-families/story-YMufzePNo96uje9ww8iOqN.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh govt transfers two IAS officers||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh government on Friday transferred two Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers. A notification by chief secretary Anil Kumar Khachi said state excise and taxation commissioner Dr Ajay Kumar Sharma was transferred as secretary, state ayurveda and youth services and sports, Shimla. Town and country planning director Rohan Chand Thakur will be the new state excise and taxation commissioner. He will continue to hold additional charge of managing director, HP Kaushal Vikas Nigam, Shimla, and managing director, HP Financial Corporation, Shimla. Urban development director Ram Kumar Gautam has been given the additional charge of the town and country planning director with immediate effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-govt-transfers-two-ias-officers/story-rddWGIOGKELMXnVhwLzKeP.html
07-08-2020||Pune||Mandal to distribute 121 ‘Kasba Ganpati’ idols among devotees; organise online programmes||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic as the civic body has requested the mandals to organise the celebrations in a scale down version Pune’s first Manache Ganpati– Kasba Ganpati mandal has come up with a unique idea of giving out 121 Kasba Ganapati clay idols to the devotees across the country.The registration process for the same has already begun and till now more than 3,000 people from across the state and country have registered.The mandal will distribute 21 Kasba Ganpati clay idols to ‘Covid warriors’ from the city including doctors, policemen, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) sanitation workers, nurses and others.“Ganpati festival gives hope to us all amid this Covid-19 pandemic. This year the celebrations will be low-key and we request devotees to not come to the mandal to seek blessings during the ten days,” said Shrikant Shete, president of Kasba Ganpati Mandal.“We will be distributing such 121 Kasba Ganpati clay idols to people and its registrations has started a couple of days back. Till now more than 3,000 people have registered for it from various parts of the state and even outside the state from Delhi and other states,” he said..“The final names will be taken out via a lucky draw. Apart from that 21 Kasba Ganpati idols will be given to 21 Covid warriors from Pune city which includes police, doctor, sanitation workers, fireman and others,” he said.“As the puja and other celebrations have been cancelled we will hold various programmes for devotees online on our Kasba Ganpati Facebook page,” said Shete.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mandal-to-distribute-121-kasba-ganpati-idols-among-devotees-organise-online-programmes/story-QerayDGQSA884b3u9vi0nO.html
07-08-2020||Pune||No public display for Ganesh idols, Pune police request mandals||Pune joint police commissioner Ravindra Shivse has appealed to mandals in the city to celebrate the forthcoming Ganpati festival in their mandal temple and avoid grand celebrations.He was talking during a meeting organised by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Thursday, at their old building, along with the mandal representatives.“The Ganpati celebration should not be held in a grand way amid the rise in Covid-19 positive cases. Recently, our old Wari tradition and even the Eid celebrations were cancelled amid the pandemic,” said Shivse.“I appeal to all the mandals in the city to celebrate the ten-day Ganpati festival in their mandal temple itself and not involve in setting up huge decorations and programmes,” he said.On this occasion Pune city mayor Murlidhar Mohol, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, other PMC and police officials were present.Shivse further said, “No permissions will be given for decorations or ‘Dekhavas’ this year, and only volunteers and few people should be present during the celebration at temples.”During the meeting representatives of the mandals demand financial support to smaller Ganpati mandals for this year celebrations.“Most of the mandals have not yet got back their deposits back from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) and even from PMC we should get it back,” they said.Ajay Paithankar, president, Jaydeep Ganpati mandal, Guruwar peth said, “We are aware of the current Covid-19 situation so the celebrations will be low-key this year, but small mandals should get financial support from PMC to conduct traditional and simple ritual.”Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Ganpati festival has always been a centre of attraction for Punekars, but this year the situation is different. We have already taken a couple of meetings with the mandal representatives and it is decided that there will be no immersion procession this year. No new permissions will be given to Ganpati mandals.”“We also appeal to mandals and household Ganpati to immerse the idol in their mandal or the home itself. The sodium bicarbonate will be provided to all the Punekars at ward office level,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-public-display-for-ganesh-idols-pune-police-request-mandals/story-StoTJpgykv1LD8LRZ1bvuN.html
07-08-2020||Pune||Parents hold protest outside Ryan International School, Bavdhan, Pune; demand reduction in fees||A group of parents held a protest outside the Ryan International School, Bavdhan, on Thursday, and demanded reduction in fees for the current academic year.As many as 400 students were not allowed to attend online classes from August 4 as they had not paid fees, allege parents.Mritunjay Kumar, a parent, said, “The school has been conducting online classes since the start of the current academic year. On average, the classes are being conducted online for five hours every day from Monday to Friday. The school, however, is collecting entire fee amount including computer lab fee, library fee, the facilities of which the students are not availing.”“We are requesting to reduce the fees as many of us parents have lost our jobs, the business has collapsed and the income has been cut to half and in some case, it has simply dried out,” he said.“We are not against paying fees but schools should charge for the services that they are providing- like teachers are taking online classes, hence the school should charge for tuition fees only,” he said.“We all have been trying to communicate with the school authorities, but there is no response. Our children are missing out on the classes,” he said.A statement issued by the school management read, “The Ryan group has adhered to all government directives and is sensitive to the financial concerns faced by the parents due to the current pandemic situation. We have been running the online classes at a lot of expenses in terms of additional infrastructure, training, licenses, bandwidth and equipment. We have been cooperating with and supporting parents from the past several months. All the students who have paid their basic fees till July are continuing to learn every day via our online classes. We are actively looking into all the issues raised by the parents and are working towards some mutually agreeable solutions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/parents-hold-protest-outside-ryan-international-school-bavdhan-pune-demand-reduction-in-fees/story-u5ZCApxWVk9xkQzGrzl4RL.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Former Jalandhar bishop Franco Mulakkal gets bail in nun rape case||Kottayam: A Kerala court on Friday granted bail to former Jalandhar bishop Franco Mulakkal on a fresh bail bond in connection with the nun rape case after he appeared before the court on Friday. Kottayam additional district court judge G Gopakumar granted Mulakkal bail on fresh sureties. The court also recalled the non-bailable warrants against him and cancelled the proceedings against the old sureties and listed the matter for further hearing on August 13. Mulakkal was directed to remain in the state till the next date of hearing and was also asked to participate in the trial of the case without fail. Earlier, the court had cancelled the bail granted to Mulakkal and issued a non-bailable warrant against him after he repeatedly failed to appear before the trial court. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed Mulakkal’s plea seeking to discharge him from the case without a trial. The Kerala high court and a Kottayam trial court had earlier refused to discharge him in the case. Mulakkal, a former head of the Latin Catholic Diocese of Jalandhar, had sought from the trial court to quash charges against him claiming that the rape survivor had implicated him after he took action against her for financial irregularities in the convent. In June 2018, the nun, who is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab, had complained to the police in Kottayam that Mulakkal had raped her several times between 2014 and 2016. After several rounds of questioning, the special investigation team (SIT) of Kerala Police arrested him in September 2018. The SIT had filed the chargesheet against him last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-jalandhar-bishop-franco-mulakkal-gets-bail-in-nun-rape-case/story-3l0Bw3dvtIno6rsQzwnoRK.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput probe was quarantined, I wasn’t: Bihar IPS officer||Bihar-cadre Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Vinay Tiwari, who was in Mumbai to investigate Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, returned to Patna on Friday after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) exempted him from the mandatory quarantine.Tiwari had reached Mumbai to probe Rajput’s death on August 2 and was asked by the civic body to remain under 14-day home quarantine, as per the Maharashtra government’s rule for domestic air travellers. Authorities took the decision to exempt him after Bihar police wrote a letter to them to facilitate Tiwari’s return to Patna.“I would say I wasn’t quarantined, the investigation was quarantined. Investigation of Bihar police was obstructed,” Tiwari said before leaving, according to news agency ANI. Bihar police wrote to BMC after the Nitish Kumar-led government recommended the transfer of Rajput’s death case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) earlier this week. The central agency registered a first information report (FIR) in the case on Thursday.Tiwari was advised to travel to the Mumbai airport using precautionary measures against the raging coronavirus outbreak, including personal protective equipment (PPE) items.The IPS officer came to Mumbai to probe Rajput’s death after the actor father registered a case in Patna against Rhea Chakraborty, accusing her of abetting his son’s alleged suicide in June.As Tiwari’s quarantine lead to a turf war between the police forces of Bihar and Maharashtra and a political war of words, the Supreme Court said BMC’s move had not sent the right message “despite the fact that Mumbai Police has a good professional reputation”. The top court made the observation during a hearing of a plea by actor Rhea Chakraborty seeking transfer of the case registered in Bihar’s capital of Patna to Mumbai.Mumbai Police are also probing the case after the actor was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14 following which the Maharashtra government ordered an investigation into his death.Four personnel of Bihar police, who were in Mumbai since July 27 to investigate Rajput’s death, also flew back to Patna on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-probe-was-quarantined-i-wasn-t-bihar-ips-officer/story-44krbe0JYkHx8ANB8pnYUP.html
07-08-2020||Bhopal||Night curfews eased; weekend lockdowns partially lifted in Madhya Pradesh||The Madhya Pradesh government on Friday relaxed night curfews by two hours and partially lifted weekend lockdowns in coronavirus-affected districts of the state, an official said.Night curfews will now be observed from 10 pm to 5 am as opposed to the earlier timing of 8 pm to 5 am, the official from the state public relations department said.Weekend lockdowns have also been partially lifted in virus-affected districts, he said.While the lockdown on Saturdays has been lifted completely, curbs will remain in place on Sundays, the official said, adding that an order to this effect will be issued shortly.The move has come after Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan reviewed the COVID-19 situation on Thursday and noted that the conditions have improved, he said.Chouhan had said that Madhya Pradesh has a recovery rate of 73.6 per cent and the state was now in 16th position in the country with regards to number of active cases, the official said The chief minister has further directed that district authorities will have to take the state government’s approval for imposing a lockdown under extraordinary conditions henceforth, he said. These relaxations have been announced in light of complaints that the police were asking shops to shut before the 8 pm curfew, which was affecting the state’s economy, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/night-curfews-eased-weekend-lockdowns-partially-lifted-in-madhya-pradesh/story-IY5FrLPqCWhMIk2flHinIJ.html
07-08-2020||Noida||Car driver killed in road crash in Greater Noida||A 50-year-old man was killed after his speeding car collided with a truck on a highway in Uttar Pradesh’s Greater Noida, police said on Friday. Maan Singh Tomar was on his way to Ghaziabad when the incident occurred in Badalpur police station area on late Thursday night, the police said. “Tomar was a resident of Ghaziabad and he had come to Dadri in Greater Noida. He was returning home alone in the car when it collided with the truck near Accheja village. He died on the spot,” a police official said. The truck involved in the incident has been impounded while its driver managed to flee the spot, the official said. The body has been sent for post-mortem and further proceedings are underway, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/car-driver-killed-in-road-crash-in-greater-noida/story-sQmwaFEn9Lr98O3hEAywOP.html
07-08-2020||Lucknow||Won’t attend mosque inauguration, says Adityanath; SP asks him to apologise||The Samajwadi Party on Friday sought an apology from Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over his remark that he would not attend the inauguration of the mosque to be built in Ayodhya, replacing the demolished Babri Masjid. After the bhoomi pujan for a Ram temple in Ayodhya, Adityanath had said on television that “as a yogi and as a Hindu” he couldn’t go for the inauguration of a mosque. Reacting to the remark, the opposition SP said he should seek an apology from the people of the state. When contacted, a UP Congress spokesperson, however, refused to comment on the chief minister’s remarks over the mosque. “If you ask me as a chief minister, I have no problem with any belief, religion or community. If you ask me as a yogi, I will definitely not go because as a Hindu I have the right to express my ‘upasana vidhi’ (way of worship) and act accordingly,” Adityanath had said. “I am neither ‘vaadi or “prativadi’ (petitioner nor respondent). That is why neither will I be invited, nor will I go. I know, I won’t be getting any such invitation,” he said. The day they invite me, secularism of many will be in danger. That’s why I want that their secularism should not be in danger and I continue to silently work to ensure that everyone benefits from government scheme without any discrimination,” he said. He claimed that the Congress never wanted a solution to the dispute. “They wanted the dispute to continue for their political benefit.” “Attending roza-iftar with a skull cap is not secularism. People also know that this is drama. People know the reality,” the CM said. SP spokesperson Pawan Pandey criticised Adityanath over his remarks, charging that he has violated the oath he took while assuming charge as the chief minister. “He is the CM of the entire state, and not only of the Hindu community. Whatever the population of Hindus and Muslims in the state, he is the CM of all. This language of the CM lacks dignity,” he said. “He should seek an apology from the people for this,” Pandey said. UP Congress media cell convenor Lalan Kumar said, “We don’t have any comments on his mosque statement.” But he credited the then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi for opening the locks on the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid. Referring to the ruling BJP, the Congress spokesperson said, “They play politics of fake Hindutva. The Congress has always talked about whatever is in the interest of people. “Lord Ram is everyone’s, but the BJP wants to show that Ram is theirs alone,” he added. Yogi Adityanath had attended the groundbreaking ceremony Wednesday for a Ram temple in Ayodhya, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the main guest. Last November, the Supreme Court had settled the Ayodhya land dispute, allowing the construction of the temple at Ram Janmabhoomi by a trust. The apex court had also ordered the allocation of a five-acre plot of land elsewhere in Ayodhya for the construction of a mosque, in place of the Babri Masjid which was demolished by ‘kar sevaks’ in 1992. A trust has been formed by the Sunni Waqf Board for building this mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/won-t-attend-mosque-inauguration-says-adityanath-sp-asks-him-to-apologise/story-Yy3sUGFaDaOjVH1QXis51N.html
07-08-2020||Bangalore||Flood-like situation, landslides continue to cause havoc in rain ravaged parts of Karnataka||Flood-like situation and landslides continue to cause havoc in several parts of Karnataka that has been battered by torrential rains. Many places in Malnad, coastal and north interior regions of the state have been affected by deluge, putting life and properties at risk. While most of the rivers in these regions are swollen due to rising inflow because of showers continuing in the catchment areas, there are reports of landslips in hilly regions of Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru. Flood like situation persists in the border regions of Belagavi district, with rising water levels in Krishna river and its tributaries due to rains in ghat areas of Maharashtra and water being released from the dams there. Adding to this, the district too has been receiving rains, inundating low lying areas and crops. In Uttara Kannada and Shivamogga districts also there is similar situation of swollen rivers and inundation of low lying areas. Water is being released from several dams in the state including Alamatti and Kabini by opening the gates as inflow has increased. Tungabhadra dam in Hosapete has reached the brim. There have been reports of mudslides near Botlappa and other places in Kodagu, also along Charmadi ghat near Chikkamagaluru and Dakshina Kannada. District in-charge Minister V Somanna has rushed to Kodagu that has been ravaged by floods and landslides. Cauvery river is overflowing and water has entered Bhagamandala temple and blocked major connecting roads in the district. Search is on by the NDRF team and authorities for five people including the priest at Talacauvery, the origin of river Cauvery, who had gone missing due to massive landslides at Bramhagiri hills on Wednesday night. Bad weather and heavy rain is affecting the operation. Residents living in low lying areas in Kushalnagar in Kodagau are shifting themselves to safer places anticipating flood. Three relief centers are opened in the district so far and people in danger are being shifted there. Heavy rains in Hassan district especially in the Hemavathi river catchment area has led to an increase in water level at the reservoir in Gorur. Also Yagachi reservoir in Belur is receiving heavy inflow due to downpour in Mudigere taluk. Swollen Hemavathi river and rains in the district has caused damage to houses and roads, so people living in low lying areas are being shifted, Hassan district incharge Minister K Gopalaiah said, adding landslides have been reported in Sakleshpur. Revenue Minister R Ashoka had on Thursday said, according to forecast for the next three days, there will be heavy rains in coastal region, moderate and heavy rains in Malnad and north interior Karnataka, and normal rains in south interior parts of the state. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who has released Rs 50 crore for emergency relief, has announced Rs 10,000 as immediate relief to affected families, Rs 5 lakhs to completely damaged houses and in case of partially damaged, relief will be distributed considering the extent of damage. The Chief Minister has also directed the district in- charge Ministers to take precautionary measures in the wake of heavy rainfall across the state and instructed them to remain in their districts and tour the damaged areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/flood-like-situation-landslides-continue-to-cause-havoc-in-rain-ravaged-parts-of-karnataka/story-S7WkHhVjzcMe41oAIXAttO.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||8.64 lakh people registered with Delhi govt’s ‘Rozgar Bazaar’ job portal: Gopal Rai||Delhi Employment Minister Gopal Rai said on Friday that 8.64 lakh job aspirants have registered with the government’s ‘Rozgar Bazaar’ job portal which has set up a “new model of employment” in the national capital.Addressing a press conference, Rai said there were currently nine lakh vacancies available on the portal, where 6,271 companies, including Flipkart, Amazon and HDFC Bank have made registrations.The minister said around 22 lakh vacancies had been posted by employers at the job portal so far, out of which 3.5 lakh were cancelled by the department during scrutiny due to doubling or other reasons.“So far, around 10 lakh vacancies have been closed by companies after they initiated or completed the process of hiring candidates,” he said. “The Delhi government’s job portal has set up a new model of employment in Delhi.” Rai, who is also the labour minister, said the AAP dispensation would soon launch a poster campaign to inform more job aspirants about ‘Rozgar Bazaar’. He underlined that the government was providing a common platform where job seekers and employers could meet their requirements.The minister said there was no charge for this service and appealed to job aspirants to not pay money to those who promised to get them registered at the portal and jobs.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had launched the job portal on July 27 and appealed to the traders, industrialists and people to join hands to revive Delhi’s economy.Kejriwal had highlighted that many people had lost their jobs and businesses were affected due to the novel coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/8-64-lakh-people-registered-with-delhi-govt-s-rozgar-bazaar-job-portal-gopal-rai/story-AW2bDHgQRFSzgeW7elqXXN.html
07-08-2020||Noida||Drones banned in Noida for 2 days ahead of CM Adityanath’s Saturday visit||No drone cameras will be allowed to operate in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar for two days starting Friday in view of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s visit on Saturday, police said.Security has been intensified and local authorities have also ramped up preparations for the chief minister’s visit during which he is expected to review the Covid-19 situation in the district, according to officials.CrPC Section 144, which bars assembly of more than four people at a place, is already enforced in Gautam Buddh Nagar, which has recorded 5,748 positive cases of Covid-19 including 43 deaths till Thursday, according to official figures.“In view of the chief minister’s tour of the district and using powers under CrPC section 144, I order that operation of drone cameras would be totally prohibited in Gautam Buddh Nagar on August 7 and 8,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Ashutosh Dwivedi, said in an order.He said violation of the order would be a punishable offence under IPC section 188 (disobedience of an order duly promulgated by a government official).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/drones-banned-in-noida-for-2-days-ahead-of-cm-adityanath-s-saturday-visit/story-TJNU2zsOON2iqEKEvqIf7L.html
07-08-2020||Lucknow||Army Chief reviews readiness at Tezpur, to visit Lucknow central command HQ||Chief of Army Staff, General MM Naravane arrived in Tezpur on Thursday for a two-day visit of Army formations in Tezpur and Lucknow.At the Gajraj Corps HQ in Tezpur, Lieutenant General Anil Chauhan, the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Command briefed the COAS on various operational and administrative aspects, the Army said.The COAS interacted with all the Corps Commanders of Eastern Command and reviewed the prevailing security situation and operational preparedness in the Eastern Theatre.The COAS was appreciative of the efforts by our soldiers in safeguarding the territorial integrity of the Nation and encouraged all ranks to keep up the high state of alertness and professionalism displayed by them. Today, the COAS is scheduled to arrive at Lucknow to visit HQ Central Command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/army-chief-reviews-readiness-at-tezpur-to-visit-lucknow-central-command-hq/story-OpmOeFVCZv4vtY56A8uVfN.html
07-08-2020||Lucknow||UP Speaker seeks support to ensure compliance of Covid-19 protocol during upcoming Assembly session||Uttar Pradesh Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit on Thursday sought the support of all political parties to ensure compliance of Covid-19 protocol during the upcoming session.“We have to ensure that during the session, scheduled to be held soon because of Constitutional obligations, Covid- 19 protocol was strictly followed, “the Speaker who convened an all party meeting said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHe said the only other state to have convened a session during these trying times was Madhya Pradesh.Seeking the support of leaders of all parties, he asked them to convey to their members that during such trying times the session can be held only with their cooperation.Among those who participated in the all party meeting were Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Khanna, Rakesh Pratap Singh of Samajwadi Party and BSP legislature party leader Lalji Verma among others.The meeting also discussed the seating arrangements to maintain social distancing, sanitization and use of masks during the session.The Uttar Pradesh Assembly is scheduled to hold its next session on August 20.“Governor Anandiben Patel has summoned the session of 17th Vidhan Sabha at 11 am on August 20. This will be the second session of the year,” Vidhan Sabha’s Principal Secretary P K Dubey had recently stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-speaker-seeks-support-to-ensure-compliance-of-covid-19-protocol-during-upcoming-assembly-session/story-2TlShMP7QjjcsVx0GunTQP.html
07-08-2020||Pune||5 including two dismissed ‘cops’ loot jewellery shop in Pune district||Five unidentified people, including two suspected dismissed policemen who had escaped from a jail in Jalgaon, allegedly looted a jewellery shop near here on Thursday evening and fired a gunshot inside the outlet before fleeing, police said.The incident took place at Balaji Jewellers near Kapurhol village in the Khed Shivapur area of Pune district in western Maharashtra, they said.Police have recovered CCTV footage which showed two men in police uniforms and three other unidentified persons committing the crime, an official said.“Prima facie, it appears the two policemen in uniforms are dismissed policemen from Jalgaon, one of them an officer, who were in jail for some offence and escaped recently,” said Sandip Patil, Superintendent of Police.The five entered the shop on the pretext of carrying out an investigation into a case of stolen gold ornaments, he said.“While the robbers were leaving the shop with gold ornaments, the owner tried to resist, but one of them fired on the counter and left the shop,” he said.It is yet to be ascertained how much gold ornaments have been looted, the SP said.“We have formed teams and set up nakabandis (roadblocks) to trace the robbers,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/5-including-two-dismissed-cops-loot-jewellery-shop-in-pune-district/story-BWKjPGnhPJaZttzu5QdWkL.html
07-08-2020||Kolkata||BHEL begins civil works at 660-MW Sagardighi power plant in West Bengal||State-owned engineering firm BHEL on Friday said it has commenced civil works at 660-MW Sagardighi supercritical thermal power project in West Bengal. Following the strategic completion of pre-engineering activities for the project beforehand, ground breaking has begun on zero date itself, a BHEL statement said. This is a major achievement as conventionally it takes a few months after the zero date to initiate civil works on-site, the company said. Valued at approximately Rs 3,500 crore, the turnkey order for Sagardighi Thermal Power Project Extension Unit-5 was won by BHEL against stiff international competitive bidding. The order for the project located at Manigram village in Murshidabad district of West Bengal was placed on BHEL by West Bengal Power Development Corporation (WBPDCL). The notice to proceed was issued after obtaining the necessary approvals like environmental clearances. BHEL’s scope of work in the project includes design, engineering, manufacture, supply, erection, testing and commissioning of the main plant turnkey package, the statement said. The package comprises supercritical boiler and turbine generator along with its auxiliaries, electricals, controls and instrumentation, switchyard, flue gas desulphurisation (FGD) and selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems, coal handling plant and ash handling plant. The key equipment for the project will be manufactured at BHEL’s Trichy, Haridwar, Bhopal, Ranipet, Hyderabad, Jhansi, Thirumayam and Bengaluru plants, while the company’s Power Sector - Eastern Region division will be responsible for construction and installation activities on site. The Sagardighi thermal power station is already equipped with two sets of 500 MW installed by BHEL in 2016. BHEL has so far contributed over 80 per cent of the total coal-based generating capacity of WBPDCL. In addition to Sagardighi, BHEL has executed projects at Bakreswar (5x210 MW), Kolaghat TPS (6x210 MW), Bandel TPS (1x210 MW) and Santaldih TPS (4x120 MW + 2x250 MW) for WBPDCL. The BHEL-installed units are running successfully and form the backbone of electricity generation in the state of West Bengal. BHEL is India’s largest manufacturer of power generation equipment with an installed base of over 1,90,000 MW of power plant equipment globally. The company has contracted 58 sets of supercritical boilers and 53 sets of supercritical turbine generators, ordered on it by various customers, in domestic as well as overseas markets. In the supercritical segment, BHEL has successfully manufactured and executed 660 MW, 700 MW and 800 MW sets, thereby demonstrating its leadership status and technological prowess.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bhel-begins-civil-works-at-660-mw-sagardighi-power-plant-in-west-bengal/story-fNUkaqYCqENq1UopTwwffO.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Harcharan Bains appointed principal adviser to SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal||Chandigarh: Freelance journalist and political ideologue Harcharan Bains has been appointed principal adviser to Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal. In a statement in Chandigarh on Friday, Badal said, “Bains will have overriding powers to create and implement the perception management strategies on the policies, programmes and profile of the party. He will be accountable only to the president.” Bains has also been made a permanent invitee to all top decision-making bodies of the party, including the core committee, in an advisory capacity, the statement said. Bains has been a confidant of five-time former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal. Though a secular moderate, he is known to be a votary of the independent Panthic identity of the party and has reservations on several aspects of SAD ally BJP’s ideology. Bains said his first task is to expose the deep-rooted conspiracy by anti-Sikh forces to sow seeds of suspicion in the minds of the masses against their religious and political institutions, headed by Akal Takht, and including the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee and the SAD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/harcharan-bains-appointed-principal-adviser-to-sad-chief-sukhbir-singh-badal/story-7DibbMAQgLYafQNsxst50M.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal launches electric vehicle policy, calls it ‘most progressive’||The Delhi government aims to boost the economy and reduce pollution level in the national capital, recognised as one of the world’s most polluted cities, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday as he rolled out his government’s electric vehicle policy.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said his government studied the electric vehicle policies across the world and consulted experts in the country to come up with the policy to offer subsidies and waive road tax and registration fee for electric vehicles.“We have issued a notification for the electric vehicle policy today… This electric vehicle policy is the country’s most progressive policy and most probably is one of the good policies in the entire world,” Arvind Kejriwal said in a press conference.“The policy has two objectives. First, to boost Delhi’s economy after the coronavirus pandemic. Second, to significantly reduce the pollution level and contribute to sustainable development,” Kejriwal added.The policy would help generate jobs in large numbers – driving, selling, financing, charging points, etc, he added.The Delhi government, he said, would introduce financial incentives for people buying e-vehicles. For two-wheelers, auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and freight vehicles, there will be incentives up to Rs 30,000 and for cars, it will up to Rs 150,000. “These incentives are over and above already existing incentives for e-vehicles under the central government,” he said.The Delhi government will also provide a scrapping incentive, the first in the country, for replacing the fuel-based vehicle with e-vehicle. Interest on loans for the purchase of e-vehicles for commercial activities will be waived and e-vehicles will be exempted from registration fees and road tax, he said.Kejriwal said the electric vehicle policy will be valid for three years and will be reviewed from time to time. A state electric vehicle (EV) fund will be set up to bear all expenses related to the policy and an EV board will be set up which will be chaired by the state transport minister.“An EV cell will be set up to ensure implementation of the policy…We hope, in the next five years, five lakh new e-vehicles will be registered in Delhi.”The Delhi cabinet had approved the Delhi Electric Vehicle (EV) Policy, 2019, last year with an aim to reduce air pollution by offering subsidies and waiving road tax and registration fee for electric vehicles bought in the national capital. Delhi has 83,730 electric vehicles out of over 11 million vehicles registered in the city. Of the 83,730 registered EVs, a mammoth 75,567 are e-rickshaws. There are only 908 private electric cars and 3,703 e-two-wheelers in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-launches-electric-vehicle-policy-calls-it-most-progressive/story-TdruermDOf7hGMKKWZnUbP.html
07-08-2020||Ranchi||Three more die of Covid-19 in Jharkhand, 626 new cases||Ranchi, Aug 6 (PTI) Three more persons died of Covid- 19 in Jharkhand on Thursday, taking the toll in the state to 145, the health department said.As many as 626 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported, pushing the tally to 15,756, it said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageJharkhand currently has 9,017 active cases, while 6,594 have recovered from the disease, the department said in its bulletin.The mortality rate in the state stands at 0.92 per cent, and the recovery rate at 41.85 per cent.A total of 3,70,515 swab samples have been sent for Covid-19 examination so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/three-more-die-of-covid-19-in-jharkhand-626-new-cases/story-CvcwHXlLVT87d4v61XDqSJ.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal BJP chief in home quarantine after state power minister tests positive for Covid-19||Dharamshala: Himachal Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Suresh Kashyap on Friday went into self quarantine as a precautionary measure after state power minister Sukhram Chaudhary with whom he had visited Nahan recently tested positive for Covid-19. It is a precautionary measure despite testing negative for Covid-19, a party spokesperson said. “By the grace of God my Covid-19 report is negative. Still, I have decided to remain in home quarantine. I apologise if I have caused inconvenience to anyone,” Kashyap wrote in a Facebook post. His staff is also quarantined. Kashyap arrived in Dharamshala on Thursday and was scheduled to convene a meeting of the Dehra block unit of the party on Friday. He had met senior party leaders Prem Kumar Dhumal, Shanta Kumar and former state party chief Satpal Singh Satti while on the way to Dharamshala. LONG LIST OF CONTACTS Sukhram Chaudhary, his two daughters and a personal security officer had tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Chaudhary shared the news on social media and urged people who came in his direct contact to quarantine themselves and get tested. The Shimla district authorities sealed his government residence and started contact tracing. Chaudhary was inducted in the state cabinet on July 30 along with two other MLAs Rakesh Pathania and Rajinder Garg. He addressed a press meet along with chief minister Jairam Thakur and two newly appointed ministers the same day and later attended the cabinet meeting. The next day, he toured Nahan and was accompanied by state BJP chief Kashyap and food and civil supplies corporation vice-chairman Baldev Tomar. Former party chief and Nahan MLA Rajeev Bindal, marketing board chairman Baldev Bhandari and Pachhad MLA Reena Kashyap also attended the programmes organised by party workers to welcome Chaudhary. Sirmaur district BJP president Vinay Gupta accompanied the minister to Paonta Sahib, his home constituency, on August 1. Gupta and Bhandari have quarantined themselves. Chaudhary’s contact list may be long as several programmes were held to welcome him in Solan and Sirmour after his swearing-in. Chaudhary is undergoing treatment at Deendayal Upadhyay Hospital, Shimla, while his daughters have been shifted to the Covid-care centre at Mashobra. SHIMLA SP’S OFFICE CLOSED FOR SANITISATION The office of the Shimla superintendent of police (SP) was closed for sanitisation on Friday, police said. In a Facebook post, Shimla police said that a police personnel who visited the SP office on Wednesday had tested positive for Covid-19 the next day. So, the SP office will remain closed on Friday for sanitisation, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-bjp-chief-in-home-quarantine-after-state-power-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-V4QsnjROANv7L9vb5zV7kO.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM meets family members of hooch tragedy victims, hikes ex gratia to Rs 5 lakh; toll rises to 121||Tarn Taran: Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh met family members of the victims of Punjab’s worst hooch tragedy on Friday and announced an increase in ex gratia relief from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh for each of victim’s next of kin. Accompanied by state Congress president Sunil Jakhar, chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar and director general of police Dinkar Gupta, Capt Amarinder Singh interacted with family members of the hooch victims at Tarn Taran’s Sri Guru Arjan Dev Sports Stadium while maintaining social distancing in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. This was his first field visit since the coronavirus outbreak. The chief minister said that perpetrators of this heinous crime would not be spared at any cost and strict action would be taken. He announced that those victims who had lost their sight in the tragedy would also get financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh. Handing over a cheque for Rs 2.92 crore for the 92 victim families of Tarn Taran district to the deputy commissioner, the chief minister said that anyone however affluent but responsible for this crime would not be spared. He said the toll in the tragedy has risen to 121 with 92 deaths in Tarn Taran, 14 in Amritsar district and 15 in Batala. ‘NO LENIENCY FOR UNPARDONABLE ACT’ Describing the deaths as murder, he said, “The perpetrators deserve no leniency since this is a man-made tragedy. To ensure the culprits get exemplary punishment, special prosecution teams will be deputed to pursue the cases and the properties of those responsible for this unpardonable act will be confiscated.” He reiterated his government’s commitment to stand by the victim families in this hour of grief by extending a helping hand in providing jobs, education and other social security benefits to them. In his address, Sunil Jakhar said that this tragedy was the outcome of criminal negligence and merits exemplary punishment to the perpetrators of this crime. Prominent among those present were Khadoor Sahib Lok Sabha MP Jasbir Singh Gill (Dimpa), state mining minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Punjab State Warehousing Corporation chairman and MLA Raj Kumar Verka, and Tarn Taran deputy commissioner Kulwant Singh. Meanwhile, workers of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal protested against the state government alleging a political-mafia nexus. They were to protest outside the stadium but were stopped a kilometre away at Chabhal bypass by the police. The protesters demanded action against Congress MLAs representing constituencies from where the hooch deaths were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-meets-family-members-of-hooch-tragedy-victims-hikes-ex-gratia-to-5-lakh-toll-rises-to-121/story-xkDO1CT5dBROpBtkP8yc5O.html
07-08-2020||Bangalore||Chief priest, four others of Coorg temple missing as rains flood Karnataka||At least five people, including the chief priest of the Talacauvery temple in Kodagu district of Karnataka, are missing after heavy rainfall caused landslides in the Brahmagiri hills adjoining the temple. The coastal, northern and Malnad areas of the state received heavy rainfall on Thursday. Talacauvery, marked by a small pond and a temple, is said to be the birthplace of River Cauvery. The chief priest Narayana Achar, his wife, elder brother, and two assistant priests are feared to have been swept away or buried under the debris, following the landslides. According to district officials, rainfall of 486 mm was reported at Bhagamandala in 24 hours between August 5 and 6, as recorded by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Chief minister Yediyurappa said that ₹50 crore has been released for rescue and relief measures. Both Cauvery and Lakshma Teertha rivers in Kodagu were in spate, marooning several villages and hampering relief operations. Northern Karnataka districts of Hubli, Dharwad, Belgavi and coastal districts of Udupi, Mangalore, Karwar were also flooded. A red alert continues in several districts. Congress’s Siddaramiah tweeted, “There is heavy downpour in various parts of Karnataka, disrupting livelihoods of many people. Government has failed to come to their rescue. Do we even have an existing government?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/chief-priest-four-others-of-coorg-temple-missing-as-rains-flood-karnataka/story-82KZEkcOB9rnJQbaIMFEjJ.html
07-08-2020||Patna||58-year-old Patna family court judge dies of Covid-19||Patna family court principal judge Harishchandra Srivastava succumbed while being treated for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna in Patna, an official said.He was 58 years old.This is the first death in the judiciary across the state from the virus.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage Srivastava was hospitalised on Wednesday, Bihar Judicial Services Association Secretary Ajit Kumar Singh told ANI stating that “it is a big loss and painful for us”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/58-year-old-patna-family-court-judge-dies-of-covid-19/story-HbPZPdqqzHJyGx6vraYK1K.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||Sadia, the ultimate Delhi wali||“I want to be buried here,” said Sadia Dehlvi, the author of Sufism: The Heart of Islam, The Sufi Courtyard: Dargahs of Delhi and Jasmine & Jinns: Memories and Recipes of My Delhi. On that early morning, she was walking around Nizamuddin Chilla, the serene retreat of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya, just behind Humayun’s Tomb, in central Delhi. Here, the city’s iconic 14th century Sufi saint lived, meditated, and died. Ms Dehlvi would often walk over to this calmly place from her garden-facing apartment in nearby Nizamuddin East.This is an account that unfolded a few years ago, before Ms Dehlvi was diagnosed with cancer. She died on Wednesday night after a long, brave struggle with the illness, aged 63.But that morning, Ms Dehlvi was full of life and plans — as always. Standing amid the shrine’s little graveyard, she said, “It is with the mitti (earth) of Delhi that I wish my remains to mingle with.” Her family has been living in the city for centuries. The name Dehlvi literally means “someone from Delhi”. For many years she lived in a sprawling mansion on Sardar Patel Marg. Hers was one of the first Old Delhi families to have a large establishment in New Delhi. Ms Dehlvi’s father and grandfather were publishers of the influential film and literary Urdu journal Shama. “Throughout my childhood I saw actors, writers and poets coming in and out of the house, and my grandfather loved hosting receptions for them.” In the evening, the house at SP Marg regularly hosted cultural soirées. It became an institution and was known as Shama Kothi. In the 1990s, the magazine had to close because of a dwindling Urdu readership.A few years later, a family crisis forced the Dehlvis to sell the house. The buyer happened to be Mayawati, the leader of the Bahujan Samaj Party. Shama Kothi became BSP House. Ms Dehlvi moved to Nizamuddin East.The fabled Shama Kothi had 40 rooms, 15 members of an extended family and 25 retainers. At the new apartment in Nizamuddin East, where Ms Dehlvi’s son lived with her, she had four rooms and two household assistants. “For me, this move was a hijr, a symbolic migration where one encounters physical and emotional displacement that brings suffering. The pain purifies the soul, triggering an inner change that connects you with the truth, with God. And truth is…” By then Ms Dehlvi was no longer audible. She had walked ahead, eagerly looking at the tombs and reading the inscriptions. Some graves had potted plants. One had marigold flowers growing out of it. Another was covered with grass.Ms Dehlvi’s son, Arman, is a musician. It was almost a tradition for both mother and son to invite friends almost every evening to their second-floor flat, whose roof faced Humayun’s Tomb. While Arman would render Sufi songs or play the tabla, Ms Dehlvi talked politics, passionately argued about new books, played qawwalis on YouTube, and shared stories about Delhi so vividly as if the city were her some stubborn eccentric maddening, but ultimately loveable, aunt. The entire evening would unfold in her book-lined drawing room, whose walls were decked with beautiful original works of art by eminent South Asian painters. The generous hostess laughed easily. The evenings usually ended with the dinner cooked by Ms Dehlvi herself with help from Sabir Bhai, her longtime cook. Although aloo salan and dal maash remained the favourite with friends, sometimes they were surprised with the unexpected—such as baked fish, Italian style, or very rich French onion soup. Indeed, her house was famous for not letting anyone—no matter who, friend or not—leave without being treated to a nice satisfying meal.After her sprawling family house was sold, Ms Dehlvi confesses she found herself unable to write, even though she had been a columnist for newspapers for decades. “The collapse of our legacy was soul-crushing.” A couple of years later after the move, Ms Dehlvi began to work on her book on Sufism. In 2009, it was released by her mentor, author Khushwant Singh, who himself had written a lot on her. “Researching the lives of the Sufis and reading Islamic philosophy helped me understand that pain is a gift from God. I started seeing myself as being blessed and not cursed,” she said, sifting absentmindedly beside a grave.Later, while between a jumble of tombstones, she stopped suddenly and said: “Another reason why I want to be buried here in the Chilla is because it is close to my home. Hopefully, my son will find it easier to visit me more often.” And she added with a laugh, “Also, it’s more important to have a good neighbour in death than in life.” She was referring to her beloved Hazrat Nizamuddin.But then Ms Dehlvi’s mobile rang. “Oh, I must head back. There’s a cricket match on TV today.”Ms Dehlvi was buried in the Shidipura graveyard on Thursday morning. Thursday was always a special day for her. If there had been no coronavirus pandemic, and Ms Dehlvi had been alive and healthy, she would most certainly have gone to Hazrat Nizamuddin’s Sufi shrine to offer her Thursday night prayers. She is survived by mother, Zeenat, brother, Vaseem, his wife, Himani, son, Arman, and his wife, Maliha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sadia-the-ultimate-delhi-wali/story-KXjh39It8ibPkucUoWc9ZP.html
07-08-2020||Education||Mumbai University first merit list out: Self-financed degree courses top choice, check cutoff for prominent colleges||The University of Mumbai’s first merit list for undergraduate degree courses was released on Thursday, with many colleges seeing a spike in cut-offs for science, arts and commerce. Unaided self-financed courses remain a favourite of applicants. Students allotted seats in the first merit list have from August 6 to August 11 to complete their admission process. To confirm admission, a candidate must submit all necessary documents online along with a copy of the pre-registration form to the college and their college fees. The second merit list will be released on August 11 at 7pm. A mixed response for BAThis year, some of the top arts colleges retained high cut-offs. The cut-off for BA at St Xavier’s College is 92% for HSC students and 98.60% for other boards. Mithibai College closed its first list at 96%. Compared to 93% in 2019, this year the cut-off at KC College is 96% and Ramnarain Ruia College ended the first merit list on 95.6% compared to 95% last year.At Wilson College, the cut-off is 93.6%, seven percentage points higher than 2019. “Cut-offs for almost all courses have gone up or remained similar to 2019. Despite Covid-19, students want to study in Mumbai. We got applications from many outstation students and the competition seems to be as fierce as 2019,” said Rajendra Shinde, principal, St Xavier’s College.Surprisingly, DG Ruparel College saw a lower cut-off than last year. The BA cut-off at Ruparel College is 88.6% this year, compared to 2019’s 98%. “One reason is that we increased the intake for BA. We are also seeing a slight dip in the applications because of the Covid-19 situation as many students are in their hometown and unsure about moving back to Mumbai, at least for this academic year,” said Tushar Desai, principal, DG Ruparel College.“One reason is that we have increased the intake for BA from this year so we are accommodating more students this year. We are also seeing a slight dip in number of applications, which could be because of the ongoing Covid-19 situation as many students are back in their hometown and unsure about moving back to Mumbai, at least for the current academic year,” said Tushar Desai, principal, DG Ruparel College. Unaided courses attract top scorers: Once again, unaided courses like bachelors in management studies (BMS), bachelors in accounting and finance (BAF), bachelors in banking and insurance (BBI), bachelors in mass media (BMM) as well as bachelors in financial markets (BFM) remain favourites among students. Most top colleges recorded a slight rise in cut-offs for courses like BFM and BBI this year. “Unaided courses invariably attract more students because students still feel they have better job opportunities after such courses. Arts students, however, are moving more towards the traditional course over unaided courses,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal, KC College. This year, the cut-off for BMS at Jai Hind College in Churchgate is 96.2% for commerce, slightly higher than last year’s 94.6%. For science stream, the BMS cut-off is 93.4%, compared to 89.8% last year. The cut-off for arts dipped by two percentage points. Commerce and science attract more studentsTraditional courses like bachelor of science (BSc) and bachelor of science in information technology (BSc-IT) or computer science (BSc-CS) have received more applications this year across several colleges. “Overall, the university has received 25% more student registrations this year compared to last and this could be because of the uncertainty over admissions to professional courses. Many students must have blocked seats in traditional courses until they bag a seat in the course and institute of their choice. There’s a chance that more seats will go vacant once admissions to professional courses commence,” said Bagla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-s-first-merit-list-out-self-financed-degree-coursestop-choice/story-CBzftWyWlF9UlCap14TXZJ.html
07-08-2020||City||Police in Maharashtra did not permit Ram Mandir celebration: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday alleged that the state police, in a crack down against its party workers on Wednesday, prevented them from celebrating the Ram Mandir bhoomipujan at some places, while at others, party members were not allowed to celebrate at all. The BJP claims it asked party workers to mark the celebrations keeping in mind Covid-19 norms. “By taking action against party workers who were peacefully celebrating the bhoomipujan of Shri Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government brought alive the tyrannical Mughal rule in the state,’’ said BJP’s chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhyay. In a press conference, Upadhyay alleged that in Pimpri Chinchwad, the police stopped the distribution of 10 lakh ladoos planned by party workers, while in Vidarbha, the members were threatened with a police case if the celebrations continued. At Baramati, Indapur and Saswad, the celebrations were not allowed at all, he claimed. “These incidents have exposed the true nature of Shiv Sena, which said it has not given up on Hindutva despite an alliance with Congress,’’ he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-in-maharashtra-did-not-permit-ram-mandir-celebration-bjp/story-gmom0NBAEhKT1lSmeMrArK.html
07-08-2020||City||Navi Mumbai woman held for posting Maharashtra CM’s morphed pic on social media, abusing his minister son||City Cyber police arrested a 38-year-old woman for allegedly abusing chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and his son and state minister Aaditya Thackeray on social media. The woman also shared a morphed photo of the CM. The police booked her for promoting enmity between different groups and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony, defamation and other charges under the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A local court granted her bail on Thursday. “The Navi Mumbai resident was arrested on Thursday,” said Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (Cyber), Mumbai Police crime branch.The woman was arrested based on a complaint filed by advocate Dharmendra Mishra, who is also associated with Shiv Sena, as the party’s legal consultant.In the first information report, a copy of which is with HT, Mishra alleged that the woman, through several of her tweets, on July 25 and July 28 hurled abuses on the CM and Aaditya Thackeray. She also made objectionable comments on them.“The woman in her Twitter bio describes herself as core committee member of @Bharat_niti which is linked to BJP’s [Bharatiya Janata Party] IT [information technology] cell. Her abusive and objectionable posts on Twitter not only undermines the diginity of chief minister’s post, but also promotes enmity in religious groups. This is a perfect example of blatant misuse of freedom of speech,” Mishra tweeted.Last month, the VP Road police booked Nagpur businessman for allegedly abusing CM and defaming Aaditya Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-woman-held-for-posting-maharashtra-cm-s-morphed-pic-on-social-media-abusing-his-minister-son/story-25udJwxe6NlaRQZiOy0XUN.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||Rain brings Mumbai to halt||Two people, one of them a railways employee, died of electrocution amid the record rain that slammed the city, according to officials.Shambhu Soni, 38, a resident of Anand Nagar in Dahisar (East), was electrocuted by a short circuit at 9.46am on Wednesday and he was rushed to Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar hospital in Kandivli, where he was declared brought dead. A railway employee identified by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as Sanjeev, 22, was electrocuted to death while on duty near Masjid Bunder railway station on Wednesday. Officials said the tracks at the station were submerged under 1.5 feet of water , following which Kumar got into the waterlogged area to inspect a pump placed by BMC. He was declared dead at the hospital.The exceptionally heavy rain of 331.2mm rain in 24 hours, accompanied by chaotic winds ranging from 70-80kmph, between Wednesday and Thursday not only broke the record for this season, but was the highest monsoon rain record for south Mumbai in 46 years and second-highest all-time rain record during monsoon, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. The highest all-time record was on July 5, 1974 with 575.6 mm rain in 24 hours. The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 331.2 mm (exceptionally heavy) rain between 8.30am Wednesday and 8.30am Thursday. This was also the all-time high one-day rain in August. Over the past 72 hours (August 3, 8.30am to August 6, 8.30am), Mumbai saw its heaviest rain spell this season with the island city recording 637.2mm rain in south Mumbai and 505.2 mm rain in the suburbs.On Thursday, part of the second floor in a ground-plus-four-storey structure in Dadar collapsed afternoon. The incident was reported at 12.30 pm, no injuries were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rain-brings-mumbai-to-halt/story-xMRjh0YkKFu6sj3OD2LHYM.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Politics over hooch tragedy: Punjab ministers want Bajwa, Dullo out; MPs stay defiant||The internal war in the ruling Congress escalated on Thursday with all Punjab cabinet ministers demanding immediate expulsion of Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo for ‘anti-party and anti-government activities’. The move came two days after both MPs submitted a letter to the governor, seeking CBI and ED probes into the state’s worst hooch tragedy that has claimed 113 lives. The ministers said the ‘gross indiscipline’ by two MPs call for immediate action by the party high command as the duo “bypassed all party and government forums’ to attack their own government. Both MPs, however, rejected the allegations and refused to back down. The cabinet ministers, who issued a joint statement here, said: “Indiscipline could not be tolerated at any time, least of all when the assembly elections in the state are less than two years way.” They further said the two MPs had never, in their Rajya Sabha term, bothered to raise any issue of the interest of the state they represent, including related to completion of the ED probe into the drugs issue, anti-farm ordinances and the CBI’s failure to probe the sacrilege cases. Accusing the duo of undermining the state police force, the ministers said a CBI probe was needed only if the police failed to deliver, which was definitely not the case at present. They said both MPs had rendered themselves useless, and were of no value to the party, and needed to be shunted out without delay. BAJWA, DULLO HIT BACK Dismissing the ministers’ demand, Bajwa and Dullo called it an afterthought. “If the performance of the party can’t be criticised even if the government is working against the interest of the public which has reposed faith in the party and elected them to power, then this is against the principles of democracy,” the duo said in a joint statement. On the ministers’ charge regarding not raising the ED case, Bajwa said, “It appears that Capt Amarinder Singh has started suffering from dementia and has forgotten that it was he who had supported the Badals and not us. During Bajwa’s tenure as the PPCC president, it was Amarinder who had been opposing and criticising not only the PPCC but also the party high command,” they claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/politics-over-hooch-tragedy-punjab-ministers-want-bajwa-dullo-out-mps-stay-defiant/story-4wN5qo9VaBWWMvylAtWzkJ.html
07-08-2020||City||Artist duo sculpt eco-friendly cow dung Ganesha idols||Two artists, from Thane and Pune, who lost their jobs due to the Covid-19 lockdown, have now come together to sculpt eco-friendly Ganesh idols using natural elements like cow dung, rose water and sandalwood.Naresh Nagpure, a Thane resident, and his friend Jayendra Gholap from Pune, both 28-year-old art directors, lost their jobs at different agencies recently. Hoping to use their free time productively, the two decided to use their talents for environmental causes and have started creating eco-friendly idols for devotees.“During the lockdown, people were not keen on giving artists work. We were running out of clients, and I lost my job. We decided to take it positively, and during one of our conversations, Gholap and I came up with this idea to use cow dung to create environment-friendly Ganesha idols. It was the thirst to look for a unique element that prompted us to make use of cow dung, which is also considered holy and pure,” said Nagpure, resident of Panchpakhadi, Thane. These idols, they say, will be easy to immerse at home, and people can avoid immersion sites during the ongoing pandemic. Working from a studio they set up in Pune, Nagpure and Gholap have made over 35 idols using a mix of cow dung powder, rose water and sandalwood. They have set up a studio in Pune for sculpting the idols.The idols are priced at around ₹3,000 and are available for sale online. Since July 5, within they have managed to get orders for more than 35 idols within Pune and Thane.The duo initially tried making the idols from cow dung they sourced from a local cow shed. However, it was not strong enough, so they made use of dung powder instead.“We did a lot of research and found out that powdered cow dung is used to make eco-friendly products. We then sourced powdered cow dung from Nagpur, Nashik, and Madhya Pradesh, which was easier to shape into idols,” said Nagpure.Buyers receive a tulsi sapling with each idol. On the day of immersion, the idol can be immersed in a bucket of water at home. By the next morning, it would have dissolved completely and turned into manure, which can be used for the tulsi sapling.“Those who are keen on immersing the idol in any water body can do so, and it will not harm the environment in any way. As we are getting a good response, we will work on improving the design and having eco-friendly colours for the idols from next year,” said Gholap.One of the customers who placed an order for the idol, Shanti Lele, 46, resident of Naupada, said, “I was initially very sceptical about the concept. I was looking for eco-friendly idols, and after looking at the pictures they provided, I found it to be a unique idea.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/artist-duo-sculpt-eco-friendly-cow-dung-ganesha-idols/story-CzWwrcL7np14AWJyJy4KwK.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||Developer can’t add extra floor without nod of buyers: Maharashtra real estate regulator||In a major judgment, the Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRera) disallowed a builder last week from carrying out the construction of an additional floor for his project at New Panvel without the consent of the buyers who already bought flats in the building.The ruling is significant, as builders over the years modified plans and made additions to their existing constructions without taking the buyers into confidence, leaving the latter helpless, as they were promised a completely different structure.The case was filed by four homebuyers – Deepesh Singh, Sujay Joshi, Nikhil Bare and Vaibhav Ballal – against Ms Neelkanth Constructions, for its Neelkanth Vihar Phase I project at New Panvel.The complainants alleged that despite receiving the possession of their flats, the developer is yet to form the society and allot parking spaces to the occupants.Responding to the complaint, Neelkanth Constructions said it wanted to utilise the unused floor space index (FSI). Accusing the complainants of ulterior motives, Neelkanth Constructions contented that after taking the possession of their flats, the buyers cannot stop it from consuming the FSI of the entire land. The developer said they started the process of forming the society, but the complainants kept obstructing the respondent to extract money from the builder. Hence, the society formation process was stopped. The developer also said that if the complainants do not disrupt the process, it will go ahead with the formation of the society.However, while hearing the case, the state real estate regulator cited section 14 of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA) 2016, which mandated that any modification in the building plans, including the construction of additional floors, required the requisite consent of two-third of the allottees.“With regards to the construction of additional floor to be constructed in the building, MahaRera directs that without the consent of two-third of the allottees, as prescribed under section 14 of the RERA, a respondent would not carry out any construction on site,” MahaRera said in its ruling.According to housing activist Vinod Sampat, a builder loses his/her right of modification after the first apartment is sold.“It is binding on the builder to obtain the consent of the buyer, as the latter has booked [the property] based on the plans given by the developer. Any additional construction would be a burden on the homebuyer, and hence, the consent [of the buyer] is required. Even the extra FSI offered later goes to the kitty of homebuyers,” said Sampat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/developer-can-t-add-extra-floor-without-nod-of-buyers-maharashtra-real-estate-regulator/story-UUiwdRUYGzpeUkIphqooVN.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||As Covid-19 testing increases, positivity rate drops in Mumbai||With the introduction of large-scale antigen testing in Mumbai since the last week of July, the daily average for the number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the city has risen to 7,500. Despite the increase in testing, new cases have consistently remained below 1,000, which in turn has helped bring the city’s positivity rate down to 20.83%, from 21.68% in July. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started its jumbo antigen testing drive on July 25, under which hundreds of frontline workers from the solid waste and police departments are being tested for Covid-19 every day. As of August 4, the civic body has conducted a total of 5,67,031 tests in Mumbai. In the past 12 days, BMC has tested XXXX individuals, using both antigen and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. RT-PCR is considered the gold standard in testing for Covid-19. “On three consecutive days, we have tested more than 10,000 people in Mumbai. We are still trying to increase daily testing numbers. Along with this, we are also using x-ray and CT scan for diagnosis,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. As per data from BMC, on July 27 a record number of 11,643 people were tested. This was the highest number of tests to be conducted in a day since the outbreak reached the city in March. The increased number of tests has not seen a corresponding rise in the number of new cases recorded and the city’s daily Covid tally has remained below 1,000. Even on July 27, 938 new cases of Covid-19 were reported. Experts said this indicates flattening of the pandemic’s curve in Mumbai. “In June, we were testing around 5,000 people daily. A section of the society claimed that due to the same testing number, the cases of new Covid-19 infection also remained constant, below 1,300. But now, even though we have doubled the testing, the new infection rate is below 1,000,” said Dr Shashank Joshi from the state’s Covid task force. As the city and state gradually relax lockdown restrictions as part of Mission Begin Again, civic officials and doctors are relieved to see the number of new cases has plateaued. “Now, our primary target is [people in] residential buildings. We have been given a target of testing 400 people daily with rapid antigen kits. As many Covid care centre (CCC) facilities are closing down, we have decided to start doing antigen tests at home through private labs,” said a civic officer from R (Central) ward, which covers Borivli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/as-covid-19-testing-increases-positivity-rate-drops-in-mumbai/story-YOsXptZqIQ3A36QQjkacuK.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records 910 new Covid cases and 57 deaths||The city reported 57 deaths and 910 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the toll to 6,648, and tally to 120,150. The number of active cases is 20,536; 92,659 patients have recovered so far. Mumbai’s fatality rate due to Covid-19 is 5.5%, and recovery rate is 77.1%. The overall growth rate of Mumbai is 0.87%. D ward (Malabar Hill, parts of Pedder Road, Mahalaxmi, Girgaum) and R-Central ward (Borivli West) have the highest growth rate of 1.4%, with a doubling rate of 50 and 48 days, respectively. Suburban wards of R-South (Kandivli), R-North (Borivli), P-South (Goregaon), and T (Mulund) have a growth rate over 1%, alongside A and B ward in South Mumbai. The G-North ward, that houses Dharavi, has a growth rate of 0.88%, and a doubling rate of 79 days. Mumbai’s doubling rate is 80 days. Dharavi on Thursday reported eight new cases, taking the tally to 2,597, with 82 current active cases. On Wednesday, Dharavi recorded one new case, three on Tuesday, 12 on Monday, 13 on Sunday and four on Saturday. As of Wednesday, Mumbai has conducted 574,919 tests, with a positivity ratio of 20.74%. Mumbai has conducted 44,276 tests per million. There are 619 containment zones in the city, and 5,661 sealed buildings. Of the 57 deaths reported on Thursday, 41 had comorbidity; 37 patients were male and 20 female. Thirty patients were above 60 years of age, 25 patients between 40 and 60 years, and two below 40 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-910-new-cases-and-57-deaths/story-0Y42fWhqfHcn1F7wsmf5QI.html
07-08-2020||City||Thane, Kalyan traders demand shops to be open through the week||Shopkeepers associations in Thane and Kalyan have appealed for shops to be permitted to stay open throughout the week. At present shops in most of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, especially in Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar and Badlapur are allowed to function on odd and even basis. In Mumbai, shops are permitted to open throughout the week from 9am to 7pm since August 3. Rasik Chedda, chairman, Ram Maruti Road Shopkeepers Association, said, “Due to this odd and even concept, we can do business only for 15 days in a month. We remained closed for three months due to strict lockdown enforced here; it has had a deep impact on our business. Like Mumbai, that has been permitted shops to open for all seven days, we also need similar permission, now that the situation is improving.” Shopkeepers have approached Thane municipal commissioner, Dr Vipin Sharma with this request. “We have to ensure that the numbers go down and it is safe to allow shops to remain open all day. We are taking strict measures to ensure crowds do not increase in market areas and the odd and even method is an initiative to ensure fewer crowds in open areas,” said a civic official from Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC).Shopkeepers in Kalyan, Ulhasnagarr, Badlapur and Ambernath are also demanding permission to stay open through the week. Anand Kulkarni, owner of Trupti Fashion outside Kalyan station, said, “We have been supporting the lockdown along with the residents; we understand the importance of such measures. But with increasing expenses of electricity bills and shop rentals, we are finding it difficult to make ends meet. If shops are open on all days, the crowd in front of shops will also lessen.” Ulhasnagar and Badlapur traders claim that with cases decreasing, shops should be permitted to open. Sanjay Chanchlani, Ulhasnagar Shopkeeper and Traders Union, said, “We will ensure social distancing. If a city as busy as Mumbai can allow shops to remain open, why is the same rule not applied in other areas also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-kalyan-traders-demand-shops-to-be-open-through-the-week/story-yn0wlz7sPzh8W0E92wHLgM.html
07-08-2020||City||3 held for driving away Haryana Roadways bus with 30 passengers||Three persons were arrested on Thursday for driving away a Haryana Roadways bus with 30 passengers on board from the Sirsa depot. The bus was about to leave from Sirsa bus stand for Bani via Rania.An alert conductor informed the police, who stopped the bus about 5km away from the bus stand. As per the reports, the bus driver and conductor were away to get a gate pass when the trio took control of the vehicle.The arrested accused are Pardeep and Lajpat of Mahendergarh and Sukhvinder of Sirsa. A probe has been launched in the matter. Sirsa police spokesperson Surjeet Singh said three men boarded the bus around 1.30pm and drove away 10 minutes before the schedule.“A roadways conductor, who was going home in the same bus, informed us following which we intercepted the vehicle and caught the accused. During questioning, Pradeep and Lajpat said they had to visit a village in Sirsa to make some urgent payments. As Sukhvinder was sitting near driver’s seat, they asked him when would the bus start. Sukhvinder told them he was the driver of bus, but he can’t drive as he was unwell. He asked one of them to drive. Sukhvinder is a habitual offender and at least six cases of theft are registered against him,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-held-for-driving-away-haryana-roadways-bus-with-30-passengers/story-mxG1Xs1siTYgLBHxykztoN.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet ministers accuse SAD, AAP of politicising hooch tragedy||Four Punjab cabinet ministers slammed the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) saying they were using the hooch tragedy to toy with the sentiments of the people with an eye on the assembly elections due in 2022. In a joint statement, cabinet ministers Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Sunder Sham Arora and Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the opposition was so busy playing to the gallery that the sufferings of the victims and their families seemed not to have affected them. Referring to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s statement seeking the state government’s dismissal, they said the game plan of the party had been exposed. “It is clear that following the pattern of Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, the Akalis, acting on the directives of their political master – the Bharatiya Janata Party – are trying to destabilise Punjab’s duly elected government,” the ministers said. They said the machinations of the Akalis will not succeed, and they would end up humiliating themselves. Drawing attention to the different hooch tragedies that had taken place under the SAD rule, and were taking place in many states even under BJP-ruled governments, the ministers challenged Sukhbir to come forward with details of the action taken. The ministers also ridiculed the Akalis for making baseless accusations about the complicity of some elected Congress leaders. “Wait for the inquiry to be over. The chief minister has already made it clear that no one involved in the tragedy will be spared,” said the ministers, adding that if the government had gone by mere hearsay and wild allegations, without any investigations (which incidentally are underway), both Sukhbir and his brother-in-law Bikram Singh Majithia would have been behind bars by now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cabinet-ministers-accuse-sad-aap-of-politicising-hooch-tragedy/story-qnReiDP4fFwb2bO0epNvGJ.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Hooch tragedy: Govt finds itself on back foot, Capt’s critics, opposition smell blood||navneetsharma@hindustantimes.com Punjab’s worst hooch tragedy that claimed 113 lives in three border districts has stirred the placid political waters in the state. The Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government, which seemed to be in control after defeating a lackluster opposition in the Lok Sabha elections and the state assembly bypolls last year, finds itself on the back foot like never before. The hooch deaths have not only blemished the image of the state government, leaving its repeated claims of decisive action against illicit liquor in tatters, but also led to a full-blown showdown within the state party. The opposition - Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) - have smelled blood. Both parties, which have been grappling with unsavoury internal squabbles and desertions, are going all-out after the Congress government, directly targeting the chief minister as he holds the home, and excise and taxation portfolios. The AAP and SAD have ratcheted up their attacks and are also competing with each other, statement for statement and protest for protest, to get onto the political centre stage.Providing the opposition parties additional ammunition are the questions raised by Congress Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo who have publicly accused the government of “clear-cut failure” and “maladministration”. Though there have been rumblings of discontent within the government and the state unit in the past, the fierce joint offensive of the former presidents of Punjab Congress, who met the governor on Monday to demand impartial probes by the CBI and ED into the hooch deaths and illegal liquor trade, has the party leadership in the state worried. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar was the first to demand that Bajwa and Dullo, both known Amarinder-baiters, be shown the door for “brazen indiscipline”, claiming their actions were on the pattern of the revolt in the Congress-ruled Rajasthan. On Thursday, all members of the Amarinder cabinet, in a joint statement, also pressed for immediate expulsion of the two MPs for their “anti-party” and “anti-government” activities. Bajwa and Dullo, who were picked for Rajya Sabha in 2016 despite Amarinder’s strong reservations, have refused to back off so far. Professor Ashutosh, head of the political science department, Panjab University, said the hooch tragedy is bad news for the ruling dispensation as it has not just tainted the image of the state government but the opposition parties are also getting adrenalised. “There were also no voices of dissent after (former minister Navjot Singh) Sidhu’s marginalisation and Amarinder was being praised for his government’s handling of the coronavirus crisis, but this tragedy is a setback and is going to be a key issue in the state elections,” he said. Already, there are alarm bells ringing and the state government is in damage-control mode, responding to the dissenters and opposition parties with equal vehemence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooch-tragedy-govt-finds-itself-on-back-foot-capt-s-critics-opposition-smell-blood/story-MANm227OEAK5Z7u62IOK4J.html
07-08-2020||City||Don’t permit Ulhasnagar residents, mandals to immerse Ganpati idols in Kalyan creek: Traffic police to KDMC||The traffic police in Kalyan have requested the civic body to not permit the immersion of Ganpati idols from nearby Ulhasnagar in Kalyan creek. The request was made during a meeting between the traffic police and civic officials on Thursday in a bid to ensure less crowding in the city amid the Covid-19 outbreak as well as to manage the traffic better. Sukhdev Patil, senior traffic police inspector, Kalyan, said, “Each year, huge idols from Ulhasnagar are immersed in Kalyan creek, as there is no facility to immerse big idols in Ulhasnagar. However, this year, as the government is only allowing idols upto 4 feet, all the immersions can take place in Ulhasnagar itself. This will help us to man the traffic situation better in Kalyan.” Around 200 Ganpati idols from Ulhasnagar are brought to Kalyan for immersion. Mandal representatives and residents from Ulhasnagar take the Shahad bridge or the Waldhuni bridge to reach Kalyan. Both these bridges are the main connecters to reach to Kalyan and witness huge congestion, traffic officers from Kalyan said. “The state government directed against allowing any kind of procession in the city. So we will make sure that residents don’t cause crowding anywhere,” said Patil. “We are discussing the proposal made by the traffic police over restrictions on allowing idols from the neighbouring cities to Kalyan for immersions and a decision on the issue will be taken soon,” a civic official, who did not wish to be named, said. Meanwhile, the traffic department also appealed to the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) to ensure that the roads are repaired and also demanded civic officials to put up barricades and dividers wherever necessary to ensure the smooth flow of traffic. “Barricades and dividers are must for the free flow of traffic. From the past one year, we have been following up with the civic body to help us in putting them up, but it has been delayed,” said Patil. The civic official said that barricades can be provided only after the proposal gets approved by the general body. “Also, the roads which need dividers fall under the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) and the traffic police will have to follow up with them,” the official said. The Maharashtra government made it mandatory for all mandals to take prior permission from the local authorities concerned before holding celebrations. The government also capped the maximum idol height at 4 feet as a part of the precautionary measures for celebrations amid the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-permit-ulhasnagar-residents-mandals-to-immerse-ganpati-idols-in-kalyan-creek-traffic-police-to-kdmc/story-yDqWwYtHMpsmvzk0BJ1BiP.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||Fearing dropouts, BMC to provides civic school students with free notebooks||To ensure students from civic schools do not drop out due to lack of learning material, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) education department has decided to distribute notebooks.In a circular issued on Wednesday, the department asked schools to furnish details about its staff who will be available to distribute free notebooks to students. “This year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there is a possibility that some children might drop out. To avoid this, giving them school essentials in time is important. Hence, books should be distributed from August 10,” reads the circular.Usually, students get notebooks after the BMC completes the tendering process, which often gets delayed by four to five months after the new academic year begins in June. This year, however, students will also receive other school essentials like bags, uniforms, stationery, etc, by October, said officials at the education department.“It’s a good thing that students will get these items on time. It will help them study in the current situation, wherein physical classes are not available,” said Prashant Redij of the Mumbai Principals’ Association.In June, the civic body also distributed textbooks to students, which were delivered as part of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan initiative, to ensure that those without internet access can have access to study material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fearing-dropouts-bmc-to-provides-civic-school-students-with-free-notebooks/story-a38xBc3lrSQmrwko0wlGNP.html
07-08-2020||City||Malls to remain shut in Navi Mumbai||While the malls have opened in Mumbai following the state government’s decision to lift restrictions, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has decided to shut them a day after they were allowed to open.Some malls in Navi Mumbai had opened on August 5 but their operations were marred by heavy rains. Later the same evening, NMMC issued an order directing them to shut down.“Malls, multiplexes, theatres, food courts, restaurants and restaurants in malls will not have permission to operate in Navi Mumbai. The decision has been taken after taking into account the Covid pandemic in the city, and the measures being taken to contain it. The situation at present is not conducive for the start of the malls,” said municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar.Explaining the reason for the decision, Sanjay Kakde, additional commissioner, NMMC, said, “The malls and restaurants have not opened in Thane and Kalyan. We felt that since these cities are close to Navi Mumbai, there is a strong possibility of the residents coming over to Navi Mumbai malls. Such a scenario will lead to additional crowding in the malls and there could be social distancing issues as well. Under such circumstances, it has been decided to shut the malls for now, to prevent increased arrivals in the city and also crowding at the malls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malls-to-remain-shut-in-navi-mumbai/story-IsFoA5ZKarDq8jsyfj3LkL.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||AAI redesigns air traffic routes at CSMIA||Taking cognisance of demands from the aviation industry, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has redesigned air traffic routes for arrivals and departures at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA). These newly redesigned air traffic control (ATC) routes, which will come into effect from September 10, are not only intended to standardise procedures and reduce the workload of pilots and ATC but also allow aircraft to burn less fuel that could lead to cheaper airfare. The routes will be redesigned from 100 nautical miles (Nm) after take-off, and 100Nm before landing. The Aeronautical Information Publication (AIP) supplement (number: 84/2020) issued by AAI has been made public on the authority’s website.“This is the ideal time to implement redesigned procedures as air traffic is less due to Covid-19 related restrictions. It will allow senior air traffic controllers (ATCos) and pilots to test and practice operating/flying on these routes without much complexity,” said a senior air traffic controller.Redesigning air traffic routes in India was first adopted for the Mumbai airport in 2006. At the time, a technology to redesign navigation- based routes was being introduced internationally. In view of the growing air traffic at the Mumbai airport - also among the busiest - it was the first to be introduced in India at CSMAI.“Once these redesigned routes come into effect, the lateral profile of aircraft will remain the same as the older ones. But the altitude and speed restrictions of the aircraft will not only facilitate a smooth, orderly and efficient flow of air traffic but also enhance the capacity of airspace and help ATCos to maintain optimum spacing in between two arrivals [arriving aircraft],” said a Delhi-based ATC officer, requesting anonymity.This implies that more aircraft will be able to land and take off in less time, thereby reducing the probability of holding an aircraft in the air before landing – a common scenario at Mumbai airport on regular days.“When sudden disruptions occur at Mumbai airport due to bird hit or bad weather, the ATCos on duty have to manage the delay in take-offs and landing tactically, by asking the pilot to orbit in long patterns. But the new holding patterns designed in new routes will allow flights to hold in race-track patterns, which is a very comfortable and orderly method of absorbing delays,” said a senior AAI official.After the promulgation of new routes, airlines will have to include the redesigned routes in the flight management system’s database of all the aircraft. Similarly, Mumbai ATC will have to replace the old routes with new ones in the ATC automation system.“The pilots, flight planning, and ATC officers will have to undergo a familiarisation and training program before the new routes get implemented. That is why the procedures [62-page AIP document] are published around 45 days prior to the implementation,” explained the AAI official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aai-redesigns-air-traffic-routes-at-csmia/story-irsLmPLfRRDWpT34ae5HFJ.html
07-08-2020||City||KDMC spends ₹13 crore on war against Covid-19||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has spent over ₹13 crore to fight the Covid pandemic to date. The proposal to approve the expenditure was passed in the standing committee meeting held on Thursday.Among the spendings for Covid facilities in the last four to five months, the civic body mentioned expenses on dedicated Covid health centres that were built at Savlaram Krida Sports Complex, lawn tennis court, basketball court at Dombivli (East) Gymkhana, a hall near Shaktidham Complex in Kalyan (East), and a quarantine centre at NRC Colony School.“The standing committee meeting, which was held online, threw light on the expenses for Covid facilities in Kalyan-Dombivli. The civic body has spent over ₹13.89 crore throughout the pandemic period,” said an official of KDMC, who did not wish to be named.It was the first online standing committee meeting of KDMC since lockdown, specially called to discuss the expenses on Covid facilities in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-spends-13-crore-on-war-against-covid-19/story-254OrWvjwK1Y4GagBqxyhK.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||Flood forecasting system didn’t help||The city’s flood forecasting system was unable to assist the civic body during the exceptionally heavy rain on Wednesday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Inaugurated on June 12, the integrated flood warning system for Mumbai (iFLOWS-Mumbai), the second for any urban city (after Chennai) in the country so far, was developed to provide possible extent of flooding in Mumbai three days prior to heavy rain events and warnings to areas susceptible to flooding across all 24 wards 12 hours in advance. The system was launched on a trial basis this monsoon and based on its success, it was to be made public next year. “The system is not fully functional and not handed over to BMC yet. Although it is being used on an experimental basis, it did not provide any alerts to us about possible areas to be flooded 12 hours in advance. We were only aware about the extremely heavy rain event three days prior. No bulletin was issued either on Tuesday or Wednesday,” said BMC’s disaster management chief officer Mahesh Narvekar, adding Wednesday’s rainfall and unprecedented wind speed was the most severe weather event witnessed in south Mumbai over the past two decades.When the July 2005 deluge struck Mumbai, Santacruz had recorded 944.2mm rain over 24 hours, but the Colaba weather station, 27km away, had recorded only 73mm. “There was no prior intimation of extremely high wind speed that caused the tree fall and infra damage,” said Narvekar. Since its launch, IMD made public the flood warning bulletin on July 3, 14 and 15 that issued warnings for 656 spots across 24 wards in the city, dividing them into categories ranging from low probability (less than 1-ft depth), moderate (1-2ft depth), high (2-3ft depth) and very high (over 3-ft depth). “These warnings for Wednesday could have helped direct our manpower to locations faster. However, there is a difference in issuing the forecast and the ground reality. In all, over 200 tree fall incidents were reported across south Mumbai, and major flooding was reported from 25 spots that took seven hours for the water to recede,” said Narvekar. The system was jointly conceived by various departments of the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) and BMC. “I was recently informed about some technical issues at our observatories due to the Covid-19 pandemic. At a couple of observatories, people were unable to go and repair them. However, we will cross-check what happened,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, MoES. IMD director-general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said, “Apart from an accurate forecast for all three days, wind warning for the port and fishermen identified maximum wind speed at 70-80kmph. The iFLOWS system is being studied on an experimental basis, and we will check if there were any technical problems.” Additional municipal commissioner P Velarasu said the accuracy of actionable advanced warnings using the system need to be validated with ward units. “There needs to be a verification mechanism. On the day forecasts were issued, broad trends for three to six hours have been accurate, but exact detailing and fine-tuning are not available yet. IMD is giving an area-specific forecast, but we have spot-specific issues. We need to check how the ward-wise forecast can be narrowed down for specific areas,” he said. A senior BMC official said that on Friday they are holding a meeting with the National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR), one of the MoES bodies, for further deliberations about the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/flood-forecasting-system-didn-t-help/story-mJanM39kxJPOvFma6TeqUM.html
07-08-2020||City||Punjab hooch tragedy: 135 more arrested in state-wide raids||ChandigarhPunjab Police on Thursday arrested 135 persons in state-wide raids on illicit liquor mafia, busting several modules. A total of 284 drums of methanol were seized from the Millar Ganj (Ludhiana) godown of key accused Rajiv Joshi, who had sold the three drums that had triggered the chain of deaths in three districts in one of the state’s worst such cases. Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said the raiding teams are coordinating closely with the excise department and the raids will continue in the coming days. CM TO BE IN TARN TARAN TODAYAmarinder will visit Tarn Taran on Friday to meet families of the victims of spurious liquor tragedy which has claimed 113 lives so far.The CM will be accompanied by his chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar, state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar and DGP Dinkar Gupta. The CM has been facing flak from the opposition as well as two Congress MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo for not meeting the families of victims of the hooch tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-135-more-arrested-in-state-wide-raids/story-a5RvVV3TTIiJzH4VWd8KHL.html
07-08-2020||Education||Maharashtra government ties up with Google to start virtual classes for over 22 million students||Maharashtra government on Thursday tied up with Google to provide online education to students in the state. Students and teachers will get access to Google Classroom and G Suite for Education that will provide solutions to support remote learning.The tools allow interactive sessions, which will allow teachers to explain lessons, and students can also ask their doubts while sitting at home. Homework can be uploaded, and teachers can check them online, said state officials.The project was launched by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday, and will cover over 1.09 lakh government, private, aided, and unaided schools, and benefit over 22.03 million students.The move is significant, considering the shutdown of schools due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The new academic year of schools in the state should have started on June 15.Last month, the state government allowed students from Class 1 to 8 to attend online classes so that they can start their academic year while at home. However, initiating online classes posed a problem, officials said.“Maharashtra is the first state in the country that is launching such a project. Coronavirus has forced us to adopt the changes that were supposed to come in the future,” Thackeray said while launching the project online.“Google Classroom and G Suite, which will be available free of cost, are the tools that allow the education institutes to conduct interactive sessions. Around 250 participants can attend it at a time. Teachers can make their audio or video presentations; students can clear their doubts, and upload homework and assignments. Even parents can submit their complaints or suggestions through the system,” said Dinkar Patil, director, Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT).“We are beginning with the training of the teachers. As many as 40,000 teachers will be the master trainers for the remaining 2 lakh teachers. Once, training is completed, students will be asked to register their mobile numbers, and will get notifications with details of each session,” Patil added.School education minister Varsha Gaikwad said, “We have got responses from 1.34 lakh teachers within 48 hours after floating an invitation link for Google Classroom training. The process of teacher training is going to be started on August 7. We are turning the crisis into an opportunity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-ties-up-with-google-to-start-virtual-classes-for-over-22-million-students/story-6bmLKsGSbRJr72i0kOTntJ.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||8 more specially-abled inmates, doctor test Covid positive at Mankhurd children home||Eight more specially-abled residents and a doctor at the Mankhurd Mentally Deficient Children Home (MDCH) tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Over the last fortnight, 30 residents of MDCH had tested positive for Covid-19 including four minors.After the first residents tested positive, the authority at the child care institution decided to get the remaining 268 residents tested. The last batch that underwent testing received their reports on Wednesday.“Seven residents between the age of 20-45 and a 55-year-old from Mankhurd MDCH were infected with the coronavirus. The only medical officer at the MDCH facility, Dr Jayesh Vasule has also been found Covid positive. He contracted the virus from the Covid-positive residents while taking care of them,” said Vikrant Gondane, in-charge designated at the facility by the commissionerate for persons with disabilities for Covid management.“All residents are asymptomatic while Dr Vasule has mild symptoms. They all have been admitted at the Covid care centre at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC),” said Gondane, adding, on Wednesday, 23 Covid-positive residents returned to the children’s home after recovering.HT had first reported the spread of the infection in the residents, in its July 26 edition. A few days later, a minor boy, a cook, cleaner and staff member tested Covid positive. With new cases on Wednesday, the total number of infected people at the Mankhurd MCDH is 43.The authority at the children’s home is still conducting an internal inquiry on how the infection spread at the facility.It is suspected that the disease spread at the children’s home from one of the staff members who reside in the staff quarters located in the home’s compound.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/8-more-specially-abled-inmates-doctor-test-covid-positive-at-mankhurd-children-home/story-w2y1u3tcSxfy375mqOPNHL.html
07-08-2020||City||Mission Super 30 campaign launched in Vasai to combat Covid-19||In an effort to fight the spread of Covid-19, Vasai MLA Hitendra Thakur has launched the ‘Mission Super 30’ campaign to rapidly test people for the virus over the next 30 days. Vasai-Virar City Municipal Corporation (VVMC) which will provide man power and other assistance during the month-long campaign. “The campaign is aimed at testing the maximum number of people in the Vasai-Virar belt to ensure the virus spread is controlled. Patients that are suspected of being infected will be sent to quarantine centres while the ones who test positive will be admitted to government hospitals for treatment,” said Thakur. “The whole idea is to keep a deadline for identifying the severity of the virus. The more people are tested, the better our result will be in curbing the spread.”Besides rapid testing, the distribution of safety gear will also be a part of the campaign. “We aim to distribute around 10,000 masks and as many Covid-19 kits. Besides, 500 temperature guns and 500 oxymeters will be made available,” said Kshitij Thakur, MLA, Nallasopara. So far, Vasai-Virar has reported 12,962 cases and 264 deaths, as per VVMC data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mission-super-30-campaign-launched-in-vasai-to-combat-covid-19/story-g8nCPCHsc0bOFXlXD6yAFN.html
07-08-2020||City||KDMC corporator succumbs to Covid-19||A Kalyan-Dombivli corporator from the Shiv Sena died of Covid-19 on Thursday around 9.30pm. Dashrath Ghadigaonkar, 63, was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Kalyan since July 8 after being tested positive for the virus. He was later shifted to another private hospital in Mulund. Party leaders said the death of their senior leader comes as a major loss, as Ghadigaonkar had managed to win the Ashok Nagar ward in Kalyan (East) for the first time for Shiv Sena in the 2015 civic polls. “It was for the first time that someone from the Sena won that ward. He was a dedicated party worker and worked calmly towards issues. His demise is a major loss for us. He was a diabetic and underwent treatment for 28 days. We were all waiting for his recovery,” said Rajendra Devlekar, former mayor of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation and Ghadigaonkar’s colleague. Ghadigaonkar is survived by a wife, two sons and a daughter. On August 2, a Shiv Sena corporator from Ulhasnagar, 54-year-old Sunil Surve, died after recovering from the virus 15 days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-corporator-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-sWHNbmSGzUv85IMTJPt1jK.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||SAD-BJP delegation meets guv, seeks dismissal of Cong govt||A joint delegation of SAD and BJP on Thursday urged Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore to dismiss the Amarinder Singh-led government in the state over the hooch tragedy that has claimed 113 lives so far.It also sought a probe by a sitting judge of the high court or the CBI into the hooch tragedy and demanded an inquiry by the Enforcement Directorate into the alleged “wealth” acquired by some Congressmen from the “illicit liquor trade”.The delegation urged the governor to direct confiscation of properties of all those involved in the illicit liquor trade, besides stopping “smuggling of denatured spirit and extra neutral alcohol (ENA) from distilleries”.It also demanded that murder cases be registered against all those named by the families of the victims.While handing over a memorandum to the governor, the delegation said the hooch tragedy was the direct result of alleged “state patronage”.“The liquor mafia has been given full liberty by the Congress government in the state and because of which more than 100 persons have died,” SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal alleged.“The chief minister has the excise and home portfolios and now you cannot run away,” he said.The delegation said the supply of spurious liquor had happened due to the alleged “nexus established between Congress leaders, police and excise officials”.Sukhbir claimed that no action was taken after two illegal distilleries-cum-bottling plants were unearthed at Rajpura and Khanna sometime back.He alleged that attempts were being made to divert attention from the role of distilleries in the hooch tragedy by conducting raids against bootleggers making country liquor despite knowing that it was denatured spirit procured from distilleries which was behind the deaths.The SAD chief claimed that the “illicit liquor trade” has already caused a loss of Rs 5,600 crore to the state treasury.“We have sought dismissal of the state government. A CBI probe should also be ordered into the hooch tragedy,” BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia said.Kamaljit Kaur, a family member of a victim of hooch tragedy, accompanied the delegation. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-bjp-delegation-meets-guv-seeks-dismissal-of-cong-govt/story-EMktHfC7Mrv2QYvtClhMtJ.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||SoBo received more rain on Wednesday than ’05 deluge||South Mumbai on Wednesday received more rain than during the July 26, 2005 deluge, with a maximum wind speed of 101kmph making the situation “hurricane-like” and “unprecedented”, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The city was marooned and more than 1,000 people died in the 2005 monsoon mayhem. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Colaba had recorded 73mm of rain in 24 hours during the 2005 deluge, compared to 944mm in Santacruz. Compared to this, Colaba recorded 331mm rain and Santacruz recorded 162mm in 24 hours between Wednesday and Thursday morning. The civic body said the current capacity of drains is good enough for average or above average rain, but can’t handle an extreme situation like that on Wednesday. BMC said it will explore the possibility of having a holding pond or underground water tunnel to contain the floodwater in south Mumbai. On Wednesday, upscale localities of south Mumbai such as Marine Drive, Chowpatty, Grant Road, Mumbai Central and Marine Lines witnessed heavy waterlogging. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) had to even use boats to rescue passengers stuck at Masjid Bunder Railway station, which was completely under water. According to the IMD’s three-hourly bulletin, between 8.30am and 11.30am on Wednesday, Colaba recorded 51mm of rain, which increased to 120mm by 2.30pm, 229mm by 5.30pm, 293mm by 8.30pm, 328mm by 11.30pm and 331mm by 8.30am on Thursday morning, indicating 242mm of rain in a period of nine hours between 11.30am and 8.30pm on Wednesday in Colaba. In a statement issued on Thursday, IMD stated: “Mumbai received widespread rainfall with scattered heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places. Colaba reported the highest rainfall of 331.8mm in 24 hours, breaking its earlier record of August. This is also the second highest all-time record over Colaba after 575.6mm (July 5, 1974).” On the other hand, Santacruz observatory of IMD recorded 32mm of rainfall between 8.30am and 11.30am on Wednesday, followed by 42mm by 2.30pm, 65mm by 5.30pm, 103mm by 8.30pm, 138mm by 11.30pm and 162mm by 8.30am on Thursday. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Every area has different capacity and in south Mumbai, the drains have capacity to hold 50-60mm of rain in a period of 60 minutes, which is suitable for average or above average rainfall. What we witnessed on Wednesday was an extreme situation considering our drains in areas like chowpatty are well-maintained, but did not work owing to the heavy rain.” “Our system can’t cope with an extreme situation like that of Wednesday, and we definitely need to re-look at our strategy. We have to undertake augmentation of our facilities by correlating with the current rain pattern, and this is a process that will take five-10 years. There are no short-term measures for stormwater drainage, apart from increasing dewatering pumps post accumulation of water, which we have already done. We have initiated a process to have the capacity to handle around 90mm of rainfall per hour. Having underground water tunnels under playgrounds in south Mumbai is one of the solutions.” BMC had initiated a plan for holding ponds in the form of underground water tunnels to divert the excess rainwater for a temporary period, from where they can be drained out further into the sea or put in use by transferring rainwater to the treatment plants of BMC. Experts claimed that waterlogging, even after projects such as the ₹4,000-crore Brimstowad launched post 2005 being completed, hinted that the drains were not properly cleaned. Brimstowad project includes rehabilitation and augmentation of underground drains in the city from handling 25mm of rainfall per hour to 50mm of rainfall per hour, widening and deepening of nullahs, construction of access road along the nullah and construction of stormwater pumping stations. BMC’s data stated that 36 of the total 58 projects planned under Brimstowad have been completed, which include 19 of the 21 projects planned for south Mumbai. Nikhil Desai, advanced locality management (ALM) from Matunga, said, “The execution of the Brimstowad project is poor, even though projects for south Mumbai may have been completed. The inefficiency of BMC is clearly out, considering it seems that owing to Covid-19 the cleaning of drains was not done properly which led to waterlogging at newer spots. I have never heard of waterlogging outside chowpatty or Sir JJ Hospital.” BMC claimed there were no instances of drains being choked. Velrasu said, “There were no incidents of water accumulation owing to choked drains. The intensity of rainfall was very high due to which there was a burden on the system. We had used around 175 pumps. This is a global challenge, and we are somewhat on the job to find long-term solutions.” Meanwhile, BJP on Thursday demanded BMC compensate citizens whose houses were damaged, as people were already under financial stress due to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sobo-s-rain-of-terror-on-wednesday-worse-than-05/story-A0thwjlFB1a3vJyB0mgGwO.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||16 fishermen saved; trawler damaged||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) rescued 16 people after their fishing boat Dev Sandesh got caught in rough seas due to high wind speed, around 70kms off Arnala coast on Thursday. Meanwhile, a fishing trawler got lost in the sea after it was damaged by a stone barrier near the coast during the torrential downpour.According to an ICG official, as the fishing boat got caught in very rough sea conditions, the fishermen sent alert messages to Yellow Gate police station on August 4 evening. The message was immediately conveyed to coast guard’s Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (MRCC), Mumbai. MRCC Mumbai ascertained the exact location of the distressed fishing boat, activated the international safety net and also relayed messages to all the ships in the vicinity, specially transiting ships, to render assistance to the boat in distress, said commandant RK Singh, spokesperson of ICG.An Offshore Supply Vessel (OSV) Greatship Asmi was located in the vicinity and was diverted for the rescue operation, added Singh.However, due to worsening weather conditions, OSV Greatship Asmi was directed to keep a strict vigil. ICG then coordinated with another offshore support vessel Colonel SP Wahi and sent it to pick up the fishermen from the trapped boat.After around six hours of efforts, all the 16 people were rescued safely. “They are heading towards the coast and will reach Mumbai soon,” said Singh.In the other incident, the trawler Prajakta, owned by Moreshwar Vishnu Chowdhary, was heading back from its fishing trip on August 4 after getting the weather alert when the incident took place. The trawler’s captain Jitesh Chowdhary decided to drop the anchor late on August 4 while heading towards Satpati coast because of choppy water and low visibility. However, the anchor broke loose and the trawler hit a stone barrier. All 15 fishermen on board the boat got down and started moving fishing equipment with the help of some locals. During high tide early on August 5, the trawler along with the equipment and the catch entered the sea and got lost. “I bought the trawler under the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) scheme and took ₹17 lakh loan from a cooperative bank. I am yet to repay the loan but I lost the trawler to the sea…However, I am happy that the 15 crew are safe, said Chowdhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/16-fishermen-saved-trawler-damaged/story-IEwKqzdJmwDj52nACnwrXJ.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rain lashes western Maharashtra; citizens evacuated||Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts in western Maharashtra relived the memories of last year’s ravaging floods, as heavy rains lashed most parts of the state over the past two days. The state government has started evacuation of families from low-lying areas and deployed 16 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams in the affected districts.Sangli has received more than 100mm rainfall each day over the past two days which led to swelling of Panchganga and Krishna rivers. Palghar and Raigad received 148mm and 106mm rainfall with damages to structures and electricity infrastructure. Meanwhile, Kodavali and Kundalika rivers in Ratnagiri have crossed warning levels and nearby districts have been put on high alert.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took stock of the situation on Thursday morning and directed administrations to relocate citizens from submerged areas. He also asked district authorities to ensure that people do not face any hardships. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said the state has issued a directive to local administrations of the affected districts to be on alert. The government has deployed 16 teams of NDRF, including five in Mumbai, four in Kolhapur, two in Sangli and one each in Satara, Thane, Palghar, Nagpur, Raigad. District authorities have relocated more than 4,500 people from these districts in the past two days, of them 4,413 are from 23 villages in Kolhapur alone. The authorities have also been directed to begin spot assessment of losses to structures, houses and livestock to facilitate speedy compensation to citizens.Prasad Sankpal, district disaster management officer, Kolhapur, said the water level in Panchganga river has already crossed the danger mark and added they have already started evacuating villagers. “The water level has crossed the danger level of 43 foot. We started evacuation after the warning level of 39 ft was crossed yesterday. We have evacuated 400 citizens from 100 families from Ajara, while villagers from Chikhali and Ambewadi shifted to safer places on their own. Four teams of NDRF have been deployed for rescue and relief operations besides our own rescue teams of 800 volunteers with 51 boats, which were acquired last year after the floods,” he said.According to officials from relief and rehabilitation department, the Indian Air Force has been asked to be on standby to bring in additional NDRF teams from other states if required. “All the teams stationed in the state have been deployed. In case we need additional force, we will have to fetch them from other states,” the official said.Meanwhile, the water stock in the dams in Maharashtra has reached 44.8% against last year’s 52.29% on the corresponding day. Konkan, Pune and Nashik divisions have reported a deficit in rain as compared to last year. Water stock in drought-prone Aurangabad division is at 41.21% as opposed to 11.91% on the same day last year. The state has so far received 60.2% or 604.1mm rainfall against its average rainfall of 1,004.2 mm between June and September. Last year, Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara and other parts of the state were flooded in August which had led to massive damage to crops and houses. Around 6.45 lakh people had to be evacuated and around 3,450 houses were destroyed.Railway tunnel collapsesDue to heavy rainfall, the wall of a railway tunnel collapsed on railway tracks between Madure and Pernem railway stations falling under Konkan Railway, on Thursday.Due to the collapse, five outstation trains were diverted via Pune-Miraj and Londa railway stations.Outstation trains that were diverted include Ernakulam-Hazrat Nizamuddin Special, Thiruvananthapuram-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram special, Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam special, and LTT-Thiruvananthapuram special.(With inputs from Aroosa Ahmed)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-lashes-western-maharashtra-citizens-evacuated/story-ONZT76ca5hlscHSOjkPzUO.html
07-08-2020||City||Row over Golden Temple replica: Sikh activists urge Akal Takht to summon Dhindsa||Sikh activists from Sangrur on Thursday approached the Akal Takht demanding that Rajya Sabha member and Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa be summoned in the row over the replica of Golden Temple constructed in Mastuana village of Sangrur district. Parshotam Singh Phaguwala led the activists who stated in a written appeal to jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh that Dhindsa, who is heading the management of the gurdwara, was responsible for the non-compliance with an edict that the highest Sikh temporal seat had issued in 2009. This edict directed the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to get the design of this controversial structure modified. However, its management never made mandatory alteration except for closing the ‘Har ki Paudi’. Seeking intervention of Akal Takht, the activists also alleged that Dhindsa was controlling the whole property attached with this gurdwara and using it for his political ends. They said the prevalence of the structure hurts Sikh sentiments, so Dhindsa should be removed from all his positions and the gurdwara should be handed over to the SGPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/row-over-golden-temple-replica-sikh-activists-urge-akal-takht-to-summon-dhindsa/story-eHGj6sQjQoeNl8shOz6ipO.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man duped of ₹32K in loan fraud||A Sector 52 resident lost ₹32,504 to con men in an incident of loan fraud. Complainant Rakesh Kumar Rajput told the police that he had applied for a home credit loan and only three monthly installments of ₹6,945 each were left. On May 18, Rajput received a call from a person posing as a bank official telling him that if he paid two installments he would not have to pay the third one. Rajput paid ₹13,890 with ₹2,362 interest, but was told he had to pay the amount again as the payments had not been processed. He was told the earlier payment will be refunded. After the loan account didn’t close and the amount did not reflect in it, he realised he had been duped.A case under Sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating), and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against unidentified persons.Meanwhile, one Ashwani Kumar Sood of Sector 39 reported that an unknown person duped him of ₹60,000. Sood’s wife had purchased a saree, but later decided to return it on March 15. He called on the customer care number and was asked to fill a form. After he did so, four cash transactions of ₹21,000, ₹21,000, ₹7,000 and ₹11,000 were carried from his account. A case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-duped-of-32k-in-loan-fraud/story-gUFFyryJsZyXSMZzybZ5KP.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||Record downpour in South Mumbai: 2 die of electrocution in rain mayhem||Two people, one of them a railway employee, died of electrocution amid the record rain that slammed the city, according to officials. Shambhu Soni, 38, a resident of Anand Nagar in Dahisar (East), was electrocuted by a short circuit at 9.46am on Wednesday and he was rushed to Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar hospital in Kandivli, where he was declared brought dead. A railway employee identified by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as Sanjeev, 22, was electrocuted to death while on duty near Masjid Bunder railway station on Wednesday. Officials said that the tracks at the station were submerged under 1.5 feet of water , following which Kumar got into the waterlogged area to inspect a pump placed by BMC. Kumar got electrocuted at 3.45pm and was rushed to Bombay Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.The exceptionally heavy rain of 331.2mm rain in 24 hours, accompanied by chaotic winds ranging from 70-80kmph, between Wednesday and Thursday not only broke the record for this season, but was the highest monsoon rain record for south Mumbai in 46 years and second-highest all-time rain record during monsoon, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. The highest all-time record was on July 5, 1974 with 575.6 mm rain in 24 hours. The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 331.2 mm (exceptionally heavy) rain between 8.30am Wednesday and 8.30am Thursday. This was also the all-time high one-day rain in August. Over the past 72 hours (August 3, 8.30am to August 6, 8.30am), Mumbai saw its heaviest rain spell this season with the island city recording 637.2mm rain in south Mumbai and 505.2 mm rain in the suburbs. On Thursday, part of the second floor in a ground-plus-four-storey structure named Jayprakash building, near Siddhivinayak Temple in Dadar (West), collapsed on Thursday afternoon. The incident was reported at 12.30 pm, no injuries were reported. Part of a retaining wall collapsed due to a landslide around 11.30pm on Wednesday from near Tower of Silence on NS Patkar Marg, near Kemp’s corner. As a result, cracks developed in the road and this led to collapsing of around 40-50 trees surrounding the retaining wall. This also led to bursting of four drinking water supply pipelines. BMC’s disaster management control room received 3,202 phone calls on its helping number 1,916 on Wednesday. Between 8am on Wednesday and 6pm on Thursday, 576 incidents of tree and branch collapses were reported across the city, of which 215 were reported between 8am and 6pm on Thursday, and 361 were reported between 8am on Wednesday to 8am on Thursday. Of these, 412 were reported in the island city, 78 in the western suburbs, and 56 in the eastern suburbs. A total of 25 incidents of partial house collapses were reported in the city between Wednesday 8am and Thursday 6pm. No waterlogging was reported in the city on Thursday. However, between August 3 and August 6, the six pumping stations with a total of 48 functional pumps, pumped out 17,145 million litres of water from the city. This is equivalent to twice the capacity of Tulsi lake — 8,046 million litres — one of the seven lakes that supply water to Mumbai. Wednesday’s rains added 60,851 million litres of water to Mumbai’s seven lakes. The useful water content in the seven lakes as of Thursday was at 41.47% or 600,158 million litres, as opposed to 37.26% on Wednesday morning. There was no impact of rainfall on suburban local train services on the Central and Western Railway on Thursday. Slow local train services on the Western Railway between Mumbai Central and Churchgate railway station resumed on Thursday evening. Train services on the Central Railway (CR) resumed on Thursday morning. Twenty nine Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses broke down in the city after getting stuck in waterlogged roads on Thursday. According to BMC, by 8am on Thursday, there was no waterlogging in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/record-downpour-in-south-mumbai-2-die-of-electrocution-in-rain-mayhem/story-QkrYPaxw7izShh10SQyIqI.html
07-08-2020||City||Over 360 tree fall cases in Navi Mumbai, Panvel||More than 360 tree fall incidents were reported from Navi Mumbai and Panvel over the past 48 hours due to heavy rain and strong winds. While there was heavy damage, there was no casualty in any of the incidents. Navi Mumbai received an average of 21.78mm rainfall between 8.30am and 7.30pm on Thursday, and received 129.88mm rainfall on Wednesday, according to data from the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC). Of the total tree fall incidents, around 160 were in NMMC jurisdiction while around 200 trees fell in the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) jurisdiction. “Most of the trees which fell were uprooted. These were healthy trees, aged around 20 to 25 years, with large trunks. We have already completed almost 80% of tree trimmings in our jurisdiction,” said Manoj Kumar Mahale, deputy municipal commissioner, gardens and tree authority, NMMC. Meanwhile, PCMC commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh said the percentage of tree fall in Panvel has been far less compared to other cities. “The landscape of Panvel, which is not congested, has a lot of green cover. The absence of buildings, which act as wind barriers, led to the direct impact of strong winds on the trees. Our team of 50 officials from fire brigade department has been working to clear the affected areas,” Deshmukh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-360-tree-fall-cases-in-navi-mumbai-panvel/story-4mzBODH4ubAQu0wvtz62BN.html
07-08-2020||City||Punjab reports 26 deaths, 1,049 fresh Covid-19 cases||Ludhiana/Amritsar/Patiala/Sangrur/Bathinda/JalandharIn the biggest single-day spike, Punjab on Thursday reported 26 Covid-related deaths and 1,049 fresh infections. With this, the state’s death toll is reached 517 and the positive patients’ count to 20,891. As per the state government’s bulletin, 13,659 patients have recovered from the virus so far. There are 6,715 active cases in the state. Nine patients succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana, taking the district’s death toll to 138. The district also reported 209 positive cases, taking the cumulative count to 4,385, of which 1,423 are active cases. Four Covid-19 patients, two from Amritsar and two from Gurdaspur district, succumbed to the virus at local hospitals on Thursday. Besides, Amritsar district reported 44 fresh Covid-19 cases. In Gurdaspur, 25 people contracted the infection. Sangrur reported two deaths and 12 positive cases. Of these, two each are from Dhuri, Sangrur, Longowal, Sherpur and one each from Malerkotla, Amargarh, Moonak and Sunam blocks.Two Covid-19 patients died while 135 tested positive for coronavirus in Patiala district. Of these 72 are from Patiala city, 22 from Rajpura, 21 from Nabha, seven from Samana and 14 from different villages across the district.In yet another spike, Jalandhar reported 114 positive cases. Besides, station house officer of Aur police station and 15 other cops tested positive for the virus in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district. Twenty-one fresh cases have been reported from Kapurthala.A total of 112 people contracted the virus in Bathinda on Thursday, making it the district’s highest single-day spike. The official spokesperson of the district administration said of the total number of patients, 78 were are workers who had come to work at Guru Gobind Singh Refinery near Raman Mandi, from different states also tested positive. Thirty-six people tested positive for the virus in Ferozepur, 44 in Moga and 25 in Faridkot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-reports-26-deaths-1-049-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-UQi5XUoggfFLhwkIrVXsWK.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||Parts of SoBo may face water shortage||Several areas of south Mumbai near Kemp’s Corner, Altamount Road and Pedder Road are likely to face water shortage for the next two to three days as four water pipelines burst on Wednesday night after part of a retaining wall collapsed due to a landslide. This comes when the city is already facing a 20% water cut.The incident was reported around 11.30pm on Wednesday from near Tower of Silence on NS Patkar Marg. While no injuries were reported in the incident, cracks were developed on the road. It also led to the collapse of around 40-50 trees surrounding the retaining wall. Between Wednesday and Thursday, around 273 trees or branches had fallen in the island city due to heavy rainfall.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a statement said, “The work to remove mound from the wall is in full swing. Around 40 to 50 trees have fallen and they are also being removed to resume traffic. But, the repair work for protective wall and other repairs will take time. The incident took place due to the erosion of the protective wall, and has caused damage to four water pipelines passing through the area.”According to BMC officials, there might be water shortage near Babulnath Temple, Pedder Road, Carmichael Road, Altamount Road, Cumballa Hill and Tardeo until the repair work is completed. BMC said it will arrange water tankers till repair works are done. Meanwhile, deputy municipal commissioner Harshad Kale said, “We are opening one lane of the road soon. The repair works for the water pipeline is being conducted on war-footing. We will appoint a consultant for the landslide that took place, and based on the recommendation of the consultant, further steps for repair works will be undertaken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parts-of-sobo-may-face-water-shortage/story-SPHMAyLj7Z6OShbCA8dRdN.html
07-08-2020||City||Sunny Enclave promoter sent to seven-day police custody in Mohali||The managing director of Bajwa Developers, Jarnail Singh Bajwa, on Thursday was produced before a Kharar court and sent to seven-day police remand.On July 5, Bajwa was arrested in a cheating case registered against him in 2019. This, after he was arrested on July 4 in several cases of cheque bounce registered in Chandigarh consumer court.Ravjot Kaur, superintendent of police (SP, rural), Mohali, said, “Bajwa was produced before a court which sent him to seven-day police custody. We will interrogate him regarding the case registered against him on the complaint of Jaspreet Singh of Sector 39.”Bajwa had sold the complainant’s plot to a third party by breaking the agreement. The case dates back to November 2, 2019, and was registered under Sections 406 (communal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. There are around 58 cases registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sunny-enclave-promoter-sent-to-seven-day-police-custody-in-mohali/story-IMD1BIj5uotdha5PpfOrDK.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records sharpest spike of 11,514 Covid-19 cases; daily tests up to record 74,480||Maharashtra recorded 11,514 Covid-19 cases, the state’s highest single-day spike in infections, on Thursday, taking its tally to 479,779. The positivity rate, however, remained low – 15.45% – as the state conducted 74,480 tests, highest in 24 hours since the first coronavirus case was reported in Maharashtra on March 9. The overall positivity rate of the state stands at 19.28%, with 2,487,990 tests being conducted so far. The state, for the third consecutive day, added more than 300 fatalities to its toll, with 316 deaths reported on Thursday. However, of these, 246 were from the last 48 hours, 44 from last week and 26 from the period before last week. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 toll stands at 16,792. The recovery rate of the state has risen to 65.94% with 10,854 people having recovered on Thursday, taking the tally of recovered patients to 316,375. Mumbai, meanwhile, recor-ded 910 fresh cases, taking the city’s tally of infections to 120,150. It also reported 57 fatalities, pushing up the toll to 6,648.Maharashtra currently has 146,305 active Covid-19 cases, with rural and semi-urban areas of the state witnessing a substantial rise in infections over the past month. State health department officials attribute the increase in cases to easing of lockdown restrictions and a rise in number of tests conducted across cities and districts.“The virus has a trend. It starts, then peaks and stabilises. There is an increase in cases, but there is no data that suggests that the situation has gone out of hand. While we are focused on containing the spread with the standard operating procedures that have been laid out, the case fatality rate is not shooting up. Our efforts are to keep that in control. More than 65% of people have recovered so far,” said a senior bureaucrat, who did not wish to be named.On July 5, Pune district, which comprises Pune City, Pune Rural and Pimpri-Chinchwad, had 13,051 active cases. On August 6, the active cases in the district stand at 41,000 – an increase of 214%. Kolhapur district has seen the sharpest rise in cases in the past month. From 151 active cases on July 5, the infections have gone up 30 times to 4,644 active cases on August 6. “The second wave has increased the active cases in Kolhapur. The cases are increasing in the tehsils as well as city. Between March and June, we did not have many cases. They have started from July. We have our procedures and health infrastructure in place to tackle them,” said Dr BC Kempi Patil, civil surgeon, Kolhapur. Similarly, Solapur district had 1,140 active cases on July 5 and now has 4,141 active cases. Ahmednagar district, too, has seen a spike during the same period – from 136 actives cases to 3,260. The active cases in Latur district have risen from 159 to 1,448 during the same period. Nagpur, the state’s second capital, too, has witnessed an increase in active cases. On July 5, the active cases in Nagpur district were 365 and they have risen to 4,588 on Thursday. Dr DV Paturkar, civil surgeon in Nashik, said, “This [increase] is a post-lockdown effect. The inflow of cases has increased in the past month, but we are tackling them effectively. We are also keeping the death rate low.” The active cases in Nashik district have jumped over three times in a month from 1,890 on July 5 to 6,037 on August 6. “We had expected the cases to stabilise by July 31, but it did not happen. The cases are increasing in Ozar, Pimpalgaon, Niphad, Sinnar, etc, which are adjoining to Nashik city. But we are positive that it will come down; we have success stories in Nashik city where areas that reported 150-170 cases daily have come to five to seven cases now,” said a health department official, who did not wish to be named.Currently, there are 976,332 people in home quarantine across the state, while 37,768 people are in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-records-sharpest-spike-of-11-514-cases-daily-tests-up-to-record-74-480/story-7Nfto1eaJCUsY6I5jyud6K.html
07-08-2020||Mumbai||Wall collapses, landslide hit traffic||Traffic movement across the city was affected on Thursday as heavy rains and strong winds led to landslides, wall collapses and trees being uprooted in various parts of the city over the past two days. According to the Mumbai Police wall collapses were reported at nine locations while there were 339 instances of trees being uprooted in the past 24 hours. Later on Wednesday, a part of the retaining wall of the ridge road on NS Patkar Marg collapsed, leading to traffic congestion as both sides of the road were closed, said Pravin Padwal additional commissioner of police (traffic), adding, “Civic authorities are there and restoration work is underway.” Another landslide took place on the western express highway (WEH) near Kandivli on Wednesday night. “This is the second time that a landslide has occurred at the same location within 48 hours, due to which traffic was affected on WEH,” Padwal added more.‘BMC knew about vulnerability of Kandivli landslide site’The Geological Survey of India (GSI) said that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had prior information about the threat of a landslide at the site in Kandivli along the WEH. Though the incident took place during early hours of Tuesday when there was less vehicular movement, GSI scientists said BMC was told that the site was among 249 ‘vulnerable’ locations in the 2018 report tilted Identification of Vulnerable Inhabited Hill Slopes in Mumbai. The work for the report was undertaken at the request of BMC in 2017. “It is a 250-metre-long stretch of the cut slope with 2m-5m space between the slope and the main road. The particular location was identified as a low to moderately vulnerable (Class-IV) area and precautionary and protection measures were suggested,” said Dr Saibal Ghosh, director (Geology), GHRM Centre, GSI. The report had highlighted that the expressway was the most-affected area at risk and slope protection and had suggested that no further tree cutting or hill tampering are carried out. It had also suggested suitably designed retaining walls, proper drainage for surface water, and regular cutting of tree roots and removal of small trees.A senior official from BMC’s R-South ward said all measures had been undertaken except construction of the retaining wall. He, however, added that immediate efforts would be taken to address the concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wall-collapses-landslide-hit-traffic/story-EQJDijtbdcrbBf5WCuzB4I.html
07-08-2020||City||FIR against Chandigarh firm, power officials in ₹6-crore fraud||Yamunanagar police have booked a Chandigarh-based power firm along with officials of the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) for an alleged fraud of about ₹6 crore .In his complaint to the police, UGBVN’s Yamunanagar subdivisional officer (SDO) (construction) Sandeep Singh said, “A Chandigarh-based firm Arvindra Electrical was given a work order on August 20, 2014, for the construction of new 11 KV feeders with aluminium conductor steel reinforce. They were also assigned work to remove some old cables and the tenure was set as May 19, 2015.”“On September 30, 2019 the department came to know that the firm worked on only 19 feeders out of 33 and took nearly ₹10.16 crore from the department, causing a loss of ₹ 6.09 crore. Junior engineer (construction) Satish Kumar, then Yamunanagar SDO (construction) Balwan Singh, executive engineers (construction), Karnal, KS Bhoria and SK Makkar and divisional accountant Nafe Singh were associated with the firm,” he added. A case has been registered under sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 406 (breach of trust), 417 and 420 (cheating), 465 and 468 (forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 476 (counterfeiting device or mark) of the IPC and Section 8 and 9 of the Prevention of Corruption Act at Gandhi Nagar police station. Station in-charge said a probe was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-against-chandigarh-firm-power-officials-in-6-crore-fraud/story-ajG3XK0NSAvwpGGKlhcXVI.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar urges recovered patients to donate plasma||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday appealed the patients who have recovered from Covid-19 infection to donate their plasma and motivate people suffering from the disease to put up a tough fight against this pandemic. “All such survivors should encourage people not to fear this pandemic, rather ensure that proper precautions are taken,” Khattar said while chairing the meeting of crisis management group regarding Covid-19 status in Haryana. “So far, 338 people have given their consent to donate plasma,” an official spokesperson said. Free Covid-19 test facility has been made available in all civil hospitals of the state, he said. It was informed that for sample collection, toll-free numbers 108 and 1075 have been set up. In ‘Unlock 3’, a special campaign is being run to motivate people to wear masks. FOREIGN RETURNEES Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, Rajeev Arora, informed the chief minister that except in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Rewari, the number of Covid-19 positive patients is under control. Under ‘Operation Vande Bharat’, as per the new guidelines issued by the Union home ministry, people returning from abroad are no longer required to remain in institutional quarantine for seven days. Now, if a person returning from abroad gives a medical certificate issued 48 hours before the trip confirming that he/she is Covid-19 negative, then he/she will not be required to stay in quarantine, though it will be mandatory from him/her to stay in the home quarantine for 96 hours, the ACS said. ONE COVID TESTING LAB IN EACH DISTRICT Khattar directed the officers that at least one Covid-19 testing lab should be opened in each district where testing should be conducted through RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) method instead of antigen testing. On this, ACS, medical education research department, Alok Nigam, said there are 16 testing labs, out of which 11 are government and five labs have been set up in private hospitals. Besides, 10 more labs will be opened soon. Khattar was told that under the interstate transport services, about 150 buses of Haryana Roadways are being run in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. ELECTRIC CREMATORIUMS Director general urban local bodies, Amit Agrawal, informed the CM that the number of electric crematoriums is being increased in cities and work has been allocated to build 14 such crematoriums. At present, additional 11 crematoriums have been constructed on the premises of existing crematoriums, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-urges-recovered-patients-to-donate-plasma/story-uzhbZvJlLYNgcgXIXJmWuI.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||755 new infections take Haryana tally past 39K||Haryana reported 755 new coronavirus infections on Thursday, taking the state's tally to 39,303. Three infected persons — two from Faridabad and one from Ambala — succumbed to the viral infection, pushing the death toll to 458. As per a medical bulletin, 680 patients recovered from the infection on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 32,640. The recovery rate was over 83% and the fatality rate was 1.17%. The number of active cases was 6,205 in Haryana. About 53% of the new infections on Thursday came from five NCR districts of Faridabad (161), Gurugram (83), Rohtak (60), Sonepat (51) and Rewari (48). Other districts which threw up substantial number of new cases were Ambala (78), Panchkula (54), Kurukshetra and Hisar (36 each) and Karnal (34). The bulletin said there were 127 critically ill patients, including 14 on ventilator support, on Thursday. Among other districts, Yamunanagar reported 24 new infections followed by Panipat (22), Bhiwani (15), Sirsa and Jhajjar (14 each), Kaithal (10), Nuh (6), Mahendergarh (5), Jind and Charkhi Dadri (2 each). No new infections were reported from Palwal and Fatehabad. Sarpanch of Mundsa village, a 35-year-old Delhi transport bus driver from Bahadurgarh, and a 45-year-old milkman from Dhani Ahiran were among 14 cases detected in Jhajjar. PANIPAT MLA TESTS POSITIVEPanipat (rural) MLA Mahipal Dhanda tested positive of Covid-19 on Thursday. In Karnal, a 42-year doctor from Nilokheri succumbed to the infection at a private hospital in Panchkula. He was posted at LNJP Hospital in Kurukshetra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/755-new-infections-take-haryana-tally-past-39k/story-WFUx35H1w0jRqyACuOJR7L.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Sero survey to determine virus exposure to begin next week in Haryana||For measuring the proportion of population exposed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), including the asymptomatic individuals, the Haryana health department will begin a comprehensive statewide sero survey from next week. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said the survey recommended by the ICMR will begin from Panchkula and Ambala. He said the department plans to conduct 21,120 immunoglobulin enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (IgG- ELISA) tests across 22 districts in collaboration with PGIMER, Chandigarh. “About 960 blood-based ELISA tests per district have been planned by the health department. Stratified multistage random sampling will be done and the samples will be divided into rural and urban clusters,” the ACS said. Health officials said immunoglobulin antibodies generally start appearing after two weeks of onset of infection and last for several months. “The test can be performed to indicate episode of coronavirus infection in the past. Detection of IgG antibodies would help us to understand the proportion of population exposed to the viral infection, including asymptomatic individuals,” the ACS said. Officials said depending upon the findings of sero-prevalence of infection, public health interventions will be planned and implemented for the prevention and control of the disease by the policy makers. The information obtained from survey will also help the districts to understand the proportion of population exposed to Covid-19 infection. The ACS said that state government would seek the co-operation of public in conducting the sero survey and confidentiality will be maintained. “We would want to know how many people have already suffered from this virus. A lot of people get infected, but do not show any symptom like fever, cough and cold. In many cases, the symptoms are so mild that they go unnoticed. The immunoglobulin ELISA blood tests can tell us if they got this infection in the recent past,” Arora said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sero-survey-to-determine-virus-exposure-to-begin-next-week-in-haryana/story-S7ugBO1Y5XOhREdJ1GodmO.html
07-08-2020||Gurugram||To ensure safe I Day celebrations, Covid 19 test for staff, awardees to be conducted||The Gurugram administration will test security personnel to be deployed at the Independence Day celebrations at the Tau Devi Lal stadium for the coronavirus disease Covid-19. Along with them, persons receiving commendation certificates and awards too will be tested.The Union home ministry, last month, had called for a more restricted celebrations around the country in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. It had asked that all events be restricted to a few people to avoid crowds and that all health protocols are followed.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageGurugram has made it mandatory for those attending the event at the stadium to wear a mask and have their body temperature checked, said officials. Haryana deputy chief minsiter Dushyant Chautala will be the chief guest and he will unfurl the national flag. Amit Khatri, Gurugram deputy commissioner, who chaired a meeting of officials in this regard at PWD Guest House on Thursday, said that the district administration will felicitate the freedom fighters at their homes. The administration will also felicitate Covid-19 warriors -- health workers, sanitation workers and staff from other departments. “The nominations for these awards can be sent through email or submitted at room no 112 in mini-secretariat. This list will be finalised by August 12 after which all these employees will have to undergo Covid 19 test,” said Khatri, adding that health department has assured that results of these tests would be made available by August 14. The deputy commissioner said that employees and security personnel deployed around the chief guest will have to undergo Covid-19 test. “The entire stadium will be sanitised by the municipal corporation of Gurugram. Rehearsals of the parade will be held complying with all safety norms on August 11, 12 and 13,” he said.Delving on the programme, Khatri said that the chief guest will first pay homage to martyrs at John Hall in the morning and thereafter reach the stadium and unfurl the national flag.A parade will be held at the stadium after which the chief guest will address the gathering.The function this year will not witness the usual colourful cultural programmes but a small event will be presented by school students and the programme will culminate with singing of the national anthem, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/to-ensure-safe-i-day-celebrations-covid-19-test-for-staff-awardees-to-be-conducted/story-2tKCXMM1PwBsS5P2CP8UsL.html
07-08-2020||Pune||Water stock crosses 50% mark in four Pune dams||Two days heavy rains and light rain on Thursday – resulted in a water stock of four dams exceeding above 50 per cent, according to officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune.Kahadakswasla which recorded 98 mm rain on Thursday is now 73.01 per cent full and if it rains heavily at night then water may be released from the dam on Friday, said officials.“In the next three days (August 7-9) light rains are expected in the city. On August 7 ghat areas are likely to witness heavy rains. In catchment areas the intensity of rain will be less,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune.Throughout the day, the city did not receive intense spells of rain with maximum temperature recorded at 26.2 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature at 21.1 degrees Celsius.During the day Mahabaleshwar received 130 mm rainfall, highest in the state.“In the coming days we will receive good monsoon,” added Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/water-stock-in-dams-cross-50-mark/story-qp8lVGoQReKFA1oYZKIO3M.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||How can you do this to a 300-year-old tree? Anguished HC pulls up Delhi govt, civic body||A towering banyan tree, believed to be at least 300 years old, stands hemmed in by concrete and cement on Nai Sadak, Chandni Chowk, with metal rods from a neighbouring under-construction building tearing through its branches and the dug-up ground laying exposed its roots. Although its canopy has become sparse, from the abuse it was made to endure over the years, Chandni Chowk’s majestic banyan continues to stand tall. On Thursday, it found an unlikely advocate and ally in the Delhi high court.The court minced no words in pulling up the authorities for the damage caused to the “heritage” tree and directed the Delhi government and North Delhi Municipal Corporation to take steps for its “immediate restoration”. Justice Najmi Waziri, while hearing a plea regarding illegal construction in Chandni Chowk filed by area resident Nitin Gupta, was astonished by the condition of the tree which had its aerial roots chopped and its trunk hemmed in by concrete. Expressing his anguish and displeasure, Wazri said photographs show the “horrific” condition of the “grand old tree, which has seen the unfolding of the city”. “How can you do this to a 300-year-old tree? It has existed even before the Britishers could even think of coming to India. It is a part of the heritage of this city. How can you damage it in this manner?” Wazri said. He then went on to issue a slew of directions, including action against erring officials and the builder. Even though the North Delhi Municipal Corporation does not have records showing the exact age of the banyan, long-time residents, recalling stories passed on by their forefathers, estimate that the tree was planted around the 17th century. Residents say the neighbourhood, ‘Kothi Barwali (the house around the Banyan tree)’, got its name after the banyan. Kushmakar Rastogi, a resident who filed an application impleading to save the banyan, said the tree used to be surrounded by houses on three sides. “This property belonged to one Satyanarayan Gurwali, who was believed to be the richest man in the area about 300 years ago. His family planted this tree. There used to be melas under the tree and everyone from the neighbourhood used to gather around,” Rastogi said. Environmentalist Pradip Krishen said many “heritage” trees in Old Delhi are suffering a similar fate. “The problem is that unless we know where these trees are located, how can the government or the courts direct its restoration? We need a detailed survey to know the location of such trees and an elaborate plan to restore them,” Krishen said. On the last date of hearing, July 14, advocate RK Kapoor, appearing for Gupta, brought to the court’s notice the dereliction of the tree. The court then sought a status report from the authorities, including the tree officer and the Delhi government. On Thursday, during the impleadment hearing, Rastogi said that even he was aggrieved by the illegal construction. The plea also said Rastogi had written to the conservator of forests against the pruning of the banyan and taking note of this, the conservator had slapped the builder with a fine of ₹8,000. Appearing for the Delhi government, standing counsel (civil) Ramesh Singh and additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan sought some time to file the status report. The court said strict action should be taken against the officers who in connivance with the builder have allowed the unauthorised construction to take place. The court later asked the authorities to work on “war footing” to restore the tree. It asked the authorities to file a status report and also take criminal action, if required, against the erring persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/how-can-you-do-this-to-a-300-year-old-tree-anguished-hc-pulls-up-delhi-govt-civic-body/story-9a9ZAV3wMBrNn4crMJA3EN.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt sends fresh proposal to L-G to open hotels, weekly markets, gyms||The Delhi government on Thursday sent a fresh proposal to lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, seeking his permission to allow hotels, gymnasiums, and weekly markets to reopen in the national capital.The fresh proposal sent by revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said such economic activities should be allowed to resume in Delhi since the Covid-19 situation had improved and the number of cases was coming down.“The L-G is aware that the situation in Delhi is fast improving and economic activities need to be opened up so that those people who have been suffering for the last four months due to imposition of the lockdown, can resume their jobs and business, albeit with restrictions,” read the proposal sent to the L-G.The new proposal was sent almost a week after the L-G rejected a similar suggestion of the Delhi government to open hotels and weekly markets. In Thursday’s proposal, the government included its request to open gyms and yoga centres also. Delhi on Thursday recorded 1,299 new cases of Covid-19, a sharp drop from the middle of June, when more than 2,000 new cases were being added regularly. Daily new cases hit a high of 3,947 on June 23.Gahlot said the people of Delhi are conscious of the risk of Corona and cited examples of UP and Karnataka, which have allowed these services to resume despite a surge in Covid cases.“When the central government is allowing some sectors to be opened in those states, which have become hots pots of Corona, and at the same time Centre is stopping Delhi from opening these sectors, when Delhi, through its hard work and discipline, has been able to control Corona so well, then Delhiites are asking ‘why are we being made to suffer? Why is our livelihood under attack?’,” Gahlot wrote.The L-G’s office did not comment on the matter till this report was filed. The minister wrote that hotels contributed to 8% of the state’s GDP, while weekly markets provide employment to 5 lakh poor families.He wrote, “Since the time the L-G rejected our recommendation (to open up these sectors) last week, there has been a huge public uproar. The entire Delhi now wants to work towards economic recovery. Delhi should not be stopped. Delhi showed the way to the country to tackle Corona. Delhi will now show the way for economic recovery also.”“Therefore, I would urge that considering the improved Corona situation and the sentiments of Delhiites, we should open up these sectors. It has been a week now when our recommendation was rejected by the LG. We may now urge the L-G to reconsider his decision. MHA has also permitted the opening of yoga centres and gyms in its latest guidelines. These activities should be permitted in Delhi. However, the SOPs issued by the Government of India should be followed,” Gahlot wrote.On July 30, Delhi had decided to allow hotels, hospitality services, street hawkers to operate and do away with the night curfew hours between 10pm and 5am under the Centre’s Unlock 3 plan. The government intended to allow weekly bazaars to operate for a week on a trial basis to check if social distancing norms are adhered to. A day later, Baijal rejected the decision,saying the Covid-19 situation continued to be “fragile” in Delhi and the threat is still “far from over”. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah, urging him to allow hotels and weekly markets to reopen and issue directions to the L-G.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-sends-fresh-proposal-to-l-g-to-open-hotels-weekly-markets-gyms/story-ZQbAtL6pxoGNOSwp4wcUQI.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||179 cases, Chandigarh tricity area’s another grim milestone||With 179 new Covid-19 cases, the Chandigarh tricity area on Thursday recorded the sharpest spike in a day so far. This last happened only a day before on Wednesday with 143 cases, reflecting no let-up in the spread of infection.Mohali, with 68 fresh cases, also saw the steepest surge within 24 hours, which took the tally to 1,119. This is also the highest number of Covid cases any of the tricity towns have recorded till now. Panchkula confirmed 65 cases on July 21, while Chandigarh’s highest count remains 64.Since the very first case on March 18, the tricity’s Covid count has soared to 3,262 in four months, with 1,363 cases still active (42%). As many as 40 people have succumbed to the virus.MOST MOHALI CASES FROM KHARARAmong the 68 new cases in Mohali district, 25 are from Kharar sub-division, 21 from Dera Bassi and 22 from Mohali city. Of the 1,119 confirmed cases, 625 patients have recovered and 17 have died. On Thursday, 26 patients were discharged, bringing down the active cases to 477.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, who reviewed the status of the pandemic with the health department officials on Thursday, said the Covid spike management plan was prepared ahead of time and had now been put into action. Under the plan, besides Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, the Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, has been started with 200 beds for asymptomatic patients. “Another 800 beds can be pressed into use if needed. Another CCC will be set up in Dera Bassi. Private hospitals have been put on alert and told to reserve more beds for isolation cases,” he said, adding that a dedicated facility had been set up at the Mohali civil hospital for Covid-positive pregnant women. Besides the infrastructure upgrade, testing capacity has been enhanced. Antigen testing has been commenced, allowing availability of test results within 30 minutes. “Our target is to test at least 100 contacts of positive patients in a day to check the spread of virus,” the DC said. Another TrueNAT machine for detecting of coronavirus has been installed at Dera Bassi. Besides this, a dedicated call centre will soon be started to provide quick medical consultancy to patients opting for home isolation. “Doctors from the centre will remain in touch with the patients. Video calling facility may also be extended to patients,” Dayalan added. MC COUNCILLOR POSITIVE, FIRST CASE AT UT SECRETARIATAn MC councillor, a UT Secretariat employee, a Chandigarh Traffic Police ASI, an employee of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited, an attendant at the Employees Provident Fund Organisation and two healthcare workers were among the 57 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Chandigarh on Thursday. The case tally has climbed to 1,327, highest in the tricity, with the number of deaths being 20, also the topmost fatalities in the three towns. On the bright side, a record 62 patients were discharged on Thursday, which took the number of people recovered to 777, leaving 529 active cases in the city.Hardeep Singh, the MC councillor found positive, said he was feeling uneasy since Wednesday night, following which he went for Covid-19 testing and reported positive. “I am in isolation at my house and have no symptoms,” said Singh, a SAD leader and a former UT senior deputy mayor. Singh had attended the function to commemorate the bhoomi pujan of Ram Temple in Ayodhya at the BJP headquarters on Wednesday.As a precautionary measure, the BJP office in Sector 33 has been closed. A UT official said as the UT Secretariat employee, a clerk in the finance department, was found positive – the first case at the building – his workplace on the fourth storey’s mezzanine floor will be sanitised and his close contacts will be tested.The fourth floor houses offices of top UT officials, including the home secretary and finance secretary.The employee’s father, who works in UT’s treasury office in Sector 17, has also tested positive.The healthcare workers include a resident doctor at GMCH, Sector 32, and a hospital attendant at PGIMER.As many as 28 fresh cases are contacts of positive cases, while a Sector-26 man, who returned from abroad recently, has also been found infected.The remaining cases have been reported from Sectors 8, 19, 22, 24, 26, 30, 32, 34, 38, 40, 41, 43, 44, 45 46 52 and 63, besides Manimajra, Ram Darbar, Dhanas, Bapu Dham Colony, Maloya and Burail. In Sector 45, six from one family, and four from another family in Sector 41 have contracted the infection. A bank employee, who lives in Sector 43, has also been found infected.While 50 patients were tested through RT-PCR, the remaining underwent Antigen tests.PANCHKULA TALLY REACHES 816 WITH 54 CASESPanchkula confirmed 54 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, 45 of them males.Of the total 816 cases in the district now, 357 are active, while 456 patients have been discharged and three have died.As many as 20 patients among the fresh cases are ITBP personnel aged between 30 and 42.Eight new infections were reported from Raipur Rani, six from Kalka and four from Pinjore. Three patients each are from Sector 15 and Nawan Nagar, two each from Sector 7, Marranwala and Kishangarh, and one each from Sectors 8, 12, 25, and Billa village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tricity-records-sharpest-single-day-surge-with-179-covid-19-infections/story-jvCZlMlswtFYw47lP6fR6I.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||With limited public transit, traffic rises in unlocked Delhi||With the Metro still shut and other modes of public transportation plying only with restrictions on the number of passengers, Delhi’s roads have seen a surge in vehicular volume, leading to incessant traffic snarls, shows an HT analysis. This is happening even as people are not moving around as much as they were before the lockdown was imposed, according to data from Google’s community mobility trends. Experts say increased use of private vehicles in the absence of public transport explains the increased vehicle traffic.Delhi traffic police control room records show that from May 20 — when public transport and public movement resumed in the city after restrictions were eased — to August 5, at least 15 arterial stretches have seen an increase in vehicular traffic. Daily complaints of traffic jams have also seen a considerable spike, even during non-peak hours, senior officials said. Traffic estimates show that in the busiest stretches of the city, including ITO junction, Ashram intersection, Britannia Chowk, Mukarba Chowk, Delhi-Noida Direct Flyway and Dhaula Kuan crossing, traffic volume during peak rush hours has increased by nearly 15-17%, compared to pre-lockdown period. The police observed that this increase was observed primarily around commercial hubs and office complexes. For instance, in ITO intersection, the busiest commercial hub in the city, traffic volume after May 20 has increased from a daily average of 350,000 vehicles to 525,000 during peak morning and evening rush hours.Connaught Place, Rajouri Garden, Uttam Nagar, Kashmere Gate, South Extension, Hauz Khas and Dwarka Link Road have all seen a significant increase in snarls.“Especially with the Metro still not operational, the streets have seen an increased load. The number of buses is limited, and there are also restrictions on the number of passengers that can enter one, so anyone who owns a private vehicle now prefers to use it,” a senior traffic official said. Commuters too complain of serpentine vehicle-queues on roads and crawling traffic. Sumukhi Suresh, an IT professional who works in Noida, said that earlier she used to take the Metro to work, which took her 50 minutes from Dwarka Sector 10, but she is now forced to drive, and it now takes her nearly 1.5 hours to get to work these days. “I leave home at 8.30am and I still get a long jam on the Dwarka flyover. After the opening of the Pink Line, traffic on this stretch had reduced considerably, but now things have gone back to how it was. In fact, it has become worse now,” Suresh said.However, vehicular volume around shopping complexes and recreational spots had decreased, traffic police estimates show. People in Delhi are still not travelling as much as they used to before the nationwide lockdown was imposed from March 25, but overall mobility has been gradually increasing over time, according to data from Google’s community mobility trends. The tool tracks the number and length of visits people make to certain kinds of places compared to a baseline – in this case, a five-week period between 3 January and 6 February this year.After the lockdown was announced on 25 March, Delhi saw close to 80% drop in people’s mobility to retail and recreational places, parks, supermarkets, pharmacies and workplaces. Public transit, which includes places such as bus and train stations, saw the highest drop in people’s mobility in a week after the lockdown was announced, as much as 88%.This, however, has been gradually changing with the city-state easing the lockdown measures over time. For example, on 1st April there was a 73% drop in visits to supermarkets and pharmacies compared to the baseline, but the drop was 64% on 1st May, 27% on 1st June, 26% on 1st July and 20% on 1st August. Similarly, as people started travelling around, the drop in visits to public transits hubs changed from 87% on 1st April to 52% on 1st August.As Metro services continue to remain suspended, visits to travel hubs cannot be expected to be as high as the pre-lockdown period. Also, schools and many offices have still not resumed functioning, which in itself reduces vehicular traffic movement in the city. As on 1st August, Google’s community mobility data showed 44% drop in visits to workplaces compared to the baseline. The drop in visits to workplaces was more than 80% during the peak lockdown period.Transport experts said this increased dependence on private vehicles is likely to continue for at least another year. A survey released by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) in May had shown that the use of private vehicles is expected to increase and the ridership of Delhi Metro and public buses will reduce in the coming months.“The government will be facing the challenge of restoring commuters’ faith in public transport modes. Even after the metro is opened for people, a person who owns a car will prefer using travelling in the safe confines of their own vehicle, instead of travelling in the metro with hundreds of people where the chances of catching the coronavirus infection is more,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), CSE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-limited-public-transit-traffic-rises-in-unlocked-capital/story-9MwiYmpePj6oKNwamOCsUJ.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||Structural audit for Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s official house||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s official residence at 6 Flagstaff Road in north Delhi’s Civil Lines is being assessed for its structural safety, senior officials in the government said on Thursday. The structural safety audit was commissioned after portions of Kejriwal’s official residence saw repeated damage, ranging from a ceiling collapse to a wall crumbling down.“Over the past two weeks, especially after the heavy rainfall the city witnessed in July, a lot of issues have emerged in the CM’s residence. Recently, the ceiling of the CM’s main office chamber, where he used to conduct public hearings, collapsed. Luckily, no one was injured because the chamber has not been used since the pandemic struck Delhi,” said a staff member deployed at the CM’s residence. The Public Works Department (PWD) has now been tasked with making the buildings within the CM’s residence structurally sound. However, while civil engineers worked on refurbishing the collapsed ceiling of Kejriwal’s chamber, the ceiling of its adjoining toilet, which was used by visitors also collapsed, an official said. Another PWD official said the building where Kejriwal lives is nearly 80 years old.“Workers were repairing the toilet’s ceiling after the collapse when a wall of the toilet also started to crumble,” he said. “CM Kejriwal moved into this house in March 2015 and since then, there has been some structural problem or the other. So, it was decided that a complete structural safety audit of the entire residence would be conducted. Based on the findings of the audit, the future course of action will be decided. The actions could be many ranging from a complete renovation to targeted repair works,” the official said.The CM’s office did not give any official statement on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/structural-audit-for-kejriwal-s-official-house/story-f12tZd8ZyFsvQr2Kgi3WSK.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||Why Delhi woke up to a clear, blue sky||It took a rare confluence of five factors -- strong easterly winds, rain the previous day, low dust and emissions, a high ventilation coefficient, and bright sunshine -- for Delhi to wake up on Thursday to something it rarely does: a clean, clear, cerulean sky.To be precise, the wind speed was 30-40kmph, 13 mm of rain was recorded at the Safdarjang station on Wednesday, the contribution of dust to the air pollution was nil, and the ventilation coefficient was 45,000 metres square per second.A set of numbers in this ballpark -- which on Thursday equalled a blue sky with a mix of interspersed high and low white clouds -- coincide only a few times a year in the Capital.The data above is from the India Meteorological Department and the Air Quality Early Warning System under the Union ministry of earth sciences.“There was a cyclonic circulation over Madhya Pradesh that brought light rain on Wednesday. There are strong easterlies blowing at 30 to 40km per hour that helped clear the skies. On August 8, we are expecting a change in wind patterns. A low pressure area is developing again in the Bay of Bengal. We are expecting moderate category rain in Delhi on August 10, 11 and 12,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre.IMD in its Thursday bulletin said strong surface winds will continue to blow over north-west India till Friday.“The low pressure area that had formed over Bay of Bengal on August 4 now lies over south-west Madhya Pradesh. It is very likely to become less marked by August 7. There is strong south westerly/westerly monsoonal flow over the Arabian sea with wind speed reaching 50-60kmph along and off the west coast. Strong surface winds are likely to prevail over northwestern plains till Friday,” the bulletin said.According to an explainer by Nasa on why the sky the blue, when sunlight reaches the earth’s atmosphere and is scattered in all directions by all the gases and particles in the air, blue light is scattered more than the other colours because it travels as shorter, smaller waves.“A combination of clouds and radiation from sunlight determines the colour (or the blueness) of the sky,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD.“We had a clear sky [on Thursday]. There were less clouds, but not the entire day. We had a mix of high and low clouds but no cumulonimbus clouds, which are associated with thunderstorms,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMDThe combination of factors also cleared the Delhi air. The air quality index (AQI) on Thursday was 69 -- in the “satisfactory” category -- for the second time this week , and also the second time since April 2. Delhi has recorded “satisfactory” air continuously for the past 10 days. The air has was also “satisfactory” for an unusually high number of days since March 25, when the lockdown was imposed, due to a fall in vehicular emissions sparked by reduced traffic flow, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) data.“There were 60 satisfactory air days this year till July 31, compared to 15 last year. One ‘good’ air day (AQI less than 50) was also recorded in March,” said VK Shukla, in charge of air quality at CPCB.“Meteorological factors alone cannot bring such a change in air quality. Vehicular emissions are still relatively lower than before the lockdown period. This, in combination means pollutants are dispersing,” said Sachin Ghude, a scientist at IMD.A ventilation coefficient, which captures the ability of the atmosphere to dilute and disperse the pollutants over a region, of 6,000 is considered favourable for dispersion..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/why-delhi-woke-up-to-a-clear-blue-sky/story-lK5WJkavdVw7JlD91idXBO.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||Suspect who sexually assaulted, stabbed minor girl arrested; Kejriwal hands over ₹10 lakh to her kin||The Delhi Police on Thursday arrested a 35-year-old man in connection with the alleged sexual assault of a 12-year-old girl, who is undergoing treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in the national capital. Krishan, who goes by one name, has a criminal record and attacked the girl at her residence in outer Delhi’s Paschim Vihar area on Tuesday, according to Shalini Singh, joint commissioner of police (western range). The child was allegedly sexually assaulted when her parents and sister were away at work. She was stabbed multiple times with a scissors. Neighbours who spotted the bleeding child alerted the police, who rushed her to a hospital. She is in a critical condition. On Thursday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the girl at AIIMS and announced a financial aid of ₹10 lakh for her family. “The toughest punishment will be given to the culprit. We will appoint the best of our lawyers so that the culprit gets the strictest punishment,” Kejriwal said. Later in the day, Singh said Krishan’s interrogation confirmed the sequence of events. “He has four previous criminal cases registered against him — one of murder, one case of attempt to murder and two of burglary. Further interrogation is underway,” Singh said. The police have also established through CCTV footage that the man, also known as Kakka, entered the house at 4.40pm and left the building by 4.56pm, according to officials. The primary motive of the suspect was burglary, a police official said, requesting anonymity. “He said he was looking for a house that he could easily target....he found the house open and entered. The girl saw him and raised an alarm...he picked up a sewing machine and threw it at her. He said he also picked up a scissor and stabbed her. Because he was heavily inebriated, he doesn’t remember how many times he stabbed her,” the official said. Multiple teams were pressed into action to identify and arrest the suspect. Announcing help for the girl’s family during his hospital visit, Kejriwal said: “The Delhi government will offer financial assistance of ₹10 lakh to the family of the girl. The girl was the victim of a very brutal attack and this money is a means of providing support to her family.” “She has suffered serious internal injuries, which I find hard even to describe. She is currently unconscious and the doctors said she was in a really bad shape when she was brought in on Tuesday. Since then, she has undergone a surgery and it would take another 24-48 hours for her to make it out of danger. We hope that she recovers fully and goes back home,” he added. A second investigator, who did not want to be named because he is not authorised to speak to the media, said when they started scanning CCTV footage, they spotted a man wearing a mask entering the building where the girl stayed. “After some time, the same man was spotted exiting the building, still wearing the mask. Because the time he spent inside the building matches with the time frame when the girl was sexually assaulted and stabbed, he became our prime suspect,” this official said. Then, the official added, CCTV footage checked from nearby areas. “In one footage, we spotted him removing his mask. We got that footage enhanced and he was identified,” he said. When shown his image, the girl’s parents said they did not know the man, the police said. “Delhi Police have taken the case registered under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) at Paschim Vihar police station seriously,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Eish Singhal. Meanwhile, Delhi Commission for Women chief Swati Maliwal, too, visited AIIMS to meet the girl’s family on Thursday. DCW also summoned the Delhi Police and sought a detailed action taken report in the case. “Finally, now the police has arrested a person. There should be no delay in getting justice for the daughter. May God bless the girl with good health. Rape cannot be allowed to become a common practice in the country,” Maliwal tweeted after the arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/suspect-who-sexually-assaulted-stabbed-minor-girl-arrested-kejriwal-hands-over-10-lakh-to-her-kin/story-7XSIyHTIT66fOWAggnhUcI.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||Labourer thrashed to death on suspicion of stealing cash; suspects nabbed||Two truck drivers on Monday morning beat a 25-year-old man to death, on the suspicion that he stole ₹90,000 cash and mobile phones from them.The police arrested the two men later that day, apprehending them as they tried to flee the city with the victim in their truck. Senior officers aware of the matter said there was no evidence to suggest the victim had stolen anything from the drivers.Police found the victim, Vishal, a labour worker, unconscious in the back of the truck during a routine check at the Singhu Border in north Delhi. He was declared dead on arrival at a hospital later that day.Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west), said the allegations that Vishal had stolen their phones and cash was unfounded, and there was no evidence to suggest as much. “He has no criminal past as well,” Arya said.The two truck drivers, Sandeep Kumar and Sanjeev Kumar, have been booked for murder, kidnapping and destruction of evidence. DCP Arya said the brothers would make frequent trips from Himachal Pradesh to Delhi to transport apples. They had driven from Bilaspur in Himachal Pradesh, and sold apples at Azadpur Mandi worth ₹90,000 late on Sunday night, she said. When they were preparing to make their way back, they allegedly realised the cash and their cellphone were missing from the truck.Vishal lived with his parents in a slum in nearby Haiderpur and earned his living by loading and unloading fruits and vegetables at the market. Often, he would spend his nights at the market itself, am investigator who asked not to be identified said.He came under the radar of the two truck drivers around 2am on Monday.Since they found Vishal around near their truck in the market, they suspected him of stealing the cash and allegedly began beating him up.Pintu, a labour worker who lives and works at the mandi, said he woke up around 2.30am to loud noises from outside. “I went out and saw two men beating a labourer up, and accusing him of stealing their cash,” he said.“After thrashing him, the two men tied him up, threw him into their truck and drove away,” Pintu, who goes by a single name, added.The truckers weren’t able to drive very far. In about an hour, they found themselves in a traffic jam at the Singhu Border adjoining Haryana.“The traffic police were checking the trucks and other vehicles for violations. They checked the insides of this truck as well and found an injured man tied up inside an otherwise empty truck,” DCP Arya said.The police untied Vishal and rushed him to Ambedkar Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.The two suspects, meanwhile, were arrested and handed over to Mahendra Park police station.An investigator said the two truckers thought that they would torture him further ahead in Himachal Pradesh in the hope of making him speak up about the location of the allegedly stolen cash.The police, meanwhile, took the two suspects to the Mandi where Pintu identified them as the people who had assaulted Vishal. In the absence of an identity card on Vishal and since hardly anyone at the market knew him, it took the police an entire day of asking around the market, before they could identify him and alert his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-thrashed-to-death-on-suspicion-of-stealing-cash-suspects-nabbed/story-X9KiEn2Wy2si5B3rynx61M.html
07-08-2020||Delhi||Centre asks metro to seek Delhi govt’s help to repay loan||The Union housing and urban affairs (HUA) ministry has asked Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to approach the Delhi government for financial assistance to repay its loan instalment for this year. The DMRC had taken a soft loan of Rs 35,198 crore for construction work from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA)With Metro shut since March 22 due to the Coronavirus pandemic, DMRC has suffered a revenue loss of about Rs 1,300 crore. Last month, it had written to the Centre, requesting it to defer the payment to next year.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “We have received such a communication from the ministry recently. The same is being examined and processed. “The DMRC is yet to write to the Delhi government or take a decision in this regard.The Delhi government spokesperson did not offer a comment.A ministry official said they asked DMRC to contact the state government for financial aid.DMRC has repaid Rs 3,337 crore of the loan to JICA. According to another DMRC official, Metro has to pay Rs 1242.83 crore as instalment for the financial year 2020-21.According to the DMRC official, “The Metro has paid Rs 79.19 crore on account of interest for this financial year and the balance liability of Rs 1163.64 crore is yet to be paid.”The loan has been granted at a concessional rate of interest, varying from 1.2% to 2.3%, and has to be repaid in 30 years with a moratorium period of 10 years.The Metro, which has a network of 389km with 285 stations, earns nearly Rs 3,600 crore from fare and by renting out its space at stations to commercial establishments. Commercial establishments operating at metro stations had written to the DMRC to defer rental payments as there had been no business since March.There are about 400 shops apart from property development at stations such as Nehru Place and HUDA City Centre, etc., which attracts a lot of crowd due to the restaurants. DMRC is yet to take a decision in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-asks-metro-to-seek-delhi-govt-s-help-to-repay-loan/story-1kkfxiUziyA2if0biJrFSK.html
07-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s recovery rate is 58.7% and with 17k isolated at home, city gets more beds available||The city’s recovery rate is improving with 58.7% as of Wednesday and with over 17k isolated at home, the city is witnessing a drop in the number of complaints with regards to bed shortage. The recovery figure was 40.5% in the beginning of April. The administration has also improved its bed capacity as, a month ago, the city had close to 6,200 beds dedicated for Covid-19, which rose to 9,600 in a month. The civic body is also coming up with jumbo facilities on the College of Engineering, Pune [COEP] ground which will add to its Covid bed facilities. As of August 5, Pune city has reported over 60,000 progressive positive cases out of which over 42,000 have been recovered. The number of deaths is 1,459 and 16,758 active cases. In addition, over 17,199 are in home isolation as per the information from the district health department. The recoveries include those discharged from hospitals and also those who have completed their home isolation period of 14 days. The recovery rate of the city has also been improving drastically. The recovery rate, which was initially 40.5% in the beginning of April, dropped to 21.7% in the beginning of May and then rose again in June to 47.1%, touched 49.5% in July and, as of Wednesday, the rate is 58.7%. The district administration also added 3,400 beds to its Covid-19 bed capacity out of which 1,681 isolation beds without oxygen, 1,434 isolation beds with oxygen, 117 ICU beds without ventilators and 255 ICU beds with ventilators. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “We are also starting another Covid care centre [CCC] at Hadapsar with close to 350 beds. The jumbo facilities will add on to our Covid bed capacity. In addition, the number of active cases has also gone down 27% as of Wednesday which was 35% as of July 29, which was earlier about 39%. We saw over 10,000 discharges in the last ten days of July.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-recovery-rate-is-58-7-and-with-17k-isolated-at-home-city-gets-more-beds-available/story-sa7i1QIKH0xi8pycGgoY3K.html
07-08-2020||Pune||Health facilities in Pune: Infrastructure can be created, but what of medical staff?||The neglect by authorities to set up medical and nursing colleges to cover the expanding city has left public healthcare facilities at a new low because of medical staff crunch. And an epidemic like coronavirus has complicated the problem even further. While Pune district saw scores of engineering colleges built over the years, only six medical colleges, including the most recent Baramati college, and a few nursing institutes, mostly private, were set up during the period. And the lack of planning by authorities caused shortage of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had proposed to start a medical college named after Atal Bihari Vajpayee a decade ago, but not much progress was made till recently when the plan got the nod from the state government. More than doctors, there has been a huge shortage of nurses across the city. According to Jibin TC, president, United Nurses Association, the administration was alerted about manpower shortfall in advance, but no step was taken. “Contract nurses are often given inhumane working hours wherein they have to attend to 5-6 ICU patients when the protocol states that one ICU patient must get one dedicated nurse. They are not given leaves and now we are seeing that nurses at private hospitals are not paid their dues on time. The jumbo facilities in many places across Mumbai are lying vacant because they do not have staff and PMC is also doing the same thing. They can buy the best machines and occupy all hotels or hospitals, but from where will they get the staff?” said Jibin. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association said, “The government’s policy to not build enough hospitals over the years has led to this situation. While engineering colleges sprawled especially in Pune, there are hardly any medical colleges. Even during the swine flu pandemic, many promises were made but nothing happened. The government’s policy now to offer more money to hire more staff is only leading to poaching from private hospitals who are feeling the pinch now.” PMC’s long-pending proposal to build its own medical college at Naidu hospital has recently got approval for the state which has asked the civic body to form a medical trust. A proposal which was only on paper for years got its much-needed approval only when the Covid-19 pandemic struck. Over the years, the city has had only 8 medical colleges and a few nursing schools which are mostly owned by private entities. Former Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram had said that the administration is recruiting staff from private hospitals on contract, from rural areas and also from nearby districts. The senior official said that contractors or third parties have been appointed to set up jumbo facilities and they will be responsible to recruit staff.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-facilities-in-pune-infrastructure-can-be-created-but-what-about-medical-staff/story-EcgXVuSmQTq6CwTSQ9qeZL.html
07-08-2020||Pune||Stuck in Pune due to Covid, Hong Kong-based doc’s murals spread positivity||Dr Pratishtha Banga, an MD in Pharmacology from GMC Aurangabad, and an MBBS from the BJ Medical College in Pune, is acutely aware of the challenges the medical fraternity in the city face on a daily basis battling the Covid-19 pandemic. Dr Banga lives and practices in Hong Kong, but given the lockdown scenario, both here and abroad, she has been in Pune for the last five months. Dr Banga has been making her presence felt in Kalyaninagar, not with her medical prowess per se, but with a paint brush and the area’s walls as her canvas. “I don’t have to do clinic duties, but watching my other friends during these Covid time gave me the inspiration to paint a mural of a female doctor – who is currently multi-tasking. I just want people to notice how bravely doctors and nurses are managing everything during these Covid time, and that they should be respected and not attacked,” says Dr Banga, who by her art, a mere hobby of hers, is spreading a positive vibe and giving Kalyaninagar an uplifting aesthetic in these pandemic times. Dr Banga’s murals adorn the Vitthalrao Vandekar road in Kalyani nagar and Rajesh Bankar, assistant commissioner, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) fully supported her, when she asked for permission. Every day, for three days, from 9am to 7pm, Dr Banga was out on the street painting. Dr Banga, who is in Pune visiting her parents who live here, began the art work on July 9 and was done by July 11. She used exterior Acrylic Emulsion paints and has put in around Rs 3,500 for the art work.“I came here in December 2019. Since the Covid cases were increasing in Hong Kong at the time, I stayed back and had no idea that India would go into lockdown. Painting walls is my hobby for which I spare seven hours a week since my college days,” she says. “These paintings are for all the doctors who are performing high-risk duties. I have my brother who works in Mumbai treating Covid patients and after work he comes home to a three-year-old son. Doctors are having the hardest life and if I get the chance I would like to do some more such paintings to inspire them,” she says. The murals are now an attraction in Kalyaninagar. “A few days back I noticed the paintings – and it is a wonderful way to thank the doctors. Being a doctor who is treating Covid patients, I feel good looking at the wall while going home every day,” says Dr Dhanshree Rapitwar, who works in one private hospital and lives in Kalyaninagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stuck-in-pune-due-to-covid-hong-kong-based-doc-s-murals-spread-positivity/story-CzWAlbUm9FxzFCnjJKRGUI.html
07-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s Aditya Birla memorial hospital nursing staff stage protest over alleged long working hours, pay hike||Pune: The nursing staff at Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital (ABMH), Chinchwad, staged a protest at the hospital premises and outside the main gate on Thursday against alleged long working hours and pay hike. The protesters claimed that they have been forced to work for 12 hours instead of six-hour shift, improper rotation of work shifts, salary increment, unclear leave of absence and flouting of quarantine protocols. They said that separate accommodation should be provided to nurses looking after Covid cases. The protestors have also written a letter to Rajesh Tope, health minister of Maharashtra. HT has a copy of the letter. While the hospital management has denied the allegations, the protesting staff, mostly coming from out of state, allege that they have been asked to vacant the hostel if they don’t want to work as per the terms of hospital management. Rekha Dubey, CEO, Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital, said, “They don’t want to work which is their right, and we cannot force anyone to work. We are taking steps to sort the issue and find an alternative.” On salary increment, Dubey said, “Like every year, the staff were given an increment in July this year also. Plus we did market correction and they got almost double the increment. With the healthcare industry under recession, very few organisations like us have provided this financial relief. Also, we started giving Covid allowance to staff from April this year, besides holistic care.” “We are telling them to increase staff or stop taking more patients. It is a private hospital, people pay more as compared to other hospitals but are not getting proper treatment because of staff crunch,” said one of the staff members on request of anonymity. Staff also claimed that the hospital is not keeping non-Covid and Covid patients in separate areas. On July 15, 25 nurses from the hospital were tested positive. A nursing staff claimed that the annual increment was not double the amount as stated by the management. “I used to get Rs 20,000 and this month I got Rs 21, 000. We have been on protest from 9am till evening, but the management has told our union to resume duty or resign,” said a protesting staffer on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aditya-birla-memorial-hospital-s-nursing-staff-stage-protest-over-alleged-long-working-hours-pay-hike/story-4WYjBUB6avwEkpY54y1X6H.html
07-08-2020||Pune||Pune civic body sets up control room for Covid bed management||PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has set up a control room at its headquarters to monitor and manage bed availability status at government and private hospitals. The dedicated staff will keep track of the live dashboard on bed availability for coronavirus patients set up by the divisional commissioner. Rubal Agarwal, PMC additional municipal commissioner and supervisor of health department, has appointed road department chief VJ Kulkarni to head the control room. Agrawal said, “The control room will manage the bed availability status after seeking regular updates from private and government hospitals. It will function from PMC headquarters and staff will verify whether private hospitals are submitting correct information on dashboard.” The senior official said that four deputy engineers will assist Kulkarni to run the office. Residents have complained of not getting beds for Covid cases as some hospitals fail to update bed availability status on live dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-control-room-for-bed-management/story-OnjlcMeMcyhFCWtei6fNmK.html
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin businessman banned for false UK tax returns||Hardip Singh Khaira, who owned a construction company in Scotland, was on Thursday banned from acting as a director of a company for nine years after officials found that he knowingly caused the company to submit false tax returns. Khaira, 43, was director of HK Construction incorporated in 2011 to provide groundwork construction services, including drainage and concreting. The company traded from its premises in Coatbridge, north Lanarkshire, until July 2019. In September 2019, the company was subject to creditors voluntary liquidation. He is now banned from acting as a director or directly or indirectly becoming involved, without the permission of the court, in the promotion, formation or management of a company. According to the Insolvency Service, investigators uncovered that between November 2011 and February 2015, Khaira knowingly caused the company to submit false tax returns. Some invoices had been brought down to zero rated sales to reduce the company’s tax liability. The tax authorities determined that just over £225,000 (Rs 2.22 crore) was owed by the company, which increased to more than £426,000 (Rs 4.2 crore) when interest and penalties were applied for the deliberate concealment and failure to pay. Aware of the liability owed to the tax authorities, Khaira placed the company into creditors voluntary liquidation, resulting in outstanding liabilities to the tax authorities of more than £426,000. The secretary of state accepted a disqualification undertaking from Khaira in July after he did not dispute concealing tax to the detriment of the tax authorities. Robert Clarke, chief investigator for the Insolvency Service, said: “It was clear from our investigations that Hardip Khaira deliberately caused the construction firm to submit false returns to reduce the amount of tax the company had to pay.” “This is serious misconduct and a nine-year ban not only demonstrates the severity of what Hardip Khaira has done but also confirms that we will take action to remove the privilege of limited liability against those who think they can do the same”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-origin-businessman-banned-for-false-uk-tax-returns/story-9KlDPukjoqFtvzkTeGvq3I.html
