08-08-2020||City||AAP MLA Atishi meets rape survivor, hands over financial aid||New Delhi: Senior Aam Aadmi Party leader and MLA Atishi on Saturday met the family of the 12-year old girl at the AIIMS who faced a violent assault earlier this week. Atishi also handed over the cheque of Rs 10 lakh as financial compensation as promised by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to the family.Atishi said that the family of the child is still under trauma and grief and the situation of the girl is also very critical. The 12-year old girl was assaulted and later attacked with a scissor in the Paschim VIhar area and the accused was arrested by Delhi Police on Thursday.“I spoke to the family of the girl child and I have told them that the Delhi government is standing with you in every possible way and we will provide the best lawyers to them in this case. The Delhi government will try its best to provide the toughest punishment to the culprit. The girl is still at the Neuro Surgery ward and the condition of the girl is still critical,” she said.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had met the 12-year-old girl and her family at AIIMS on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-mla-atishi-meets-rape-survivor-hands-over-financial-aid/story-AMFTyTgJwglMQRRW03qJkI.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||Court grants bail to riot accused, says he appears calm, composed in CCTV footage||A Delhi court on Friday granted bail to a man arrested in connection with the rioting in north-east Delhi while stating that he was not a part of a riotous mob and was seen rather calm, cool and composed in the CCTV footage of the riots played inside the court. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav said “from the perusal of the CCTV footage, it is clearly apparent that Mohd Mobin Ali does not appear to be part of the riotous mob” on February 26. The judge said Ali was merely returning from “Phool Wali Masjid” after offering “namaz” when the riots broke out in Usmanpur area. The court granted bail to Ali on a personal bond of ₹20,000 and one surety of like amount while directing him to not tamper with the evidence or influence any witness in any manner and maintain peace and harmony in the locality. According to Ali’s counsel, there was an apparent delay of about 24 hours in recording of FIR. He contended that his client has not been named in the FIR and was in judicial custody since April 20. He said that two CCTV cameras installed at the scene of crime, which is quite near to “Phool Wali Masjid”, clearly showed that the alleged accused person was just coming from the Masjid and going towards his house in the vicinity. However, the police had contended that Ali was identified by an injured person on March 13 after seeing the CCTV footage. He was then arrested under sections of unlawful assembly and attempt to murder. On Friday, the court observed that Ali was unarmed and appeared to be cool, calm and composed before granting him bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/court-grants-bail-to-riot-accused-says-he-appears-calm-composed-in-cctv-footage/story-ez1P7JTzmX3NuItrPMZxeO.html
08-08-2020||Gurugram||Residential housing sees green shoots with end-users looking for houses: Report||With the economic activity resuming following the 68-day lockdown that ended in May, real estate activity in the city has started showing signs of recovery in the residential segment with property enquiries reaching 60 to 65 per cent of pre-Covid level, according to a report by private real estate consultant Anarock. The report states that there was also an increase in conversion rate (how many of those who enquired for a property actually bought it)-- from nearly five percent earlier to 10 percent in Gurugram. Most enquiries were for properties priced between ₹75 lakh to ₹1.25 crore for sizes 1,400-1,600 sq ft built-up area. Gurugram-based developers and consultants said that affordable properties (between ₹15 lakh to ₹30 lakh) were seeing good traction and 30 per cent demand for affordable housing was from investors, while 70 percent were from end-users, the report said. The report said that, across the country, most buyers preferred ready-to-move-in homes and that salaried professionals and employees from IT/ITeS, pharma, manufacturing industries and government employees were driving the demand. Prashant Thakur, director, Anarock property consultants, said, “Despite site visits far below previous levels, the site-visit-to-closure conversion rate has increased considerably as only serious buyers are venturing out.”The report further said that in terms of the preferred budget range, homes priced between ₹40 lakh and ₹1.25 crore now attract a major chunk of the buyer enquiries. Bengaluru, Chennai, Ghaziabad and Noida are now seeing the most enquiries for homes in the under-₹1 crore category.Pradeep Agarwal, MD of affordable housing company Signature Developers, said that their recently launched projects in Gurugram and on Sohna road were attracting customers. “In July alone, 3000 flats were alloted and not even one per cent allottees surrendered their homes. Around 2,500 flats were launched last month and most were booked by end users in affordable category,” he said. Property consultants also said that they are seeing more enquiries from end-users, who want to have a look at the property and decide on taking it up. Kamaljeet Singh, vice president, Bestech Ltd, said that there has been an uptick in sales and enquiries in last one month. “Home buyers are ready to make visits, look at different properties, but what they want is finished product, which they can see and feel before they buy it,” he said. Vaibhav Jaiswal, a city-based real estate consultant, said that sales of only completed apartments and houses are happening and buyers are showing interest for projects between ₹90 lakh and ₹1.25 crore. “Things are slowly improving but it will take time for situation to normalise,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residential-housing-sees-green-shoots-with-end-users-looking-for-houses-report/story-4qj2b0ivUAPvoIed32HWFJ.html
08-08-2020||Noida||Jubilant Life Sciences presents 1,000 vials of Remdesivir to UP CM||Drug firm Jubilant Life Sciences on Saturday said it has presented 1,000 vials of antiviral drug Remdesivir that it sells under the brand name ‘JUBI-R’ to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.The drug is being made available to over 1,000 hospitals providing Covid-19 treatment in India through the company’s distribution network, Jubilant Life Sciences said in a statement.“Remdesivir is an effective medicine in the treatment of severe Covid-19 cases. In this critical situation, I am pleased that this medicine was made available by Jubilant in the quick time of two and a half months,” the company quoted Adityanath as saying.“It gives us immense pleasure and satisfaction to present ‘JUBI-R’, the life-saving medicine, to Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Yogi Adityanath,” Jubilant Life Sciences Chairman Shyam S Bhartia said.The company is donating 1000 vials of JUBI-R through its CSR arm, the Jubilant Bhartia Foundation, he added.In May 2020, Jubilant entered into a non-exclusive licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences, Inc., that granted it the right to register, manufacture and sell Gilead’s investigational drug remdesivir in 127 countries including India, the company said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/jubilant-life-sciences-presents-1-000-vials-of-remdesivir-to-up-cm/story-an7L9AgnilfykM3ywcAvCN.html
08-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Three men go missing as car plunges into Ganga canal||Ghaziabad Three persons went missing when a car carrying four men plunged into the upper Ganga canal at Masuri in Ghaziabad on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. One person was rescued, the police said on Saturday, adding that efforts were on with the help of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams to trace the missing passengers. According to the police, the men were travelling in their Swift Dzire car from Bareilly to Chandigarh when the incident took place. “We received information around 12.15am on Saturday and our teams rushed to the spot. One man was rescued, while three others are still missing. The teams from NDRF were also called in and the car was fished out. They all are in the age group of 25-36 years and working as private contractors with a central government agency in Chandigarh. They had planned to make a night stay in Ghaziabad,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). According to the police officials, the upper Ganga canal at present is having high flow of water. The canal starts from Haridwar and brings in Ganga water which is supplied to NCR areas. The rescued man has been identified as 28-year-old Paramvir Singh, who was driving the car. The other three have been identified as Ashish Dhyani, 30, Sanjeev Kumar, 44, and Vinod Kumar, 30. All four are residents of Bareilly district, the police said. The officials said that while the men were travelling on NH-9, they did not take the Masuri-Dasna flyover and instead took a service road in order to get fuel. “They took the surface service road near the canal. The driver could not guage the road direction at night and the car fell into the canal. The areas where the car went into the canal have no parapet wall. So, the car went straight into the canal. We have alerted the police stations along the canal,” Jadaun said. The police said that the families of the four men were informed. The police on late Saturday said that the three missing men could not be traced. “There is very heavy flow of water in the canal. The rescue efforts will start again on Sunday,” Jadaun added. In an earlier incident on February 1, a group of six friends, including two women, travelling from Dehradun to Mathura met with a similar incident after their SUV plunged into the canal. Two of the six were rescued while bodies of four others were recovered in the next one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-three-men-go-missing-as-car-plunges-into-ganga-canal/story-3hWr6w0q2uW80MUfEYcjSM.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||25-year-old woman throws newborn from 6th floor of building||Pant Nagar police booked a 25-year-old unmarried woman on Saturday for killing her newborn baby girl by throwing the infant out of the window of her sixth-floor apartment in Ghatkopar (East). The woman is under observation at Cooper Hospital and will be arrested after she is discharged, said an officer from Pant Nagar police station.According to police, the incident came to light on August 4, around 7.30am, when a milkman noticed the body of the baby girl lying on the ground behind the building at Gaurishankar Wadi in Ghatkopar. Pant Nagar police were informed, and the child was rushed to Rajawadi Hospital where she was declared dead before admission, said senior inspector Suhas Kamble of the Pant Nagar police station.Police registered a first information report (FIR) under section 318 (whoever, by secretly burying or otherwise disposing of the dead body of a child whether such child dies before or after or during its birth, intentionally conceals or endeavours to conceal the birth of such child) of the Indian Penal Code (IMPC) against an unknown woman.A police team comprising women officers started conducting an inquiry and spotted the 25-year-old woman walking out of the building in the afternoon. “She said she was going to see a doctor. The woman police accompanied her to verify her claims, and learnt that she was lying,” said Kamble.The woman was then taken to Rajawadi Hospital for a check-up as she was feeling weak. The doctor confirmed that she was pregnant and that she had delivered a baby recently, added Kamble. “She then confessed that she had been pregnant and that she did not inform anyone. She gave birth to a baby girl and then lost consciousness for some time. When she woke up, she threw the baby girl out of the window of her sixth-floor flat. She claimed that her family members were not aware that she was pregnant,” said Kamble.According to the post-mortem report, the baby was delivered after completion of the stipulated nine-month period and was alive at the time of birth. “Following the doctor’s opinion and medical report, charges of murder and destruction of evidence were added to the FIR,” said Kamble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/25-year-old-woman-throws-newborn-from-6th-floor-of-building/story-jFl3sRoiOFuOybUvPi6e7O.html
08-08-2020||City||Special surveys help contain suspected cases, lower fatality in Ghaziabad||For the past 17 days, the Ghaziabad district has not reported any Covid-19 fatality. The death toll of the district as on August 8 is 64; the last death took place on July 21. Apart from following treatment protocols and using special equipment such as high-flow nasal canulas, the district administration officials said that they have been trying to filter out suspected cases with the help of special surveys as part of the containment exercise, which has helped reduce the death rate. These surveys are specifically conducted door-to-door to trace suspected cases like persons with symptoms of influenza-like illnesses (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illnesses (SARI) and send them for testing. These surveys are conducted in both containment and non-containment zones.According to the UP state Covid-19 control room figures on August 8, the district had a total of 5,769 Covid-19 cases, including the 64 deaths. A majority of deaths, 51, took place in June, while there were four deaths from March to May. Nine deaths were added to the tally in July. The fatality rate, till May 31, stood at 1.67%. It was the highest so far at 3.89% in June and dropped to 0.27% in July. In August so far, the fatality rate is zero. “The fatality rate has been on the decline—it is primarily due to our containment systems that entail a defined set of processes such as tracing suspected cases before they turn severe, speedy testing, faster referral of patients who test positive to Covid care facilities through a centralised ambulance system and regular monitoring of patients in home isolation through control rooms put in place for early detection. For early detection, we bank on different surveys across the district while conducting special surveys that are conducted by dedicated teams to specifically trace suspected cases only in containment zones,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, the district magistrate. The Ghaziabad district administration is also operating a dedicated Covid-19 control room to centrally monitor all containment activities and patient-related services. The control room has come up on directions of the UP government. “Using different surveys, we have been able to find suspected cases, such as persons suffering from influenza-like illnesses (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illnesses (SARI). These infections are most likely to aggravate after patients test positive for Covid-19. So, through our surveys, we filter out such persons early and test them. Once positive, they are referred to an appropriate Covid care facility and their treatment starts,” he added. As part of the ongoing survey in containment zones, the health department’s teams surveyed 370,015 houses with population of about 1,469,575 and figured out 344 suspected cases between July 13 and August 6 . “Of these, 36 tested positive for Covid-19. Although the number of positive cases seems low, these were patients affected by ILI or SARI and prone to deterioration in health. They were immediately referred to appropriate Covid care facilities. Over 860 of our teams only survey containment zones. Each team is assigned to cover 75 houses per day,” said an officer from the health department, requesting anonymity. According to the UP state Covid-19 control room figures till August 7, the district comprises 396 containment zones with 84—the majority—under the jurisdiction of Indirapuram police station area, followed by 68 and 57 under the jurisdictions of Sihani Gate and Kavi Nagar police station areas respectively, in Ghaziabad city.Another door-to-door survey is being carried out by block-level officers in both containment and non-containment zones under their respective jurisdictions. The administration officials said that these teams surveyed 404,679 households with a population of about 1,737,617 persons and traced 927 suspected cases from July 1 to August 7. “Of the 927 suspected cases, 15 tested positive for Covid-19 and were referred to appropriate Covid care facilities,” said another officer of the district administration who requested anonymity.Health department officials said that during a survey of 1,737,617 people in both containment and non-containment zones, which was conducted between July 2 and July 12, they found 1,477 suspected cases. Of them, 140 tested positive for Covid-19. The survey had been ordered by the UP government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-surveys-help-contain-suspected-cases-lower-fatality-in-ghaziabad/story-ejJDCd0jYHtHDTjRJe9ewO.html
08-08-2020||City||Navi Mumbai cop succumbs to Covid-19||A 50-year-old police constable in Navi Mumbai died of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the fatality in Navi Mumbai Police commissionerate to two. The head constable posted at Navi Mumbai police headquarters succumbed to the infection a week after he first reported having fever. Sanjay Kumar, Navi Mumbai police commissioner, said, “The constable was suffering from high fever for a week and had sought treatment from a local doctor. He had ignored the symptoms until his condition deteriorated on Friday.”The constable was then taken to a hospital, where he died around 12.30am on Saturday. Following his death, he was found positive for Covid-19. Till July 31, a total of 409 Navi Mumbai police personnel, including 54 officers and 355 personnel from the constabulary, tested positive for Covid-19. A total of 218 family members of police personnel also tested positive during the same period. On July 13, a 47-year-old constable posted at the coastal security branch at police commissioner’s office in CBD Belapur, had succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-cop-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-Cv4uJ6qepy9kQl43mhYLfN.html
08-08-2020||City||Soon, get your Covid test results on the phone in Ghaziabad||In order to dissuade people from queuing up at testing centres across the district to get their test reports, the health department plans to send them directly to mobile phones.At present, testing facilities are available at several centres across the district at Vaishali, Indirapuram, MMG Hospital, district women’s hospital, four community health centres in Modinagar, Muradnagar, Dasna and Loni, besides one primary health centre at Bhojpur and one sampling centre at IMS, Dasna.“The majority of testing takes place via rapid antigen kits. The reports are given to patients within 30-40 minutes. Issues crop up when people are tested via the RT-PCR method. Such reports generally take one or two days, sometimes longer, to be ready. In such cases, those getting tested have to return to the testing centre to collect their reports. This often results in long queues,” said an officer from the district health department, requesting anonymity.Till August 7, the district completed 129,188 tests, including 73,966 conducted via rapid antigen kits which were brought into use from June 26.“In order to avoid hassling the public, an online system will be started soon and reports will be made available to patients over the phone.This will help curtail travel for fetching reports,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, the district magistrate.Health department officials said that the system is already operational in the district of Kanpur.“The patient gets a message over his/her mobile. The message includes his/her test results and a link to fill out his/her details and opt for the home isolation facility. We are planning a similar system in Ghaziabad and it will be made operational by next week. Patients will not be required to come to the centre for their results,” the district health department officer cited above said.Health department officials said that at present they are conducting about 2,000 rapid antigen tests, apart from 1,000 RT-PCR tests on a daily basis. They added that in the future, they plan to increase the number of RT-PCR tests.“Of the 73,966 rapid antigen tests conducted till August 7, we have to test 26,056 samples again through RT-PCR in order to find true negatives. So,regular RT-PCR tests combined with those administered to find out true negatives result in an increased number of RT-PCR tests. To avoid the increased number of people queuing up for their test reports, we’ll start an online system soon,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soon-get-your-covid-test-results-on-the-phone-in-ghaziabad/story-3fHanhCANIPbn6Pp6bhboN.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||22-year-old rapes colleague inside shop, arrested||Santacruz police arrested a 22-year-old salesman on Friday for allegedly raping his 21-year-old colleague at a garment shop on Juhu Tara Road. According to police, the accused, Vikas Verma, pulled down the shutter of the shop saying that civic officials would harass them if they keep the shop open, and then sexually assaulted her. Verma is a resident of Vakola, while the survivor lived in Dharavi.The woman, in her statement, said that on August 5 her manager had asked her to help Verma as he was alone, so she went to the shop. However, around 6.15pm, Verma told her that BMC officials would inspect shops and if they find any shops open, they would penalise and harass them. Verma then switched off CCTV cameras, lights and pulled down the shutter and locked it from inside and then sexually assaulted her, stated the complainant.Shriram Koregaonkar, senior inspector, Santacruz police station, said, “She shared her ordeal with her aunt and they filed a complaint at Dharavi police station. But since the incident had occurred under Santacruz police’s jurisdiction, the case was transferred.”“We have arrested the accused under sections 376 (rape), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and are investigating the case,” Koregaonkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/22-year-old-rapes-colleague-inside-shop-arrested/story-3Lx417mBgMkYspawe0SUGP.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||CR declares mega block for Sunday||The Central Railway (CR) will conduct a maintenance block on its railway lines on Sunday. The block will be undertaken on its mainline between Sandhurst Road and Vidyavihar railway stations on the slow line between 10am and 3pm.On CR harbour line, maintenance block will be conducted between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Chunabhatti railway stations between 10.40am and 3.40pm.There will be no maintenance block on Western Railway on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cr-declares-mega-block-for-sunday/story-Ze8LYxKimLFFyDRmj2XefM.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay’s biz plan competition now open to school students||Eureka!, the flagship start-up competition of the student-run Entrepreneurship Cell (E-Cell) of the Indian Institute of Technology- Bombay (IIT-B), has for the first time started a competition for school students. Eureka! Junior is a business plan competition for school students of Class 6 to Class 12 from across India. The competition was launched on August 1. Aspiring young entrepreneurs can register for the contest and pitch their ideas through a National Entrepreneurship Olympiad. Selected students will be honed by the E-Cell through rigorous workshops over the next five months and guided through the process of creating a business plan for their ideas. The workshops are free and the winners of the competition will get prizes worth ₹1 lakh. Students will also be introduced to other young entrepreneurs fostered by the E-Cell as well as investors.“The competition aims to bring out creative ideas from students to solve ordinary day-to-day problems. We are encouraging innovation and out-of-the-box thinking through a series of workshops and a five-month-long competition,” said Yash Pundlik, events head, E-Cell. “Presently, we are already associated with more than 100 schools across India and over 15,000 students through our various initiatives for promoting innovation. With this competition, we aim to expand our reach further,” he said. Eureka! is one of Asia’s largest business model competitions for entrepreneurs. Winners of the competition, which is open to all age groups, get a chance to take their ideas to investors and kick off their start-ups with prizes worth ₹50 lakh. Currently in its 20th year, Eureka! has helped launch more than 40 successful start-ups. E-Cell also hosts a range of initiatives connecting students with the start-up community across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-s-biz-plan-competition-now-open-to-school-students/story-2lwTbbiz3urohRVwuO3FmK.html
08-08-2020||Noida||Noida: Adityanath visits integrated control room handling Covid-related grievances||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited the integrated control room in Sector 59 on Saturday. The facility, set up to handle Covid-19 queries, is equipped with an electric vehicle charging station. The Gautam Budh Nagar administration had on April 3 started an ‘all-in-one’ integrated control room in Noida’s Sector 59 with support from tech giant HCL. Via a toll free number – 1800-419-2211 – the control room catered to 2.5 lakh citizen’s queries since it began operations. Adityanath, after inaugurating a Covid hospital in Sector 39, visited the control room where he stayed for 15 minutes and asked the staff to help persons in need who seek help on the toll free number, said officials.“The control room has been helpful to citizens since its opening and this facility shall continue to strive hard to serve the public in future too,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar. To make this facility environment friendly, the Noida authority set up an electric vehicle charging station near this facility. “There are 41 chargers available at the EV charging station outside the control room. In Noida we have set up 20 electric vehicle charging stations,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority. The authority also beautified footpaths, repaired roads, pruned trees and cleaned public spaces ahead of the CM’s visit to the control room, which has been an epicentre of activity for the welfare of the public since the Covid-19 disease broke out in the district.As per HCL, it responded to at least 2.5 lakh queries related with food supply to migrants, the supply of essential goods in containment zones and other issues related with policing or other issues. As per data, 60% complaints were about information on ordering groceries online or dry ration and help for cooked food. The control room dealt with 15% queries about health services, 21% of the total calls were about updates on masks and sanitizer availability, ATM accessibility, etc and 4% calls were police related. The administration had started this control room to handle the queries of citizens after they realised that residents want help on many issues during this crisis. During the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid 19 residents were asked to stay home, while many residents were in need of help from the administration in Noida and Greater Noida therefore the control room was set up to address the grievances, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-adityanath-visits-integrated-control-room-handling-covid-related-grievances/story-Gxr4oba2yozXBb9qNUbrtL.html
08-08-2020||Noida||Adityanath lauds Gautam Budh Nagar’s model of containment, asks other districts to emulate district||Praising the model of containment adapted by the Gautam Budh Nagar district in checking the fatality rate and further spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked the other districts of Meerut division emulate the district.Addressing a review meeting of the Covid-19 situation with the district nodal officers, Meerut divisional commissioner and the Gautam Budh Nagar commissioner of police, besides state health minister Atul Garg, and the MPs, MLAs and other senior officials of the area, Adityanath said that despite having maximum cases in the state during the early phase of Covid-19 outbreak, the district has significantly put a check on its fatality rate and further spread. “Only half the work has been done by us. We need to increase surveillance to identify more infected patients and give them proper treatment. For this, dedicated and integrated Covid-19 call centres will be established in every district of the state. Also, the district administration must consult and co-ordinate with the local people’s representatives to create awareness about Covid-19,” he said. Appreciating policing in the district after the implementation of the police commissionerate system on January 14 this year, the CM said his government has given a free hand to the police to take stern action against criminals. “Right from day one of my government, it is a wide and clear message for the police in the state to take the toughest actions possible against criminals, to ensure the safety of the common people. I am really happy with the report that the GB Nagar police commissionerate has brought positive changes in the law and order scenario of the district, by tightening the noose around anti-social elements in the district in such a short span of time,” he said. Earlier, the chief minister inaugurated a much-awaited Covid-19 hospital in Sector 39 –the Noida Covid Hospital (NCH), made under the joint auspices of Tata Trusts and the Bill and Melinda Gates foundation. He also instructed the additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad, to enhance the capacity of beds in this hospital to 400 soon. It has started with 168 beds as an L-2 facility and will add 200 L-1 beds. Of the 168 operational beds, the district health department has classified 17 for ICU, nine for emergencies and six as high dependency units (HDU). Apart from officials of GB Nagar, Baghpat, Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad districts, GB Nagar MP Dr Mahesh Sharma, Rajya Sabha MP Surendra Singh Nagar, Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh and Dadri MLA Tejpal Singh Nagar were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/adityanath-lauds-gautam-budh-nagar-s-model-of-containment-asks-other-districts-to-emulate-district/story-lIEGasFFhVcxWrB8YYPhHP.html
08-08-2020||City||Three policemen attached to police lines for assaulting man||A sub-inspector and two constables were attached to the police lines after a video went viral in which they were purportedly seen hitting a man on Friday at 9pm in the Badalpur area. The police department took immediate action when the incident came to light, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s visit to the district being another criteria. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that a police team had received a call from a woman that a man, who is her distant relative, was allegedly creating ruckus in Dhoommanikpur village. “A team including sub-inspector Sanjeev Kumar, and two constables Amit Kumar and Sandeep Kumar reached the spot. In the process of intervention, the police personnel manhandled the man and the act was captured on a CCTV camera installed at a nearby grocery shop,” he said. In the footage, the victim is seen standing near a shop when the police personnel arrived. One of them allegedly kicked the man on his back while two others allegedly thrashed him with a cane, the video purportedly shows. Later, the police personnel allegedly dragged away the victim from the spot, the video purportedly shows.Pathnesh Kumar, station house office, Badalpur police station, said that the man had allegedly slapped a child in the neighbourhood upon which a woman made a police call. “The police team was caught on camera hitting the man. The police department took swift action and attached the erring cops to the police lines. We have advised police personnel to behave decently with the public,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-policemen-attached-to-police-lines-for-assaulting-man/story-0ORzUhPBkQ2epKVE0mMzKJ.html
08-08-2020||Gurugram||In 2-day campaign, MCG to educate people on wearing masks instead of penalising them||The municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to not penalise those not wearing a mask in public on Monday and Tuesday and instead provide them with one.The measure is part of a campaign to sensitise the public about safety measures amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. This is following a direction from the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) in this regard on Saturday. MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh clarified that the campaign should not be considered as a licence to not wear a mask.“Besides attempting to instil the habit of wearing masks in residents, we are also looking at the two-day campaign to identify locations where the violation is rampant. Using this data we will send our teams following the end of the campaign, to such spots accordingly and fine people in bulk. Our main objective is to curb the spread of coronavirus and thus MCG is engaged in various measures towards this cause,” said commissioner Singh.The order from the ULB read: “The violators should be thoroughly educated to understand the benefits and compulsion of wearing masks in the interest of their own safety and the safety of others who come in their contact, for prevention of the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. Wide publicity should be carried out for these two days to inculcate the habit of wearing masks and its benefits should be explained through munadi (beating of drums in public spaces) as well.”It directed the MCG to constitute teams for issuing high penalty for those who violate the mask rule after the culmination of the two-day campaign.As per the ULB’s order, MCG has to submit them a “compliance” report once the campaign ends.Usually, MCG fines people ₹500 for mask violation and gives them five masks on the spot. ULB, however, has directed the civic body to distribute only one cloth face mask to a violator and also extended them the option of dispensing disposable masks if sufficient stock of cloth masks is not available.As per MCG’s sector 42 central store data, where the civic body stores all coronavirus-related items, on Saturday, MCG had a stock of over 153,000 masks, of which only 30,000 were cloth masks.In an order on July 17, ULB had directed all municipal corporations across Haryana to procure cotton cloth masks from self-help groups and distribute five masks instead of one during the issuance of a fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/in-2-day-campaign-mcg-to-educate-people-on-wearing-masks-instead-of-penalising-them/story-ml3Tlmo3RwLqFj2jC9IgUN.html
08-08-2020||Gurugram||Night curfew lifted in Gurugram for liquor shops||All liquor shops in the district , except those in malls, can now operate from 9am till midnight from Sunday. Ahaatas, or drinking places next to the vends, will continue to remain shut, officials of the excise department said.The Haryana government on March 26 had decided to temporarily shut all liquor vends across the state after the Covid-19 induced lockdown was imposed. They were allowed to reopen on May 6, but only between 7am and 7pm. Around 218 liquor shops across the city which have been approved to resume operations. Aruna Singh, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (East), said, “The industry has suffered huge losses during the last four months. Even after opening from May 6, sales were low. Officials at the headquarters took the decision to resume the operation on August 1,” she said. “Any shopkeeper violating the lockdown measures or directives, such as allowing ahaatas, could be prosecuted under the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code,” she said. People at liquor shops will have to maintain at least six feet distance from one another and only five persons will be allowed to enter the shops at any given time, said officials. The police and excise officials had in May marked out lines and circles outside the shops to ensure social distancing for this reason and sanitisers too were placed at the entrance of the shops. Haryana Tourism Corporation had also started running six liquor vends in Gurugram last month as a pilot project to recover its losses. Singh said that it was the first time that a state government entity started to run liquor shops in the district as the tourism department suffered huge losses due to closure of tourism complexes and guest houses during the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. During the lockdown period, the revenue receipt of the corporation was almost nil, said an official. Shekhar Yadav, director Reva Wines said that this move was required as they have suffered losses worth Rs 5 crore during the lockdown and this is the first time in the history that something unannounced has impacted our business. “The customers who used to buy regularly have decreased their purchase and have reduced drinking as there has been cut outs in salaries and many lay-offs have taken place. There are no longer any parties happening so the sales have come down big time. People prefer buying at night so now we might get some business back,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/night-curfew-lifted-in-gurugram-for-liquor-shops/story-AsMjvyMY4HSHengL18pXnM.html
08-08-2020||City||Warehouses, logistics businesses get industry status in Greater Noida; final nod awaited from Lucknow||The Greater Noida authority on Saturday gave industry status to warehouses and logistics’ businesses in line with the Uttar Pradesh warehouses and logistics rules, 2018 with an aim to encourage setting up of industries and attract investment to fuel growth in this region.The decision was taken during the 119th board meeting that took place at the authority’s Sector Knowledge Park-IV office, under Alok Tandon, who is the chairman for the authority and also the state’s infrastructure and development commissioner. Earlier, the warehouses and logistics’ businesses were not considered ‘industrial businesses’, thereby affecting the investment prospects in Greater Noida, which was established as an industrial city under the UP Industrial Act 1976. After this change in rules, the businesses of warehouses and logistics would enjoy relaxations in Greater Noida’s building bylaws 2010 and would be able to use 60% ground coverage in their respective buildings, said officials.“Now, interested investors would be able to set up warehouses and logistics’ parks on industrial plots in Greater Noida. The move will attract investment into warehouses and logistics’ parks from domestic and international investors. To attract investment, we have changed the permissible floor area ratio from existing 1.00 to 3.00 and the board has approved this proposal. Now, the proposal will be sent to the state government for approval,” said Deep Chandar, additional CEO of the Greater Noida authority. Change in floor area ratio (FAR) means the industrial plot owner setting up warehouses or logistics’ projects can cover more area on a plot and build taller buildings, said officials. The authority had approved its annual budget during its August 4 board meeting. But to make changes in its industrial rules, it organized another board meeting on Saturday after the UP chief minister, who inaugurated a Covid hospital in Noida, left the city. Noida authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari and other top officials were also part of this board meeting. Among some other decisions taken during the meeting, the board extended the date to September 30, 2020 to get building maps approved for plots for information technology projects. The earlier deadline was March 31, 2020.The board also has approved a proposal that allows the authority to sell two commercial plots of 19,000 square metres in Sector Knowledge Park-II. The board also approved a proposal that gives the authority two weeks’ time to address the matters raised in the comptroller and auditor general’s (CAG) objections pertaining to financial issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/warehouses-logistics-businesses-get-industry-status-in-greater-noida-final-nod-awaited-from-lucknow/story-Z6QGclgp3RiVCKUhFoe0jM.html
08-08-2020||City||1 killed, 11 hurt in cylinder blast at Ulhasnagar shop||One died and 11 were injured in a fire on Saturday, when leakage from a cooking gas cylinder led to a blast at a snack shop in Ulhasnagar Camp 4. Two fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the blaze was brought under control in one and a half hour. Of the injured, 10 have been hospitalised while one has sustained minor burns. At around 1.05pm on Saturday, a fire broke out at Jai Mata Di Nashta House, owned by Ravindra Gupta, 34. Gupta, who was in the eatery at the time, sustained serious burns and was taken to Central Hospital, where he died during treatment. According to the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC), a short circuit led to the fire while a leakage from a cooking gas cylinder used at Gupta’s shop led to a blast. “Gupta, who owns the shop, died in the incident while 11 others who were around the shop and reached to help, suffered injuries. Primarily, we suspect a short circuit led to the fire and the blast was due to leakage from cylinders,” said Yuvraj Badhane, public relations officer, UMC. Two fire tenders with 20 fire fighters arrived at the spot and were able to control the blaze. “When we reached, we could see fire bursting out of the shop. Crowding of people outside the shop led to burns to many,” said one fire fighter, requesting anonymity. The fire was brought under control by 2.30pm.President of Ulhasnagar Shopkeepers’ Association, Jagdish Tejwani, said, “The fire also affected the nearby fruit shop. The fruit seller also suffered minor burns.” Of those injured, four have sustained severe burns. Six are receiving treatment in Shri Balaji Hospital and four have been admitted to Shivneri Hospital in Ulhasnagar. One sustained minor burns that do not require hospitalisation, said UMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-killed-11-hurt-in-cylinder-blast-at-ulhasnagar-shop/story-ZwjKEJpRy0tmdV65V1WAhL.html
08-08-2020||Kolkata||BJP’s Bengal mahila morcha may soon get a uniform, it’s not a routine dress||Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s mahila morcha (women’s wing) could soon be wearing a uniform designed by fashion designer-turned BJP leader Agnimitra Paul. “Uniforms have a special importance. It helps bring uniformity and do away with the differences. That’s why we see children in schools and our defence personnel wear uniforms. On special occasions, corporate employees also wear a uniform,” said Paul, who is also the president of the party’s mahila morcha in the state.Two types of sarees have been designed. While one has orange and black colours with an off-white base, another has orange and green colours with off-white in the background. The positions of the lotus are also different in both variants. “It is not mandatory for the members to wear the uniform-saree. Any morcha member wanting to wear it, can buy it. It is extremely low priced and will be produced by an NGO. You can’t get a cotton saree priced under Rs 500 in the market. The uniform would cost only Rs 275,” she said. Also Read: Covid-19: West Bengal observing complete lockdown today The Trinamool Congress took a jibe at the party’s move saying it won’t help in the coming state assembly elections. “Being a fashion designer, she has little to offer to the party. So she is doing what she does best. But it won’t help the BJP in anyways,” said Tapas Roy, Trinamool Congress spokesperson and minister. “BJP has roped in some personalities who have no experience in politics. People like this start a business to get the most out of the party,” said Amitabha Chakraborty, a senior Congress leader. Also Read: Bengali craving for Hilsa grows as poor catch fails to tickle palatePaul, however, hit back saying: “In my studio, you won’t even get a mask for Rs 275, leave aside a saree. Some people have nothing to do and hence they do politics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-s-bengal-mahila-morcha-may-soon-get-a-uniform-mamata-s-party-not-impressed/story-VMmipu4P2nZrZmmdENvy0O.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Installation of solar panels begins at Ludhiana govt college||The installation of a 128 KW solar net metering system started at Government College for Girls on Saturday. Punjab cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had earlier announced that solar panels would be installed in 25 government schools and two government colleges under the Ludhiana Smart City project. Accompanied by MC councilor Mamta Ashu, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu visited GCG and inspected the start of work. He said the work will be completed shortly and has already been completed at government schools in Barewal, Haibowal, Jawahar Nagar and PAU.He said that these solar panels would have a lifespan of 25 years and the installation cost would be recovered in 5 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/installation-of-solar-panels-begins-at-ludhiana-govt-college/story-6HdqOgKmWizNYc7Ou3D9fP.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||30-year-old booked for sodomising minor||A 30-year-old Powai resident has been booked for allegedly sodomising a 17-year-old at his home. According to police, the accused and victim are related. The incident occurred in June when the parents of the accused were admitted at a Covid care centre, and he was quarantined at home. On June 20, the victim visited him to get an update on his health. Both, then, consumed alcohol. The accused, in an inebriated state, allegedly took advantage of the victim and sodomised him, said the victim in his complaint. The accused even threatened him with dire consequences if he revealed his act to anyone, he said.An officer from Powai police station said, “Two months after the incident, the victim narrated his ordeal with his 66-year-old grandmother and lodged a complaint against the accused.” Following their complaint on August 6 police registered the offence under sections 377 (unnatural offences), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and sections 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault), 8 (punishment for sexual assault), 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/30-year-old-booked-for-sodomising-minor/story-2BQyanVjXlvcZawGNSYSvO.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||30-year-old booked for molesting minor||Versova police have booked a 30-year-old man for molesting a 12-year-old. Police are now looking out for the accused. According to police, the victim stayed in the neighbourhood. “On August 1 at around 3pm, the victim was on her way to meet her grandmother who resides in the same locality. The accused however lured her and took her to his sister’s house. The accused then, locked the door and molested her,” said, the mother of the victim, in her complaint. The victim escaped and narrated her ordeal to her mother. The accused, however, managed to flee. An FIR in the case was registered only after the family of the victim sought the help of an advocate. “Police officials first refused to register an FIR. It was only after we sought the intervention of an advocate, that an FIR was filed,” said a family member. An officer from Versova police station said, “Following their complaint, we have registered a case under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of Indian Penal Code and sections 8 (punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act 2012.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/30-year-old-booked-for-molesting-minor/story-8KB35PmRtH009ZWGdzopXL.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||11,215 apply against 2,450 seats in UG courses at SCD Govt College, GCG in Ludhiana||Online registration for undergraduate courses at Satish Chander Dhawan (SCD) Government College and Government College for Girls (GCG) concluded on Saturday. As many as 11,215 candidates have applied in all courses at the two government colleges against 2,450 available seats.As many as 6,446 applicants registered online against 1,370 seats offered in seven UG courses at SCD Government College. At Government College for Girls, 4,769 applied against 1,080 seats in eight undergraduate courses.Over 3,098 students registered online against 280 seats for bachelor of commerce (BCom) at the two government colleges, making it the most sought-after course this year as well. At SCD Government College, 1,584 students applied against 140 seats BCom seats, while at GCG, 1,514 students applied against 140 seats.The tentative list for UG classes for both colleges will be out on their websites on August 9.Any objection against the merit list can be brought to the notice of the college authorities on August 9 till 1pm. The final merit list will be displayed on the same day at 8 pm. The final counseling at the SCD Government College will begin from August 10.For GCG, students will get two days for correction in online form and the final merit list will be out on August 11. In SCD government college, over 1,977 students have applied online in bachelor of arts 1 courses against 480 seats. In bachelor of computer applications, 657 students have applied against 40 seats. In BBA course I, 783 candidates have applied against 40 seats, while in BSc medical, 187 registered against 140 seats and 601 against 210 seats in BSc non-medical course. In BA evening college, 657 students applied against 320 seats. In GCG, 1,634 students applied in BA I against the 480 seats offered by the college, while in BBA I, 456 students applied against 40 seats and in BCA I, 407 registered online against 40 seats. In BSc medical, 240 students applied against 120 seats, while in BSc non-medical, 466 applied against 160 seats. Arya College teachers conducted counselling process wearing face shield, masks and gloves Arya College conducted the counselling process for BCom reserved category, which was attended by 25 candidates. Taking all precautions amid the Covid-19 pandemic, teachers wore face shields, gloves and masks. For BBA I, the counseling process will be held on Monday.Government College Karamsar extends last date for online registration to August 11Government College, Karamsar, has extended the last date for online registration till August 11. As many as 500 students have registered online for three courses offered by the college. The merit list will be displayed on August 12 on the college website. In BCom I, 175 students have applied against 70 seats, while in BA I, 167 students have registered online against 240 seats. The college offers B.Sc medical and non-medical in which 60 (30 each) have applied against 120 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/11-215-apply-against-2-450-seats-in-ug-courses-at-scd-govt-college-gcg-in-ludhiana/story-GN79StfKgmUo5fH2iIBb3H.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana mayor directs NHAI officials to ensure no water accumulation on roads||Following complaints of water accumulation at Sherpur chowk, mayor Balkar Sandhu visited the spot on Saturday and directed National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officials to find a solution for this at the earliest. The mayor was accompanied by councillor Mamta Ashu and adviser of NHAI for Punjab, MPS Kalra. Water accumulation at the chowk has remained a major issue in the past, which is an inconvenience to commuters.“I have also written to NHAI officials, directing them to ensure there is no water accumulation on sites where their projects are currently ongoing. They have also been directed to ensure there is proper disposal of rainwater at all sites in the city. If this issue is not checked now, it might lead to bigger problems in the future.” Mamta Ashu said that there were several complaints of water accumulation at Sherpur Chowk on GT Road. “It was not only causing inconvenience to the public, but can also lead to road accidents. Damage to roads also leads to loss to public exchequer,’ she added.Earlier this week, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal also conducted a meeting with NHAI officials and sought a solution for the problem. Sabharwal also asked the MC officials to stop nearby industrial units from pumping out rainwater accumulated inside their premises on the road portion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mayor-directs-nhai-officials-to-ensure-no-water-accumulation-on-roads/story-GnyS0YGAHd09oNPtNsnw3H.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Residents of Ludhiana’s Rajiv Gandhi colony protest over poor water supply||Irked over no water supply for over 45 days, residents of Rajiv Gandhi colony in ward number 23 staged a protest against the municipal corporation (MC) and area councilor Sandeep Kumari on Saturday. Residents said the tubewell installed in their area developed a snag, but the MC has failed to repair/reinstall the same.Two of the protesters, Rajesh Kumar and Sohan Lal, said, “The area has had no water supply for the last 45 days and we are getting water from tanks. Despite complaints submitted with the councillor and MC officials, our problem has not been addressed. We are struggling to make ends meet in the scorching heat, but authorities are not paying heed to the issue.”Residents said the required number of water tanks are also not supplied in the area and they have to carry water in buckets to their houses with difficulty.While MC superintending engineer Rajinder Singh said the civic body is working on the tendering process for a new tubewell, area councillor Sandeep Kumari said, “I, along with residents of the area, will take up the matter in front of mayor Balkar Sandhu.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-of-ludhiana-s-rajiv-gandhi-colony-protest-over-poor-water-supply/story-ckx3nbINau76jbs0cZuvVI.html
08-08-2020||City||Mohali admn starts drive to curb pilferage of raw liquor in district||The excise team here has started a drive against illegal activities relating to pilferage of extra neutral alcohol (ENA)/spirit in the district.Recently, in Punjab’s worst hooch tragedy in three decades, hundreds of people died by alcohol poisoning after consuming illicit liquor in three districts of the state. The death toll in the spurious liquor consumption has risen to 121, officials said on Saturday.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said joint teams of excise and police departments are conducting surprise checks at vulnerable points, which include dhabas in Banur, Zirakpur and Derabassi, as such illegal activities have been reported more often in these areas in the past.“Mohali has a unique position as it borders Chandigarh and Haryana. Liquor is comparatively cheaper in UT and Haryana. So, manufacturing of illicit liquor or lahan is not the main problem in the district but smuggling, pilferage of illicit spirit and ENA, the primary raw material for making alcoholic beverages, is a menace that needs to be curbed,” said Dayalan.“We have had a meeting with the owners of distilleries and bottling plants and directed them to follow the excise laws, failing which stern action will be taken,” the DC added.117 CASES FILED IN MOHALI DISTRICTThe DC informed that 117 cases have been registered under the Excise Act, while 131 accused have been arrested in the past seven months in the district. The seizure of illicit spirit/ENA to the tune of 72,700 litres has been made in less than 12 months.In July, the excise department had detected 5,500 litres of spirit/ENA in Devi Nagar village in Derabassi and nabbed three persons for possessing the large quantity without licence.Earlier in May, a history-sheeter liquor smuggler was caught and over 50,000 litres of ENA was seized from two tankers parked in Zirakpur. Similarly, 15 drums of spirit (3,000 litres) were seized from a dhaba in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-admn-starts-drive-to-curb-pilferage-of-raw-liquor-in-district/story-Mqa4V6EzKdhP4kwxb6AxRI.html
08-08-2020||City||Demand for discounted Covid care kits provided by Ludhiana police grows||The efforts of the city police of providing Covid care kits at discounted rates has received a colossal response with 65 units being sold in just two days.The kits are being provided for ₹1,700; the market rate is ₹3,000-₹3,500. The kits were prepared in line with the treatment pattern of Covid patients at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. The police suggested the buyers to follow medical advice before taking the multivitamins and immunity boosters provided in the kit.Joint commissioner of police J Alenchezhian said the police were providing the kits at a no-loss-no-gain basis. Earlier, the police had sold groceries from police canteens at discounted rates when the curfew was imposed.The kit consists of 17 items including pulse oximeter with battery, digital thermometer, steamer, hand sanitizer (500ml), giloy tablets, vitamin D3, zinc, topcid, immunity concoction (200ml), Dolo tablets, multivitamin, cough syrup, betadine gargles, cetirizine tablets, face masks, balloons and tulsi leaves.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said people could book their kits on the police control room number: 7837018500. One can also order the kits online, he added.The police chief added that such things that the doctors advised to a Covid-19 patient were not available in the market in a single kit and patients were forced to buy all 17 things separately. He added that the police will make such kits available according to the demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/demand-for-discounted-covid-care-kits-provided-by-ludhiana-police-grows/story-Sd9j9HbiLeV98SYzvOQ6VN.html
08-08-2020||City||Amid rise in Covid cases, house parties in Ludhiana irk health department||Even a weekly death rate of 60 has failed to deter a section of city residents from holding social gatherings and house parties in Ludhiana, which has gotten the health department so much so that the issue was discussed at a meeting held recently.The matter was discussed during a video conference with the officials of the administration on Friday. A night curfew from 9pm to 5am was imposed to discourage such gatherings, said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga while urging residents to show restraint for the next two months. Bagga stressed that it was really important to flatten the curve. “I fail to understand at a time when we are witnessing high mortality and infection rate, a section of people are not bothered and are instead holding house parties. It has been observed that during such gatherings, the risk of spread is more since people remove masks while eating and drinking and do not maintain social distance,” he said.House parties common during lockdownA resident, Deepali (name changed), said that social gatherings were common even during the lockdown and they had increased after the restrictions were eased. “I have been receiving calls and messages from friends about house parties, but I flatly refused. Recently, one among the group tested positive after which the weekend gathering was stopped,” said Deepali.Most of these parties were being organised at farm houses located on the southern bypass, also known as South City road, she added. Dr Bishav Mohan, who is a member of the Covid task force formed by the state, said that a handful of residents were posing danger to the lives of people, especially to elderly and those with underlying illnesses. “We are witnessing a phenomenal rise in fatalities and infection. In such circumstances, it is advised to remain at home and go out only when it is required. Youngsters, who are meeting people due to work, are advised to maintain distance from elderly and children at home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-rise-in-covid-cases-house-parties-in-ludhiana-irk-health-department/story-cifU9zu5Jy2zadDmeXm95M.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||HC raises concern over gangster violence in and around Chandigarh||Taking a strong note of rising gangster culture in the tricity, the Punjab and Haryana high court observed that once known for academic achievements, the area is now being rapidly turned into a “hostile city”.“..this court is perturbed over the manner in which such goons trotting with firearms pervade the tricity and gangsters have come to settle here, and such steep number of such incidents in the area is a strong circumstance for this court to take a strong view of the incident,” the bench of justice Fatehdeep Singh said, while rejecting anticipatory bail plea of an accused in a firing incident reported outside Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, in January this year.The HC bench further added that the FIR’s content was strongly suggestive that the accused as well as the complainant side are young boys who have formed gangs and are trying to create an atmosphere of threat to society to lay their claim of supremacy and bravado.THE CASELudhiana resident Jagtar Singh, aka Jaggi, 23, had told police that on January 10, he and a friend, Samar Bhat, had come to GMCH to meet another friend, Lovepreet Singh of Model Town, Kharar, who was admitted there. The two were standing near the emergency when four to five men reportedly attacked them and fled after firing gunshots. A passerby was shot in the arm in this melee. The incident was allegedly the result of Bhat’s standoff with the accused youths over a TikTok video. Police arrested Kamalpreet Singh Sidhu, 24, of Sunny Enclave, Kharar, on June 28,while Dilpreet Singh, alias Billa, 24, who had opened fire, was nabbed from Ropar in July. Three co-accused, including one Nishan Singh Khera, are yet to be arrested.The HC order came on the plea of Khera, who allegedly owned the car used to flee from the spot. He had told court that neither he has been identified nor named in the FIR and nothing was to be recovered from him. He had also produced a compromise deed document effected by both parties in this case.However, Chandigarh Police told court the two groups had a previous history of enmity and a number of skirmishes had taken place between them. Thus, rejecting the bail plea, the court said it has to invoke its extraordinary powers “sparingly” and the compromise effected in this case was to “stifle” the investigations. A LOOK AT RECENT CASESJuly 24: Gangster Navdeep Singh Navi of Moga injured and four aides arrested by Punjab Police after shootout in a Kharar locality where they had been putting upJune 2:10 bullets fired injuring four people at a liquor shop in Sector 9 by two shooters associated with Lawrence Bishnoi gang May 31: Shooters open fire outside a businessman’s house in Sector 33 on Bishnoi’s ordersApril 26: Police nab four men associated with Bhupi Rana gang after a fierce gunfight at a house where they were staying at Billa village in Chandimandir, PanchkulaMarch 3: A former Punjab cop’s son, Harry Bajwa, arrested for allegedly harbouring three gangsters for over two months at a rented accommodation in Sector 40, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-raises-concern-over-gangster-violence-in-and-around-chandigarh/story-RygrqZUKiCzwpOgO4fCAcK.html
08-08-2020||City||Covid awareness drive kicked-off in Ludhiana’s Payal block||The mass media team of the civil surgeon office on Saturday reached Payal block where teams conducted an awareness drive and motivated people to sample for Covid-19.The team also spread awareness about the preventive measures people need to take in order to keep the virus away.Payal MLA Lakhbir Singh Lakha flagged off awareness vans at Doraha for the Payal area and said the vision of chief minister Captain Amrinder Singh, Mission Fateh, was working effectively to tackle the disease.He said Mission Fateh was about saving people from false information and rumors, for which the mass media teams of Ludhiana were playing a major role in convincing people to rely on COVA app rather than rumors.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said three teams comprising mass education officers and block extension educators had been deployed in the district with special vans and public addressal systems.He said the teams in Payal were spreading awareness among people regarding washing hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water, snuggly covering the mouth and nose with a mask and maintaining adequate social distancing.The teams also demonstrated accurate techniques to wash hands and to put on and remove masks without contaminating the hands, he added.More testing being encouragedBlock extension educator of community health centre, Payal, Swati Sachdeva, said, “It is necessary that people follow all the guidelines laid down by the health department to keep themselves and their families safe.”“We are encouraging people to give their samples for Covid testing so that the department can find and track hidden cases in the community. On Saturday, around 100 samples were taken and their report will be notified to concerned individuals via SMS,” she added.Team members in collaboration with Payal police also challaned the violators on the spot who were not following Covid guidelines. Police in-charge Rao Varinder Singh said in the coming days, he will ensure stricter implementation of guidelines in the area.Shopkeepers of the main bazaar in Doraha, Satnam Nagar, Baazigar Basti and other areas of Doraha city were also sensitised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-awareness-drive-kicked-off-in-ludhiana-s-payal-block/story-uRKk9SjoX2ZwJAstFAWSrJ.html
08-08-2020||Gurugram||789 new cases take Haryana’s Covid-19 tally to 40,843||Haryana’s tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 40,843 on Saturday with 789 fresh instances of the viral infection reported in 24 hours, while seven new fatalities pushed death toll to 474, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageKaithal district for the first time on Saturday reported Covid-19 deaths. Two persons died of the viral infection in the district. Among the 22 districts of the state, Kaithal was the only one which had no Covid-19 death so far.Two deaths were also reported from Bhiwani, while one fatality each was registered in Faridabad, Palwal and Jind.Among the districts which reported fresh cases include Faridabad (149), Panipat (126), Gurugram (99), Ambala (88), Panipat (126), Panchkula (61), Hisar (36), Kurukshetra (33) and Kaithal (18), the bulletin stated.The number of active cases in the state currently stood 6,338 while 34,031 have been discharged after recovery. As of Saturday, the state’s recovery rate was 83.32 per cent while the rate of doubling of infections was 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/789-new-cases-take-haryana-s-covid-19-tally-to-40-843/story-rH4bP6p8tu2AcZ0McX1L9J.html
08-08-2020||Ranchi||Scare at Ranchi airport as aircraft suffers bird hit, flight delayed by 10 hrs||A day after the plane crash at Kozhikode airport in Kerala that left 18 people dead, there was scare and chaos at Birsa Munda Airport (BMA) in Ranchi on Saturday after a Mumbai-bound Air Asia flight (I5 632) had to abort take-off after suffering a bird hit and the aircraft had to be grounded after another failed take-off.Finally, another aircraft arranged by the private carrier from Kolkata took off with the passengers at 9.30 pm, after a delay of nearly 10 hours in the flight. As the scheduled flight was taking off around 11:45 am, it suffered a bird hit and the pilots aborted the take-off. The cabin crew announced about the snag through public address system and asked passengers to evacuate the plane.Confirming the incident, BMA director Vinod Sharma said the flight developed minor technical snag which was being attended to by engineers. “There was no damage and all the 176 passengers on board were safe,” he said.The engineers carried out all mandatory procedures and the flight will take off soon, he said.However, the aircraft could not take off on the rescheduled timing at 4 pm as some sparks were noticed. Ranchi airport director Sharma said the plane was taken to runway after re-examination but it failed to take off again, as the technical snag that developed after the bird hit could not be corrected. The passengers were then deboarded and asked to wait in the lounge, he said.Sharma said Air Asia then agreed to despatch another plane from Kolkata.The airline spokesperson said all passengers were being attended to and served refreshments by its staff at the Birsa Munda airport.This is not the first incident of bird hit at Ranchi airport. BMA authorities, in the past, have written to the district administration for shifting temporary meat shops and other food stalls nearby that attract the birds. Sharma said the airport had got security audit done in March 2020. “There was no problem. However, we carry out regular monitoring to ensure safety.” There are 30 regular daily flights from the airport that handles around 2.48 million passengers annually in normal times.However, the passenger volume has shrunk after the coronavirus outbreak. At present, there are 10 regular daily flights from Ranchi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/scare-at-ranchi-airport-as-aircraft-suffers-bird-hit-flight-delayed-by-10-hrs/story-UW83HJkvOOmmUGgwIAyezM.html
08-08-2020||Lifestyle||International Cat Day: Cat parents in Delhi-NCR share pawsome lessons from kitties||You could be the ruler of the world, but your feline friend would still have something to teach you. Often Bollywood actors have said the same about their cute kitties. While Nimrat Kaur wrote “Paws and reflect” on her Insta post on #coronachronicles with her cat, Alia Bhatt called her cat her “calm in every storm...” So, on International Cat Day, August 8, we ask some pet parents in Delhi-NCR about what life lessons they have learnt from their purry friends. Peace is the key!Fashion designer Nida Mahmood shares that her cat Mr Toffee Tinkerbell has taught her to believe that things always fall into place. “Patience and being zen is what he teaches me. Nothing affects him! I marvel at his ability and try to emulate it in my attitude during testing times,” says Mahmood.   It’s time this isn’t just a ‘day to post something relevant’ on our timelines. We need to live this day, every single day. As if it were all we’ve ever had, and all we’ll ever get. About time we stopped-noticed every little decision we make-commit to making responsible, fair, aware choices. As with even the most insignificant choice and decision we either add or take away from our mother home. It’s always been up to us. All of this. And it always will be. #EarthDay @earthdaynetwork #50Years 🌏♥️ #Kaurantined #StayHome #CoronaChroniclesA post shared by  NIMRATasneem KAUReshi (@nimratofficial) on Apr 22, 2020 at 12:22am PDTA similar sentiment is shared by Noida-based fashion designer Sanskriti Jain. Her two-year-old cat Sheldon has been a constant source of love and emotional support. “I think just watching him sleep so easily and not caring about anything taught me to not take stress. It has been a difficult time for all of us, and I think we cared a lot and took a lot of stress. It’s time to be at ease,” says Jain. Fascination with everythingGhost, a gorgeous white cat in the Asthana household, spends his time cuddling in different laps all day long. “For cats, every moving thing is entertainment... When we’d mull how boring our days had become, Ghost would be out chasing butterflies, or lounging in the sun. He made us realise how rare it’s nowadays to slow down and notice the birds singing or flowers blooming,” says Abhishek Asthana, Wing Commander, Indian Air Force. For his wife, Seema, the cats have served another purpose: “Our cats are self-sufficient — they clean themselves, hunt for food, and are absolutely independent. My sons have so much to learn from these little beings.” Sleep is sacrosanctDelhi-based Karnvir Singh, a graphic designer, says he has begun to value his sleep schedule because of the 20 cats around him. “It doesn’t matter how good boiled chicken or biryani smells; they don’t wake up! They sleep around me, and helped me understand how important sleeping for 10 straight hours is. And it sure feels good,” says Singh, who stays alone and the cats have ensured that he never feels lonely.   my calm in every storm.. ☂️☀️A post shared by  Alia Bhatt ☀️ (@aliaabhatt) on Jul 14, 2020 at 11:50am PDTSingh adds, “Guess what? They have started typing, too, now! Writing ‘asdnabfhasjd2’ on WhatsApp is now more frequent than ever, and I don’t mind telling the person at the other end of the phone that my cat did it. If kids can, then why can’t these babies play mischief mongers?” Author tweets @bhagat_mallika Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/international-cat-day-cat-parents-in-delhi-ncr-share-pawsome-lessons-from-kitties/story-oAABHNamRJDp4YaevTivON.html
08-08-2020||City||Chandigarh tricity sees 200+ Covid cases for first time||The number of Covid-19 cases reported in a day from across the tricity crossed the 200 mark for the first on Saturday (August 8), with 209 people testing positive, while two senior citizens succumbed to the disease as well. The previous biggest surge was 179, recorded on August 6. The total has reached 3,597, of which 46 have died.With 95 cases, Mohali district too recorded its steepest single-day spike and nineteenth fatality related to the infection.Chandigarh reported 52 cases and a death while 62 people tested positive in Panchkula district.Sec-68 man 19th fatality in MohaliIn Mohali, the total number of cases has reached 1,264.A 62-year-old man, who resided in Sector 68, and suffered from diabetes and hypertension died of the disease at Gian Sagar Hospital at Banur on Saturday morning. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said he was put on ventilator at night after his condition deteriorated. Of the fresh cases, 24 are from Zirakpur, 20 from Mohali city, 12 each from Kharar and Dera Bassi, 10 from Kurali, four from Lalru and one each from Sultanpur, Banur, Dappar, Manana, Saneta, Nayagaon, Daun, Saidpura, Bhagwanpura, Bhagomajra, Sohana and Mataur villages. Meanwhile, 26 patients were discharged, taking the number of those cured to 674 and active cases to 571. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said considering the continuous surge in cases, the administration has put into action a Covid spike management plan. 60-yr-old woman 24th fatality in UTA 60-year-old woman from Sector 45 lost battle to Covid-19 on late Friday night at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, becoming Chandigarh’s twenty-fourth fatality. “She was a chronic diabetic patient and was admitted in the ICU on July 5 with high levels of blood sugar,” a health department release said. Just eight days into August, this is sixth death related to the virus in the city this month. Among the fresh cases are five health workers, including three from the PGIMER and one each from GMSH-16 and GMCH-32, and a government employee who works at the Punjab mini secretariat. The fresh cases have been reported from across the city, including Sectors 2, 3, 15, 18, 19, 21, 22, 24, 26, 27, 28 30, 32, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 49 and 51 besides Khuda Jassu, PGIMER campus, Khuda Alisher, Hallomajra Mauli Jagran, Maloya, Manimajra and Burail.The number of infections has reached 1,426, of which 529 are active. Also, with 52 persons being released from isolation on Saturday, the number of those cured has reached 872.P’kula count crosses 900 markSeventeen ITBP personnel are among 62 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula district on Saturday. Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said nine cases have surfaced in Pinjore while eight cases each have been reported from Sector 9 and Raipur Rani.Other cases are spread across Sectors 2, 4, 8, 12, 15,16, 20 and 25 besides Mansa Devi Complex, Rajiv Colony, Saketri, Khangeshra, Hangola, Abheypur and Kalka. Ahuja said the process of tracing the patients’ contacts is on and departments concerned are working on demarcating containment zones in these areas. The total number of cases have gone up to 907 in the district, of which 407 are active. While 497 patients have recovered, three have died so far. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-tricity-sees-200-covid-cases-for-first-time/story-ReaF65XmQ30v3y91ZaPVMI.html
08-08-2020||City||Orchardists demand HPMC, HIMFED to pay outstanding amounts||Orchardists have demanded that the Himachal government should order the State Horticulture Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation (HPMC) and the Himachal Pradesh State Cooperative Marketing And Consumer’s Federation Limited (HIMFED) to pay Rs 15 crore outstanding amount immediately.They threatened to launch massive protests if the demand is not met.Himachal Kissan Sabha president Dr Kuldeep Tanwar said that of the Rs 15 crore, HPMC has to pay Rs 10 crore, while the HIMFED needs to pay Rs 5 crore to the orchardists who sold their produce to them under the Marketing Intervention Scheme (MIS) last year. Most of the outstanding money is to be paid to small and medium scale orchardists.“At a time when orchardists are expecting financial relief from the state government for the loss suffered due to the lockdown imposed and heavy rainfall and hailstorms, they are not being paid the outstanding amounts. This has further increased financial burden on them,” he said.He added that the state government is not making enough efforts to strengthen apple economy during the pandemic situation. “Hiked transportation fares, and unavailability of trays, cartons and labours during the apple season has exposed the anti- orchardist face of the Himachal government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/orchardists-demand-hpmc-himfed-to-pay-outstanding-amounts/story-7D4iF818tZajNKWJuvz5DL.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||5 injured after LPG explosion in Delhi’s Tigri area||At least five people were injured in an LPG explosion at a jhuggi in JJ Camp locality of Tigri in the national capital, police said.The incident occurred at 7 pm on Saturday. The injured have been shifted to hospital, senior police officers with staff are present at the spot for rescue and relief.Meanwhile, eight fire tenders have been rushed to the site as fire broke out soon after the explosion.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/5-injured-after-lpg-explosion-in-delhi-s-tigri-area/story-BaiIw8D22XDJ2ZbP9idf5H.html
08-08-2020||City||114 fresh Covid cases in Himachal, tally rises to 3,264||Himachal’s Covid-19 tally shot up to 3,264 on Saturday with 114 more people testing positive for the virus. Forty-three cases were reported in Chamba, 24 in Sirmaur, 17 in Solan, eight each in Hamirpur, Kangra, and Mandi four in Kullu, and one each in Shimla and Una. The 3200-mark is breached in 141 days since the state recorded its first case on March 20. POWER MINISTER’S WIFE, EX-MLA TEST +VE IN SIRMAUR State power minister Sukhram Chaudhary’s wife, former Shillai legislator and vice-chairman of state civil supply corporation chairman Baldev Tomar are among 24 people found infected in Sirmaur district. Tomar’s wife, son, daughter and one attendant have also contracted the virus. Chaudhary, his two daughters and personal security officers had tested positive on Thursday. Tomar came in direct contact with Chaudhary when the latter toured his home district on July 31 and August 1, after being inducted in the state cabinet. Meanwhile, Pachhad legislator Reena Kashyap, who is also among Chaudhary’s primary contact has been tested negative. Her personal security officer was tested positive on Friday. CHAMBA’S DHAROG TURNS HOTSPOT Forty-three cases have been reported in Chamba, which is the steepest single-day spike in district. Of the new cases, 40 were detected in Dharog Mohalla, Chamba cief medical officer Dr Rajesh Guleri said. Remaining three cases were reported in Killar and Mangla. Dharog has emerged as a hotspot in district with a total of 65 people testing positive in less than a week. A 60-year-old man with no travel history was first to be tested positive here on August 3. He turned out positive in random sampling. The virus is believed to have spread during a social gathering held here. Eight people, including four women, have tested positive in Hamirpur district. All of them have a travel history from other states. In Kullu, four people have contracted the disease. One of the patients is a resident of Shamshi, while three labourers were tested positive in Nirmand area. All are put under quarantine, said Kullu DC Richa Verma. Kangra and Mandi reported eight and four cases, respectively, while one person has been found positive in Shimla. Active cases in state are 1,143, while 2,081 people have recovered. Solan is the worst hit district with 811 cases followed Kangra with 520 cases. Sirmaur’s tally has reached 403, Hamirpur 347 cases, Una 273, Mandi 236, Shimla 197, Chamba 193, Bilaspur, 138, Kullu 96, Kinnaur 46, and Lahaul-Spiti four.COVID SCARE FOR NADDA’S FAMILY Authorities in Bilaspur district sent sample of BJP president JP Nadda’s family and staff for testing after they came in contact with a woman whose brother was tested positive. Jhandutta SDM Vikas Sharma said the woman is caretaker of Nadda’s house in Bilaspur. Her brother is in the Indian Army. Samples of Nadda’s wife, father, cook, driver and other staff are being tested as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/114-fresh-covid-cases-in-himachal-tally-rises-to-3-264/story-VU6ehbpWRzQZaQXCnEAe0L.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two snatchers held in Chandigarh, stolen mobile phone recovered||Police claim to have solved a mobile phone snatching in Sector 31 with the arrest of two men.he accused, identified as Amandeep, 26, and Gurwinder, 25, both hailing from Chamkaur Sahib, had allegedly snatched a woman’s mobile phone outside her house on August 6. Bilora Devi had reported that a man had approached her for directions. When she started to explain the way, he snatched her mobile phone and fled with his accomplice waiting on a motorcycle. The accused were arrested on Friday. The stolen mobile phone and a motorcycle, bearing Punjab registration number, were recovered from them. They were produced before a court and remanded to one-day police custody. “Both accused are drug addicts and took to petty thefts to meet their daily drug need. They targeted mostly elderly people or women alone on the roads,” said Paramjit Kaur, station house officer (SHO), Sector 31. MOBILE PHONE SNATCHED IN SECTOR 40 A woman’s mobile phone was snatched in Sector 40 on Saturday afternoon. Nitasha told the police that she was walking to the market around 3pm when two men on a Honda Activa snatched her mobile phone and sped away. A case of snatching was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-snatchers-held-in-chandigarh-stolen-mobile-phone-recovered/story-SJrfRH8zlIak0zKafq4kTP.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||No sense in denying people the joys of weekends at Sukhna Lake||The move by the Chandigarh administration to close the iconic Sukhna Lake, the city’s pride, on weekends seems to be a knee-jerk reaction to the rising Covid-19 count here.At a time when smart thinking and planning is needed, keeping the lake out of bounds for visitors on weekends does not serve the purpose of reducing the rate of infections as no evidence exists of people contracting Covid-19 while visiting this place.One fallout of this move is likely to have weekend crowds shifting to the markets or parks in the inner areas of the city, close to residential sectors, unlike the fairly isolated lake, leading to increased chance of infections.At a time when people have been confined indoors, the lake offers residents breathing space, especially on weekends. Working people who do not get a chance to exercise on weekdays look forward eagerly to their tryst with the lake. For regulars, this will translate to an inconvenient break from routine.The powers that be have to exercise their imagination to smartly implement social distancing and other Covid-19 safety protocols. Issuing tokens to visitors, regulating the crowds, checking temperatures of people entering the area, even offering free Covid-19 sampling – there are various checks that can be put in place to ensure people enjoy access to the Sukhna they love so much.These are trying times, the authorities have to reassure people that life has some semblance of normalcy, allowing them to enjoy the peace and serenity that’s so much a part of Sukhna.NO ENTRYIs UT admin right in closing Sukhna lake on weekends? Should the Sukhna lake remain closed to visitors on weekends? Send your response with photographs to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com with a photograph by August 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-sense-in-denying-people-the-joys-of-weekends-at-sukhna-lake/story-mFVEuE0dvknDEVGFTboy6I.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to test Covishield vaccine’s safety, immunogenicity||Along with its safety, the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) will evaluate the immunogenicity of the Covishield vaccine for which clinical trials will be starting by the end of August. PGIMER is among 17 institutes across the country chosen for second and third phases of human clinical trials of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine (Covishield).The two-dose vaccine is to be administered with a gap of 28 days.The immunogenicity of the vaccine is evaluated by checking the T-cell and antibody response in the human body after administering the vaccine. This exercise will check both the quantity and quality of antibodies in a participant’s body. The quality of the antibody is its ability to neutralise viruses. “We have received a communication that PGIMER will be taking care of the vaccine’s safety as well as immunogenicity,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.Principal investigator of the trial at PGIMER, Dr Madhu Gupta, said it will be conducted on 250 individuals here, adding that the ratio for immunogenicity and safety will be communicated to the hospital later. Earlier, PGIMER had given consent to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for the trial to be conducted by the Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune. SII, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by the number of doses produced and sold globally, has entered a manufacturing partnership with British-Swedish biopharma major AstraZeneca to produce the Oxford vaccine.The vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold adenovirus taken from chimpanzees and genetically modified so that it cannot infect humans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-to-test-covishield-vaccine-s-safety-immunogenicity/story-yX4Uywo5qA51NOg107YrQJ.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: Some calm, some chaos, that’s what farm life is all about||A few evenings ago, father and I were sitting in his lush garden with my daughters playing close by. It was a rare moment of quiet and serenity. Father and I were enjoying the beautiful golden sunset over his orchards. It felt surreal, but I silently wondered whether I would ever love the sedentary, peaceful life at the farm as much he did, visiting the place every day, proudly tending to his gorgeous flowers, overseeing the milking of cows and gathering of fresh fruits and vegetables. Our halo of peace was suddenly disrupted when the girls came running towards us. They seemed to be saying something in rushed tones, pointing towards the small water body in the corner of the garden. Their incoherence and sense of urgency made us follow them quickly. “There’s a baby bird in the water. It can’t swim!”, exclaimed my two-year-old, with eyes as big as plates.My older daughter, being the more sensitive of the two, was teary-eyed as she pleaded, “Save it, nanaji, do something, mama”. We headed towards the little pond to see a small Lapwing chick struggle to stay afloat. Just outside the pond was the Mother Lapwing, pacing up and down and screeching in distress. She knew her offspring was in grave danger, but she was helpless! On seeing us approach, she flew away to some trees nearby. Father and I quickly got down on our knees, and gently rescued the shivering little bird. To our surprise, there were two other little birds in another corner, struggling to stay afloat. We got them out one by one, and placed them gently on the grass. Meanwhile, the kids were jumping up and down in sheer excitement. The next struggle was to find the distressed Mother Bird. We ran towards the orchard, tut-tutting, calling out, but in vain. Mother lapwing was nowhere to be found! We felt nervous, because the sun was setting, and the chicks would be vulnerable to stray cats in the dark. The kids had bonded with the little birds. They ran about in circles after them, giggled and clapped. Watching them alone was sheer joy! All of a sudden we saw Mother Lapwing. She had flown and perched herself on the stone next to the pond and seemed to be looking for her lost offspring. Her screeches seemed to be getting only louder. Father and I picked up the baby birds and put them in Mother Lapwing’s line of sight. We were a little apprehensive about going closer to the already aggrieved bird.The four of us stood in stunned silence as the Mother and her little ones spotted each other. The earlier orange and pink skies had taken on darker hues. However, the bright spark in Mother Lapwing’s eyes could not be missed. On seeing her precious brood, the screeching halted. She swiftly turned around and began walking towards the hedge. Her little ones formed a queue and began following their mother. It looked like an orchestrated performance! Every now and then, the Mother Lapwing would give a side glance, making sure the brood was following her. We watched in amazement as the four of them went behind the hedge, deeper into the farm, back to the safe cocoons of their nest. Maybe the farm life is not all about peace and quiet. It’s much more than that. It is about engaging with nature in such a wholesome way that everything else pales in comparison. Just like we were during those 40 minutes – almost meditative! The heart and mind were in absolute harmony, I contemplate, while watching the beaming faces of father and his granddaughters. seeratsandhu25@yahoo.comThe writer is a Chandigarh-based educationist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-when-farm-life-is-all-about-chaos-and-quiet/story-MA9IRZfEDdyBJawsiJvbHM.html
08-08-2020||City||Punjab launches Japanese language training programme||Chandigarh Punjab employment generation minister Charanjit Channi on Saturday said the state Government under the Punjab Skill Development Mission has started a Japanese language training programme to provide more job opportunities to our youth. The programme will be as per basic requirement of Japanese language proficiency for job placements. The minister said by creating such a pool, there would be enhancement in the placement opportunities, enabled through a tie-up with the Japanese Embassy. Channi said implementing this project in collaboration with the Japanese Embassy, the first round of initial meetings with the Japanese Embassy. The minister added that programme would cater to the Japanese Language Training of the Youth of Punjab between 18-45 years and having a minimum qualification of 8th pass. The course duration would be would be 200 hours. He said that the candidates would be provided training in Japanese language for clearing the basic level (N5) of Japanese Language Proficiency Test (JLPT), in addition to the JLPT certification the candidates would also receive a PTU (Punjab Technical University) certification post-completion of the 200 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-launches-japanese-language-training-programme/story-4gtrvftumhNiUhO1cvXKqL.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: As a teacher, look for positives to inspire your students||One sees it as a huge privilege with an equally huge responsibility to be a teacher. At home, there are two or three pairs of young eyes observing and learning from the person, whereas, at school or college, the numbers are much larger. It’s not only the content taught, but, the manners, demeanour, attitude and the like, too. Everything is likely to get emulated, in one or the other way. The importance of this can never be overstated. As an educator, Ivan Welton Fitzwater, has rightly said: “The future of the world is in my classroom today, a future with the potential of good or bad. I must be vigilant every day, lest I lose one fragile opportunity to improve tomorrow.” A fragile opportunity it indeed is, because a single uncalled-for action, even if done unknowingly, can destroy the desirable impact of previous actions as one wrong word can harm sensitive minds. What is required is the correct approach to be able to inspire students – but it’s a goal that cannot be achieved easily. The teaching fraternity did, does, and will always try its best to rise to these expectations, by all means. But what about the students? Will they match up to the expectations that their teachers, family, and the society have of them? One will often hear laments that the student population does not care much for values. It’s perhaps with a deep parent-like concern that such views are shared, with a faint ray of hope that the scenario will change for the better. After all, times are changing; and there’s no doubt about that. But, whatever we see/experience in life is mostly a reflection of our own inner world. The notion that students are ‘not as good as they used to be’ needs a second thought. Maybe what’s required is ‘something more’ on the part of the teachers. Similar to a health related symptom or problem that is often a call for a change in lifestyle or situation.Picking from neuro-linguistic programming, a relatively newer approach in psychology, our nerve processes, language and behaviour, are all connected. So, if I negatively criticise a particular student, it’s likely to set my expectations on a similar pattern, which will result in unwanted behaviour by the student.Consider a contrast – I mention that the particular student seems to be having some blocks in the path of achievement, and is yet at least showing up in class. And, I praise him or her for the effort. This will likely raise the subconscious bar of expectation from that student, thus resulting in better outputs. Yes, it’s about being supportive. At the same time, as the definition of ‘Guru’ goes in our revered Upanishads, it’s about removing darkness from the lives of our students. We can’t do that unless we are ourselves ‘mentored’ – be it on our own, or by each other! We need to imbibe that inner voice for ourselves, or though each other. But imbibe we must! Last but not the least, we grant different marks for different types of answers; similarly, we need to have different (customized) approaches, too; for different types of students. One size will never fit all. Dr APJ Abdul Kalam, a remarkable personality who was, and still is extremely dear to every Indian’s heart, always used to say that he would like to be remembered as a teacher. That’s the kind of aura that this noble profession holds. Let us do justice to it. Let us be the epitome of inner strength, wisdom and patience. Let us inspire! The writer is an assistant professor (psychology) at Rajiv Gandhi Govt College, Saha (Ambala).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-as-a-teacher-look-for-positives-to-inspire-your-students/story-uFXIJ9kIWvWN16o2jyfJ8J.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: Partition, Covid-19 and a tale of two migrations||I grew up hearing tales of horror of the days of Partition. Our mohalla had a sizeable population which had migrated from Bahawalpur in West Punjab. “Those were horrible times and we pray that such a catastrophe is never repeated.” These words would invariably be uttered whenever the carnage of the Radcliffe divide was discussed. Driven out from the land where they had lived for centuries millions traversed hundreds of miles on foot, animals or carts to reach their ‘own country’.Over seven decades later the nation witnessed yet another migration, this time caused by a different factor – Covid19. Compelled by loss of livelihood, migrant labourers left their workplaces where they had worked for years. Complete lockdown of all means of transport led to a situation when once again millions of migrants inched forward towards ‘their home states’ on foot, cycles or rickshaws. Though minuscule in comparison of the Partition mayhem, this migration also had many a tale to tell when heat and hunger took its toll. During the Partition migration the idea of India was still in its infancy. The common people exhibited great compassion while lending a helping hand to alleviate the sufferings of the victims of the communal holocaust. They not only welcomed their brethren with open arms, but also accommodated them among themselves in villages and towns. This was when the government was already grappling with the challenges of handling the biggest ever human migration on planet; a parting gift by its colonial predecessors. During the Corona induced migration the response of common citizens was somewhat indifferent. Compassion, the highest form of Dharma for us Indians, was at times conspicuous by its absence. The fear of virus being a convenient alibi, these migrants were left to fend for themselves. Little help came from common citizens who opportunely mortgaged their responsibility to the overstretched administrative machinery. The citizens of a self-reliant nation appeared to be more self-centered than what they were at that stroke of midnight when we got Independence. History has demonstrated that calamities whether natural or man made will continue to plague the world from time to time. What matters is how responsibly our patriotic citizens deal with it and assist the unfortunate in ameliorating their distress. Who knows which calamity will befall us next and who amongst us would be at the receiving end. Calamity after all does not ask your religion, class or even status before intervening in your lives. On the eve of our 73rd Independence Day it is time to introspect and revisit our concept of nationalism. It is certainly more than jingoistic war cries during surgical strikes and frenzy that marks the cricket matches. Nations are not defined just by manmade boundaries marked on the ground; instead, they are known by the ethos and character displayed by the populace. It is nationalism that engenders nations and not the other way round. It took a few years after Independence for the ‘refugees’ of 1947 to get back on their feet. One hopes for a better deal for the refugees of 2020 once they return for work. The author is Mohali based and a Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM) awardee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-partition-covid-19-and-a-tale-of-two-migrations/story-U4B1HQGfoBXubfrE7mFYjN.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: The love that flew away||We wonder how coy butterflies alight on a wrist or birds shed inhibitions and take to feeding from a hand extended in warm friendship. Well, wild creatures have a knack of ascertaining human intent but winning their trust can entail a long, patient campaign. The village of Bahu perches at 7,500 feet, nestling among orchards of Royal Delicious and Golden apples, besieged by columns of deodars, pines and rakhal (Himalayan Yew), and gazes in serenity over silvery rapids bouncing over ancient boulders and tumbling through the famed Banjar valley of Kullu. In a quaint little cottage of Bahu sparkling with summer roses, a pair of Himalayan bulbuls had taken to nesting in the garden’s flowering bushes and vines. As the snows fell softly, the family of Deepak Atheist and his parents, Raja Ram and Bhagwati Devi, would put out grains of rice in their lawn for House sparrows, a tradition of Himachali households. The bulbuls, too, partook, of the precious grains and their confidence proceeded inch by inch in the direction of their benefactors. “One day in winter 2018, one of the bulbuls alighted on my hand to eat flakes of jaggery. Then I started putting out raisins on my hand and the bulbul loved these. The bulbul would visit my hand four to five times a day, so fond it was of raisins. It would chatter happily on my hand but its mate somehow never mustered the confidence to fly to my hand. Along with a Streaked Laughing thrush, the bulbul would await at our kitchen door in the morning, hop inside and gobble grains my mother had kept,’’ Deepak told this writer.One day this summer, one of the two loves of Deepak’s life, the bulbul, flew away into the gorges with a large group of bulbuls. The ditched mate struck another romance and paired. However, the thrush has yet not flown away from Deepak’s hand and his mother’s warm and welcoming kitchen.THE LOVE THAT STAYED The thrush that stayed back at Deepak’s home is a species found commonly in our hill stations, foraging around in flower beds and kitchen gardens in groups, singing gloriously in a chorus, and feeling quite at home in human presence. Its song has been described as a “short, rapid trill followed by a loud ringing whistle” or even as “highly variable (notes), brief but often complex; first note often starts off with a distinct bubbling quality. Gives various high call notes.’’Deepak’s thrush had picked up courage to wait outside the kitchen and the bulbul followed suit ever since December 2018. Like the bulbul, the thrush, too, relished the raisins in Deepak’s hands. “Whenever the thrush does not find grains in the lawns in the early morning, it will come to our kitchen window or the door and sing sweet songs to catch our attention. Whoever amongst us goes to the kitchen first in the morning has to only open the door slightly and the thrush will hop into the kitchen for grains. The thrush lives in a group of four to five around our garden. The one that comes to us is a moody, playful and naughty creature. If in a good mood, the thrush will come to me while I am standing and start climbing from my feet upwards like a pet mouse and finally perch and frolic on my head,” said Deepak. A day will come when the thrush, too, will leave Deepak...but true love means he will let the bird go.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-the-love-that-flew-away/story-GbwGdweuDKURo4YX1rEYYM.html
08-08-2020||City||Faridkot RTA to inquire into death of Abohar prof at Faridkot medical college||Faridkot A day after Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh expressed his dismay at the death of an Abohar associate professor, Parwinder Singh Kamboj, 46, at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot on July 23 in his Facebook Live session on Friday, the district administration has started investigation into the case of alleged negligence in the treatment of Kamboj. Kamboj had been admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital after being suspected to be infected with covid-19. However, he tested negative a day after death. On the directions of the department of health and family welfare, the district administration has asked Faridkot regional transport authority (RTA) secretary Paramdeep Singh Khaira to conduct the investigation.“I have started investigation. There has been some delay due to covid-19 as one of the three doctors that the family has accused had tested positive. My own office was sealed after three of my staff members tested positive. I have summoned the wife of the victim and the accused doctors. The report will be submitted soon,” Khaira said.Neeta Pandhu Kamboj, the wife of the victim, has alleged negligence in treatment of her husband and delay in receiving covid-19 test reports, which prevented them from taking treatment from a private hospital. She claimed in a social media post that her husband developed mild fewer on July 16 and a slight throat ache on July 18, after which they both gave their swab samples for covid-19 testing on July 20 at the Abohar civil hospital.“The report was not available by July 22. Meanwhile, my husband’s condition deteriorated so I got him admitted to civil hospital, from where he was referred to Faridkot,” she stated.She has alleged that despite not having any symptoms of covid-19, he was admitted to the isolation ward. She stated the Faridkot hospital authorities did not provide proper treatment and wasted time in paperwork instead of providing immediate treatment. “I received my husband’s covid-19 report on July 24, in which tested negative,” she added.Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said the university had already completed an internal inquiry and the report had not been submitted as administration’s inquiry is underway. “We have not disclosed the report, as it may affect the other probe, after the completion of which we will submit our report to the CM,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridkot-rta-to-inquire-into-death-of-abohar-prof-at-faridkot-medical-college/story-ccQICfSArcvGgo4ElvvE8I.html
08-08-2020||City||Firing on Chandigarh-Panchkula border: Paan seller, security guard held||A man selling paan fired gunshots from the .12-bore rifle of a security guard outside the liquor vend on Chandigarh-Mansa Devi Complex border that had left two persons injured on Friday, police said on Saturday. The security guard, Subash, hailing from Sonepat and currently living in Indira Colony, Manimajra, and the paan seller, Kishan Kumar Patel of Manimajra, have been arrested.“Subash, an ex-serviceman, had handed over his loaded weapon to Patel before going to get liquor during their drinking session. Meanwhile, Patel fired gunshots, leaving two persons injured,” said a senior police official. While Patel claimed the gun fired while he was keeping it aside, police have not believed his story. Besides, the footage from a CCTV camera installed at the liquor vend had captured Patel opening fire and fleeing from the spot.“We have recovered the weapon. The accused were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody,” said inspector Yashdeep, SHO, Mansa Devi Complex (MDC). He said, “Both parties neither know each other nor had any argument.” A case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act was registered at the MDC police station. The case was registered on the complaint of Satpal, 29, a building contractor hailing from Pinjore, who sustained injuries in the ankle. A bystander, identified as Heera Lal, who works as a mechanic in the Manimajra motor market, also suffered pellet injuries. Both were rushed to the civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula. According to Satpal, he and his two friends had stopped their car near the traffic lights as he wanted to relieve himself. As he went behind the liquor vend, the gunshots were fired, injuring him and another man. He had seen the accused run away, as per his statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/firing-outside-manimajra-liquor-vend-pan-seller-security-guard-held/story-863KJW0QAFRnhRE18wcfKK.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER healthcare staff can home-isolate as per new quarantine policy||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has come up with a new policy for quarantining its healthcare workers in case they suspect infection or test positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The health workers will be allowed home isolation rather than being admitted in the Nehru Hospital Extension, which is the city’s dedicated Covid-19 care centre.“Those who have better facilities at home can go for home isolation. The step has been taken in view of rising Covid-19 infections. The healthcare workers opting for the same will be cross-checked by the officials of Chandigarh administration as per the procedure laid down earlier,” said PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram.As per the new protocol, the healthcare workers having symptoms like fever, cough, breathlessness and sore throat will get tested for Covid-19 at the screening OPD and ‘self-isolate’ till the results arrive.Besides, the staff exposed to Covid-19 patients will be categorised as high or low risk. While the low-risk staff can continue work with normal precautions and self-monitor for symptoms and get themselves tested on the fifth day of exposure, the high-risk workers warrant quarantine with testing on the fifth and seventh day.The protocol says that in case the test result turns out positive, the health workers will be isolated in either NHE or their homes for 14 days. However, health workers with high index of suspicion will be tested again after 72 hours.The protocol also suggests that all health workers should at least wear surgical masks with visors and gloves during patient care and have their meals and tea only in isolation during the duty hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-healthcare-staff-can-home-isolate-as-per-new-quarantine-policy/story-2nK2V0A1EiVxGorf8PtYKP.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||Aim to see Delhi among top 5 global destinations for startups: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has kicked off a consultation process to draft a new startup policy with industry leaders and young entrepreneurs aiming to give a fillip to startups in Delhi and making the capital their preferred destination.“The objective of the draft policy is to support entrepreneurs and build a robust economic and policy infrastructure that will create new jobs and bring new competitive dynamics into the current economic system,” a statement released by the chief minister’s office said.Detailing the outline of the process of drafting the policy, the statement says consultations will be conducted in two stages including inviting inputs from industry leaders, entrepreneurs, and policy experts followed by seeking of public opinion.Also Read: Big push for electric vehicles to boost demand, cut air pollutionAjai Chowdhry (Co-founder, HCL), Rajan Anandan (MD Sequoia Capital), Padmaja Ruparel (Co-founder, Indian Angel Network) and young leaders like Sriharsha Majety (Co-founder and CEO, Swiggy), Farid Ahsan (Co-founder, ShareChat), Suchita Salwan (Founder and CEO, Little Black Book), Tarun Bhalla (Founder, Avishkaar), Riyaaz Amlani, CEO & MD, Impresario Handmade Restaurants etc were among the participants in the discussion held on Saturday, the statement said.In the meeting, Kejriwal cited a TiE report from September 2019, claiming Delhi region had over 7000 start-ups and the capital was on top of the list of cities with most number of active start-ups. He also said, citing the study, that valuation of the city’s start-ups is about $50 billion. The report also states that Delhi-NCR is set to become one of the top five global start-up hubs with 12,000 start-ups, 30 unicorns, and a cumulative valuation of about $150 billion by 2025, said the statement.Also read: Delhi govt likely to transfer compensation to rape victim’s family today“Right since my IIT days, I have seen some of the most brilliant minds from India go abroad looking for better opportunities. I believe Indians are the smartest entrepreneurs in the world and all they need is the right opportunity and the right conditions to help them thrive. With this start-up policy, we aim to make Delhi as one of the top 5 global destinations for start-ups,” Kejriwal said at the meeting.The Delhi government said that the initiative by the chief minister was met with enthusiasm by the industry leaders||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aim-to-see-delhi-among-top-5-global-destinations-for-startups-arvind-kejriwal/story-c4hUkdJItFaWS4VZWTeluL.html
08-08-2020||City||LeT’s terror funding module busted in Jammu, 5 arrested||Security forces have arrested five overground workers of the proscribed Lashkar-e-Taiba terror financing network and foiled their bid to revive the outfit in the Jammu region, said inspector general of police (Jammu region) Mukesh Singh on Saturday.The arrests come barely a week before Independence Day.The network was busted on the information provided by the Army, which gave intelligence inputs about efforts to revive it in Jammu city.The arrested overground workers have been identified as Moulvi Tauqeer Ahmad Batt of Sazan in Doda, Asif Batt of Sazan, Doda (a surrendered terrorist and former special police officer in J&K Police), Khalid Latief Batt of Kotal in Doda, a contractor, Ghazi Iqbal and Tariq Hussain Mir.On July 19, a team of SOG Jammu had apprehended one Mubashir Farooq Batt of Sazan, Doda (a student of BSc nursing at Kharar) with a consignment of ₹1.5 lakh of Hawala Indian Currency concealed in a box. A case under Sections 17/18/20/21/38 and 40 of UAPA Act 1967 was registered at Peermitha police station. “During the investigation of the case, SOG Jammu apprehended five more suspects involved in the module. They have confessed to their involvement in the case,” said Singh. The IGP said that all the six accused were in contact with Pakistani handler identified as Mohammad Amin Batt aka Haroon of Kathawa, Thathri in Doda. “He remained a district commander of the LeT in Doda and exfiltrated to Pakistan in 2007,” said the officer. “All of them were tasked to identify naive and gullible youth for recruitment in terror ranks, providing logistics and strengthening LeT cadre in the region, sharing information about the presence of security forces and their important locations to Pak handlers, transportation of arms and ammunition from one location to another and distributing money among the families of active terrorists,” he added. During questioning of all the six overground workers, it has come to the fore that they received money amounting to ₹12,19,704 through different means on different occasions as part of this module. They were also instrumental in recruiting Abid Ahmed Bhat of Sazan, Doda, who was killed in an encounter and Jamal Din of Doda, who surrendered before the security forces. During the interrogation of a suspect identified as Mohammad Irfan Khan of Bijarni in Doda, it came to the fore that he along with two of his associates Ghazi Iqbal and Amir Batt had hoisted Pakistani flag at Lal Draman in Doda. “The involvement of four accused from Kashmir has also surfaced. Moreover, it has come to light that the module has its links in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab as well,” Singh said. Further investigation into the case is underway to unearth terror financing channels and overground worker’s network used for providing financial support and motivating youth to join terror outfits in J&K, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/let-s-terror-funding-module-busted-in-jammu-5-arrested/story-zfyVetDwuXlzTPEa5KKmXO.html
08-08-2020||City||Dushyant, Vij involved in liquor smuggling: Abhay Chautala||INLD general secretary and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh Chautala on Saturday alleged that Haryana excise minister Dushyant Chautala and home minister Anil Vij were involved in the alleged liquor smuggling in the state.In a statement, Chautala alleged that those in power had sold 1.10 crore liquor bottles from distilleries at high rates during the Covid-19 lockdown. “The SET had mentioned in its report that liquor had gone missing during the lockdown period. Only Fatehabad district excise and taxation commissioner has submitted information regarding missing liquor with the Special Enquiry Team while other districts asked the SET to get details about liquor missing from the excise department,” Chautala said.Hitting out at his nephew Dushyant Chautala, Abhay said he had given a clean chit to excise and taxation commissioner Shekhar Vidyarthi against whom home minister Anil Vij recommended action on the basis of report compiled by the SET. “The excise minister has directly challenged chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar over SET report. During the lockdown, police had laid nakas across the state but it failed to stop vehicles loaded with liquor, which was supplied to many parts of the state and country. I urge the CM to take strong action against Vij and Dushyant. If he fails, then the CM too involved in the business of illegal liquor smuggling,” he said.Chautala alleged that liquor kingpin Bhupinder Singh is also linked to leader of opposition (LoP) and he had given Rs 31 lakh to Hooda as donation when the latter fought the 2019 parliamentary polls from Sonepat. “The LoP’s silence raises serious doubts over his connection with liquor kingpin,” the INLD leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dushyant-vij-involved-in-liquor-smuggling-abhay-chautala/story-urRzwBawuhkfkrhX6GuwOO.html
08-08-2020||City||10 more Covid-19 deaths in J&K; infection tally crosses 24,000 mark||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded 463 new Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 24,390, while 10 more coronavirus deaths during the last 24 hours pushed the toll to 459 in the Union territory, officials said.Of the new cases, 382 are from Kashmir and 81 from the Jammu division. Among these, 46 patients have a travel history. All the ten fatalities were reported from the Kashmir, they said.There are 7,264 active COVID-19 cases in the union territory now, while 16,667 patients have recovered from the infection, the officials said.A government spokesperson said 181 people were discharged in the Jammu division and 268 in Kashmir. Of the total, 12,975 were cured in Kashmir while 3,692 in the Jammu division. The UT, particularly Kashmir valley, is daily witnessing around 10 deaths on an average for the past more than a month. As many as 276 persons have died in July alone. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 178 more people tested positive followed by Budgam at 61 and Pulwama at 38. In Jammu division, the highest number of 40 cases was reported in Jammu district and 15 in Kathua district. Srinagar is the worst affected district with 6,000 cases and 149 deaths. The active cases in the district reached 2,392 after 137 recovered today, the spokesman said.To date, 3.88 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 42,012 in home quarantine, 7,264 in isolation, and 47,304 under home surveillance. Besides these, 2.91 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-more-covid-19-deaths-in-j-k-infection-tally-crosses-24-000-mark/story-9U2XYdhDPNU95VtSSsQRDP.html
08-08-2020||City||Himachal CM inaugurates projects worth ₹130 crore at Jaisinghpur||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated developmental projects worth about ₹130 crore in Jaisinghpur assembly segment of Kangra district on Saturday.Thakur inaugurated the teaching block of Government Polytechnic College at Talwar, which was completed at a cost of ₹5.95 crore. He also inaugurated a 132 KV sub-station at Kanghain built by spending ₹37.55 crore.He laid foundation stones for upgrade of Bhedi Uparli to Bhulandar road to be completed using ₹3.27 crore; upgrade of Jangal to Oach Kalam road with an outlay of ₹7.57 crore; foundation stone of reaming work of Trahla Badhala and Kotlu road on which ₹3.23 crore will be spent.He laid foundation stone of the new building of Swami Vivekananda Government Degree College to be constructed at a cost of ₹5 crore; and foundation stone of lift water supply scheme on which ₹2.90 crore are to be spent.He laid foundation stones of lift water supply scheme Andrana Bandhan and Harsi Sanghol under Jal Jeevan Mission to be completed at a collective cost of ₹3.48 crore and augmentation of lift water supply scheme Draman Jalag to be done by spending ₹7.01 crore.The CM laid foundation of water supply scheme that will benefit villages of Baijnath, Lambagaon and Panchrukhi block, at an estimated cost of ₹ 43.88 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-inaugurates-projects-worth-130-crore-at-jaisinghpur/story-nloReKca9xYPmOk98zwXiN.html
08-08-2020||City||Mankotia alleges involvement of Himachal cabinet minister in dubious land deals||Former Congress minister Vijai Singh Mankotia on Saturday alleged involvement of a Himachal Pradesh cabinet minister in dubious land deals in Kangra and sought a CBI probe into the matter.In a press conference, Mankoltia alleged that family and relatives of a minister have bought 1,100-kanal land worth crore in Mohal Patti, Fatehpur tehsil, Kangra. This land is part of 4,000-kanal land sold out in the same area.Refusing to name the minister, Mankotia said that he wants to know from CM Jai Ram Thakur whether he knows about the involvement of his minister in such corrupt practices.“I want to hear from the CM,” said Mankotia, adding that he has written to the CM, PM Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP president JP Nadda and veteran leader Shanta Kumar in this regard.Mankotia alleged that prima facie it appears that a major land purchase mafia allegedly linked to a Cabinet Minister is operating in the region.Listing some land deals, he said that apart from the land mentioned above, the minnister’s family are in possession of 18 kanal land in Darini sub-tehsil of Shahpur. “A hotel is coming up in Upper Bhagsunag ward of Dharamshala over a 2.3 kanal land, and the same people own this land,” said Mankotia.He alleged that some time back reports of large scale forest and government land and appropriation of a Nullah was reported by these persons in Bhasunag.“This cabinet minister and their family are involved in the illegal felling of Deodar trees for construction of the aforesaid hotel,” he alleged.Mankotia said that these people have also purchased 20 kanal land at Baghni near Tapovan in the outskirts of Dharamshala. Apart from this, they also own a plot in Gamru ward of Dharamshala.“In interest of justice, CM Jai Ram Thakur owes it to the pubic of Himachal to direct CBI probe in this matter,” he said, adding that it is just the tip of the iceberg. These people may be involved in more such deals, he said.Mankotia said that a state government agency cannot carry out free and fair probe in this matter, thus, CBI investigation is necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mankotia-alleges-involvement-of-himachal-cabinet-minister-in-dubious-land-deals/story-ZCW5Jz0Tq53UEQmqHYQZbK.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||PU senate elections set to witness two-cornered contest||With the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) group joining hands with DAV group and Sangha group against the alliance of Navdeep Goyal and Ashok Goyal, the Panjab University senate elections are headed for a two-cornered contest this year.Polling for the 91-member apex governing body of the university will start on August 24. The last senate elections were held in 2016. Of the total 91 members, 36 are nominated by the varsity’s chancellor.The term of the new PU senate will begin in November 2020 and last till October 2024.Highlighting the need for a major alliance against the Goyal group, the BJP group, which is led by senator Subhash Sharma, will contest the elections in alliance with DAV group led by Gurdeeep Sharma and Sangha group led by SS Sangha and Varinder Singh Gill.During the last election of PU senate, Ashok and Navdeep were in opposite camps. The alliance between their power groups was forged during the syndicate elections of 2018. Earlier, the two rival alliances – Goyal and BJP groups – also held differing views over the conduct of senate elections amid the pandemic and wrote letters to PU’s chancellor M Venkaiah Naidu. CONSTITUENCY OF FACULTIESThe election from the constituency of faculties is scheduled on August 24, with both alliances pitting their contestants against each other. Interestingly, both Ashok and Navdeep are contesting from faculties, which will contribute six members to the senate.In the faculty of arts, Ronki Ram from Goyal group will contest against Anju Suri of the opposite camp, who is contesting for the first time. Navdeep is contesting the election from the faculty of science and Promila Pathak, former PUTA president, has been fielded against him from the rival side. From the Goyal group, PUTA president Rajesh Gill will contest against Gurpal Singh in the faculty of languages.Keshav Molhotra will battle it out from combined faculty against Naval Kishore, and from faculty of law, Anu Chatrath from Goyal Group is contesting against Jagjot Singh Lali.PGI doctor in frayAs Ashok remains a powerful candidate from the Goyal alliance, the opposite camp has pitted Dr Sarvjeet Singh Dhatt against him in the medical faculty. Dr Dhatt is additional professor of prthopaedics at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.OTHER CONSTITUENCIESBesides the constituency of faculties, the two alliances are fielding their candidates from other constituencies as well. After the election of faculties on August 24, polling of technical and professional colleges is scheduled on September 7, followed by the election of campus teaching departments on September 14. For representatives from registered graduate constituency, and college principals and lecturers, elections will be held on September 20.From campus, two members are elected from professors and two from the readers and lecturers in the teaching departments.NEW FACESMost of the candidates in the alliance led by the BJP group are contesting the elections for the first time. These include Anju Suri, Dr Sarvjeet Singh Dhatt, Gurpal Singh and Jagjot Singh Lali.“This is the first time that we are contesting on all 10 seats from the campus. We will be represented by new faces and are hopeful of winning all seats,” said Subhash Sharma.Navdeep said, “We field our candidates from different constituencies according to our strength. As many as 33 members of our group are in fray this time from all constituencies. We are in a good position to win all 10 seats from campus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-senate-elections-set-to-witness-two-cornered-contest/story-6zGfvSv5oEUp2l8eKhd7KI.html
08-08-2020||City||‘Will move court if HP govt tries to postpone panchayat polls’||Himachal Pradesh leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri on Saturday said that Congress will move court if the state government tried to postpone the panchayat elections.In a statement, he said that state government wants to create constitutional crisis by postponing panchayat polls. New panchayats are to be formed by January for which election process has started.He said that the state government is not ready for elections so they do not want to conduct polls. “First they tried to avoid elections on pretext of Covid-19 and now they are trying to do the same on pretext of creating new panchayats. There is no provision to extend tenure of exisiting panchayats so government is trying to occupy the panchayats by imposing favoured committees,” he said.Agnihotri said that CM Jai Ram Thakur has himself been panchayati Raj minsiter and is familiar with constitutional process of creating new panchayats. It will be foolish and immature to create such a crisis,, he added.He said that if the state government wanted to create new panchayats, all formalities should have been started last year. But considering creation of new panchayats all of a sudden will postpone elections by at least a year.He said that the DCs have completed process of delimitation and demarcation, boundaries have been fixed and voter lists have been finalised. Postponing polls now will put burden on the state government’s treasury as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-move-court-if-hp-govt-tries-to-postpone-panchayat-polls/story-PfpqjEBEuC9ffkRfCnPlkN.html
08-08-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, of faking, news||Stray cattle have field day near Mohali MC office Mohali’s stray cattle problem was discussed and debated endlessly at the municipal corporation meetings but nothing much changed for the city’s residents on the ground. The MC’s five-year term ended on April 26 and stray cattle are having a field day right outside the MC premises. With officials failing to act, stray cattle occupy roads in Sector 68, causing accidents and inconveniencing commuters. When will the authorities wake up? UT Secretariat staff edgy after two positive cases With two Covid-19 cases reported in two days in the UT Secretariat, the anxiety among staff is palpable. “It is getting harder for us to attend to office work with cases being reported from the secretariat. Even other offices such as the UT treasury and estate office have reported positive cases. Still the administration is not adequately sanitising offices nor are employees taking proper precautions. We are worried,” said a UT employee requesting anonymity. Chandigarh cops don’t upload FIRs regularly, glitch or tactic? Chandigarh Police don’t upload first information reports (FIRs) on their website regularly. This is a violation of Supreme Court directives of 2016 by which all states and UTs have been asked to upload FIRs except sensitive cases. This initiative was taken to save people the hassle of visiting police stations to get a copy of the FIR. But Chandigarh Police either do not upload or selectively upload FIRs. Some police stations in town don’t upload a single FIR throughout the month but suddenly as the new month begins, all FIRs are available online. Is it a glitch or a tactic to avoid information reaching the media? Chandigarh cops on the trail of a stolen flowerpot Chandigarh Police are on the lookout for a stolen flowerpot belonging to a former law professor. DN Jauhar, a former chairman of Panjab University’s department of laws, got a first information report (FIR) registered at the Sector 39 police station after a flowerpot was stolen from the boundary wall of his house last week. The police are yet to zero in on the thief and recover the flowerpot belonging to Jauhar, who is also a former dean of Guru Nanak Dev University, but they insist investigation is on even if it’s an ordinary planter. Be careful what you wish for The association presidents of smaller, congested markets, including Shastri Market in Sector 22, Sadar Bazaar in Sector 19 and Patel Market in Sector 15, are having their way with the Chandigarh administration taking a U-turn on the odd-even formula in these markets. They wanted the rule to be abolished in June, but once markets opened in July, they reported a dip in sales due to larger competition son they wanted to go back to the previous arrangement. The odd-even rule is back in August in these markets to prevent congestion and check the spread of Covid-19, but it is too early to see whether their problems will finally be solved. Focus shifts from counting cases to saving lives With the Covid-19 infection spreading across sectors of Chandigarh besides the UT’s periphery, the health authorities are now are not as concerned about the increasing numbers since the focus has shifted to saving lives of the seriously ill. A senior health officer said that the numbers were bound to increase when the decision to remove curbs on movement and businesses was taken. However, testing has been ramped up but the real challenge is in saving lives of high-risk patients by timely diagnosis of infection and treatment. Not welcome to Panchkula any longer The Panchkula district administration sure has its unique way of welcoming commuters. If earlier it was bumpy roads the moment one took a turn towards Sector 7 from the Housing Board traffic junction, now it’s the arch with missing letters that half-heartedly greets people. These days, one only finds ‘Pankula’ written on the arch with ‘welcome to’ missing. The poor maintenance makes one wonder how long before the rest of the alphabets fall, and on whom! Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh, and Amanjeet Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-of-faking-news/story-R6yodvdcFOJ0met4x8sOlM.html
08-08-2020||City||Investment clearance to six irrigation, flood control projects in Himachal||The Union government has granted investment clearance to six irrigation, flood control and multipurpose projects worth ₹7,922.69 crore for Himachal, CM Jai Ram Thakur said on Saturday.The clearance was given in the 13th meeting of the Investment Clearance Committee (ICC), department of water resources department of water resources, river development and ganga rejuvenation held this Friday in New Delhi.The CM said that 10 schemes including six for Himachal, three for Maharashtra and one for Tamil Nadu were cleared. He said that the schemes to get clearance include ₹6,946.99 crore Renuka dam project.Five projects proposals related to flood protection works and anti-erosion measures worth ₹975 crore were given clearance.Thakur said that Dharampur constituency in Mandi got clearance for Sakrain, Malthod, Thothu, Dol and Samour Khad with estimated cost of ₹ 145.73 crore. In Kangra, clearance was given for Naker Khad and its tributaries with an estimated cost of ₹ 231.02 crore; while in Sirmaur, the project includes right bank of Yamuna river and its tributaries with an estimated cost of ₹ 250.46 crore.In Mandi, the projects have been cleared for Seer Khad from Barchhwar to Jahu with an estimated cost of ₹157.66 crore; and in Shimla for the Pabbar river from Takkari to Hatkosi in Rohru tehsil with an estimated cost of ₹ 190.82 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/investment-clearance-to-six-irrigation-flood-control-projects-in-himachal/story-hwtw6s9nSKpoFRXshPlwmL.html
08-08-2020||City||Congress seeks special permission to hold functions for historic August Kranti Diwas||Congress has sought special permission to hold symbolic functions to mark the historic day of Quit India anniversary, known as August Kranti Diwas falling on Sunday. JKPCC has written to respective district magistrates to allow the party to organise functions at party headquarters in Jammu and Srinagar, although in a simple and symbolic manner to mark the important event in the freedom history of the country, said chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma. Sharma added that the importance of the day calls for celebrations every year to carry forward the spirit and sacrifices of crores of people who contributed to the freedom under the Indian National Congress led by Mahatma Gandhi. The August Kranti movement was the turning point in the history of the freedom struggle as Mahatma Gandhi gave a call to launch the quit India movement from August 9, 1942, calling upon Britishers to leave India and exhorted countrymen to “do or die”. In view of this significance and since the INC launched the movement, the party wants the tradition to be carried forward, observing all social and administrative norms of Covid but permission should be granted at all costs for the national importance day, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-seeks-special-permission-to-hold-functions-for-historic-august-kranti-diwas/story-5iYoevDdSrjKkL0KDSGj6K.html
08-08-2020||City||Two more panchayat members resign after killing of BJP sarpanch in Kashmir||Two more panchayat members have resigned from their posts after BJP sarpanch was killed and another injured in south Kashmir.One of the sarpanches is from Sopore and another from Kokernag in south Kashmir. Mohammad Ramzan Lone of Dangerpora block was affiliated with the Congress, resigned on Saturday.Another sarpanch from Hiller Kokernag, Riyaz Ahmad Dar who was an independent sarpanch announced his resignation on social media. On Thursday, unidentified gunmen killed Sajjad Ahmad Khanday who was sarpanch of Vessu village in Qazigund block in Kulgam. On Tuesday, another sarpanch Arif Ahmad Shah was fired upon by suspected militants near his home at Akhran village of Devsar in Kulgam. He was hit in his neck and his condition is said to be critical.Soon after the attack on Shah three BJP workers of Kulgam– Nisar Ahmad Wani, constituency president from Kund, Sabzar Ahmad Paddar, vice-president, Devsar constituency, and BJP activist Ashiq Hussain Palla from Warpora-Kund – announced their dissociation from the party.“We have resigned from the BJP. I am an unlettered person and earn my living as a labourer. I had joined BJP a few months back. I thought it is better to focus on my living and feed my family happily without any tension,” said Wani, a baker by profession.Last month BJP former district president, Bandipora, Waseem Bari, was killed, along with his father Basheer Ahmad and brother Suhail Basheer, inside his shop. Jammu and Kashmir Police had said that two outlawed Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) members were involved in the killing of Bari and his kin.Following the killings, two BJP leaders had resigned from the party including Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president from Baramulla, Marouf Bhat.Police had received inputs that militants might try to target sarpanches and BDC chairmen ahead of August 5, the first anniversary of revocation of Article 370. Following the inputs, dozens of panchayat members and BDC chairmen were shifted to a safe location. Dozens of panchayat members have been taken to hotels in high-security zones in different places across Kashmir and have been asked not to venture out till August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-panchayat-members-resign-after-killing-of-bjp-sarpanch-in-kashmir/story-7TWzKbi37jWiKOx82kZihJ.html
08-08-2020||City||Four dead, four injured in two mishaps in Kullu||As many as four persons died while four sustained injuries in two separate car accidents in Kullu.In the first incident, two persons were killed and three sustained injuries when a car fell into a deep gorge near Ranabagh, Ani subdivision, Kullu on Saturday.The deceased have were Govind Singh, 40, and Zoravar Singh, 40, while the injured are Ranjeet, 35, Raju Thakur, 28, and Teja Singh, 38, all residents of Ani subdivision.The accident took place when the driver lost control of the vehicle and it skidded into a deep gorge killing two persons.Locals immediately informed the police, who reached the spot and rescued the injured and recovered the bodies.They were rushed to Ani government hospital. Zoravar died at Ani hospital during treatment. Ranjeet and Raju are undergoing treatment at Ani hospital while Teja was referred to Rampur Bushahr zonal hospital.Postmortem of the deceased is also being conducted after which the bodies will be handed over to the kin. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said police are conducting investigation into the matter.In another incident, two persons were killed while one sustained injuries when a car skidded into a deep gorge in Banjar subdivision of Kullu.The deceased were Rajendra Kumar, 49, and Balvinder Singh, 28, while the injured is Dev Raj, 25, all residents of Banjar.The incident took place on Friday late evening near Mohni village when they were on their way to Banjar from Gadagushaini. Near Kullu-Mandi border, the driver lost control of the vehicle and it skidded into a 300-feet gorge killing two persons on the spot.Locals informed the police who rescued the injured and recovered the bodies. The injured was rushed to Community Health Centre, Banjar, where he is undergoing treatment. Bodies of the deceased were handed over to relatives after conducting postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-dead-four-injured-in-two-mishaps-in-kullu/story-1UoLqXrMpL83LKH653qH1O.html
08-08-2020||Jaipur||Six Rajasthan BJP MLAs shifted to Gujarat’s Porbandar||The BJP on Saturday shifted six of its MLAs to Gujarat’s Porbandar ahead of the Rajasthan assembly session beginning August 14, according to party sources. They left on a chartered flight for BJP-ruled Gujarat from the Jaipur airport. The legislators will be staying at a luxury resort there and likely to visit the Somnath temple, the sources said. According to them, 12 party MLAs on Friday had left Rajasthan for Gujarat’s Ahmedabad where they camping at a resort. However, state BJP chief Satish Poonia rejected suggestions that his party has started herding their MLAs to a place like the Congress did ahead of the crucial assembly session. Congress MLAs are holed up in a Jaisalmer hotel as the party has accused the BJP of horse-trading following the revolt of its leader Sachin Pilot and 18 MLAs loyal to him against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. All legislators are “united and there is no distrust”, Poonia said, adding that people in the Congress government are trying to “spread rumours and confusion” about BJP MLAs on social media and other forums. Poonia said soon a meeting of the BJP legislature party will be held, which will be attended by all MLAs. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Ashok Lahoti, who accompanied the six legislators to the Jaipur airport, said they were being “harassed” and voluntarily went on a pilgrimage. “Some BJP legislators are being harassed through police and the administration. Those legislators who are being harassed have gone on a pilgrimage voluntarily,” Lahoti told reporters after coming out of the airport. Deputy Leader of the Opposition Rajendra Rathore said, “If some BJP MLAs went on an educational tour or roam around collectively then it cannot be termed ‘badabandi’ (fortification).” He said the BJP stays away from such a culture. The BJP legislators who boarded the flight from the Jaipur airport on Saturday are Nirmal Kumawat, Gopichand Meena, Jabbar Singh Sankhla, Dharamveer Mochi, Gopal Lal Sharma and Gurudeep Singh Shahpini. The airport authorities too confirmed that six passengers were on the flight to Porbandar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/six-rajasthan-bjp-mlas-shifted-to-gujarat-s-porbandar/story-XhCT7jkiSFKSlV4EU2pu9O.html
08-08-2020||City||65-year-old civilian killed as Pak shells LoC villages in Poonch||A 65-year old man was killed as Pakistan resorted to heavy firing and mortar shelling in forward villages along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, prompting the Indian army to retaliate befittingly, officials said.The deceased has been identified as Mohammad Sadeeq, 65 of Tain Mankote. Poonch district SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral said, “During ceasefire violation in Mankote sector late Friday evening, a 65-year-old man was hit by splinters and died on the spot.” Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand said that Pakistan initiated unprovoked firing and shelling in Mankote, Mendhar and Krishna Ghati sectors along the LoC and targeted civilians in Mankote. Indian Army has retaliated befittingly, he said.Pakistan began firing and shelling around 9.45 pm and the exchanges went on till midnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/65-year-old-civilian-killed-as-pak-shells-loc-villages-in-poonch/story-HfdNEkeG0iEFCRbxqdDwQO.html
08-08-2020||City||J&K chief secretary triggers political row, says none cried at politicians’ detention||Jammu and Kashmir chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam has triggered a political storm in the UT with his remarks that “no one cried” over the detention of mainstream political leaders. Leaders of mainstream political parties also targeted Subrahmanyam for stating “unbelievable levels of fraud” were committed by leaders of mainstream parties and separatist organisations. Even the newly launched party, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) blamed the senior-most official of the J&K administration for breach of service rules “which are legally and ethically unwarranted”. Recently in an interview, Subrahmanyam said the J&K was a ‘broken state’ without any ‘proper system’ where frauds were committed by leaders of mainstream parties and separatists organisations. JKAP senior leader and former minister Ghulam Hassan Mir said “All the government employees including bureaucrats are supposed to remain apolitical and give people a fair deal of governance which is entirely lacking in J&K.” He said that an officer of the rank of chief secretary in J&K seems to have forgotten about service conduct rules which warrant serving officers not to talk about issues pertaining to politics and instead should work for strengthening the institutions of governance on the ground. Former minister in BJP-PDP coalition government and senior J&K People’s Conference leader Imran Raza Ansari termed this as an effort by a government official to dismantle mainstream parties. ‘’Chief secretary J&K – Takes pride in dismantling, discrediting mainstream,’’ he said in a tweet.In another tweet, Ansari said: “So chief secretary has been here for two years and you have been the boss. Wonder how many people will cry if you are arrested. Hope you focus on your job rather than dabbling in politics. Please for god’s sake do your job what you are best at deciding new date for the meeting).”Another former minister and senior PDP leader, Naeem Akthar said, ‘’The fact that he timed it with the swearing-in of new LG adds a different dimension to it, given the impression that the new incumbent is to revive political process. Interesting timing and method to help achieve that.’’People’s Democratic Party (PDP) also criticised the remarks on its official twitter handle by stating “Sad state of affairs when a top bureaucrat no less than Chief Secretary takes pride in dismantling & discrediting mainstream in #Kashmir and brags about @PMOIndia @narendramodi backing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-chief-secretary-triggers-political-row-says-none-cried-at-politicians-detention/story-bj0ayTm8Ztk8iNukXzntKK.html
08-08-2020||Jaipur||2 held for thrashing a rickshaw driver who refused to chant ‘Modi zindabad’, other religious slogans||Police have arrested two persons from Rajasthan’s Sikar district on charges of assaulting a rickshaw driver, who allegedly had refused to chant “Modi zindabad” and other religious slogans on Friday early morning. Gagandeep Singla, superintendent of police (SP), Sikar, said that the victim, identified as Gaffar Ahmed Kachawa, in his complaint alleged that the incident occurred at around 4 am on Friday, when he was returning after dropping off passengers from Choti Jhigar village.He was accosted by the two accused, who were in a sports utility vehicle (SUV), and they stopped him on the way and asked for tobacco. “Kachawa gave them the tobacco, but the accused declined. Instead, they asked him to chant ‘Modi zindabad’ and when he refused, he was slapped by one of the accused. Kachawa ran away from the spot, but the accused chased him and caught up with him near Jagmalpura. They abused him and forced him to chant religious slogans. They also snatched his wallet, watch, and Rs 700 from him, and decamped,” the SP said. “A special team was formed after Kachawa filed the police complaint. The team tracked down the accused and arrested them from Jagmalpura,” the SP said. The arrested persons have been identified as Rajendra Jat (35) and Shambhudaya Jat (35), who are are residents of Sikar district. A probe is in progress, the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/2-held-for-thrashing-a-rickshaw-driver-who-refused-to-chant-modi-zindabad-other-religious-slogans/story-zXyZxedrS4C08QqDzdp33O.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Citing zero threat perception, Punjab govt withdraws Bajwa’s security||Chandigarh: The Punjab government has decided to withdraw the state police security from Congress MP Pratap Singh Bajwa after an assessment showed that he had virtually no threat perception and was, in any case, getting central security directly accorded to him by the Union home ministry An official spokesperson said that the state police security provided to Bajwa had become redundant since he had procured personal security directly from home minister Amit Shah. “A mixed security component is, in any case, not considered good, particularly when the Rajya Sabha MP has, by opting for central security, showed that he had no faith in the state police,” the spokesperson said in a release here on Saturday. The decision comes after Bajwa, a former Punjab Congress president, criticised the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government’s handling of the hooch tragedy case and demanded an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or Enforcement Directorate (ED) into it. ‘CENTRAL SECURITY NOT AT BEHEST OF CONG LEADERSHIP’ According to the spokesperson, contrary to claims made by Bajwa, the central security he had got was not at the behest of the Congress leadership. “In fact, the Union home ministry had not even consulted the state government to gauge the threat perception, which is usually done before providing central security to any person,” the release said. Bajwa, as Rajya Sabha MP, may have simply approached the party’s leader in the House, Ghulam Nabi Azad, to seek central security, and as is the norm, the latter could have simply sent his request to the Union home ministry. However, for some reason, the home ministry chose not to discuss the matter of Bajwa’s threat perception with the state government in this case, which was a clear deviation from the norm followed in such cases, the spokesperson said. ‘SHOULD HAVE BEEN WITHDRAWN EARLIER ‘The spokesperson said that Bajwa has been getting enhanced security from Punjab Police all this time, way beyond what he was entitled to as a Rajya Sabha MP. This was because the state government decided not to withdraw the greater security he had at his disposal as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president. Ideally, the enhanced security should have been withdrawn as soon as he became MP, with virtually zero threat perception. Bajwa was given Z category security by the MHA on March 19 and as of date has 25 CISF personnel for personal security, house protection and escort, besides two escort drivers. Till March 23, he also had 14 Punjab Police personnel deployed with him but a few were withdrawn for Covid duties. At present, he has six Punjab Police personnel and an escort with driver, which is now being withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/citing-zero-threat-perception-punjab-govt-withdraws-bajwa-s-security/story-pIrOSXvdb5mO5lFrhhaAsJ.html
08-08-2020||City||Two women held with 510-gm opium in Ludhiana’s Model Town||Two women were arrested with 510-gm opium in Model Town of Ludhiana on Friday. The accused have been identified as Sarbjit Kaur alias Sodhi, 50, and Baljit Kaur, 45, both residents of Kamla Nagar of Model Town.Model Town station house officer inspector Rajan Pal said the two were nabbed during a special checking in the area. While 250-gm opium was recovered from Sarbjit Kaur, 260 gm opium was found in the possession of Baljit Kaur. They allegedly got the opium from an Ambala resident and were to sell it among addicts.Two separate cases under Sections 18, 61 and 85 of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 have been registered against the women at Model Town police station. Sarbjit Kaur is already facing trial in three cases of drug peddling registered in 2013. Baljit Kaur’s son is also facing cases of drug peddling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-women-held-with-510-gm-opium-in-ludhiana-s-model-town/story-2xadN6KsGD9nEblMCuRBsK.html
08-08-2020||Lucknow||UP CM will be invited to lay stone for public facilities on land for mosque in Ayodhya: Official||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will be invited to lay the foundation stone for various public facilities at a mosque to be built in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur village by a trust formed by the state Sunni Central Waqf Board, one of its officebearers said on Saturday.“On the five-acre land in Dhannipur village, which has been given for the construction of a mosque on the Supreme Court’s directive, a hospital, a library, a community kitchen and a research centre will also be built. These will be for the public and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will be invited to lay the foundation stone for these projects,” secretary and spokesperson of the trust -- Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) -- Athar Hussain told PTI.Also read: From Kashmir to Ayodhya, the BJP’s total domination of politicsHe said the chief minister will not only participate in the programme, but will also assist in the construction of these public facilities.To a question on whether Adityanath will lay the foundation stone for the construction of the mosque, Hussain said according to the four schools of thought in Islam -- Hanafi, Hanbali, Shafi and Maliki -- there is no provision for laying the foundation stone for a mosque.Asked whether the mosque will be named as “Babri Masjid”, Hussain said, “There is no such thinking. The name is yet to be finalised.” “Barring the Masjid-e-Nabwi (Madina in Saudi Arabia) and a few other mosques, the names of other mosques do not matter. In the eyes of Allah, the ‘sajda’ done at the mosques is important, everything else is meaningless,” he added.The trust constituted by the Uttar Pradesh State Sunni Central Waqf Board to construct the mosque is in the process of setting up an office in the state capital, which will be functional in 10-12 days.“The trust has been formed. In accordance with rules, we have applied for a PAN card in its name and awaiting its delivery, after which we will meet online and pass a resolution for opening a bank account. We met online last month. As of now, we have identified an office space and renovation work is going on there. It will take 10-12 days for the work to be completed, after which the office will be functional,” Hussain said.The state government has allotted a five-acre land in Dhannipur for the construction of the mosque. The IICF will oversee the construction of the mosque, the Indo-Islamic research centre, the library and the hospital on the land.A member of the trust said, “Ayodhya District Magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha has formally handed over the possession of the land for the mosque to the trust members. We have got a certified copy of the revenue record.” The Supreme Court had, in November last year, paved the way for the construction of a Ram temple by a Trust at the disputed site in Ayodhya and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a “prominent” place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh.The trust will have 15 members, of whom the names of nine have been declared and the rest will be finalised soon. “We will co-opt the remaining six trustees. The secretary of the trust will also be its official spokesperson,” a member of the trust said.Meanwhile, the Samajwadi Party (SP) sought an apology from Adityanath on Friday over his remark that he would not attend the inauguration of the mosque to be built in Ayodhya, replacing the demolished Babri Masjid.After the “bhoomi pujan” for the Ram temple in Ayodhya, the chief minister had said on television that “as a yogi and as a Hindu”, he could not go for the inauguration of a mosque.“If you ask me as a chief minister, I have no problem with any belief, religion or community. If you ask me as a yogi, I will definitely not go because as a Hindu, I have the right to follow my way of worship and act accordingly,” he had said.“I am neither ‘vaadi’ nor ‘prativadi’ (neither petitioner nor respondent). That is why neither will I be invited, nor will I go. I know that I will not be getting any such invitation,” Adityanath had said.“The day they invite me, the secularism of many will be in danger. That is why I want that their secularism should not be in danger and I continue to silently work to ensure that everyone benefits from government schemes without any discrimination,” he had said.SP spokesperson Pawan Pandey criticised Adityanath over his remarks, saying he had violated the oath he took while assuming charge as the chief minister.“He is the chief minister of the entire state and not only of the Hindu community. Whatever the population of Hindus and Muslims in the state, he is the chief minister of all. This language of the chief minister lacks dignity. He should seek an apology from people for this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-will-be-invited-to-lay-stone-for-public-facilities-on-land-for-mosque-in-ayodhya-official/story-3Xh3OFUuvuNziqnzaWgiLJ.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Clueless police to register FIR in Central University, Bathinda, question bank hacking case||Bathinda: A month after the police probe into the hacking of the question bank of Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, failed to make headway, district police authorities will register a first information report (FIR) to expand the scope of the cyber investigation. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Aaswant Dhaliwal, the investigating officer, said Switzerland-based Proton Mail has not responded to the police request to share information about the email user identity of the unidentified hacker. He said preliminary police probe has not found any clue to those behind compromising the question paper bank of the university. “After registering the FIR, Proton Mail service provider will be asked to give the internet protocol (IP) address from where the email by the unidentified hacker was sent to the university authorities, informing them about the hacking. Once a criminal case is registered, we can question suspects and summon cyber data from agencies,” Dhaliwal said. In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the university conducted examinations online where only the schedule was released and students had the flexibility to choose dates to take their tests while staying home. On July 8, the university found that its online examination system had been accessed by hackers. A hacker sent an email from Proton Mail, an end-to-end encrypted and sophisticated cyber platform, to vice-chancellor RK Kohli and some faculty members, where a link was given. Clicking on it gave access to all questions. The server was sealed by university authorities for the police probe. “The university appointed a three-member cyber expert team, including two external members. The team is expected to share the dump of data secured from the central server to check who all accessed the question bank,” the DSP said. Earlier, Kohli had raised doubts about a group of 10 students from a particular state, who scored exceptionally well in the semester exams conducted on the first three days. “It was found that these students had average marks in the previous semesters but in this session of online exams, they scored more than 92%, much higher than other students. We have shared these details with the police for cyber scrutiny of the matter,” Kohli said. Registrar KP Mundra, who is also a complainant in the case, did not respond to phone calls on Saturday. Meanwhile, university sources said the examination for second year students that restarted from July 24 are going on smoothly. “After the question bank was hacked, faculty members were asked to set question papers again. Of the 484 second year students, 483 opted to take the online test,” a faculty member said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/clueless-police-to-register-fir-in-central-university-bathinda-question-bank-hacking-case/story-b5Jrkdc98doX5FlpCl2pTI.html
08-08-2020||Lucknow||Provide financial assistance to flood-hit farmers: Congress to UP govt||The Congress on Saturday demanded that the Uttar Pradesh government should give financial assistance to farmers of the state who have suffered crop damage due to the floods. In a statement issued here, state Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said, “Due to floods, the situation is grim from Bahraich to Ballia. The condition of embankments at various places is very bad. This reflects the laxity on the part of the state government. We demand that the state government should declare the flood as a calamity, and also announce compensation for the loss of lives.”  He added that paddy and sugarcane have got submerged in Gonda, Bahraich, Barabanki, Kushinagar, Gorakhpur, Deoria, Ballia, Mau, Azamgarh and other districts of the state. Incessant rains have also caused damage to crops, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/provide-financial-assistance-to-flood-hit-farmers-congress-to-up-govt/story-twMBaiG0isGLEiSpKKMm9K.html
08-08-2020||City||Jalandhar gets 1st govt covid lab on August 10||Jalandhar Punjab medical education and research minister OP Soni will inaugurate Jalandhar’s 1st government covid testing lab in Jalandhar on August 10 (Monday) at the northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL). The initial testing capacity would be 100 per day; this would be increased to 1,000 per day. So far, Jalandhar has been sending around 600 samples to Faridkot with reports usually arriving with a delay of 24-48 hours. The lab is being set up under the aegis of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, and doctors from the RDDL have already been trained there. Jalandhar civil surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said the lab would help the department increase the rate of sampling process and trace contacts faster. “We will get results in a few hours after sampling and positive patients can be shifted far more quickly,” Dr Chawla added.In May, BFUHS, Faridkot, vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur and animal husbandry department director Dr Inderjit Singh had visited Jalandhar to inspect the setting up of the laboratory. From 733 positive cases on July 1, the district now has 2,911 positive cases on August 7, with 104 cases on Friday. The district has reported 75 deaths, so far, from the virus. Jalandhar stands second after Ludhiana in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-gets-1st-govt-covid-lab-tomorrow/story-mlScyImJtCyTmahnKOL0iJ.html
08-08-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 patient tries to jump off Kolkata hospital building||A Covid-19 patient in Kolkata tried to jump off a hospital building on Saturday after breaking the windowpane with an oxygen cylinder but was saved by an alert health worker, police said.The incident happened around 9 am at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, they said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe 56-year-old man tried to jump off the third floor of the Super Speciality Block of the hospital after smashing the windowpane with an oxygen cylinder, a senior officer said.A brave health worker saved him. We are looking into the matter, he said.The man, a resident of North 24 Parganas district, was diagnosed with Covid-19 around 10 days back. Since then he is undergoing treatment at the hospital.He has been under severe stress for quite some time.He had earlier beaten up other patients in the ward. We have increased the vigil there, a source at the hospital said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-patient-tries-to-jump-off-kolkata-hospital-building/story-jFvuN31KyDTc3rqJDqcSSN.html
08-08-2020||Pune||Vehicles stuck, minor mishaps... commuters fume over pothole misery in PCMC||The potholes in Thergaon, Nigdi, Rahatani, Chinchwad and Bhosari are causing havoc for commuters in Pimpri and Chinchwad. The administration has begun repair work, however, the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) residents are not satisfied yet. Some residents say there are hardly any areas which are pothole-free. “The repair work was on halt for the last couple of days due to rain. We are adding laterite, broken bricks to even out the potholes and it will be covered up by tar. At many places, the work has already been completed and we will be covering other areas soon,” said Vijay Bhojane, PCMC spokesperson. There is anger among commuters because the condition of the roads has made them unsafe. “For the last three months we’ve been in a lockdown, and the potholes have been there for the last six months. We have complained so many times to civic bodies but our complaints have gone unheard always. I hope after watching the photograph in the newspaper they will react fast,” said Salman Sheikh, who works at a salon near Wakad phata, Thergaon. Rahatani residents have also been facing the pothole issue for the last four months. “No proper repair work is done by the civic body, the road was repaired in January and look at its condition now. It started to deteriorate in April. All the shopkeepers have complained but no action has been taken by the civic body,” added Rakesh Mishra, who works at a shop in Nakhate Wasti, Rahatani. In contrast to these claims, the civic body said that many potholes were filled by coal tar. “The civic body officers are lying, There are 12 potholes next to each other at Rupinagar, Nigdi, I have seen people falling at this spot in rain but it has not been repaired since the past two months,” said Akshay Rumale, a resident of Rupinagar. Under the overbridge at Dalvi nagar, Chinchwad a large pothole leads to traffic jams every day. “My four-wheeler was stuck yesterday and five people helped me to bring out my car. It is dangerous to drive here,” said Ruturaj Natu, a resident of Dalvi nagar, Chinchwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/vehicles-stuck-minor-mishaps-commuters-fume-over-pothole-misery-in-pcmc/story-ilWWVJaY1MBTkftYQ4EKCO.html
08-08-2020||Pune||Adivasi students get their hands on a mobile for the first time||What is a smartphone? This was only known to the adivasi students from Andgaon village in Mulshi via television; but now, each of them have one in their hands, for study purposes. The 80 adivasi students of the Vidya Vikas Mandir (secondary school), Andgaon, were helpless when school announced classes were going online due to the Covid pandemic. Parents, who don’t earn enough to buy a smartphone, were left clueless about rescuing their wards’ education. Rajendra Marne, chairman of the school, decided on a campaign: “Donate a mobile to the needy”; and it received a good response. “When school started online, these students had no option, so for the first few days these students were not able to attend the classes. I promoted my campaign via social media and it generated a quick response from the general public and social workers,” says Marne. Two social workers – Anil Tambe and Tatya Devkar – are at the forefront of the endeavour to ensure Andgaon’s students are online. Tambe donated mobile phones worth Rs 4 lakh and Devkar sponsored laptops worth Rs 75 lakh. “I keep on doing social work, and with the help of Dr Yashraj Parkhi my friend, I got to know about this school in Mulshi. I decided to give these students smartphones to better their future,” says Tambe. “The expression on their faces said a lot when I donated the mobiles. All of them were very happy and also thanked us,” Tambe adds. Devkar, apart from donating laptops to Vidya Vikar Mandir, now plans to give laptops to 37 other schools in Mulshi taluka. “The laptops will be given to students of classes 8, 9 and 10, and girl students will get a preference,” says Devkar. “These mobiles will help these adivasis a lot. All of them are sincere students,” Marne adds. Sheetal Akhade, who studies in Class 9 is on cloud nine. “I had never thought that we would get smartphones to operate so early in our life. We will not misuse the mobile and will handle it with care,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/adivasi-students-get-their-hands-on-a-mobile-for-the-first-time/story-EMl8vfPodyAv3OX4s2mD1K.html
08-08-2020||Pune||Five thefts in PCMC on Thursday||Five incidents of house break-ins were reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad on Thursday, where thieves stole gold ornaments and cash. The police have launched a manhunt to nab the culprits. In the first incident, Dr Surbhi Sanjay Magu, 27, a resident of Madhujan housing society in Pimpri lodged a complaint with the Pimpri police stating that some unidentified thieves gained entry into her locked dental clinic and stole a Dell laptop and cash, estimated to be worth Rs 10,400. According to the police, the thieves broke open the left shutter with the help of an iron rod and entered the clinic. In the second case, unidentified thieves broke open the vegetable shop of Rahul Rampratap Agarwal, 23, a resident of Ajmera housing complex in Pimpri and decamped with cash, mobile and instruments worth Rs 8,000.In the third case, Mirza Shafique Baig, a resident of Keshav nagar lodged a complaint with the Bhosari police saying that his two-wheeler was stolen from his society’s parking lot in Keshavnagar, Bhosari. In the fourth incident, Somnath Pandurang Kate, 48, a resident of Pimple Saudagar has lodged a complaint with the Dehu road police stating that some unidentified thieves stole cash of Rs 69,000 from the locker of a wine shop located on the first floor of the building. The thieves gained entry by breaking open the iron window grill. In the fifth case, Ranjitkumar Mohasairam Ram, 24, a resident of Tamhane vasti in Chikhli lodged a complaint with at the local police station stating that his two-wheeler was stolen from his residence on Thursday by some unidentified thieves. Criminals on record for theft and robberies are being called for questioning in connection with the spate of thefts. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/five-thefts-in-pcmc-on-thursday/story-QQwqZi3EcJkGX1n4mY6IbO.html
08-08-2020||Pune||Pune reports 1,395 fresh Covid-19 cases, 35 deaths on Friday||The state health department reported 1,395 fresh positive cases of Covid-19 in Pune on Friday, and 35 Covid-19-related deaths, which takes the progressive positive count, as per the state health department’s data to 68,043 in the city. The death toll for Pune, also as per the state data is at 1,705, as of Friday. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), in its data release on Friday reported 1,249 positive cases in 24 hours, which puts its progressive positive count at 63,286. PMC also reported 23 Covid-related deaths, which put the civic body’s reported death toll for the city at 1,479. Currently, there are 17,033 active cases in Pune, of which 703 are critical, 439 are on ventilators and 264 are in ICUs, but not on ventilator support. At least 2,322 people are undergoing oxygen treatment in the city’s hospitals. Also, 1,168 people were on discharged Friday, after being declared as cured, taking the total count of discharged patients to 44,774. A total of 5,584 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total count of samples tested in the city to 3.08 lakh. Details of the deaths, as per PMC, include five each from the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and Inamdar hospital; three from Life Care hospital; two each from Sassoon General Hospital, Ruby Hall clinic and District hospital, Aundh. Also, one death each from Naidu hospital, Command hospital, Global hospital and Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital. Eight of the deceased were of residents from outside Pune district. These were reported from Symbiosis hospital (two), Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital (two); and one each from Noble, Jehangir, Jupiter and Sassoon hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-1-395-fresh-covid-19-cases-35-deaths-on-friday/story-GnQPDcemZ8x2EtlmhMChFK.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal’s economy suffered Rs 30,000-crore hit due to Covid-19 pandemic: CM||Dharamshala: The overall economy of Himachal Pradesh suffered a hit of Rs 30,000 crore due to the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, while the hill state registered a revenue loss of Rs 1,300 crore in the first quarter of this financial year. Stating this at a press conference in Dharamshala on Saturday, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said, “During this pandemic, the entire world is facing an economic crisis. Himachal Pradesh too suffered an economic loss of around Rs 1,300 crore in the first quarter. Our financial liabilities have increased by Rs 737 crore due to budget announcements.” Thakur said that the private sector, including tourism, transport, horticulture, and other businesses, had faced its worst crisis and the revenue loss is estimated to be around Rs 30,000 crore but there are green shoots with these sectors slowly coming back on track. He said that salaries, wages and pensions of government employees have been disbursed on time thanks to the central government that has not reduced the state’s financial dues. “The Rs 950-crore revenue deficit grant released by the Union government has kept the state’s economy afloat. The state is also getting its central tax share and Rs 300 crore has been received till date,” he said. Accusing the opposition Congress of playing politics during the pandemic, he said, “We are going through a crisis no government has ever faced but Himachal is in a much better position compared to other states.” RISE IN CASES AFTER RETURN OF NATIVES The chief minister said that the spurt in Covid cases after Unlock 1 was due to the return of Himachalis stranded in other states. “However, it was our responsibility to bring back stranded residents and the government facilitated the return of 2.5 lakh people,” he said. In Unlock 2, Thakur said as the Centre eased restriction on inter-state travel, the Covid-19 spike was seen among migrant labourers. “Most of the infected people were in quarantine,” he said. In Unlock 3, though unconditional inter-state travel was allowed, the state government kept monitoring the movement of people coming to the state. OPENING TOURISM SECTOR TO REVIVE ECONOMY Taking on the Opposition for criticising the government for opening the tourism sector, he said, “It is important that we revive the economy or more people may suffer due to the financial crisis than the virus.” He said the government has allowed conditional entry, making the Covid-19 negative report mandatory for visitors. On reopening temples, Thakur said that the government will review the situation after August 15 and if the number of cases increases, temples may remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-s-economy-suffered-rs-30-000-crore-hit-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-cm/story-bHGGGwl3i5NkwqzonjuHII.html
08-08-2020||Pune||Floating devices for flood rescue missions...Pune fire brigade puts plastic waste to good use||After three days of heavy rain, the Pune fire department has swung into action to solidify their monsoon preparations by making unique rescue boats out of wastage materials of large barrels, plastic cans and mineral water bottles. The flash floods of September 25, 2019, where 22 people lost their lives are still fresh in the minds of Pune residents and the fire brigade. Learning a lesson from that tragedy and to be better prepared for this year’s monsoon and rescue operations, the makeshift boats are being constructed by the fire department. In addition to the boats, the fire officials will also be offering training to citizens who reside near the riverside, streams and lake in using those boats in an effective manner. “We already have rubber boats, pumps, life jackets, rocket launchers which are used mostly during the rainy season rescue operations. But learning from last year’s tragedy of heavy rains and flash floods, we have now made a different kind of boats with the help of empty plastic barrels of 200 litres. Two such barrels are taken then bamboos are tied in the upper side and a small boat is made out of it which can float easily. Around eight to 10 people can sit over it and can be rescued. Another 5, 10 and 20 litres empty cans are used to make smaller size boats. These small boats can easily go inside the narrow lanes where waterlogging is there and 2 to 3 persons can be rescued using it. Also, from the smaller 1-litre water bottles we have made a very compact boat through which a single person can float and can be rescued. It is an improvised version of the things we had in the wastage materials,” said chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise. According to Ranpise, the biggest difficulty rescue officials faced last year during the flash floods that hit Katraj and Dandekar bridge was reaching the small lanes and narrow areas. “Considering this, during the lockdown period we prepared these makeshift boats with the waste and throwaway materials.,” he said. The goal of the fire brigade is not just to construct these boats but to train residents living next to water bodies to make these boats themselves. “We are going to give training to the public about making such boats. There was no expense in making these boats, it was an idea of our senior firemen and we made it. We have currently made three boats of each type and size and kept it at the Erandwane fire station. If needed, more such boats will be made as per the need or requirement to fire stations,” added Ranpise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/floating-devices-for-flood-rescue-missions-pune-fire-brigade-puts-plastic-waste-to-good-use/story-KdoqhSBs0LwMLAxpmz7FmM.html
08-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s Serum institute to provide vaccine at Rs 225 under new agreement with Gates Foundation||The Pune headquartered Serum Institute of India (SII) which is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, will provide its vaccine at under US$3 per dose for patients in India and also to 93 other countries under the new collaboration of the company with Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Under this new agreement, the Gates Foundation through its strategic investment fund, will provide at-risk funding of US$150 million to Gavi, which will be used to support the SII to manufacture the potential vaccine candidates. As per the current valuation of Indian currency, the vaccine would be available for Rs 225 per dose. SII will produce up to 100 million Covid-19 vaccine doses for India and low- and middle-income countries as early as 2021. The vaccines will be priced at maximum US$ 3 per dose and made available to 92 countries included in Gavi’s COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC). The collaboration will provide upfront capital to SII to help them increase manufacturing capacity now so that, once a vaccine, or vaccines, gains regulatory approval and the World Health Organization (WHO) prequalification, doses can be produced at scale for distribution as early as the first half of 2021. The funding will support at-risk manufacturing by SII for candidate vaccines from AstraZeneca and Novavax, which will be available for procurement if they are successful in attaining full licensure and WHO prequalification. “In an attempt to make our fight against Covid-19 stronger and all-embracing; SII has partnered with Gavi and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to advance the manufacturing and delivery of up to 100 million doses of future Covid vaccines for India and low and middle income countries in 2021,” said Adar Poonawalla, CEO of Serum Institute of India in a statement issued to the press. Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “India has demonstrated consistent capability in delivering on low-cost and high-quality medical research, while also maintaining technical and scientific rigour. The ICMR is deeply supportive of our cutting edge vaccine research and manufacturing prowess, of which SII is one prominent example. This partnership signifies yet another step in India’s efforts to bolster the fight against this global pandemic.” The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, via its strategic investment fund will provide at-risk funding of US$150 million to Gavi, which will be used to support the Serum Institute of India to manufacture potential vaccine candidates, and for future procurement of vaccines for low- and middle-income countries via Gavi’s COVAX AMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-serum-institute-to-provide-vaccine-at-rs-225-under-new-agreement-with-gates-foundation/story-48UEMYxxOd0l1JTzhxSzcO.html
08-08-2020||Pune||Covid-recovered SRPF jawans donate plasma at Pune’ Sassoon hospital||State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) jawans who have recovered from Covid-19 (coronavirus) have stepped in to donate plasma in the city.Six SRPF jawans, on Friday, donated blood to retrieve plasma which is effective as a treatment for Covid-19, especially for critical patients. While ten jawans have committed to do the same during an ongoing plasma donation drive from August 7 to 9, at Sassoon General Hospital.A total of at least 200 jawans tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus in various SRPF groups in Pune and Daund who are now being approached for plasma donation. After consultation by the Sassoon hospital staff, these 16 jawans agreed for the same.Dr Shankar Mugawe, chief coordinator, Medical Social Services Superintendent, who has arranged this drive said, “At least 200 Covid-19 patients from SRPF, and hundred more from Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) have recovered from the virus infection. If they all come forward it will be a good response.”“Six jawans donated blood for plasma and they will, in turn, go to their colleagues and encourage others who have recovered to do the same,” he said.While the jawans have come forward the hospital administration has been struggling to convince civilians to donate blood for plasma therapy.Dr Nalini Kadgi, associate professor, pathology department and incharge of Sassoon’s blood bank, said, “We will reintroduce the red blood cells after the antibodies are recovered. We conducted two lectures and attended to all their doubts and queries after they were satisfied they agreed to come forward to donate.”“However, we are not getting a positive response from residents overall. We have contacted close to 1,500 people who have recovered from Covid-19 in the city. We got positive responses from only 60 people, out of which 15 were not eligible and the remaining, including these six jawans have donated blood for plasma,” he said.“The most number of people who recovered in the initial months are from Bhawani peth and Tadiwala road, if any political party or corporators invites us and gathers people we can counsel them and encourage more people to donate their blood for plasma,” he said.One of the jawans who donated blood said, “Initially even I had doubts, but they were cleared by the doctors. They collected samples when they came for counselling and those who were eligible were called. The room where blood is taken is completely isolated and properly maintained so there is no question of getting infected again.”“I did not experience any kind of weakness or any physical problems. It took one hour for the process to complete and one hour before that for testing. My family was also supportive of this,” he said.Who can donate plasmaThe donor must be 18-60 years of age.The donor will be thoroughly checked before the plasma is retrieved from the bloodThe entire process takes about 2-3 hours and the person does not experience any weakness.As of July 15, at least 6,500 people were discharged in PMC jurisdiction after being declared of the virus. All those, who have no comorbidity and have not reported any symptoms in the past month within the age group of 18-60 are eligible to donate plasmaPlasma therapy has proven to be a successful treatment method for critical patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-recovered-srpf-jawans-donate-plasma-at-pune-sassoon-hospital/story-Qu7GYsiELQZ43YV8H01uyO.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt likely to transfer compensation to rape victim’s family today||The Delhi government will transfer the compensation amount of Rs 10 lakhs to the bank account of the Paschim Vihar rape victim’s family most likely by the end of the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday. While speaking to ANI, Kejriwal said, “Police have already arrested the accused. The victim is still battling for her life and is in critical condition. Rs 10 lakh compensation will be transferred into the bank account of the victim’s family most likely by today.”Arvind Kejriwal had met the victim at AIIMS on Thursday and announced the compensation. The Chief Minister also expressed his condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in the Kerala plane crash and those who were injured in the incident. He added that the incident is ‘sad’ and ‘tragic’.While talking about the Covid-19 situation in the national capital, the Chief Minister said that things are under control. He appealed to the people to follow necessary health precautions such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, and hand sanitisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-likely-to-transfer-compensation-to-rape-victim-s-family-today/story-lIuNR3JeZmOd5IEzpvH8aI.html
08-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan tussle takes turn as BJP herds MLAs fearing poaching by crisis-hit Congress||The Bharatiya Janata Party in Rajasthan has started herding its MLAs, especially those from tribal areas, amid fear of poaching by the Congress for the assembly session starting from August 14, party leaders said. Some MLAs have been sent to Gujarat.The BJP leaders said they have evidence that the Congress was trying to approach its legislators, especially in the tribal belt of Mewar in southern Rajasthan, to win their support. The Congress denied these charges. “We had input that the Congress was approaching our legislators in the Udaipur division through administrative officers and other influential people of the area so we decided that they should all be at one place where they can be protected,” said state BJP president Satish Poonia. “We will have a meeting of the legislature party 2-3 days before the Assembly session. Before that some MLAs said they want to visit Somnath temple so we have allowed them to go,” he added. Also Read: A week before Rajasthan assembly session, Vasundhara Raje meets BJP chief JP NaddaParty insiders said the effort to approach “weak legislators”, especially those elected from seats reserved for the scheduled tribes (STs), started before August 6 when a division bench of the Rajasthan high court was to deliver its judgment on petitions challenging merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress. The decision on the merger is now likely on August 11 by a single judge bench of the high court. “We alerted our MLAs before 6th and told them to be together,” said leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, one of the tallest party leaders from south Rajasthan. “The Congress government is set to fall and the party is approaching our legislators for support. So we have to protect our people against attack from the Congress,” he added. State Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra denied the BJP’s allegation. “There’s no danger to our government and we don’t indulge in horse trading, which is an exclusive domain of the BJP,” he said. There are 28 Assembly seats in southern Rajasthan comprising six districts. The BJP won 15 of them in the December 2018 Assembly election. Congress has 10 seats in the area. Of the remaining 3, one is with an Independent MLA and two are with the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP). The BTP MLAs are supporting the Congress government. The Congress has 107 MLAs in the Assembly, 19 of them are in Haryana with party rebel Sachin Pilot and are unlikely to vote for the Gehlot government. Assembly Speaker Joshi and a bed-ridden MLA are among the remaining 88 MLAs including 75 MLAs from opposition parties the BJP and the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party.Eighty-six Congress legislators, 10 Independents, 2 from BTP, one CPM and one RLD MLAs are supporting Ashok Gehlot government and are camping in two hotels in Jaisalmer. The 107 include six BSP MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-tussle-takes-turn-as-bjp-herds-mlas-fearing-poaching-by-crisis-hit-congress/story-Krdhr7p6cC0iRFpdzPsp6I.html
08-08-2020||Noida||3 feared dead as car falls into canal in Ghaziabad||Three people are feared dead as a car en route to Chandigarh from Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly fell into a canal near Ghaziabad’s Masuri town, an official said on Saturday. Its driver, identified as Pankaj, was saved as he managed to come out of it and tried to swim out of the canal. The official said the incident took place on the National Highway-9 on Friday night around 1.30 am when the car driver lost his way and took a wrong turn. Police called an NDRF team for the rescue operation and the car was pulled out by a crane. SP (Rural) Neeraj Kumar Jadaun said they are trying to locate the three youths feared drowned. According to him, four friends were travelling in the car when the accident took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/3-feared-dead-as-car-falls-into-canal-in-ghaziabad/story-Jc5KvsA8OseTgTPwRxd0fN.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin youngster dies rescuing three children swept away in Kings River in California||Amritsar: A 29-year-old man from Gurdaspur district of Punjab died while rescuing three children being swept away in the Kings River in California. Manjeet Singh jumped into the river to rescue a boy and two girls who were playing in the water off Reedley Beach on Wednesday. They were swept away by a current that pushed them south under a bridge. Seeing the trio drowning and crying for help, Manjeet jumped into the river to try to save them. “He removed his turban and attempted to use it as a rope to pull the children in but was quickly pulled under himself. He went in to try and help them and, unfortunately, went under water fairly quickly and never came back up,” reported Los Angeles Times, quoting Reedley police commander Marc Ediger. The sacrifice of the Sikh youngster is widely being hailed in the US and India with religious, social and political leaders paying tribute on their social media handles. According to US media reports, two children were brought to shore unharmed, but one of the girls was underwater for nearly 15 minutes. She was taken to Valley Children’s Hospital in Fresno and as of Friday remained in a critical condition and on life support. SON OF A FARMER, HE WENT TO US TWO YEARS AGO Manjeet was the youngest son of Gurbax Singh, a farmer and former block samiti member at Chhina village in Gurdaspur district. The family struggled to send him abroad two years ago. “There is no bigger sacrifice than to lay down one’s life for saving others,” said Panthdeep Singh, the sarpanch of the village. “Manjeet went to the US two years ago. He was at Fresno to learn truck driving. He had his first training session to become a truck driver on the day of the tragedy. Our entire village salutes him for his sacrifice,” the sarpanch said. SARPANCH URGES GOVT TO HELP BRING BACK BODY “He was kindhearted and keen to serve humanity. During the Covid-19 lockdown, he extended financial help to needy families in Dera Baba Nanak area. Besides, he sent donations for the village’s development. He would ask us not to disclose his name as donor,” Panthdeep Singh said. The sarpanch urged the government to help bring back his body to India so that his family could see their brave son one last time and perform the last rites. “It is as much an honour as being killed at war,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-origin-youngster-dies-rescuing-three-children-swept-away-in-kings-river-in-california/story-56AW4MTNITe09345asCTuJ.html
08-08-2020||Bhopal||Gwalior SP’s ‘radio message’ sparks row about Bhim Army’s anti-Hinduism ‘propaganda’||A row has erupted following the circulation of a radio message to all the in-charge of the police stations and other subordinates purportedly sent by the superintendent of police (SP), Gwalior, Amit Sanghi, asking them to keep a strict vigil on the activities of the Bhim Army, a Dalit rights organisation, which is allegedly working against Hinduism in the district. The radio message, which was sent on Thursday (August 6), went viral on social media the following day. Sanghi, who assumed the charge as Gwalior SP recently, issued a show-cause notice to the in-charge of district special branch (DSB) for circulating the radio message without his knowledge and permission. “The DSB in-charge issued the radio-message without my knowledge. I have issued a show-cause notice to him and sought an explanation,” said the SP. The SP’s purported radio message stated: “(As per information from) the assistant inspector general of police (special branch), Bhopal, Bhim Army office-bearers/workers are trying to infuse the poison of casteism in Scheduled Caste (SC)-dominated localities by propagating against Hinduism. They (SCs) are being persuaded not to install the idols of Lord Ganesha in their homes. They are also being asked to worship Babasaheb Ambedkar as their God.” The radio message urged the police to keep a close watch on the situation and take necessary action to ensure that no untoward incident occurs in Gwalior district. “We wanted to authenticate the veracity of the input. However, it was not meant to be circulated across the department,” the SP said. The Bhim Army’s Gwalior unit read a malicious intent against SCs by purportedly circulating such a discriminatory radio message. “There are some Manuvadi (upper caste) forces, which are behind such kinds of propaganda against the Bhim Army and SCs. We are not indulging in any such activity. The images of gods and goddesses can be found in any SC home, including mine. We are opposed to these inimical forces that are trying to create a rift in the society and working against SCs’ interests,” alleged Nand Kishore, president, Gwalior district, Bhim Army. (With inputs from Mahesh Shivhare in Gwalior)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/gwalior-sp-s-radio-message-sparks-a-row-about-bhim-army-s-anti-hinduism-progaganda/story-QOswQEuA6HZ3PnKITxaQZJ.html
08-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan police file final report in 3 cases related to toppling of Gehlot govt||The special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan police closed the investigation in three cases of sedition, including the one in which former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot was served a notice, on Friday.The cases were related to attempts to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in the state. Sant Kumar Jain, the public prosecutor, said SOG found during its investigation that the charge of sedition could bot be held and those of corruption surfaced so it closed the probe citing lack of jurisdiction. The cases related to corruption are being investigated by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB).An SOG official said on the condition of anonymity, the force took suggestions from legal experts and filed a final report (FR) in the cases on the basis of the advice. An FR is filed when an investigating agency wants to close its investigation in a case.“During the investigation done, so far, evidence to prove charges under section 7 (accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain bribe), section 8 (accepting or attempts to obtain reward for inducing by corrupt or illegal means) and section 12 (abetting any offence under corruption) of Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act were found,” Jain said. This decision has given the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) the ammunition to attack the government. “For 28 days they were investigating a case that was not made out. Notices were served to MLAs and raids were conducted and now we learn that there was no case,” Rajendra Rathore, deputy leader of Opposition, said.Pankaj Meena, the spokesperson of the BJP state unit, said the Congress should apologise. “The three FIRs had revealed that the misuse of agency in the history of the state for the first time. Now the final report has been filed hence the Congress party should apologise for the misuse of agency,” Meena said.Archana Sharma, the spokesperson of Congress’ Rajasthan unit, said the investigation revealed that the MLAs were offered money. “This is a moral victory for the Congress as preliminary investigation reveals that facts regarding the offering of money were true,” Sharma said.The SOG had registered three FIRs on the complaint filed by Mahesh Joshi, Congress’ chief whip in Rajasthan assembly, related to the horse-trading allegedly aimed at dislodging the party’s government in the state.The first FIR, number 47, was registered on July 10, in which two accused, Ashok Jain from Banswara and Bharat Malani, were arrested. They are presently in judicial custody.The second and third FIRs, numbers 48 and 49, were registered on July 17. In the FIR number 48, Sadulshahar MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh were booked. Jain was arrested on July 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-police-file-final-report-in-3-cases-related-to-toppling-of-gehlot-govt/story-MwBixqmHlGM1d85ewNhbgL.html
08-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM files Rs 100 crores defamation suit against BJP MP Nishikant Dubey||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren has filed a Rs 100 crores defamation suit in Ranchi Civil Court against BJP MP Dr Nishikant Dubey for allegedly tarnishing his image through social media.The defamation suit was filed against Dubey on August 4.In the case along with the MP, Twitter Communications India Private Limited and Facebook India Online Services Private Limited have been made the parties as respondents 2 and 3. The plaintiff (Hemant Soren) has claimed damages in the sum of Rs 100 crores against each of the respondents.Dubey has been writing continuously against Hemant Soren on various matters on social media platforms. Recently, he took to Twitter and accused “Soren of raping and abducting a woman in Mumbai in 2013”. Responding to this, while tagging Dubey, Soren said that he would reply to his allegations through a legal channel.In the suit, it has been said that since about July 27, 2020 Dubey has been publishing defamatory statements attacking Soren falsely and maliciously to bring him into public scandal, odium, contempt and hatred and tarnishing his reputation. He even went to the extent of publishing it on social media.Twitter Communications India Private Limited and Facebook India Online Services Private Limited have been made the respondent because they allegedly did not block or withdraw the posting of such derogatory posts knowing that a complainant is a person of repute, as per the suit.A brief hearing was done on August 5 and the next hearing will be on August 22.On August 6, Dr Nishikant Dubey again took the social media to corner Soren. “Mr Chief Minister allegation of rape and abduction was put by some girl in Mumbai and you are filing cases against me instead of her. Thank you for giving me a chance to fight against Chief Minister like Saryu Roy,” he tweeted in Hindi. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-cm-files-rs-100-crores-defamation-suit-against-bjp-mp-nishikant-dubey/story-EYxh0fATrkYzE6mJ6uqRdP.html
08-08-2020||Bangalore||Govt ensuring safety of people amid challenging flood situation: Narayan||Calling the flood situation as challenging due to excessive rains, waterlogging and landslides, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan on Saturday said that the government has swung into action to ensure the safety of the people.“The situation is very challenging due to excessive rains, waterlogging and landslides. The government and the concerned administration has swung into action, reaching out to all the affected people and rescuing people to ensure their safety. The required financial assistance has been provided to respective districts,” Narayan told ANI.“All the required measures are being taken. There are no financial constraints. We all are geared to face all the situations. Compensation will be given to affected people after evaluation of the damage,” he added.Various parts of the state continue to reel under flood-like situation due to incessant rainfall.According to the Central Water Commission, the water level of river Cauvery is slowly rising while the rainfall continued in Bhagamandala and its surrounding areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/govt-ensuring-safety-of-people-amid-challenging-flood-situation-narayan/story-06wy2JdbNMln2RSFrCvXuO.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Social impact of crime against women can’t be lost sight of: Bombay HC||Social impact of the crime against women requires “exemplary treatment” to be meted out to the accused, said the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday while refusing to reduce the life term to six-year imprisonment to a Mumbaikar for attempting to kill his girlfriend six years ago, who had also refused to marry him, despite being in an intimate relationship for two years. “We are conscious that the social impact of the crime against women cannot be lost sight of and per se require exemplary treatment,” said the two-member HC bench, comprising Justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik, while rejecting the prayer of the convict, Arumugum Arundatiyar, to reduce his life term to six years imprisonment, which he had already served. Earlier, Mumbai sessions court had sentenced Arundatiyar to a life term. The prosecution argued that Arundatiyar was seeing the young woman, who worked as a baby-sitter, and wanted to marry her. She, however, had refused to marry him, as her family was opposed to the match, following which Arundatiyar had assaulted her twice because she had spurned his proposal. On May 8, 2014, when the victim was returning home from work by an auto-rickshaw, Arundatiyar barged into the vehicle. He threatened the auto-driver with a knife and pulled her out of the vehicle. Arundatiyar attacked her with the knife in public. He stabbed her on the neck and also threatened the public, who had tried to intervene. Though he had fled from the scene of the crime, he was arrested after a while. Arundatiyar appealed against the sessions court verdict and move HC. His counsel, advocate Aniket Vagal, pleaded before HC that the injuries caused to the woman were not life-threatening and the incident took place because she had refused to marry him, even they were in an intimate relationship for two years. Vagal also cited that Arundatiyar was only 25 years old when he had committed the crime and had little financial means. He argued that the sentence was grossly disproportionate to the crime, especially when the injuries were not life-threatening, and urged the court to let Arundatiyar off since he had served six years in prison. HC, however, refused to show any sympathy to the convict. The bench said any liberal approach by imposing meagre sentences or taking a lenient view of the crimes against women would be counter-productive in the long run and against societal interests. But, HC found life imprisonment to be too harsh and reduced Arundatiyar’s sentence to 10 years, of which he needed to serve another four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/social-impact-of-crime-against-women-can-t-be-lost-sight-of-bombay-hc/story-0yGNVzgRrvhfcnhPgunRFN.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||This Independence Day, Covid19 cuts kite sales||New DelhiIndependence Day is synonymous with kite flying. Pockets of Old Delhi, north and north-east Delhi, especially, hold the title for most kite-flying competitions around this time of the year. Colourful kites dominate the city’s skies, with children and adults participating with gusto. Even if a person is not flying a kite, you can find them cheering from their balconies, turning the entire activity into a community festival of sorts. But this time, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, people are being extra careful, limiting their enthusiasm. This has impacted sales of kites and the wholesalers of Lal Kuan, Old Delhi have seen a slump in the number of people visiting their shops. “Lockdown ka asar toh hua hai. Sales are down and we are not even able to pay our workers. Payments kahaan se ayengi? Log corona se toh ubhre pehle (Where will we get our payments from when people are still struggling to stay afloat during the pandemic),” rues Altaf Qureshi of Kallu Bhai Patang Wale. Adding to this, Imran of Shabbir Bhai Patang Wale says, “The demand has gone down this year. Earlier, we would get about 30 people at our shop, but now it has gone down to 10-15 people.”Read: Kite fliers go green to spread environ message sky-highThe otherwise bustling lanes of Lal Kuan Bazaar are devoid of cheer. Eager kite flyers would fight motorists and fruit vendors for space, and then make a dash to catch a kati patang to claim victory. “Kites with tiranga and PUBG are still popular, but you will hardly find anyone on the streets. Puraana vala mahaul nahi hai. People are confined to their homes and flying kites from their roofs,” says Ahmed from Haji Kite House. A new kite design — a ghost on a white background — is something that has attracted people this year. “Log issi ko corona kite keh rahe hain,” shares Bablu of Bishan Chand & Sons Kite Merchants. State-wise lockdown guidelines have also impacted the import of raw material, as most of these kite wholesalers would buy material from neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. “Demand toh hai logo mein, par maal taiyyar ho ke nahi aa raha. We would source from Rampur, Bareilly, Japiur and Kolkata, but it has been very difficult this time,” says Bablu. Many craftsmen, or kaarigars, had gone on leaves for the festivals of Raksha Bandhan and Eid, further slowing down the production. Read: This video of a monkey playing with a kite has left people surprised. WatchThe wholesalers would get enquiries for bulk orders from across the country, but retail sales were also a big source of income. “The metro made it easy for people to come to us. But now that the metro services are suspended, we are not getting many customers. It’s a huge loss,” says Sachin Gupta of Sachin Kite Centre.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/this-independence-day-covid19-cuts-kite-sales/story-oizyf9dguhEP8zm5I8l2fO.html
08-08-2020||Jaipur||Pakistani intruder shot dead near international border in Rajasthan’s Barmer||An alleged Pakistani intruder was shot dead by the personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) along the India-Pakistan international border in Rajasthan’s Barmer district late on Friday, a senior police official said on Saturday.The 23-year-old man had crossed the international border from near the border pillar number 919 Baamno Ki Dhani area under Bakhasar police station area in Barmer. BSF officials said the man, who is yet to be identified, first crossed the international border and later crossed another fencing installed around 150 meters inside the Indian territory. They said when he was about to cross the fencing on Indian land, BSF personnel saw him and warned him but he ignored them.After which the personnel opened fire at him. Officials said a bullet hit him when he was crossing the fencing but he jumped down on the Indian side and kept moving. In the meantime, some more bullets hit him and he died on the spot, said BSF officials.Anand Sharma, Barmer’s superintendent of police, said the incident took place late on Friday night and BSF officials informed them on Saturday morning, after which police teams were sent to the location.Sharma said the body of the alleged Pakistani intruder was lying on the spot where he shot and further information is awaited. No information regarding any recovery from the alleged intruder was shared by officials.BSF officials familiar with the development said the incident seemed like a planned attempt of intrusion. They said that at the time of the incident some people with torches were also spotted across the international border on the Pakistani side. They added that their voices could also be clearly heard.“It seems that people across the border with torches in their hands were helping the man in the intrusion. However, when the intruder was shot dead by BSF the people across the border fled,” one of the officials cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/pakistani-intruder-shot-dead-near-international-border-in-rajasthan-s-barmer/story-qNMwlraqkYqImU8GLxpZ4K.html
08-08-2020||Noida||3 missing, 1 rescued after car plunges into Upper Ganga Canal in Ghaziabad||Three men are missing while one was rescued after the car they were travelling in plunged into the Upper Ganga Canal (UGC) at Masuri in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad late on Friday night, police said.Officials said that National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams were at the site to help trace the missing men who were travelling in a Swift Dzire car from Bareilly to Chandigarh. The car was being driven by one Paramvir Singh.“We received information around 12.15am on Saturday and our teams noticed one of the four men. He was rescued while three others are still missing. NDRF teams were also called in and the car was also fished out. They all are in age group 25-36 years and working as contractors with a Central government agency. They had planned to make a night stay in Ghaziabad but then the mishap took place,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). The officials said that while the men were travelling on NH-9, they did not take the Masuri-Dasna flyover. “Instead they took the surface service road near to the canal and met with the accident. It is still not clear whether the car was being driven at high speed or the driver lost control due to some other reason. The area where the car plunged into the canal has a parapet. So, the car went straight in. We have alerted the police stations along the canal and they are also helping to find the three missing men. All of the four are from Bareilly district,” Jadaun added. The cops said that the families of the four men have been informed. In an earlier incident on February 1, a group of six friends travelling from Dehradun to Mathura met with a similar accident after their SUV plunged into the canal. Two of the six were rescued while bodies of four others were recovered a week later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/3-missing-1-rescued-after-car-plunges-into-upper-ganga-canal-in-ghaziabad/story-jp1Ml2xH0Ewep2Lhr7EI0N.html
08-08-2020||Noida||UP CM Adityanath inaugurates 400-bed Covid hospital in Noida||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday inaugurated a dedicated 400-bed government hospital for Covid-19 patients in Noida. The facility is located in Sector 39 of the city and has come up in association with the Tata Trusts and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, according to officials. Aditynath also reviewed the facilities in the hospital, which is expected to begin services with 200 beds initially from Sunday and will have 400 beds in the course of time, the officials said. Gautam Buddh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma, Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar, Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh, District Magistrate Suhas L Y, district’s Covid-19 response officer Narendra Bhooshan and senior government doctors were present during the inauguration. The chief minister had arrived in Gautam Buddh Nagar on Friday evening to review the district’s preparedness in the fight against Covid-19. The virus has infected over 5,800 people in the district and claimed 43 lives so far, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-cm-adityanath-inaugurates-400-bed-covid-hospital-in-noida/story-HfXQL43Mwo8QPgiNL0BwgL.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Probe finds Jalandhar private hospital overcharged for Covid-19 test||Jalandhar: The Jalandhar district administration has found the authorities of Patel Hospital at Civil Lines here charged Rs 5,500 for a Covid-19 test on July 21 even as the government has fixed the maximum charges, including taxes, at Rs 2,400. The hospital wrongly charged Rs 3,100 towards the cost of the personal protective equipment (PPE) kit for the safety of lab technicians and clinicians, ignoring state government orders of July 18 that caps the Covid-19 test charges at Rs 2,400. An inquiry was marked by deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on July 22 on the complaint of Rajeev Makol, a resident of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, who needed his Covid report to travel out of Punjab. Makol said he got to know about the fixed charges only after his friend was charged Rs 2,400 for the test at another lab. Assistant commissioner (grievances) Randeep Gill, who conducted the inquiry, said in his final report submitted to the state health department on Saturday that the hospital was overcharging for the test. The report said that the complainant met medical superintendent Dr Swapan Sood but he justified the higher rate, saying that Patel Hospital is a private facility conducting the test locally. Dr Sood said that the hospital charged Rs 2,400 for the test but the remaining amount was towards the PPE kit and doctor charges of pharyngeal swabbing. “The government order states that Rs 2,400 is inclusive and all expenses from tax to packaging, transportation, reporting and documentation is included. Money charged by the hospital for PPE kits holds no ground,” the inquiry report said. LIABLE FOR ACTION “The provision of PPE and personnel taking samples are basic protocol of the Indian Council of Medical Research. No laboratory can conceive taking a swab without a PPE kit and qualified personnel. Patel Hospital has erroneously or wilfully charged more than the amount directed by the government and is liable for appropriate action,” Gill said, adding that the DC has submitted the report to the state health department for further action. PATEL HOSPITAL STATEMENTIn a statement, Patel Hospital said it did not agree with report filed by the assistant commissioner (grievances). The statement added that it was not a private laboratory, but included several other facilities like isolation wards, oxygen supply etc. The isolation ward charges fixed by the government at Rs 9,000 per day included, Rs 1,200 towards PPE charges and some others. The capped cost does not include sample collection charges or isolation charges, which are besides this, the hospital has said.Meanwhile, suspecting discrepancy in the testing of Covid-19 samples, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is also conducting an audit of the RT-PCR tests being carried out at Patel Hospital. Special secretary, health, Isha Kalia had written to PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram that Patel Hospital, Jalandhar, reported 26.34% positivity rate of the 205 samples put through the RT-PCR (real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) tests for Covid-19. This is high compared to other government and private labs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/probe-finds-jalandhar-private-hospital-overcharged-for-covid-19-test/story-3XpJTcK1ORw7WTJ3QIy7JO.html
08-08-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: West Bengal observing complete lockdown today||Normal life came to a grinding halt in West Bengal on Saturday as a complete lockdown was enforced across the state to stem the spread of Covid-19 cases.All public transport, offices and other commercial establishments, barring those dealing with essential services, remained closed as the strict restrictions were clamped.It is part of the twice-a-week lockdown imposed in the state since July 23 to break the chain of the infection.Flight operations in and out of the Kolkata international airport were suspended for the day, while long- distance trains were also rescheduled due to the lockdown. Essential services like medicine shops and health establishments remained open as these were kept out of the purview of the complete shutdown. Petrol pumps are also allowed to remain open on the lockdown days.Schools, colleges and other educational institutes have remained closed in the state since late March when the first phase of the nationwide lockdown started.Security has been tightened to enforce the lockdown and police personnel were seen patrolling major traffic intersections in Kolkata.A complete lockdown was earlier imposed in the state on July 23, 25 and 29 and August 5.The Covid-19 death toll in West Bengal went up to 1,954 after 52 more people succumbed to the disease on Friday, the state health department said.A bulletin issued by the department also said that 2,912 new cases were reported from various parts of the state, pushing its coronavirus count to 89,666.According to a notification issued by the state government, the total lockdown will be imposed on August 20 (Thursday), 21 (Friday), 27 (Thursday), 28 (Friday) and 31 (Monday).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-west-bengal-observing-complete-lockdown-today/story-d4Eta9AfoeGrgYXs7WUxDL.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||Our bookseller emeritus||They all have died. Almost all the legendary founders of Delhi’s great independent bookstores have left us. Anil Arora of now-extinct The Bookworm passed away in August 2016. Balraj Bahri Malhotra of Bahrisons Booksellers passed away in February 2016. KD Singh of The Book Shop passed away in May 2014.But one continues to be with us.Mirza Yaseen Baig, the founder of Midland bookstores is still with us. He is 93 and comes daily, without fail, to his shop at south Delhi’s Aurobindo Market—even in these risky times of coronavirus pandemic. With so many years weighing down on his back, Mr Baig has reduced his interaction with customers. He spent the day sitting outside the bookshop on a chair facing a shelf stacked with classics of English literature; the shop itself is handled by Afsar, his second son.The bookstore is like Mr Baig’s second home.One afternoon, before the pandemic, he was seen taking a nap. His head bent down and his face resting on his arm, his chest was heaving gently in a deep-sleep breath. A few shoppers walked about without waking him up.This evening, however, he is wide awake but sitting quietly, his face covered in the ubiquitous face mask. And yet, he is looking every inch a bookstore emeritus.Unlike the other three aforementioned bookstore founders, Mr Baig’s connection to Delhi is somewhat more recent. Like most of us Delhiites, he is not a Delhi native. Mr Baig is from Hyderabad in the south. There he used to run a small book stall on the bustling Sultan Bazaar Road. In 1970, he folded his business and moved to Delhi with his wife, four sons and six daughters (one more girl would be born later).In the Capital, he set up a similar stall, later named Books Selection Center, just outside the Indian Coffee House in Connaught Place — at that time the coffee place was not in its present location in Mohan Singh Place but on the site of present-day Palika Bazaar.Eight years later, Mr Baig founded the New Book Land, the first of his four Delhi bookstores, just outside the Janpath flea market. It continues to exist and is managed by his third son, Salim, a charmingly moody man who can be nice or indifferent, depending upon your luck at that moment.In 1985, Mr Baig opened the first Midland in the brand new Aurobindo Market, an aesthetically challenging block constructed by Delhi Development Authority (the market’s small garden has a gigantic cement butterfly).The other two outlets in South Extension I and Gurugram came later.Like almost every long-time bookshops in the city, Midland stores too have a following. The one in Aurobindo Market is a beloved of many well-known writers such as Namita Gokhale who lives nearby in SDA Colony. For many old-time regulars to this market, the ritual is to first have a burger and a glass of soft drink at the nearby Wimpy’s (a fast-food legend in its own right but sadly, not open these days) and only then to step inside Midland to browse for the new releases.While Midland might be loved by its patrons, it didn’t appeal to at least some of the city’s booksellers. Its crime — it was among the first shops in Delhi to sell books at 20% discount, a scheme that led the spoiled customers to demand similar discounts elsewhere. The late Anil Arora confessed his disappointment to this reporter on Midland’s pricing strategy on the eve of closing his bookshop, The Bookworm, in Connaught Place in 2008.But at such an advanced age, just why can’t Mr Baig sit at home, safe from the virus, with wife, Sardar Begum, in west Delhi’s Paschim Vihar? “Coming to the shop is my habit,” he says in his cracking voice full of affection. “I cannot sit at home. Here I watch people, see the world go to and fro about me and I feel good.”In the pre-corona days, Mr Baig, who is addressed as Babuji by his employees, reached the shop every morning at 11 and would leave by eight in the evening. But now he comes by 2pm. It is tempting to implore the readers to give this iconic bookseller an immediate visit but these are dangerous times. Perhaps you might wait for the pandemic to recede, following which you might visit Mr Baig, hopefully still sitting like a monument at his usual spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/our-bookseller-emeritus/story-w24EK6rNdP9Ygpoyt0r37K.html
08-08-2020||Bangalore||Flood, landslides batter parts of Karnataka||Flood-like situation and landslides continued to cause havoc in several parts of Karnataka that has been battered by torrential rains.Many places in Malnad, coastal and north interior regions of the state have been affected by deluge, putting life and properties at risk.There were reports of mudslides near Botlappa and other places in Kodagu, also along Charmadi ghat near Chikkamagaluru and Dakshina Kannada.On Friday, rescue operations were halted in Kodagu, which suffered landslides at the foothills of Brahmagiri hills located near Talacauvery on Wednesday, due to inclement weather in the district. Over the last four days, Kodagu has received an average of 106.2 mm of rain, an IMD bulletin said. Bhagmadala alone received a record 486 mm rainfall between August 5 and 6. State minister V Somanna, after touring the affected areas along with local MP Pratap Simha, MLAs Appachu Ranjan, KG Bopanna, and district collector Annies Kannmani Joy, said, “There are 4-5 landslides on the road between Bhagmandala and Talacauvery which is hampering our rescue efforts. The district administration is trying its level best to clear roads, fallen trees, electric poles and to ensure relief for those affected. Tomorrow too I am holding a high-level meeting with all officials to accelerate our efforts.”The district collector said that the landslides and continued heavy rain were posing a challenge to the movement of rescue teams and equipment. Addressing mediapersons, Somanna said, “We are nothing in front of nature. While we will take all measures humanly possible to mitigate the situation, I also pray to god to be kind on us.”Meanwhile, a political controversy has erupted over the handling of the flood situation in the state. The opposition Janta Dal (Secular) has demanded that the Centre must extend financial assistance for the people ravaged by floods. Former PM Deve Gowda said that the state was facing a twin-challenges – the Covid-19 pandemic and the floods. Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy has warned the government that “if they are not cautious enough then it will be risking lives of people”.A release from the Chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s office on Friday said Chief Secretary Vijay Bhaskar has been instructed to proceed with emergency measures without waiting for his approval. The CM is undergoing treatment for the coronavirus disease at a state hospital. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) regional centre in Bangalore has issued an orange alert across large parts of the state and has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall over the weekend. The department said that strong southwesterly and westerly monsoonal flow over the Arabian sea, along with winds of 50-60 km per hour off the Karnataka coast, are likely to continue till Sunday leading to heavy rains across large parts of the state.So far, two people have been killed in rain-related incidents in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/flood-landslides-batter-parts-of-karnataka/story-Mois4CSKnjZARk8ngx1jRL.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||University of Mumbai reopens pre-admission registration link for UG courses||A day after the University of Mumbai (MU) released the first merit list for undergraduate degree courses, it has reopened the pre-admission registrations link for interested students. This has been done to accommodate students who could not participate in the admissions process, either due to the ongoing lockdown or issues with the internet over the last few days caused by incessant rains across the state, said varsity officials.“The university stands firm on its motto that no student should be deprived of education. With the current situation, students have complained about not being able to apply for admission due to various reasons. These students can now complete the process,” said a spokesperson for the university.In a circular released on Friday, the university has clarified that the registration link will remain functional from August 7 to 14, till 6pm.“MU further clarifies that students who register for admissions in the current phase will not be eligible for entry into the upcoming second and third merit lists, but instead will be eligible for admissions after the three merit lists are out post-August 21,” stated the circular dated August 7.The first merit list for admissions to various undergraduate courses in colleges affiliated to the MU was announced on August 6, and once again, cut-offs remained on the higher side. The second merit list is scheduled to be released on August 11, whereas the third list will be out on August 17.Given the current situation, the university has asked students to submit a declaration form along with their pre-admission registration form to the allotted college in order to confirm their admissions.The colleges, in turn, have been asked to give provisional admission based on the certificate, and confirm the same after the student submits a hard copy of the mark-sheet and all other necessary documents later.Students can log on to mum.digitaluniversity.ac for online pre-admission registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-reopens-pre-admission-registration-link-for-ug-courses/story-kOXMsh45gVYSJjpX5H5rdJ.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s August average rain covered in just seven days of the month||The city has already received more rain in just the first seven days of August than it generally receives in the entire month. Rain intensity reduced on Friday, with light showers in the suburbs and south Mumbai during the day. However, the weather bureau has issued a yellow alert (heavy rain in isolated areas) for next Tuesday, and forecast light to moderate rain from Saturday to Monday. Against the monthly average of 585.2mm, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 600.2mm of rain between August 1 and August 7 (5.30pm). Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, surpassed its monthly average on Wednesday, with 293mm of rain over a 12-hour period and 332mm over 24 hours (Wednesday and Thursday). The rain tally for August for south Mumbai now stands at 682.6mm, against the monthly average of 493.8mm. KS Hosalikar, deputy director general (western region), India Meteorological Department (IMD), said, “Moderate to heavy rain spells were witnessed in the suburbs and surrounding areas of the Mumbai metropolitan region, more towards the suburbs, Thane and Navi Mumbai, than in south Mumbai, between Thursday and Friday. Models are indicating cloud cover and active monsoon conditions will continue, but [there will be] a drop in rain intensity as compared to earlier in the week. With the likely formation of another low pressure system in the Bay of Bengal around August 9, rains are likely to pick up for the west coast, especially south Konkan, between August 11 and 13.” After three days that recorded more than 500 mm of rain (August 4-6), moderate showers with isolated heavy spells were witnessed between Thursday and Friday. Santacruz recorded 79.2mm of rain between 8.30am on Thursday and 8.30am on Friday, falling under the heavy rain category, while Colaba recorded 25.2mm of rain (moderate) in the same duration. By Friday afternoon, the city saw partial sunshine for the first time in five days. Between 8.30am and 8.30pm, Colaba recorded 8mm rain and Santacruz recorded 4.6mm rain. Water stock across catchment areas, including the seven lakes that supply water to Mumbai, as on August 7 was around 46% of the total water required, with an almost 10% rise in water stock between August 5 and 7. Meanwhile, the most rainfall since Thursday was recorded at Matheran (178.4 mm), followed by Mahabaleshwar (153mm), Pune (90mm), Harnai (73.4mm), and Thane (65.4mm). The city can expect cloud cover with the possibility of moderate to heavy rain, with winds in the range of 60 kmph to 70 kmph throughout Friday and moderate showers over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-august-average-rain-covered-in-just-seven-days-of-the-month/story-Sfru0NkWHEl3B9NOQwBnoO.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||How urban planner’s Spain trip gave Mumbai 1st traffic signal with female figures||It was in 2019, on her trip to Madrid in Spain, that Vijayshree Pednekar, a 34-year-old Mumbai-based urban planner and architect, saw women figures or female silhouettes on traffic signals. “I was astonished. I thought it might be a small gesture, but a bold statement,” said Pednekar.Already associated with various projects being implemented by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Pednekar worked on this one too, and months later, Mumbai became the first city in the country to adopt these figures at a signal in Dadar.Aaditya Thackeray, Maharashtra’s tourism minister, took to Twitter to announce the change. He said, “@mybmcwardGN is ensuring gender equality with a simple idea – the signals now have women too.” On Friday, United Nations Women also acknowledged the important step.Pednekar, co-founder of The Urban Project and a resident of Prabhadevi, said that Thackeray and the G/N ward office (includes Dadar) instinctively took to the idea. “In a way, the sign also represents women ‘crossing the limits’ and entering the public space. Women are no more confined to their houses,” said Pednekar.In the past, The Urban Project was associated with BMC’s project to introducing women-friendly sanitation facilities at the Gateway of India. It has also worked with the Right To Pee campaign, to prepare guidelines for women-friendly sanitation spaces.“Cities need both macro and micro initiatives that ensure safer access to sanitation and public spaces, not only for women but also transgenders and the differently-abled,” she said.The traffic signal initiative is part of the ‘Cultural Spine’ project by the BMC, which aims to give a face-lift to the entire stretch from Mahim to Prabhadevi.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner from G/North ward, said, “We have been involving young urban planners and architects, and have been taking their suggestions to improve public spaces in the ward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/how-urban-planner-s-spain-trip-gave-mumbai-1st-traffic-signal-with-female-figures/story-YgJ3Ke0NJ4zZCwHLMzDQSN.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Change in foreign scholarship scheme to help scores of Scheduled Caste students||Students belonging to the Scheduled Castes (SC) can now apply for the state government’s foreign scholarship scheme for higher studies in a post-graduation (PG) course other than the faculty they completed their graduation in. Social justice department minister Dhananjay Munde, on Friday, withdrew the condition that caused an “obstacle” for several thousand students, a note from the department said. The previous Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government had put a condition that students can only apply in the same stream for PG course. The department said that the University Grants Commission (UGC), too, allows students to apply for postgraduate courses for specialisation in streams other than the ones students opted for their graduation. In another decision, the minister has extended the age limit for students to apply for the scholarship. Now students, who wish to apply for the foreign scholarship, can avail the benefit up to 35-year age for PG and up to 40 years for PhD. The department has invited applications who are aspiring to study further in foreign countries. However, students will have to apply before August 14, said Munde. Keeping the Covid-19 situation in mind, the department has also allowed online application instead of physical submission of the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/change-in-scheduled-castes-foreign-scholarship-scheme-to-help-scores-of-students/story-AAQ4tB9mlDdou2iWtZk8ZO.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||University of Mumbai’s move on online classes is haphazard, says teachers’ body||Days after the University of Mumbai (MU) directed colleges to start the new academic year online for students, a teachers’ organisation in the state has called the move “haphazard and apathetic”. In a letter addressed to the varsity’s vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar, the Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU) has highlighted a series of problems that students and teachers of certain colleges are already facing while conducting virtual classes. “Without finding out if students or teachers have the adequate infrastructure to participate in virtual lectures, the recent circular directing colleges to start lectures from August 7 is unfair to the stakeholders of the education system,” said the letter by BUCTU. Despite repeated attempts, the vice-chancellor was not available for a comment.HT had reported that MU had informed all its affiliated colleges that with the completion of admissions for all batches, except first-year undergraduate and postgraduate graduate courses, colleges should start online lectures for the new academic year until further notice. “A detailed arrangement of the term for programmes offered under different faculties will be communicated separately,” said the circular released on August 2.Teachers felt that not there are issues of internet connectivity or lack of smartphones, but the university is also wrong to insist on starting the academic year without clarifying the curriculum. “This decision by the university also goes against the government decision to keep education institutes shut until August 31, and it clearly shows that the university did not take opinions from staff or students before announcing the same,” the letter by BUCTU said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-s-move-on-online-classes-is-haphazard-says-teachers-body/story-i9gpXpOvfGn5w7lvDCg1PI.html
08-08-2020||City||35-year-old dies as concrete slab of building collapses near Mumbai||A 35-year-old worker died after the concrete parapet of a three-storey building near Ulhasnagar Camp-1 collapsed on Friday afternoon. Four workers who were feared trapped inside a shop were evacuated safely by the fire brigade officers. They suffered minor injuries and are undergoing treatment. As per the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC), the worker Vishnu Pathole, 35, was repairing the shutter of the shop on the ground floor when the parapet collapsed. Locals nearby rushed to the spot and managed to pull him out. He was admitted to Mamta Hospital and later was shifted to Central hospital. However, he succumbed to his injuries. Four other workers stuck inside the shop were later evacuated by the firefighting team. The building was a ground plus three-floored structure. The shops on the ground floor were functioning, while the top floors were used for commercial purposes and were empty. Satish Marathe, 40, a social activist from Ulhasnagar, an eye witness to the incident said, “I heard a loud noise and saw a man being crushed under the debris. The man was severely injured as the concrete hit his head. I called for an autorickshaw and sent him to the hospital. I also called the fire department and civic officials.” A fire brigade official said, “Locals informed that people are stuck inside the shop. We used the gas cutter to open the shutter. We evacuated four workers who were feared trapped inside the shop. They suffered minor injuries.” As per the UMC the building is around 40 years old and it was not listed in the dangerous buildings list prepared by the civic body. “The police are questioning the owner of the building and will register a case after further investigation. We have barricaded the premises of the building. Our engineer has also conducted an audit after we receive the report, we will decide whether to demolish it or not,” said Yuvraj Badhane, public relations officer, UMC. The police are investigating the case further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35-year-old-dies-as-concrete-slab-of-building-collapses-near-mumbai/story-YAFlWmMk4OkmuRReWOrUIM.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Rare two-headed snake rescued from Kalyan||A rare two-headed Russell’s Viper was rescued from Kalyan’s Gandhare Road area on Thursday. Experts said the growth of the two heads was a genetic abnormality similar to conjoined or Siamese twins in humans. These snakes have very low survival rates in the wild. The forest department will hand over the snake to the Haffkine Institute in Parel. The snake is 11cm long, with the two heads measuring 2cm each, while the width of the snake is 1cm. Russell’s Viper is one of the top four venomous snakes in India. On September 20 last year, the same snake species with two heads was found from the same area in Kalyan. On Thursday around 2pm, Kalyan resident Dimple Shah called the local snake rescuers after spotting the Russel’s Viper outside her building, Rutu Riverside Estate on Gandhare Road. Prem Aher and Nilesh Navsare from the War Rescue Foundation (WRF) then rescued the snake in the next couple of hours. “There are four documentations of the two-headed Russell’s Viper from India, of which two were from Kalyan,” said Yogesh Kamble, president, WRF. WRF then informed forest department about the snake. “As these species have a low survival rate owing to possible genetic modifications, the previous snake had died. However, this snake, currently at the Kalyan range office, looks much better,” said Jitendra Ramgaokar, deputy conservator of forest (Thane). Experts said the abnormality takes place during birth. “We found developmental defects in the previous two-headed snake, including an abnormally developed digestive tract, which may have led to its death,” said Dr Nishigandha Naik, former director, Haffkine. According to herpetologist Varad Giri, who is the director at NIDUS – an organisation working on research on amphibians and reptiles – a developing embryo in its early stage divides. “The reason for this division is not known. After some time the division stops, leading to two heads. There are characteristic issues where two brains and one body fight for food and freedom, creating complications for survival,” said Giri. Romulus Whitaker, founder of Madras Crocodile Bank said that little is known about this environmental genetic anomaly owing to the lack of research available. “There are different kinds of snakes with two heads identified across the world and India. Some have been known to survive in captivity for almost 20 years. Those ensuring their survival have had to put a barrier between the two heads to ensure they don’t fight for food,” said Whitaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rare-two-headed-snake-rescued-from-kalyan/story-wqXTNS9tnJBnPfvHNjdrxM.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant case probe was quarantined: Bihar cop||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities gave exemption from home quarantine to Bihar-cadre Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Vinay Tiwari, who had come to the city for investigation into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, allowing him to return to Patna before Saturday. The decision was taken following a letter by Bihar Police to facilitate Tiwari’s return to Patna to resume his duty. Tiwari had arrived in Mumbai on Sunday evening and was asked by the civic authorities to remain under 14-day quarantine until August 15, as per the rule for domestic air travellers. Tiwari was quarantined at the SRPF camp in Goregaon, where he had put up upon his arrival to Mumbai. On Thursday, four other personnel of Bihar Police, who were in Mumbai since July 27 to investigate Rajput’s death, flew back to Patna. Bihar Police’s letter came in the backdrop of the Nitish Kumar-led government giving its consent to transfer the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) earlier this week. CBI registered a first information report in the case on Thursday. Mumbai Police is probing the case after the actor was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14 and Maharashtra government ordered an investigation into his death. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, responded to Bihar Police’s letter. “It is surprising and unfortunate to note that a visiting senior officer before proceeding to Maharashtra has not acquainted himself with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) quarantine guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government to arrest the spread of the pandemic in the state. It may be noted that the guidelines are available in the public domain,” the BMC letter stated. “Considering that it is only the fifth day of his arrival, and since the request to exempt from home isolation to go back to Patna has come from Patna police, and considering the provision in the SOP (standard operating procedure) to exempt passengers on a short duration visit, it is hereby decided to exempt Mr. Vinay Tiwari from home quarantine subject to fulfilling the following conditions. He shall leave Maharashtra before the seventh day of the start of quarantine (before August 8),” the letter stated. Tiwari left for the Mumbai airport on Friday afternoon. While speaking to the media, Tiwari said, “I was not quarantined, but the investigation was quarantined. We did whatever we could do, and definitely there were hurdles in our investigations. Now, the investigation is with the CBI, and I cannot comment on it. But we will submit all investigation-related details we did in the Supreme Court.” Meanwhile, BMC on Friday also tweeted a notification reading, “Some instances have come to notice that some government officials after landing in Mumbai show their government ID card and secure exemption. By this order, it is clarified that any exemption for government servant contributing for its office has to be made in writing to BMC two days in advance justifying the reason for exemption for home quarantine. All exemptions will be given in written by BMC, and BMC officers at the airport shall not give any exemptions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-case-probe-was-quarantined-bihar-cop/story-2zYsaoZ0I4z4kwujt9m5PP.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Govt spent ₹99L to get back students from Kota||The Maharashtra government has incurred an expense of ₹99,89,680 to bring back 1,876 students stranded in Kota during the lockdown. State released the fund to MSRTC on Friday by issuing a government resolution in this respect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/govt-spent-99l-to-get-back-students-from-kota/story-2305uGFRUNXfKIOuMu73jN.html
08-08-2020||City||After Mumbai, Thane too will face water cuts||After Mumbai, water cuts will also be imposed in some areas in Thane, as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) which supplied water to Thane city has imposed 20% cuts on Thane as well. BMC supplies 65MLD (million litre per day) water to Thane city, and will get 13MLD less water once the water cut is implemented. This will lead to low pressure water supply in some of the areas. The corporation said that a complete shutdown will be imposed once or twice a week depending on the water levels in the dams in the coming few weeks. BMC imposed 20% water cut in Mumbai after the water level in the seven lakes was not on par with the levels every year. An official from the water department of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) said, “We will receive 13MLD less water supply from BMC as per their letter. As of now, we are not imposing a complete shutdown. The available water will be distributed evenly. There will be water cuts only if water levels in the lakes do not increase and there is further water cut. Areas such as Naupada and Old Market will receive low pressure supply for some days of the week.” The low pressure supply will also affect residents of Kopri, Panchpakhadi, Gaondevi, Jambli Naka, Kharkar Ali, Station Road, Louis Wadi, Ambika Nagar and Hajuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-mumbai-thane-too-will-face-water-cuts/story-CNiAaH6ntj1UGcgA96vePM.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||HC strikes down GR prohibiting artists aged 65 above 65 from participating in film shootings||Artists and crew members aged above 65 years are now free to resume shootings for films, television serials and over-the-top media, after the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday struck down a condition imposed by the Maharashtra government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic prohibiting them from attending studios and outdoor shootings.The bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Riyaz Chagla struck down the condition on the grounds that it was discriminatory and arbitrary. “In our view, there is discrimination in the disparate treatment of persons who are 65 years of age or above in the film or television industry and in other permitted sectors and permitted activities,” said the bench.The condition formed part of a government resolution (GR) issued on May 30, the day on which the state government allowed resumption of shootings for films, television serials and over-the-top media series, and pre-production and post-production works after a gap of over two months.The bench said if there was no general prohibition on persons above 65 years from working or practicing their trades and businesses that were allowed to operate, an age based prohibition in only one industry, namely the film industry / television / OTT “would constitute an unreasonable restriction”.HC said it would be a different matter if for policy and health considerations, the film industry would not be allowed to operate or open for filming and other related activities. “However, having permitted the film industry to operate and open, introduction of the condition that places an absolute restriction on persons above 65 years from carrying out their occupation and trade, would amount to an unreasonable restriction, and hence a violation of their right under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.”Pramod Pandey, an actor by profession, who has been earning his livelihood by performing small roles in films and TV serials since the past 40 years, and the Indian Motion Pictures Producers Association had challenged the validity of the condition before HC. They opposed the condition primarily on the grounds that it was discriminatory and imposes unreasonable restriction on their right to carry on their trade and occupation.HC accepted their contentions and held that the absolute prohibition on cast and crew above 65 years who earn their livelihood from the film industry was a measure that violated the right of the petitioners to live with dignity under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-strikes-down-gr-prohibiting-artists-aged-65-above-65-from-participating-in-film-shootings/story-Tfutvk2KdXbk12n9tRuGMN.html
08-08-2020||City||2 injured in Thane as part of ceiling collapses||Two people were injured on Friday after part of a room’s ceiling fell on them. The incident took place in a 35-year-old building near Khartan Road. The building was originally constructed by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) for its employees. TMC said it will evacuate the building soon and carry out repairs. Around 5am on Friday, a slab of plaster fell off the ceiling of a room and injured Meena Solanki, 30, and her son Praveen, 16. The duo were asleep at the time. Solanki, a homemaker, has injured her right hand and Praveen has sustained major injuries to his head and right ear. Both are recuperating at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa. Santosh Kadam, chief of the regional disaster management cell, Thane, said the rest of the plaster is also in bad condition and needs to be repaired at the earliest. Forty families live in the building and over the years, alterations have been made to the original structure. Naresh Solanki, a relative of the injured, said, “We have been staying here for 30 years and most are families of people who work with the civic body. A year ago, we were told that a month-long repair work would be undertaken, but no efforts have been made since by the corporation to renovate this structure.” Deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi said, “Three months ago, we had suggested repair work for the building. However, due to certain technical issues, it got delayed. The building is not a dilapidated structure, so we had not given any evacuation notice.” He said the residents would be evacuated soon, after which repairs would be carried out. “If they [the residents] do not comply, we will have to make a police complaint. We cannot allow the residents to risk their lives,” Malvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-injured-in-thane-as-part-of-ceiling-collapses/story-OPezQLd4M85d0IjTANHJJO.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Need to focus on 10 districts with most Covid-19 cases and deaths: Centre||The Central government has expressed concern over the high number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in 10 districts of the state. Lav Agrawal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, in a review meeting along with chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, said that Maharashtra needs to do more in the battle against Covid-19 to contain the spread, especially in the districts where the case count is high. He pointed out that 10 districts have contributed 79% of the total cases detected in the last week. Their case fatality rate (CFR) is also higher than the state’s average and needs to be brought under control.The 10 districts include Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Sangli and Nagpur.Agrawal emphasized that the state needs to bring down the number of infections among healthcare staff as it is above the national average. Infection among a high number of healthcare personnel also means more strain on the health care system, he said.As much as 21% of healthcare personnel in the state have tested positive for Covid-19. The country’s average is 7%.Agrawal was speaking at a review meeting called by the CM along with divisional commissioners, municipal commissioners, district collectors and other senior officials from the health department. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and health minister Rajesh Tope were also present. Agrawal was invited by the CM to share his views, and he also made a presentation.He said that the state needs to focus more on areas where the rate of fresh cases, as well as case fatality rate is high. He pointed out that the 10 districts need more attention as their death rate is higher than the state’s average.Maharashtra’s CFR at 3.49% is higher than the country’s 2.07%.The joint secretary also called increased efforts to provide infected senior citizens with hospitals bed in time.In the meeting, Agrawal stated that senior citizens do not like to get admitted to hospitals, and only go when their condition worsens. This can be avoided with timely intervention and surveys. He asked government officials to focus more on containment zones and house-to-house surveys and said that if a patient tests positive, then 80% of his contacts need to be traced within 72 hours, and tested.Agarwal said that even if the antigen test result came negative, the person should be observed closely for symptoms, and a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test should be conducted. Government officials should also ensure test reports are released within 24 to 36 hours after the test is conducted.Meanwhile, the CM directed officials to ensure that the state does not undergo a second wave of infection.“We will have to ensure that a second wave will not come in the state as there are some projections. It is also the case in a few countries. We cannot afford negligence, and focus should be on the timely treatment of patients,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/need-to-focus-on-10-districts-with-most-covid-19-cases-and-deaths-centre/story-U6VugTCXgksABs7wuZ7tUL.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Restart suburban train services with only 20-30% occupancy: TIFR||Researchers from the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Colaba, who analysed data of the first sero-survey conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), have cautioned the state government on restarting local trains in full capacity in Mumbai amidst easing of lockdown restrictions. They have suggested running local trains with 20-30% occupancy so that commuters can maintain social distance. Mumbai and its satellite cities are connected by a network of 3,000 local trains that used to ferry more than 75 lakh passengers until Covid-19 hit the city. At present, both Central and Western Railways are operating around 700 services only for essential staff. Ullas S Kolthur, professor at the TIFR’s department of biological sciences, and Sandeep Juneja, professor and dean, school of technology and computer science, welcomed the state government’s move to gradually open up Mumbai for economic benefits. “Medical facilities in Mumbai are increasing as more hospital beds are available for the treatment of Covid-19. Also, with rising awareness, people are using masks and maintaining social distance, which has lowered the prevalence of the virus. Thus, a small amount of economic opening up can be absorbed by the medical system,” said Juneja on the sideline of an online discussion on the sero-survey findings.Due to overcrowding in local trains, Juneja said typically 14 passengers travel per square metre, making it impossible to maintain social distance. “We need to maintain one-metre distance to stop further spread the virus. Thus, the trains should run at 20-30% occupancy. The procedure to start local trains should be slow. It can be increased further based on the observed infection rate,” he said.To prevent overcrowding, currently, only essential staffers, defence personnel, employees of the Central government, income tax, GST and customs, postal departments, nationalised banks, Mumbai Port Trust, judiciary and Raj Bhavan are allowed to travel in local trains.Health activists supported the suggestion of 20-30% occupancy. “Considering the huge population of Mumbai, it is essential to keep a check on local trains. If the state government completely opens up trains in a hurry, it can lead to a second wave of the pandemic. After coming so far, we have to be more cautious,” said Dr Ravikant Singh, a health activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/restart-suburban-train-services-with-only-20-30-occupancy-tifr/story-ynSxK9PrYDTd51NZsEuBMN.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||77% recovery rate in Mumbai as almost 1 lakh discharged||The city will soon reach the milestone of 1 lakh recovered patients out of the 1.21 lakh Covid-19 positive diagnosed so far. At present, the city’s recovery rate is 77%, which exceeds the state and national average recovery rates of 66.76% and 67.98% respectively. Meanwhile, on Friday, Mumbai recorded 862 Covid-19 cases and 45 deaths. The total number of infected cases in Mumbai have reached 121, 012 and the total death toll is 6, 693 according to the state health department data. As per BMC’s data, out of 45 deaths, one death was of a patient below 40 years of age, 33 deaths were of patients above 60 years of age, and 11 patients were between 40 to 60 years of age.The data further states that 1, 239 patients were recovered and discharged on Friday. A total of 9, 3898 patients have been treated and discharged by now. Total active patients in the city are 20,124. The recovery rate of the city is at 73 percent. Further, total Covid tests done till Thursday, is 5.83 lakh. Meanwhile, Dharavi reported 7 new cases on Friday. Total cases in Dharavi have reached 2540.Nearly 20,000 patients are active cases of Covid-19 while the total number of patients who have recovered and been discharged as of Friday, is over 92,000. On an average, nearly 1,000 patients are discharged daily. The city’s recovery rate has seen a significant improvement since mid-June when it was at 50%, following which the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) launched a rapid action plan to contain the spread of Covid-19. The recovery rate improved to 57% on July 1 and then to around 70% on July 15, as per BMC’s data. It is currently at 77%. Experts as well as members of the state’s Covid-19 task force said the improved recovery rate may be due to improved immunity, early detection and treatment. Some said virus may have weakened as it spread within the city. Shashank Joshi, state task force member, said, “There could be two major reasons behind an increasing recovery rate – either Mumbaiites’ immunity is better, which is more likely considering the results of the sero survey conducted recently. Another reason could be that the recurrent viral stages that spread in the community are at a less virulent stage. However, this can be substantiated through research and surveys to know the virus mutation.” On July 3, a sero survey of 6,936 people from R-North (Dahisar), M-West (Chembur) and F-North (Sion) wards was conducted by BMC to identify recovered individuals and estimate the spread of Covid-19. The findings revealed 57% from slums and 16% from other residential areas had antibodies that suggested they had been exposed to Covid-19 and recovered. Health experts said virus mutation has been seen in past pandemics but, early detection and treatment tend to have the most impact in improving recovery rates. Madhav Sathe, retired professor of microbiology at BYL Nair Hospital, said, “It has been noted during epidemics or pandemics in the past that the virus goes through genetic changes. It is a type of mutation where virus spreads fasted but its severity goes down. This could be a factor behind the increasing recovery rate. However, early detection and early treatment being done through rapid antigen testing could also be the key to increase in recovery and bringing down mortality rate.” Experts further said a research study should be conducted to know the genetic changes and frame future public health policies accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/77-recovery-rate-in-mumbai-as-almost-1-lakh-discharged/story-iJtSzEgNFx40KkRItsxQBN.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government’s plan of reopening rural schools stalled due to Centre’s guidelines||Two months into the new academic year, the state education department has been getting numerous requests to allow the physical reopening of schools in remote parts of Maharashtra. Schools, activists and social organisations, in several representations to the department, have urged that schools reopen so students without access to technology do not drop out or miss out on learning.An official from the education department said several such requests have been pending due to the Central government’s guidelines. As per guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs in July, schools, colleges and coaching classes will remain shut across the country until August 31. Since June 15, schools across the state have been only operating online.“We are receiving many requests from remote places where physical learning is the only option due to poor access to technology. However, in the absence of a Central government nod, all those plans are shelved, at least till the end of August,” said a senior official from the education department.The state government had issued a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) in June, based on which classes 9, 10 and 12 were expected to start in July, followed by classes 6-8 from August, and classes 1-5 from September. This, however, was subject to permissions from the local administration after no Covid-19 positive cases are reported in the area for a month. In accordance with the guidelines, the education department started 190 schools in Chandrapur and Gadchiroli. However, they were closed again after the Centre’s guidelines came in.“We had ensured strict compliance with safety protocols and had made sure students come in small numbers and wear masks at all times. It was helping a lot because, finally, face-to-face learning could kick-off. The online-only mode is not feasible in the long run,” said the teacher of a school in Chandrapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-s-plan-of-reopening-rural-schools-stalled-due-to-centre-s-guidelines/story-QwxqGtr28UA6pOM6hZQfEP.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Flying squads to keep check on overcharging by private hospitals, ambulances||After capping charges for Covid treatment at private hospitals and private ambulance operators, the Maharashtra government on Friday directed the local authorities to constitute flying squads to check if the decisions related to Covid-19 treatment at affordable rates are being implemented. The state health department has also directed them to submit the action report in three days.“Flying squads will help in keeping a check on the hospitals and ambulance operators by carrying out surprise inspections,” state health minister Rajesh Tope said.The decision was taken following complaints from the citizens over exorbitant charges by the private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment. The state is receiving similar complaints against private ambulances operators, the officials said. There are complaints despite the charges for Covid treatment at private hospitals being capped by the state government on May 21.On May 23, the state had extended free health insurance cover to all the citizens under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, a cashless medical healthcare scheme. Later, on June 30, the state also fixed the fare for private ambulances and requisition ambulances across the state to provide free services to Covid patients.Taking serious note of the complaints, Tope directed the local authorities such as district collectors and municipal commissioners to appoint flying squads across cities and districts to crack the whip against the violators.“The flying squads have been authorised to see if all the decisions taken by the state at regular intervals for Covid-19 treatment are being implemented or not, private hospitals have put up boards at the entrance with details on treatment charges, auditors have been appointed to verify bills at private hospitals to check overcharging for Covid-19 treatment and citizens are getting benefits of the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Aditya Yojana scheme for Covid treatment,” states the letter issued by the state health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas to the local authorities on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/flying-squads-to-keep-check-on-overcharging-by-private-hospitals-ambulances/story-0KjNo1u76qK91m29VmuACM.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||60-year-old hit by car at Andheri, dies||A 60-year-old man died after he was knocked down by a speeding car while crossing a road near Chakala in Andheri (East) on Thursday afternoon. The victim, Palanivel Tondmar, was a resident of Kanakia Wall Street on Andheri-Kurla Road. The police arrested the driver of the car, 27-year-old Amol Bhalekar. “The incident took place around 1.30 near Saroj printing press when Bhalekar’s car hit Tondmar, when the latter was trying to cross the road,” an officer from MIDC police station said. Some police personnel, who were near the area, rushed Tondmar to Cooper Hospital, but he was declared dead before arrival. Bhalekar was booked for rash driving and causing death due to negligence and other offences. “He was produced before court and released on bail,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/60-year-old-hit-by-car-at-andheri-dies/story-Gj46U9Fw2lvPmoe2dXbhjN.html
08-08-2020||City||Veteran journalist and social activist dies of Covid in Palghar||Veteran journalist and social activist Ashok Churi succumbed to Covid-19 at his home in Palghar on Friday morning. The 71-year-old is survived by his wife, son and daughter.Churi owned and edited the- Palghar Times – a Marathi weekly paper – and would highlight the plight of tribals and the economically weaker sections of society. He later took to social activism and used to plan mass tribal community weddings in Palghar each year in May. To date, he had organised around 1,133 weddings since 1987 under the aegis of the Thane District Slum Dwellers’ Welfare Sangh. Churi would also do ‘kanyadhaan’ of many orphaned tribal brides at the weddings.In many cases, tribals would take large loans to pay for weddings and would be stuck paying the debt for years. Churi started community weddings to stem the practice by making the function more affordable for the tribals.He was also a union leader for the industrial workers in Tarapur and was associated with the Bombay Labour Union.Last week, the 71-year-old came down with a fever but recovered in a few days. However, he relapsed and succumbed to the infection. According to Dr Dinkar Gavit, medical superintendent at Palghar Rural Hospital, following his death, Churi’s test came back positive of Covid-19.He was cremated at Palghar civic crematorium, where only 15 of his relatives were present, and social distancing was practiced as per protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/veteran-journalist-and-social-activist-dies-of-covid-in-palghar/story-Iyi9aeE06kHW490IaF2xLM.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Need to study low death rate in slums: TIFR on sero survey||Even though the sero survey of three civic wards showed higher (57%) prevalence of Covid infection, where residents silently recovered thanks to antibodies, in slums compared to residential areas (16%), the overall fatality rate of these wards has been similar to the rest of the city, a finding which researchers from the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) feel needs to be studied further. The three wards – M-West (Tilaknagar and Chembur), F-North (Matunga, Sion and Wadala) and R-North (Dahisar and Mandapeshwar) – have a fatality rate of 7.87%, 5.85% and 4.27%, respectively. The city’s overall fatality rate is 5.53%. Slums comprise 73.8% of the area in F-North ward, 75.3% in M-West ward and 60% in R-North ward. The segregated data of fatality rates in slums and non-slum areas in these wards is not available.As per data of the antibody survey shared by TIFR, 4,234 individuals were randomly surveyed in the slums, while swab samples were collected from every fourth building in non-slum areas. F-North ward topped in the presence of antibodies, in 1,240 of the 2,144 people tested, in slums. In M-West ward, 860 of the 1,518 people surveyed in slums came positive. In R-North ward, 292 of the 572 people came positive.Ullas S Kolthur, principal investigator of the survey, and researcher Sandeep Juneja spoke in-depth on the findings of the sero-survey via an online discussion on Friday. “If we see the fatality rate, it is almost similar to the cumulative death rate of Mumbai. We are unsure of the reason behind such few deaths in slums despite such a huge infection rate. This can be because a large portion of the infected patients were young who recovered properly. We need more research on it,” said Juneja, professor and dean, school of technology and computer science, TIFR. On July 3, the civic body in collaboration with NITI-Aayog and TIFR started sero surveillance in which a group of individuals undergo blood tests to detect the presence of Immunoglobulin-G (IgG) antibodies. IgG antibodies are produced by the body’s immune system on being exposed to a virus. A sero-survey helps identify individuals who were previously infected with the virus, but developed antibodies and recovered. Although the estimated target was 10,000 blood samples, the ongoing monsoon restricted the collection process to 6,936 samples, said a health officer from BMC. The civic body has also run an antibody test on 1,000 health workers, results of which are awaited. Kolthur and Juneja said their initial target was to collect the same number of samples from both slum and non-slum areas in the three wards. But due to resistance from citizens in residential areas, they failed to meet the target. Only 10% individuals from residential areas gave their consent for the survey, while almost 80% slum dwellers cooperated with the researchers. As BMC plans to start the second phase of the sero-survey, researchers have requested people to cooperate. “There is a lot of speculation among people residing in non-slum areas. When we enter to collect samples, they protest. In some areas, we had to convince society members through our own personal contacts. As it is a population-based study, people have to help and trust us,” said Kolthur, professor at the department of biological sciences, TIFR. Juneja while discussing the sero-survey findings revealed that 90% of the people surveyed in the slums didn’t have access to personal toilets. “There is a need to focus more on increasing toilets in the slums in the future as community toilets are extremely infectious. In residential areas, only 30% of the people didn’t have personal toilets,” he said. Dr Abhijit More, co-convenor, Jan Aarogya Abhiyan, said, “When infection started spreading in the slums of Mumbai, ward officers installed plastic makeshift toilets for the quarantined and high-risk contacts which helped stop the spread of the virus. We need to incorporate this idea while upgrading Mumbai and surrounding satellite areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/need-to-study-low-death-rate-in-slums-tifr-on-sero-survey/story-OTSihWzRhk4MWvcSPEirIO.html
08-08-2020||City||Thane MNS chief released on bail||Thane district president of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) was granted bail on a ₹15,000 bond by Thane session court on Friday, a week after he was arrested by Thane Police for protesting outside a Covid hospital and allegedly violating several lockdown norms. Jadhav was also served an externment notice from police departments of Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Navi Mumbai and Mumbai, the hearing on which is still pending. Jadhav was arrested on July 31, following which he was in police custody for two days and judicial custody for five days. The court had, on Monday, rejected his first bail application. Omkar Rajurkar, Jadhav’s lawyer, said, “Jadhav has got bail on the bond of ₹15,000 as the court realised his arrest was merely a political propaganda. He was pressured to give up his fight for the people through the arrest. We will challenge the externment order too, for which partial hearing is completed.”On July 31, three or four MNS workers and around 30 nurses, led by Jadhav, staged a protest outside Thane Municipal Corporation’s headquarters in Panchpakhadi and the Covid hospital in Balkum. Naupada police booked Jadhav under sections 188 and 269 for disobedience and act likely to spread infection, while he was arrested by Kapurbawdi police the same night for obstructing the work of a civil servant. Assistant police commissioner Pankaj Shirsat said, “Avinash Jadhav has got a bail. Our investigation will be on, and if required, we will call him for inquiry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-mns-chief-released-on-bail/story-10oNB8HhGhcTxEa1B6bseJ.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Willing to declare south Konkan wildlife corridor as ESA, but state needs to send proposal first: Centre tells HC||The Union environment ministry has told the Bombay high court (HC) that despite the Centre’s intention to declare the Dodamarg-Sawantwadi wildlife corridor in Sindhudurg as an eco-sensitive area (ESA), Maharashtra government has not sent a proposal even after seven years. On Friday, a bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice AS Gadkari, while hearing interim applications by NGO Vanashakti and Awaaz Foundation seeking implementation of previous orders citing threat to the corridor’s biodiversity, directed petitioners to explain the maintainability of their petition and explain why it should not be transferred to the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The next date of hearing is on August 17. “The court wanted to hear from us on maintainability in view of the NGT Act and that we were seeking a notification under the Environment Protection Act, 1986. We highlighted issues in this matter overlapping with provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972 and certain schedules of the NGT Act excluding WPA. Thus, this matter may be heard by HC,” said Zaman Ali, co-counsel for Vanashakti. To curb environmentally destructive activities in this corridor, the court had in 2012, 2013 and 2018 directed for the declaration of the ESA and also ordered the belt be a ‘no tree-felling zone’. The HC had, on Wednesday, asked the ministry of environment forests and climate change (MoEFCC) to file their response on steps taken to comply with previous orders. MoEFCC in its affidavit stated that it cannot take an independent decision. “In view of the fact that the state supports declaration of Sawantwadi-Dodamarg corridor as ESA, a proposal based on ground level information and land records has been sought to be submitted for consideration,” read the affidavit, which HT has reviewed, and was confirmed by counsel for MoEFCC Parag Vyas. The petitioner alleged that the Maharashtra government was delaying the matter. “The state is dragging its feet which forced us to go back to the HC,” said Stalin D, director of Vanashakti. Declaring an area as ESA means prohibiting projects such as mining, quarrying, and red category industries while restricting infrastructure development. MoEFCC also suggested that the state consider including the wildlife corridor in the proposed Western Ghats ESA. “This will ensure that a single notification can cover both Western Ghats and Sawantwadi-Dodamarg as ESA,” MoEFCC said. Maharashtra has proposed a total area of 15,359 square kilometre (sqkm) for the draft Western Ghats ESA, which excluded 11.4% of the originally proposed area by the Centre. The proposal left out crucial wildlife corridors including the entire Dodamarg taluka. “The inclusion of Dodamarg in the Western Ghats ESA is still awaited from the state government,” the affidavit said. State chief wildlife warden Nitin Kakodkar reiterated that the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun was appointed to assess the exact boundary of the corridor, based on which a proposal would be sent. However, the study, first proposed in early 2019, has not started yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/willing-to-declare-south-konkan-wildlife-corridor-as-esa-but-state-needs-to-send-proposal-first-centre-tells-hc/story-F48sTC9RrtLSn8UWkeiC5L.html
08-08-2020||City||38-year-old loses ₹3.54 lakh to online fraud||A 38-year-old man fell victim to an online fraud and lost ₹354,767 from two bank accounts linked to an e-wallet platform. According to the complaint filed with Navghar police, Pawan Kumar Thakur, who runs a small steel utensils buffing unit in Bhayander, was supposed to transfer the money to the accounts of his employees, who have returned to their hometowns in view of Covid-19 pandemic. After he faced some difficulty in transferring the amount, he looked up the number of the e-wallet company’s customer care centre and called on the number. The fraudster, posing as an executive, asked him to download an application on his phone and transferred the amount via multiple transactions. “We have registered a case under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Information Technology Act against unknown persons and are investigating the matter,” said an officer from Navghar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/38-year-old-loses-3-54-lakh-to-online-fraud/story-rLAI0wo0GSa5UxZZX1zIIL.html
08-08-2020||City||Armoured catfish found in Dahanu creek||An armoured catfish or Callichthys callichthys was found in a creek near Chinchani in Dahanu on Thursday afternoon. A few locals, who caught the fish, contacted Bhushan Bhoir, assistant professor of Zoology, SDSM Dandekar College, Palghar. Bhoir contacted Akhilesh KV, a scientist at the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) Mumbai, who identified the fish.“Armoured catfish is an invasive species which is rarely found in lakes, rivers and is known to compete with local species for food and shelter and has a high fecundity rate (the ability to produce an abundance of offspring) and can tolerate fluctuations in pH salinity and other chemical factors of water. Hence, it is hardy and can acclimatise to any water body,” said Bhoir.He, however, added that this is a warning that natural fish resources are in danger as armoured fish attack and kill other fish. “They compete with local species for food and shelter. They also eat eggs laid in sand by other fish, due to which within 5 to 10 years all local fish species may go extinct in that water bodies,” warned Bhoir. He cited the example of Tilapia which was illegally imported from Africa and introduced to Indian waterbodies and said that now many of these waterbodies which have Tilapia do not have any other fish.The armoured catfish has been kept in a well and will not be released in the creek, said Bhoir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/armoured-catfish-found-in-dahanu-creek/story-LpPQc9MAMT2QPxXYZK8mhJ.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||‘Mumbai malls see low footfall, but high conversion due to planned shopping’||Two days since malls and supermarkets in Mumbai reopened after over four months of lockdown, heavy rains on August 5 and 6 impacted the crowd and staff turnout at the retail stores. The mall owners and retailers, however, said that while there was less footfall, the conversion rate has gone up.The conversion rate is described as the number of customers who turn up, versus those who shop. This is attributed to planned shopping, instead of visiting malls for leisure. The mall owners and retailers are now hopeful that the coming weekend will see better footfall.The High Street Phoenix Mall in Lower Parel saw 65% of retailers open shops on August 5. Rajendra Kalkar, president - West, The Phoenix Mills Ltd. said, “Given the weather conditions, the first day was very good and successful. Due to rains, footfalls were restricted and a lot of staffers could not reach. But we had customers coming from Worli, Prabhadevi and Dadar. We opened the mall with a good 65% occupancy. We expect the count to reach 80% in a day or so, once the weather gets better.”As part of staggered lockdown in March, the Maharashtra government via a notification shut down malls and multiplexes in the second week of March. After 4.5 months, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) issued a circular allowing malls and supermarkets to reopen from August 5 as part of state government’s Mission Begin Again. This circular has disallowed reopening of multiplexes and the dine-in option for restaurants and food courts inside malls. However, food delivery is allowed through aggregates.Many mall owners and retailers expect only serious buyers to visit malls. Sachin Dhanawade, chief operating officer (retail and real estate), Grauer & Weil (India) Limited, which operates Growel’s 1O1 Mall in the Kandivali said, “We were expecting only serious buyers as people are being advised to not step out of their homes unless necessary. As seen in other states, where malls have been operational for a month, customers have been visiting for planned purchases and not for leisure as yet, so the conversions rate is very high.”According to Dhanawade, while Growel’s 101 saw 20% footfall as compared to the same days last year, the conversion rate has gone up three times, and average spend per customer has gone up four times. The food and beverage industry in malls have seen a conversion rate of 100%.A representative of Growel’s 101 said, “This week a lot of staff could not turn up for work due to rains, or as many of them live in Mumbai Metropolitan Region.”Dhanawade said, “We are offering free parking over this weekend and are expecting about 30% to 35% of footfalls this weekend. However, we are confident that the August 15th weekend will be more buzzing as consumers will be more confident to step out for a shopping trip. We are positive that as consumers become more aware of the safety arrangements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-malls-see-low-footfall-but-high-conversion-due-to-planned-shopping/story-IawIvDVIWtYt3FAOJ03QJI.html
08-08-2020||City||Citizen helps nab two imposters posing as cop||An alert citizen helped Bhayander police nab two imposters, who posed as policemen, frisked him and stole his car keys on Wednesday.According to Bhayander police, the citizen, a builder byprofession, was speaking with his friends in Bhayandar (East) when three men accosted him and told him they were ‘special officers’ with the local crime branch. They further said that they had inputs that the builder was bootlegging liquor and frisked him. However, the accused then let him go with a warning. Later when the victim was looking for his car keys, the conmen returned and tried to steal his gold chain by claiming a crime had occurred in the vicinity and it was not safe to wear valuables. The builder managed to escape and tipped off a police patrol team about the incident, following which police officers reached the spot and arrested two accused, Sandesh Maladkar and Sachin Singh. The third accused is absconding, said a police officer. We arrested the duo under sections 170 (impersonation), 420(cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and the duo have been remanded in judicial custody on Thursday. Maladkar, a Nallasopara resident, is a habitual offender with multiple cases of impersonation and cheating registered against him at police stations in Mumbai and Palghar. “He was previously arrested for extorting money from couples outside hotels by pretending to be police,” said senior inspector Sampatrao Patil, Navghar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/citizen-helps-nab-two-imposters-posing-as-cop/story-G1tG9y8LXKWy4Y9QjPtnSJ.html
08-08-2020||City||Doctor booked for sexually assaulting minor||Shantinagar police on Thursday registered a case against a Bhiwandi-based private practitioner for allegedly sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl. The doctor is still at large. On July 30, the minor’s mother visited the accused, Dr Badrujama Khan, as she was sick. Two days later, the minor got cold and fever and visited the same doctor along with her younger brother. “In the complaint, the minor said while patients were clled according to turn, the doctor made her wait till the end. After the last patient left, he allegedly asked the compounder to bring something to eat and called the girl inside. Later, he asked the girl’s brother to bring more money and locked the clinic. He then sexually assaulted the girl and threatened her against saying a word about it to anyone.” The minor narrated the ordeal to her aunt the next day, following which the complaint was filed. Police have registered a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and section 376 (sexual assault) of the Indian Penal Code. The police have formed teams to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctor-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-minor/story-k2CwfWKS2SAq3u5bnDffWO.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Rajput death case: No orders on PILs till Aug 21, says HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday refused to pass orders or express any opinion till August 21 on the public interest litigations (PILs) seeking transfer of a case related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput from Bihar to Mumbai, taking note of a similar petition filed in the Supreme Court, hearing for which will be held on August 18. HC was also informed that the plea to transfer the investigation into Rajput’s death to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) from Mumbai Police had also seen some developments, as based on the recommendation of the Bihar governor, the Centre has issued a notification, based on which CBI has already filled an FIR. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice AS Gadkari, while hearing the PILs filed by advocate Priyanka Tibrewal and a Nagpur resident, Sameet Thakkar, was informed that both the petitions had similar requests related to the probe. Tibrewal, however, submitted that as the transfer petitions being heard by the SC did not have any request for transfer of investigation to CBI, the court could hear the PIL. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted that the SC on July 30 dismissed a petition seeking transfer of investigation from Mumbai Police to CBI and also submitted an August 5 order of the SC in which it had asked Maharashtra government to submit a report on the progress in the investigation by August 18. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh representing the Union of India informed the bench that the Maharashtra government had gone overboard in trying to stall Bihar police from participating in the investigation. He added that while earlier in the lockdown police personnel had come from Bihar to investigate other cases they were not quarantined, but when an IPS officer came for the investigation in Rajput’s case was put under 14-day quarantine. “To unearth the truth, Mumbai Police should not create any problem in entrustment of the investigation to CBI,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rajput-death-case-no-orders-on-pils-till-aug-21-says-hc/story-v5Yrj5VT7HvBEdWZVRLFGK.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Travel agents’ body seeks DGCA intervention on ticket refunds from Jet Airways||The Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI) has asked aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to intervene in the matter of ticket refunds to customers and travel agents, from the now-defunct Jet Airways by the International Air Transport Association ( IATA), after the global airlines’ group agreed on returning only a fraction of the total ticket amount. TAFI has also requested the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MOCA) along with DGCA to intervene after IATA declared to refund only 8% of the total amount spent on air tickets by passengers.In a letter to DGCA chief Arun Kumar, the travel agents’ body has called for setting up a fund for airlines who could go out of business and urged the aviation regulator to call a meeting of travel agents to discuss the issue.TAFI said MoCA and DGCA should be concerned with the delicate situation that is prevalent now and learn from the bad situation created by Jet Airways’ default and closure. since only 8% is being considered as a refund for payment by IATA. The Federation alleged IATA did not keep an adequate deposit despite being aware of the likely default.Its letter to the DGCA read, ‘It is a passenger loss, the Indian citizen loss...it is about time the oversight authority (DGCA) creates a fund to cover airlines facing bankruptcy type of situation, in case of LCC’s (low-cost carriers), registered in India. Call for a meeting with the agents’ associations for this discussion.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/travel-agents-body-seeks-dgca-intervention-on-ticket-refunds-from-jet-airways/story-CHEujrueTcP2cr8wW91fML.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Hany Babu MT sent to judicial custody till Aug 21||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Delhi University (DU) professor Hany Babu MT till August 21, in connection with the Elgar Parishad case. Babu, 54, an associate professor in DU’s department of English, was arrested on July 28. He was produced before the special court on Friday morning, as his custody with the NIA ended. The agency did not seek his further custody and requested the court to remand him in judicial custody, which the court accepted. According to the prosecution, Babu, who is an activist of Kabir Kala Manch – a cultural organisation in Pune – gave a “provocative presentation” as well as speeches on December 31, 2017, during the Elgar Parishad conclave at Shaniwar Wada, Pune, which led to violence the next day, resulting in the death of one person and a state-wide agitation. The agency also claimed that Babu had links with Manipur-based insurgent group Kangleipak Communist Party-Military Council (KCP-MC). The agency is probing his emails and data recovered from his social media and computers. NIA also alleged that Babu was closely linked with banned Communist Party of India-Maoist outfit and was involved in raising funds to help Maoists for their release from prisons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-hany-babu-mt-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-aug-21/story-C54OrGDXPpmFM74LKMpDCI.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Provide water, transportation to 2 Murbad villages: HC to MIDC||The Bombay high court (HC) has come to the rescue of 75 tribal families residing in two villages that are almost cut off from outside world after the third phase of heightening of Barvi dam in Murbad tehsil of Thane district.A division bench comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Ajay Gadkari on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) to ensure that potable water and necessary transportation facilities are immediately provided to the tribal villages.The bench also directed Thane district collector to file an affidavit giving a clear picture of the facilities available at the villages and the facilities which need to be provided.The court was hearing a petition filed jointly by Kolewadkhal resident Kanha Bhika Kadali and Rajaram Zugare from Talyachi Wadi, representing the 75 tribal families residing in both the villages which are affected by heightening of Barvi dam from 68.6 metre to 76.22 metre.According to the petition, Kolewadhakal is situated atop a hill and tribals residing in the settlement rely on the main roads leading out of the village to access healthcare facilities, high school and colleges located in Murbad, work places and also to their cultivable lands. However, for the past two years, due to increase in the height of Barvi dam, the village has essentially become an island, surrounded from all sides by water, completely inundating access roads and cutting them off from rest of the world.The petition added that 2019 monsoon was particularly difficult for the villagers who had to travel through makeshift rafts and suffered colossal damage to agricultural lands and properties.The situation in Talyanchi Wadi, according to the petitioners, was no different as the villagers remained cut off from main access roads the entire year. The tribal settlement, they said, was also surrounded by water on three sides with the fourth side being a dense forest, leaving the village without any access road.They have, therefore, sought directions to MIDC to for permanent rehabilitation contending that the ministry of environment and forests has cleared the third phase of heightening of Barvi dam without allowing land for rehabilitation of the two tribal villages.On Wednesday, their counsel, advocate Ronita Bector, pointed out that the tribals were in urgent need of ration, drinking water and transportation facility.Advocate Shyamali Gadre, who represented MIDC, maintained that drinking water was being provided to villagers and they have been paid ₹6,500 per project-affected family towards ration.Bector, however, disputed the claim about payment for ration, and pointed out that all the affected families were not paid the amount and it was not made clear by MIDC as to who all were held eligible to receive the benefits.Judges said potable drinking water and transport were basic facilities and must be supplied by the concerned authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/provide-water-transportation-to-2-murbad-villages-hc-to-midc/story-t651Keein2C93B7XygEyCJ.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||ED questions Rhea for 9 hours in Sushant case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) questioned actor Rhea Chakraborty for nearly nine hours on Friday in a money-laundering case it has registered in connection with Sushant Singh Raput’s suspected suicide on June 14. The 28-year-old Chakraborty, Rajput’s girlfriend at the time of his death, arrived at the agency’s office in Balard Estate area around 11:50am after her request to defer the questioning was turned down. She left the ED office at around 8:45pm. The agency, which investigates money laundering and foreign exchange violations, also questioned Chakraborty’s bro-ther, Showik, and her business manager, Shruti Modi, who worked for Rajput as well. Their statements were recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). ED officials privy to details said the agency was looking into Chakraborty’s tax returns and investments. The officials said Chakraborty respo-nded to most of the questions. A property located in the Khar area of Mumbai is also being probed by ED for the source of its purchase and ownership. Chakraborty told interrogators that she took around ~60 lakh home loan for the property worth ~84 lakh, according to the officials. When ED officials asked her about the remaining amount, she said she arranged the rest on her own and made the payment through cheques, the officials said. Investigators also tried to get more information on the formation of four companies by Rajput, Chakraborty and her family. While two of these companies were registered, the rest of the two were under the process of getting registered. Chakraborty said she did not siphon of anyone’s money, the officials said.“She has been examined and her statement...(has been) recorded... She’s always cooperated with investigations with police and ED. She has nothing to hide. In the event she’s called again, she will appear at the appointed time,” Satish Maneshinde, her lawyer and senior counsel, said. “Rhea Chakraborty is a law-abiding citizen. In view of the fact that ED has informed the media that the request to postpone the attendance is rejected, she appeared before the ED at the appointed time and date,” Maneshinde said in a statement earlier in the day. Chakraborty initially refused to appear before the agency, citing her appeal pending before the SC. She has requested that the FIR filed in Patna be transferred to Mumbai, arguing that Bihar Police have no jurisdiction. Rajput’s death has sparked a debate on mental health issues, how the film industry treats outsiders, and also the circumstances that led to his suspected suicide. The mystery has moved on from theories on and investigations into how nepotism in Bollywood may have claimed his life to allegations of a criminal conspiracy involving Chakraborty.ED filed a case on July 31 on the basis of a first information report (FIR) by the Bihar Police. The FIR was registered after a complaint by Rajput’s father, KK Singh, who accused Chakraborty and her family of abetting the actor’s suicide and siphoning of his money. Singh accused that close to ~15 crore were transferred from Rajput’s account to unknown persons not linked to him. He said his son’s credit cards were with Chakraborty. Alongside ED, the CBI, too, has launched a probe on the request of the Bihar government and named Chakraborty, her brother and four other family members, apart from unknown persons, as accused. The Bihar Police have handed over their case files to CBI in the midst of a jurisdictional dispute with the Maharashtra Police, who have filed an accidental death report.Rajput’s roommate, Siddharth Pithani, too has been called by ED to appear on Saturday, PTI reported. Pithani, an IT professional stated to be living with Rajput for about a year, is believed to be out of Mumbai and he has said in news channel interviews that he was present in the Bandra flat on June 14, when the 34-year-old actor hanged himself. The agency has already questioned Rajput’s chartered accountant, Sandeep Shridhar, and his house manager and staff, Samuel Miranda, twice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-questions-rhea-for-9-hours-in-sushant-case/story-YkaVwrjzGmXpYtY0fVHGNM.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra first Indian state to declare state mangrove tree as symbol of conservation||Maharashtra is set to become the first coastal state to declare a state mangrove tree species as a symbol to enhance conservation of the salt-tolerant vegetation.The proposal from the state mangrove cell to declare Sonneratia alba or mangrove apple, an evergreen mangrove species found along the state’s coastline, as state mangrove tree was approved during a meeting of the recently constituted State Board of Wildlife (SBWL) on Friday.“The proposal was approved considering the ecological importance of mangroves and the biodiversity it hosts. The formal declaration will be made after minutes of Friday’s SBWL meeting are published,” said Nitin Kakodkar, chief wildlife warden and member secretary of the board. Known as white chippi in Marathi, Sonneratia alba grow up to five feet and bear white flowers with a pink base as well as green fruits, that resemble apple and are used to make pickles. They often grow on newly-formed mudflats and play an important role in combating land erosion. The flowers, which bloom at night, are pollinated by nocturnal creatures like bats. Distribution of this mangrove species is confined to the west coast and some parts of Orissa. The mangrove cell has documented its presence along wetlands in Thane creek, Bhandup, Vasai and Dombivli along major mudflats.Maharashtra already has the state tree (mango), state animal (giant squirrel), state bird (green pigeon), state butterfly (Blue Mormon), and state flower (jarul). “This species adds aesthetic value to the mangrove ecosystem and this needs to be recognised,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest, Mangrove cell.Sheetal Pachpande, assistant director (projects), Mangrove cell, said, “Other rare mangrove species were not considered as they are not easily seen, and it would be difficult to generate awareness about their importance.”Though the species was introduced in Maharashtra and available records show it is native to Andaman islands, the declaration stands as a symbol for conserving this threatened biodiversity, said Dr Suchandra Dutta, department of botany, RD and SH National College, Bandra.Of the 60 mangrove species recognised globally, Maharashtra has 20. Close to 75% of mangrove cover across Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane is dominated by the grey mangrove species named Avicennia marina. Last year, the cell had recorded a threefold increase in mangrove apple cover at creek edges from 2% to 6% across MMR since 2011. A 2015 study by the zoology department of Sathaye College, Vile Parle found that the leaf extracts of these species possess high antimicrobial properties, which can be used for development of drugs as antimicrobial agents for treating infectious diseases.Experts said these mangrove species regulate water quality. “The dense root network acts as a wall trapping while absorbing excess nutrients,” said Laxmikant Deshpande, a conservationist.First proposed in mid-2018, SBWL’s approval comes after two years since the board hadn’t been constituted until last month. “There is one thing very remarkable about this species. Its tall breathing roots (pneumatophores) represent its resilience to climate change and sea level rise. Where Avicennia, presently the dominant genus, could fail as the sea level rises, Sonneratia has the latent potential to thrive. It is as if this plant has instinctively equipped itself with a defence mechanism to fight future sea level rise. This is also symbolic of the planet’s hope to thrive in the face of changing climate and impending catastrophes,” said N Vasudevan, former mangrove cell head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-first-indian-state-to-declare-state-mangrove-tree-as-symbol-of-conservation/story-UWiwIWpYQPfgo1rUAnsVXJ.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||Development not at cost of ecology, says CM at first wildlife board meet||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday emphasised that development projects will not be done at the cost of damage to the ecology and environment. Thackeray, in the first meeting of the newly formed State Board for Wildlife (SBWL), said that for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government development is not merely construction but also preservation of forest and wildlife. The CM approved three key projects in the state including the declaration of the 2,011 square kilometre (sqkm) Angria Bank as a protected area, appointing Sonneratia alba as state mangrove tree, and a recovery programme for Arabian Sea humpback whale. Maharashtra became the first state in the country to declare a state mangrove tree. Sonneratia alba is one of the important evergreen mangrove tree species in the coastal districts of Maharashtra, known as white chippi in local parlance as it bears beautiful white flowers. Angria Bank, a submerged plateau 120km off Malvan coast, if approved by the Centre, will be the first such marine protected zone in India. SBWL approved the recommendation to the Central government to notify Angria Bank as a designated area. SBWL also recommended starting a research programme including visual survey, genetics study, workshops, seminars and training for personnel to rehabilitate Arabian Sea Humpback whales. “We will be using a combination of acoustic and visual monitoring methods to understand the behaviour as well for long term conservation of the species. Our proposal is for five years at a cost of ₹6.12 crore,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell). Kakokdar said it would be funded 60% by the Centre and remaining by the state. Thackeray, during the meeting, made it clear that henceforth all projects that come for approval from SBWL will be tabled only if they have a recent drone survey along with the requisite Environment Impact Assessment Report (EIA). “In the very first meet of the newly formed board, he has given out a firm message that wildlife and environment is as important as development, shan’t be compromised. More so, @CMOMaharashtra @OfficeofUT emphasised that all proposed human development projects must compulsorily come with not just EIA but present-day drone survey,” state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted after the meeting. One of the proposals on the agenda which was not approved was a renewal of the lease for bauxite mining in Minchebudruk village of Kolhapur district. “The mine falls next to Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary. The CM expressed his displeasure over such a proposal next to a wildlife sanctuary and dismissed it,” said a board member, who did not wish to be named. Aaditya, in a tweet, called for “balanced and sustainable” development. “Forest management and aquatic wildlife management has to be more robust, empathetic towards the biodiversity and ensure development that is balanced and sustainable,” the environment minister said in a series of tweets. Other key decisions include formation of a committee to study measures to reduce the population of tigers to avoid human-tiger conflict in Chandrapur. “It was highlighted that there have been over 150 deaths in Chandrapur between 2007 and 2020, and with over 50% of the state’s tiger population in one district, the situation is worrisome. Now, the state will constitute a committee at the Mantralaya level which will deliberate on possible measures to address this problem,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) and member secretary of SBWL. Mitigation measures suggested by sub-committees under SBWL for projects such as the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed rail, Delhi-Mumbai freight corridor, Goregaon-Mulund link road and Nagpur-Mumbai super expressway proposed around Sanjay Gandhi National Park, Tansa and Thane creek flamingo sanctuary, were presented before the board. “It was decided these mitigation measures in the form of animal underpasses and elevated corridors would be clubbed for all these projects and implemented simultaneously,” said Kakokdar. He added that the proposal to convert the Akola to Khandwa meter gauge railway line from the Melghat Tiger Reserve to a broad gauge railway line was rejected by the board and it was proposed that the railway line would bypass the tiger reserve. “We will also be exploring the declaration of areas such as Mogarkasa in Nagpur, Mahindri in Amravati, and Chandgad Patne adjoining Tillari in Sindhudurg, which were all proposed to be declared as conservation reserves,” said Kakodkar. (With inputs from Badri Chatterjee)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/development-not-at-cost-of-ecology-says-cm-at-first-wildlife-board-meet/story-KVcE0M18e42FMyAIikDFNK.html
08-08-2020||City||Dera Bassi accounts for 41% Covid-19 cases in Mohali district||There has been no respite for residents of Dera Bassi sub-division in Mohali district, which has been continually recording the highest number of Covid-19 cases since the outbreak was first reported. As of August 7, the sub-division has 485 cases (41.4%).Kharar is next with 366 cases (31.3%), followed by Mohali city with 318 (27.2%). Dera Bassi sub-division comprises Dera Bassi town, Zirakpur and Lalru with a population of around four lakh. All towns are located on the Ambala-Chandigarh highway. Jawaharpur was its first village to be declared a hotspot with 46 cases on April 30. Later, the focus shifted to Mubarakpur village, where 26 cases were reported in May. Now, the count is going up because of cases coming in from the entire sub-division. Pointing out the likely reason, Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said Dera Bassi was located on the interstate border and more people from other states were coming here to work in factories. Zirakpur too had a huge migrant population. “We are trying our best to take maximum samples from the area,” he added. Dr Vikrant Nagra, nodal officer for Dera Bassi, said Zirakpur and Dera Bassi were semi-urban areas with a large number of residential societies. Attributing the spike to aggressive sampling, he said most of the patients were the contacts of positive patients and had travel history. After Dera Bassi, Kharar sub-division comprising Nayagaon, Mullanpur, Kurali and some villages has reported 346 cases. Dr Harmandeep Kaur Brar, nodal officer for Covid-19 in the district, while sounding a note of caution, said though the lockdown had been lifted, people’s carelessness would mean a surge in infections. “If we do not observe precautions, the disease can strike us again in no time,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dera-bassi-accounts-for-41-covid-19-cases-in-mohali-district/story-Iezrjs4ILP9ex5hzzTbeQN.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19’s footprint spread to 76% localities of Chandigarh within 40 days||While the active Covid-19 cases in the city increased by nearly six times over the past 40 days, the footprint of the novel coronavirus also became much wider, now spread across 76% of the city’s areas.As of June 27, active cases were being reported from 25 (26%) of city’s 94 localities, but by August 7, 69 (76%) areas have new infections, with no single area, like Bapu Dham Colony earlier, predominantly reporting cases.These localities include sectors, villages and colonies, with the virus spreading faster in sectors than in colonies and villages.A whopping 60% cases are from six localities – Manimajra (16), Khuda Ali Sher (7), Bapu Dham (8) and Sectors 15, 24 and 38 with 20 cases in all.MORE SECTORS AFFECTEDNearly 83% (47) of all 57 sectors now have active cases, even as 40 days ago, only 28% (16) of these areas were reporting new infections.Sector 45, at 23, has the most cases among all sectors, though it had no case on June 27.Similarly, among colonies and villages, Dhanas had no case on 40 days ago, but now 29 people are infected in the locality. Mauli Jagran also had no case, but now has 18.Sectors 1 to 10 in the city’s northern part have the lowest number of active cases at seven. This was even lower 40 days ago when only Sector 9 had one case.SECTORS: FROM 44 TO 322 CASES IN 40 DAYSDuring the 40-day period between June 27 and August 7, the active cases in sectors rose by seven times, while in colonies and villages there was a fourfold rise.On June 27, the active cases in sectors were 44, which jumped to 322 within 40 days. In villages and cities, there were 42 Covid patients on June 27, but the figure climbed to 178 as of August 7.Experts say as the restrictions were eased phase wise, the infection was bound to spread due to movement and mixing up of population from different areas. Therefore, strict measures were required to contain the spread.“Deadlines should be set. Once a suspected person is tested, the reports should be available within 24 hours and the patient should be isolated immediately. The real job starts when the contacts of the infected person need to be located. On an average, 10 to 15 people, who may have interacted with the patient at home, work or during travel should be identified and tested. The process should be quick and subsequent action should be swift,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the department of community medicine and school of public health, PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-s-footprint-spread-to-76-localities-of-chandigarh-within-40-days/story-iZ7TOUlD6LpzcYRlSErUpM.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Smart City Limited shortlists L&T to upgrade Diggian sewage treatment plant||The board of Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) on Friday approved the allotment of work to upgrade the Diggian sewage treatment plant. The CSCL will soon allot the project to the lowest bidder – Larsen & Toubro Limited. Work on the plant is expected to start in September.Confirming the development, NP Sharma, chief general manager, CSCL, said, “Against the project price of Rs 329 crore, the company offered the lowest bid of Rs 283 crore.”Apart from the Diggian STP, four other plants in the city will also be upgrade. As the Diggian STP is the biggest, a separate tender was floated and four firms responded to it. For the remaining STPs – seven firms applied to upgrade the plants at Raipur Kalan and Raipur Khurd; and three for those at Dhanas and 3BRD.In October, CSCL had floated a ₹700-crore tender to hire a single agency to upgrade all five STPs of the municipal corporation (MC).However, the MC General House in November did not endorse the proposal, citing it was meant to benefit large firms only and the budget for the work was on the higher side.Settling the matter, the UT administration in its letter to CSCL and MC, asked to cancel the existing tender and split it into three parts – one for Diggian plant, one for the two STPs at Raipur Kalan and Raipur Khurd and another for the 3BRD and Dhanas STPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-smart-city-limited-shortlists-l-t-to-upgrade-diggian-sewage-treatment-plant/story-yZHRtSZ4YjH2NEdzsLuapL.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||CM’s Tarn Taran visit mere photo-op, joyride, says SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday termed chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s visit to Tarn Taran to meet the families of the hooch tragedy victims a mere photo-op and joyride, saying he shared the stage with Congress MLAs who were accused of making the disaster happen. Talking to the mediapersons while being taken to police station following their detention by Chandigarh Police as they march towards the Punjab governor’s house to stage a dharna, former Akali minister Bikram Majithia and party’s Rajya Sabha member Balwinder Bhunder demanded immediate dismissal of the Amarinder Singh government.“The the truth is that he paid a 20-minute visit to the Tarn Taran police lines that was turned into an army cantonment as the Congress government feared a backlash from the people,” they said. “People were summoned as if it was a durbar. A large number of them refused to come despite intense pressure from police deputed specifically for the purpose,” said Majitha.The two, who were flanked by relatives of the victims from Muchal village in Amritsar, said, “Instead of humiliating the victims’ kin by behaving like a feudal lord, he should have visited their houses and announced a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for each family.”‘CAPT FEARED PUBLIC WRATH’In Tarn Taran, addressing a press conference after a protest, SAD spokesman Virsa Singh Valtoha said the CM chose to return to Chandigarh within 15 minutes of getting down from his helicopter after he learnt of a massive protest nearby by the families of the tragedy victims. Valtoha was accompanied by former MLA Harmeet Singh Sandhu and party’s ex-district president Iqbal Singh Sandhu, said, “But even after coming here he could not face them and chose to retreat to his farmhouse in Chandigarh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cm-s-tarn-taran-visit-mere-photo-op-joyride-says-sad/story-YgL0urNB1ZJwvc2oWX2EON.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||CR gets go ahead to ply special trains for Ganesh Utsav||The Railways is planning to run special trains to the Konkan region for Ganesh Utsav, which falls on August 22 this year. The Maharashtra government on Friday gave its approval for the special trains in reply to a letter by the Central Railway last month. “I am directed to state here that the special trains may be scheduled to the Konkan region for the Ganpati festival in the current year. A valid confirmed ticket for the said trains will serve as the e-pass,” states the letter issued by Abhay Yawalkar, director, disaster management unit. The Central Railway on July 23 had asked the state for its view on running special trains for the festival through Central, Western and Konkan railways. Lakhs of people annually travel from Mumbai, Thane, and Pune, to their home towns in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts, for the 10-day festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cr-gets-go-ahead-to-ply-special-trains-for-ganesh-utsav/story-6pnGzxEeshkCZrIDHm0gKP.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir’s Patiala dharna similar to blasphemy by dera chief: Jakhar||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Friday likened the mock dharna staged by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal in Patiala to the alleged blasphemous act committed by Dera Sacha Sauda head in 2007. In a press statement, Jakhar said that those staging the dharna were the same people whose government’s posters were put up in broad daylight after committing murderous assault on Guru Granth Sahib. These are the same people who when in government had even taken back the case filed against the dera head,” he claimed. “Sukhbir must clarify whether he was deputy chief minister or not when these tragic and heart-rending incidents were happening in Punjab. It was during their government that the dera chief crushed the religious sentiments of Sikhs at Salabatpura,” he said. “When holy scriptures were stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala in 2015, the so-called ‘panthic’ government of SAD instead of arresting the culprits opened fired at innocent protesters,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sukhbir-s-patiala-dharna-similar-to-blasphemy-by-dera-chief-jakhar/story-8kMQYShTkQVK9OxvsXCIAI.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab allows fixed-term industrial employment||The Punjab government has allowed all industrial establishments in the state to hire workers on fixed-term contracts of any duration to promote ease of doing business. A notification was issued by the labour department to amend the Indian Employment (Standing Orders) Punjab Rules, 1978, on Thursday to make a provision for fixed-term employment wherein workers can be hired by industrial units for any fixed duration for specific season or worker order, depending on requirement. The changes in employment rules, which were sought by industry associations for a long time, have made after approval from the state cabinet, allowing them flexibility in hiring workforce after enter into a written contract with them. “Their hours of work, wages, allowances and other benefits will not be less than that of a permanent employee. They will also be eligible for all statutory benefits available to a permanent workman proportionately according to the period of service rendered by him,” additional chief secretary, labour, Vijay Kumar Janjua said. The employers have been prohibited from converting existing permanent posts into fixed-term employment but they can do new hiring on contract. Janjua said the rules were drafted in June and the notification was issued after following the due process of calling objections and suggestions. The Centre had also approved the labour code last year to allow companies to hire workers on fixed-term contracts for any duration. In addition, the state government has exempted the industrial establishments engaged in continuous process industry from the provisions of the Punjab Industrial Establishment (national and festival holidays, casual and sick leave) Act, 1965, allowing flexibility to decide holidays as per their requirement. The micro, small and medium units have also been exempted from mandatory certification of standing orders under the industrial employment rules. The MSME will not require periodic approvals of these and will have to comply with provisions of the model standing orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-allows-fixed-term-industrial-employment/story-4IHaJToyFXcVjezSsXcA4N.html
08-08-2020||City||SET on liquor theft: ‘Smuggled liquor flowed in Haryana during lockdown’||The report of a special enquiry team (SET) constituted in May by the Haryana government to inquire into the instances of pilferage of liquor from warehouses has revealed glaring deficiencies in functioning of excise and taxation department and indicated collusion of officials in smuggling and illegal sale of liquor. The findings have also prompted Haryana home minister Anil Vij to recommend departmental action against an IAS and IPS officers. Assistant editor Hitender Rao takes a close look at the report. Why was the special enquiry team (SET) constituted by the Haryana government ? The trigger was revelations that large amount of seized liquor was pilfered from a godown in Kharkhauda in Sonepat during the lockdown period. What was its scope of inquiry? The SET was mandated to check whether the stock of liquor that was there on the date of sealing a warehouse was actually available or not, to examine the cases of seizure of illicit/ non excise duty paid liquor in Haryana during April 2019 to March 2020 by the police and excise departments separately, action and fines imposed by the excise department following recovery of liquor. The probe team was also asked to collect and collate the results of investigation of the FIRs registered from March 15 till April 10 for pilferage of liquor from wholesale Indian-made foreign liquor and country liquor godowns and also from the police malkhanas. What were findings of SET regarding illegal sale of liquor? Illegal liquor sale in Haryana took place between April 1, 2019 and May 10, 2010, a significant quantity of liquor was smuggled from Punjab, 8,337 liquor cases (each case has 12 bottles) were seized and 250 FIRs were registered. During the lockdown, the liquor found its way into various districts of Haryana from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and also some state distilleries. How was the illegal liquor sale made possible? Systemic flaws in the functioning of excise department, lack of monitoring, non-implementation of its own instructions, and possibility of collusion or negligence by excise and police officials made it possible. What did the SET say about installation of closed circuit television cameras in distilleries? The excise and taxation commissioner (ETC) and collector (excise) admitted that they neither examined the video footage nor there are any instructions about examining the recordings, storing them and line of action in case lapses were detected. Had the department pursued the installation of video cameras in its right earnest, the possible mischief by distilleries and their ability to smuggle liquor without paying excise duty could have been checked to a great extent. What did the SET say about an IAS and IPS officer ? IAS officer Shekhar Vidyarthi as ETC ordered closure of liquor vends during the lockdown by only giving verbal instructions. In the absence of written instructions, permits and passes for movement of liquor were issued during the closure period by some districts. Vidyarthi was also held responsible for dilly dallying pieces of information sought by the SET and hampering the visit of the SET to a distillery. The SET said the role of the then Sonepat superintendent of police Pratiksha Godara needs to be probed. The SET observed that despite round-the-clock police guards deputed since March 2019, regular inflow and outflow of liquor took place from Kharkhauda godown suggesting clear connivance of police, especially the then local station house officer. What are the recommendations of SET? Devise a track and trace system for vehicles transporting liquor to other states and passing through Haryana, put in place standard operating procedures for streaming, storage and monitoring of video footage from distilleries and godowns, thorough audit of distilleries, destruction of seized liquor in respect of finalised cases by a set deadline, sufficient storage space for seized liquor at every district headquarter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/set-on-liquor-theft-smuggled-liquor-flowed-in-haryana-during-lockdown/story-nTdKLg5YvhcaVFXz34VgYL.html
08-08-2020||City||Record single-day spike of 1,063 cases, 23 more deaths in Punjab||Punjab on Friday reported 23 more Covid-19 deaths and a highest single-day spike of 1,063 cases. With this, the sate’s Covid patients’ tally has reached 21,930 and death toll to 539. Nine deaths were reported in Ludhiana, three each in Amritsar and Jalandhar, two each in Fatehgarh Sahib and SBS Nagar and one each was registered in Fazilka, Kapurthala, Patiala and Sangrur, according to the state government’s bulletin.Meanwhile, 381 coronavirus patients were discharged from hospitals. So far, 14,040 people have been cured of the infection in the state, according to the bulletin. The state has 7,351 active Covid-19 cases to date. Besides nine deaths, Ludhiana district reported 127 fresh cases. Those who tested positive include five healthcare workers, three cops and two undertrials. The Bathinda district on Friday roped in 300 beds from four private medical institutes for Covid facility after three deaths were reported due to coronavirus in the last 24 hours. The total number of Covid fatalities in the district has reached 13. The district on Friday reported 65 cases in which 40 were the migrant workers.In Fazilka, a resident of Abohar town also died due to coronavirus. In Ferozepur, 12 cases were reported whereas the number of positive cases in Moga and Faridkot was 16 and 10, respectively.Two deaths were reported in SBS Nagar, 104 tested positive for the virus in SBS Nagar and 15 in Hoshiarpur. Amritsar also reported two deaths and 59 fresh cases. Chairman of the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) Dinesh Bassi contracted the infection. Also, 27 people from Gurdaspur district tested positive. In Tarn Taran 48 people, including 32 inmates of Patti jail, contracted the infection. An 86-year-old man hailing from Moonak block died of Covid-19 in Sangrur district on Friday. Besides, as many as 35 people were tested positive for coronavirus in the district. Of these, 7 are from Moonak block, 6 from Ahmedgarh, 5 from Longowal, 3 each from Bhawanigarh, Dhuri, Sangrur, 2 each from Amargarh, Kauhrian, Malerkotla, and one each from Sherpur and Sunam blocks. Besides, 21 people tested positive in Kapurthala. Meanwhile, Patiala reported 115 fresh cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/record-single-day-spike-of-1-063-cases-23-more-deaths-in-punjab/story-2vtf5mSgShJlFeT7dyScRP.html
08-08-2020||Mumbai||10,483 cases push state tally closer to 5L||Maharashtra inched towards the grim 500,000 Covid-19 cases milestone as it recorded 10,483 new infections on Friday, taking its tally up to 490,262. There were 300 fatalities, too, as the state’s toll rose to 17,092. The state conducted 81,655 tests – highest in a day since the first case was reported on March 9 –with a positivity rate of 12.83%. Maharashtra’s positivity rate over the past week (August 1-7) has improved to 17.85% from 22.17% during the July 15-21 period. The recovery rate of Maharashtra also continued to improve, as 10,906 patients tested negative for coronavirus, pushing it up to 66.76%. The national recovery rate stands at 67.62%. The state currently has 145,582 active Covid-19 cases, with 327,281 people having recovered. The recovery rate has improved over the past week, as 71,123 patients have been discharged in seven days. The state’s recovery rate was 60.68% on July 31.Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 862 cases on Friday, taking its tally to 121,012, and 45 deaths pushed up the city’s toll to 6,693. Pune district recorded 2,851 cases, highest in the state, and reported 70 deaths in 24 hours. A cause for concern for the state, however, has been the case fatality rate (CFR), which continues to be high. Maharashtra’s CFR is 3.49%, second only to Gujarat’s 3.82%. The national CFR stands at 2.04%. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday directed all the district collectors and divisional commissioners to ensure that the CFR was brought down on priority. “We will have to ensure that the second wave of the infection does not hit us, after having controlled it in many parts of the state. Aggressive tracing of the contacts, effective implementation of lockdown curbs in containment areas and timely treatment will help us in containing the spread and bringing the fatalities down,” he said.“District authorities should all be alert as the battle has not ended yet,” he said during the review meeting. Nandurbar, a tribal district in North Maharashtra, leads has the highest CFR of 5.9%, followed by Mumbai (5.5%), Solapur (5.3%) and Jalgaon (4.4%).Dr Raghunath Bhoye, civil surgeon, Nandurbar, said the time wasted in reports of the tests conducted and late referral of patients is leading to the high fatality rate. “We do not have RtPCR testing facility and are totally dependent on the one at Dhule district. We get the reports only after three days. Most of our deaths have been reported on the same day of admission or within hours after the patients come in. We have increased the number of daily tests to 250 from 40-50 a few weeks ago. We have also setup mobile facilities for testing and have been doing aggressive tracing of contacts. Our own RtPCR lab will be operational in the next couple of days, and it will help us in reducing the mortality rate in the next few days,” he said.Dr Avinash Supe, former KEM dean and member of the expert committee appointed by the state to recommend steps to curb the spread, said the fatality rate is high owing to the late referral of patients. “About 29% of the patients have died within 24 hours of admissions, while most of the remaining deaths occur in the first four days, which should be improved. Now the beds are available, medicines are available, we will now be able to bring the CFR down soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-483-cases-push-state-tally-closer-to-5l/story-aFkUR7k1hfPClqONfJq83L.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||HC questions Chandigarh admn’s failure to stop cartelisation in allotment of liquor vends||The Punjab and Haryana high court has questioned the Chandigarh administration for its failure to stop cartelisation or trade monopoly in allotment of liquor vends in the excise policy for 2020-2021. “..we are prima facie of the view that the action of the Chandigarh Administration in allotting more than 10 liquor vends to the same persons, who by formulating different companies applied for the tender process, is contrary to the purport and object to be achieved by clause 13 of the excise policy,” the bench of justice Jaswant Singh and justice Ashok Kumar Verma said during resumed hearing of a plea challenging the policy. The plea alleges that the administration’s policy is leading to “complete cartelisation and monopoly” of certain individuals through their firms. The excise policy does not promote free trade, as it states that for any brand of foreign liquor there shall be only five wholesale licensees, who shall further sell liquor to all the retail licensees. It had argued that the UT should have capped the highest bid and draw of lots could have been introduced so that cartels may not jack up prices to bag contracts. Same group got vends through 2 firmsThe court said that it has come to light that Bajaj Group has been allotted 15 liquor vends in the city, through two separate corporate entities: Bajaj Spirits Private Limited and Liquor World Venture Private Limited. The directors of both the companies are same. But excise officials have failed in performing their duties in complying with the conditions stipulated in clause 13, which says not more than one bid can be submitted by a company/firm/person for a particular licensing unit, and to curb the menace of cartelisation and monopolistic practices, a single person/entity is entitled for allotment of up to a maximum 10 vends, said the bench. The court observed that this happened despite the fact that along with bids the firms were to submit photograph, proof, PAN card and list of all directors as with the registrar of companies. “Once the directors running the company are same and still more than 10 liquor vends are allotted to the said persons, the purport and object to be achieved by imposing restriction under Clause 13 would be defeated,” adding that if persons are permitted to participate by formulating different entities, “we do not find any reason for imposing any restraint on any individual, as the same would be discriminatory in nature”. The restrictions have to be made applicable across the board for everyone or none, the bench added, asking the UT administration to submit response to some issues framed by it by October 27. The administration has been asked to address whether clause 13 conditions were violated as the department failed to check credentials of all the directors of firms, how it allowed single person/ entity to participate through artificial barrier of bidding through different firms and whether it did not amount to monopoly. It has also been asked to address if one person was allowed to bid through different entities, whether it did not defeat the purpose for which restrictions were imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-questions-chandigarh-admn-s-failure-to-stop-cartelisation-in-allotment-of-liquor-vends/story-mhv2u3dWy2IYpo7PEkxAWM.html
08-08-2020||City||Higher revenue collection brings hope for state govt||LUCKNOW The Uttar Pradesh government’s financial situation has shown further improvement with its major revenue earning departments making higher collections in July 2020, although they still remain far behind the targets for the month and for fiscal 2020-2021. The state government’s major tax collecting departments got 68 per cent of the targeted revenue in July. Its revenue collection was about 61 per cent of the target in June and 37.49 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-2021. “Yes, there has been an improvement in total earnings, though major revenue earning departments have remained far behind tax collection targets,” said a senior officer on condition of anonymity. The state government’s performance on revenue collection front also indicates that its total earnings of about Rs 10,675.42 crore in July 2020 were close to the total collections of Rs 10,926.36 crore in July 2019 when the major departments earned about 89.5 per cent of the targeted revenue. A close scrutiny indicates that the state government earned GST and VAT of Rs 6,024.16 crore in July 2020 against Rs 6,564.88 crore in July 2019. As the state government had recently revised excise duty on liquor, its earnings from excise have gone up considerably from Rs 2,112.69 crore in July 2019 to Rs 2,632.58 crore in July 2020. Its collections from stamps and registration remained at about Rs 1,365.55 crore in July 2020 against Rs 1,536.49 crore in 2019, while the state transport department earned Rs 474.59 crore in July 2020 against Rs 565.09 crore in July 2019. The mining and minor mineral department also collected higher revenue of Rs 178.54 crore in July 2020 against Rs 147.21 crore in the same month in 2019. As the state government is likely to table its first supplementary demands of grant for 2020-2021 in the monsoon session of the state legislature, commencing on August 20, the improvement in tax collections may have come as a big relief. The state government spends a sum of Rs 12,000 crore to Rs 13,000 crore every month on salaries and pension to its employees. As the total earning of the state government was Rs 10,675.42 crore in July, a wide gap remains between its earnings and expenditure. “I understand the targets set for 2020-2021 are higher than the previous year as has been the practice over the years. The state government’s earnings may be about 68 per cent of targets for July 2020. But there is still a wide gap between its earnings and expenditure. As earnings are going up now, the state government will be able to bring down the gap in the coming months. This may be a healthy sign,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor, department of economics, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/higher-revenue-collection-brings-hope-for-state-govt/story-yHa1SDZ2xKgUy5TBrb7F6H.html
08-08-2020||City||Liquor scam: Haryana Congress slams SET report, demands HC monitored probe||The Haryana Congress on Friday slammed the report of the special enquiry team (SET) on liquor pilferage and termed it as an eyewash. At a joint press conference, state Congress chief Kumari Selja and party chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said only a probe monitored by a high court judge can fix the real kingpin of the liquor scam. “This half-baked investigation has only put smaller fries in the dock and provided safe escape to well connected real culprits,” Selja said.Surjewala said the liquor mafia was directly linked to politicians and senior officials occupying high positions in the state government. “The surprising fact is that this SET was neither empowered to hold any investigation under the code of criminal procedure nor did it have any legal validity,” he said. The Congress leaders also criticized the move to hold another investigation by the Vigilance Bureau. “This will mean there shall be investigation on an investigation. The ultimate objective of all these inquiries and investigations is to protect the well connected culprits and to cover up the nexus between the liquor mafia and ruling politicians,” the Congress leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-scam-haryana-congress-slams-set-report-demands-hc-monitored-probe/story-jBvT3ZKl5rwGoaAOiAjNRK.html
08-08-2020||City||Mystery gunshots fired near Panchkula-Chandigarh border leave 2 injured||Two men were injured after shots were fired from an unknown source near a liquor vend on the border between Chandigarh and Mansa Devi Complex in Panchkula on Friday evening.Assistant commissioner of police, Panchkula, Raj Kumar said one of the injured persons, Satpal, was returning from Mohali and stopped his car outside the vend to buy beer. “As he stepped out of the car, he heard a loud noise and found himself shot in the foot and bleeding,” said the ACP.A resident of Pinjore, he has been admitted to the civil hospital in Panchkula.The other injured person has been identified as Heera Lal, who works as a mechanic in the Manimajra auto market. “He too suffered a bullet injury, but both of them didn’t see who fired the shots,” said the ACP. Prime facie it seems to be a case “negligent handling of weapon”, said Raj Kumar, adding that probe is on. No FIR was registered till the filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mystery-gunshots-fired-near-panchkula-chandigarh-leave-2-injured/story-M6q4L0nnpePn0lC0H4h25H.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||‘Now is not the time to rejoice, we cannot let our guard down’||Dr AK Singh Rana, the head of the department of surgery, who is the new medical superintendent (MS) of Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, spoke to Anonna Dutt about learnings from the Covid-19 pandemic, the mortality rate in the hospital, resuming the care of non-Covid patients, and expansion plans.Edited excerpts:What lessons did you learn in the last six months of the Covid pandemic? The invaluable lesson we have learnt is that everyone had to come together to enable us to take care of the patients with Covid-19. Patients suffering from the disease, including those suspected to have the infection, started coming to the hospital from March and health workers in respiratory medicine, internal medicine, and critical care medicine bore the brunt of it. Doctors, nurses, paramedics and staff from across departments pitched in and worked with a lot of dedication. In a recent review of Covid-19 deaths by the Delhi government, RML was one of 11 hospitals with the highest death toll. What is being done to reduce mortality? One of the problems with the calculation of high mortality rate in comparison to the number of admissions is that the deaths of people admitted to the hospital prior to the selected period, but who died during the said period, were included. The number of admissions had reduced during that period, that is why the number of deaths appears to be higher. Another issue—which was pointed out by physicians from several other hospitals—was the delay in admissions. We have observed that the death rate is higher when patients report to the hospital late — it could be because people are scared of coming to a hospital, public transport has not resumed full throttle, and there is an inertia among people over the last few months. The death rate is also high among old people with multiple comorbidities. With the number of Covid-19 hospitalisations on the decline, are we looking at moving to non-Covid services now? Now is not the time to rejoice; we cannot let our guards down. Other countries — like the US — saw a decline in the number of cases before the resurgence. But, yes, we need to look at how to go back to offering complete non-Covid treatment. Ever since the pandemic began, we have not closed our emergency services or the OPD at all. Next week, I have a meeting with all the heads of the departments to discuss what can be done. I want to have a plan in place so that we can gradually and safely move to taking care of non-Covid patients whenever experts feel that it is the right time. We cannot de-escalate all our preparations in one go. What are your plans for improving hospital infrastructure? We have an ambitious redevelopment plan for the hospital. With the population of Delhi growing, the old infrastructure has become inadequate. Horizontal expansion is no longer possible, we are now looking at vertical expansion. The construction of the super speciality block behind the trauma centre is about to start. It will have 332 beds; 68 with ventilators. The huge triangular area across the road — where the psychiatry department is located — will be used to construct the medical college (the hospital started an MBBS programme last year.) Then, an underpass will be constructed to connect it to the main building. A 300-bed student hostel will be constructed on a vacant plot nearby — and this will be used to relocate the departments moved from the triangular areas. We also have 2.1 acres of land where a dedicated maternity and child health centre will be constructed. An 832-room doctors’ hostel is already under construction. The old emergency and the OPD building will be razed to create high-rise buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/now-is-not-the-time-to-rejoice-we-cannot-let-our-guard-down/story-4WLDn7srEkOKpHkxnoYTYO.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Sample collection for Delhi’s second sero-surveillance ends||Collection of blood samples for the second round of serological surveillance in Delhi was completed on Friday, with administrations of the city’s 11 districts collecting samples from just over 15,000 people, intended to be representative of the Capital’s population. The results of the survey are expected early next week, officials said. “The results will be processed by a team at Maulana Azad Medical College, and are likely to be released by next week,” officials from Delhi’s health department said. The survey will indicate what percentage of the city’s population has developed antibodies against the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, since the first such survey was conducted between June 27 and July 10. Of those surveyed in that instance, 22.6% had antibodies against the infection. The highest number of samples were collected from Northwest district, followed by West, and Central. “We have been reporting new cases of the infection since the previous sero-surveillance, meaning that the proportion of people who have the antibodies are likely to be higher this time around. If 30 to 60% of the population has the antibodies, it will show that Delhi is on its way to developing herd immunity,” said a senior doctor from central district, on the condition of anonymity. Herd immunity is said to have been achieved when a significant proportion of the population has developed resistance to an infection, preventing its further spread. The results of the survey are, however, unlikely to change on-ground strategies, officials said. “We have to continue testing heavily, especially in areas that are reporting more cases, trace contacts of the infected persons, and isolate everyone to prevent the spread of the infection. Even if a high proportion of the people develop antibodies, we cannot relax containment measures right now,” said an official from the north district, which finished sample collection on Friday. Also read: Delhi records 1,192 fresh coronavirus cases, positivity rate dips to 5.1 per cent“ In the month since Delhi’s first survey, I am expecting that the prevalence of antibodies must have gone up to about 40%,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital. The government had announced on July 22 that a serological survey will be conducted during the first five days of every month to keep tracking the progress in the antibody levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sample-collection-for-delhi-s-second-sero-surveillance-complete/story-sIRI9KfWKXgASVlrNJeZNN.html
08-08-2020||Education||Delhi HC gives go-ahead for DU online exams, extra time to upload answer sheets||The Delhi High Court on Friday upheld Delhi University’s decision to conduct online open-book examinations (OBE) this year for final-year students from August 10 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, while passing a slew of directions for the smooth conduct of the test and giving students extra time to upload answer sheets.Justice Pratibha M Singh, while hearing petitions against the examination, said students had made enormous preparations and that the court was concerned over the manner in which processes in online tests can be streamlined.Around 240,000 final-year students are set to take the exams from August 10 as a one-time measure this year.The court said the question papers should be available on the portal and also emailed to the students. It said regular students will get complete three hours for answering the question papers and an additional hour for scanning and uploading the answer sheets.“Thus regular students would have a total period of four hours to complete the exam, scan and upload email the answer sheets. Similarly, students under PWD category are also given one additional hour for downloading the question paper, completing their answers and uploading the answer sheets i.e., a total of six hours,” the court said.It said DU should ensure the central email ID as well as email ID s of all colleges and departments have adequate capacity to receive and store answer sheets so that they do not bounce back.The court reconstituted a grievance redressal committee, comprising Justice Pratibha Rani (Retd. Judge, Delhi High Court) as chairperson and professor K S Rao, department of botany as deputy chairperson. Professor Kavita Sharma, department of commerce, B B Gupta, senior advocate and Kamal Gupta, advocate, are members.“The grievance redressal committee as constituted by DU is reconstituted to ensure fairness and transparency...The committee shall deal with all grievances of students in respect of downloading of question papers, uploading of answer sheets, technical glitches, delays in uploading and any other issues faced by students during the conduct of the OBE examinations,” the judge said in a 45-page order.It said the committee will take a decision on the grievances within five days of receipt of emails and notify students.It asked the university to declare the results at the earliest and said said students faced “extreme” challenges in the last six months, including they themselves or their family members suffering from Covid.The judge said even though students faced technical glitches using DU’s portal and during the mock tests, “DU has taken the stand that it is fully prepared to conduct the examinations”.The remaining aspects of protection of data and other issues would be heard on September 22.Students disappointed Many students and teachers were disappointed. Amal K Simon, a final-year BSc (physics hons) student of Ramjas College, said, “Many students like me are stuck in different parts of Kerala, which is experiencing severe rain and landslides. I live in Palakkad and there is no electricity in my area since the last two days. I do not know how I will attend the exams from Monday.”Rajib Ray, president of DU Teachers Association, said, “Reports that the high court has given permission to DU to conduct OBE is disappointing. Any form of online blended exam is discriminatory, unjust and lacks sanctity. Students without means and deprived of online teaching and study materials will be penalised.”Balaram Pani, dean of colleges in DU, said the university expects over 95% attendance in the exams. “The university is prepared. The administration has already announced that those who are not able to attend the exams remotely will get another chance to appear in pen and paper mode,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-gives-go-ahead-for-du-online-exams-extra-time-to-upload-answer-sheets/story-4sy3utTx2oNKoMsYoQxbtM.html
08-08-2020||Education||CBSE allows students who took basic math to pursue subject in classes 11-12||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has decided to allow students, who had opted for basic mathematics in the class 10 examination this year, to pursue the subject in senior secondary classes in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The relaxation, the CBSE stressed, is only for the current academic year.The CBSE had for the first time introduced the option of basic and standard mathematics in the class 10 exams this year. Basic maths was for those who do not want to pursue the subject further and the standard math was for those who want to study mathematics as a subject in classes 11 and 12. Students who had qualified basic mathematics were given an option of appear for the standard math paper during compartment exams, in case they wanted to pursue the subject further.In a notification issued on Friday, CBSE controller of examination Sanyam Bhardwaj said, “Because of spread of Covid-19 and thus the delay in the conduct of the compartment examination 2020, it has been decided that students who have appeared for mathematics (basic) in class 10 exams and are desirous of pursuing mathematics in class 11, can opt for it, but only for the session of 2020-21.”“Before permitting mathematics in class 11 to such students, the head of the institution should be satisfied that the student has the aptitude and ability to pursue mathematics. This exemption is being given as a one-time measure to facilitate the present batch of students,” Bhardwaj added.Principals said the decision will be a huge relief to students who were waiting to take the math standard test during the compartment exams. Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu School in Rohini, said, “Keeping the present situation in mind, the CBSE has taken a student friendly decision.”Heads of Delhi government schools, where 73% of students had opted for basic mathematics this year, expressed reservations over the move. AK Jha, the head of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini, said, “Many students who had opted for basic mathematics are those who did not want to pursue the subject in higher classes. Now that there is an option, many parents may compel schools to allow their children to pursue the subject. This will be very challenging for principals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-cbse-allows-students-who-took-basic-math-to-pursue-subject-in-classes-11-12/story-YmFKwLFlWEyQ3zCjIKYw0K.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||Man held for attack on minor girl had murdered woman in 2006 for resisting robbery bid: Cops||The 33-year-old man who was arrested on Thursday for the alleged sexual assault and attempted murder of a 12-year-old girl in Paschim Vihar area had murdered a woman with the help of an accomplice for resisting a robbery bid at her home in Sultanpuri area in 2006, police said Friday. The girl continues remains critical at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) and has been put on ventilator support . “Due to complications resulting from a head injury, she was shifted to the neurosurgery department. She continues to be critical and is on ventilator support,” said a doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity. She had undergone a surgery on the first day of admission. On Thursday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had visited the girl at AIIMS and announced ₹10 lakh for her family. On Friday, he tweeted, “I spoke to the doctors and parents of the 12-year-old girl, who was sexually assaulted, on phone. I had visited her in the hospital yesterday. She is still fighting for her life. Doctors are trying their best. Pls pray for her. In the meanwhile, police has arrested one person (sic).” Police officers investigating the case said that in 2006, a woman in her twenties was sleeping alone on the terrace of her house when Krishan alias Kakka and his associate (name not known) climbed to the terrace and tried to remove the gold earrings that she was wearing. “When she woke up and raised the alarm, the duo panicked and attacked her with bricks lying nearby. Hearing the woman’s screams, her family members reached the terrace and caught Krishan while his associate managed to flee,” said joint commissioner of police (western range) Shalini Singh .“Krishan was arrested, convicted and sentenced to life in prison. He told us that he was released from jail in 2015 on account of “good behaviour and conduct”. We are verifying his claims,” Singh said, adding that there was no mentioning of sexual assault on the woman in that case. Police said apart from verifying the facts in the 2006 case, they are also collecting information about the other suspect in that crime. “We are trying to get in touch with the investigating officer of the 2006 case and are going through the case file,” said an officer, who did not want to be named. A resident of outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri, Krishan is unmarried and lives with his mother. Apart from the 2006 murder case, Krishan is also involved in three other crimes ( excluding the present case of alleged sexual assault and murder attempt on the minor girl). Of the three, one is of a burglary that he had committed before 2006. Krishan, the officer said, committed two crimes in 2016, after being released from jail. In one, he had allegedly attacked and injured his brother during a family dispute. “Krishan was arrested in that case. He told us that his brother did not pursue the case further and turned hostile in the court, as they had resolved their dispute. We are verifying his claims,” the officer said. The second pertains to a burglary in outer Delhi, the details of which the police are gathering..During the interrogation in the present case, Krishan told the police that he was wandering in the girl’s neighbourhood with intent to commit a burglary. He entered the single room on the second floor, where the girl lives with her parents and sister, after seeing the rooms on the ground and first floors locked. “Krishan found the girl’s door ajar, went inside and was trying to lift a suitcase when she raised the alarm. He panicked and hit her on the head with a sewing machine in the room, causing her grievous head injuries. But even then, the girl did not give up the fight. She pushed him to the floor, sat on his chest and scuffled with him. This enraged Krishan. He picked up a pair of scissors lying nearby and stabbed her multiple times all over her body before fleeing the building,” the officer said, quoting Krishan disclosures. Joint CP Singh said Krishan’s version of events needs to be verified and for that the injured girl’s statement is crucial. “We will go with the girl’s version only. She is still critical and unfit to give a statement,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-held-for-attack-on-minor-girl-had-murdered-woman-in-2006-for-resisting-robbery-bid-cops/story-KpCSsCiACLyydBeXPGZzGI.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||Big push for electric vehicles to boost demand, cut air pollution||The Delhi government on Friday notified the Delhi Electric Vehicle (EV) Policy, 2020 -- with an aim to reduce air pollution and to kick-start the economy by spurring demand -- that offers subsidies,and road tax and registration free waivers, for electric vehicles bought in the Capital.The policy, launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday, also talks about increasing road tax for fuel-based vehicles, at least in the luxury segment, and imposing in certain parts of the city a congestion fee that EVs will be exempt from. The details of both the surcharges are still being worked out, transport minster Kailash Gahlot said. Addressing a digital press briefing, Kejriwal said the EV policy has been notified after consultations with consumers and experts from around the world over the past three years. “It is believed worldwide that China has a really good electric vehicle system in place. But, now I am sure that when discussions on electric vehicles will be held across the world after five years, Delhi will be leading the way in this field. I am happy to say that our policy is one of the most progressive policies of all the electric policies across the world,” he said.  The government aims to register at least 500,000 EVs in Delhi in the next five years. Delhi has over 83,000 electric vehicles out of a total of over 11 million vehicles registered in the city. Of the more than 83,000 registered EVs, over 75,500 are e-rickshaws. There are only over 900 private electric cars and over 3,700 e-two-wheelers in Delhi as of now. The Capital experiences a public health emergency every winter due to the rise in air pollution, which has become a recurrent annual crisis. “In the last five years, the people of Delhi have collectively worked together to reduce pollution levels, but we have to reduce it further,” Kejriwal said on Friday. “During the pandemic (lockdown), we saw that PM10 and PM2.5 levels witnessed a drastic reduction. We could see the clear skies and feel the clean breeze. So, this policy will give the Capital a much needed push towards a cleaner and greener Delhi,” he added. There are largely two problems militating against the rise of private EVs in Delhi -- the high cost of purchase, and the lack of sufficient charging infrastructure -- and the policy aims to address both.According to the document, those buying electric vehicles will be exempt from paying road tax and registration fee. At present, road tax ranges from 4% to 10% of the cost of the vehicle, while registration fee could cost up to Rs 3,000 In addition, a subsidy of Rs 5,000 per kWh of the battery capacity up to Rs 30,000 will be given on the purchase of each electric two-wheeler, auto-rickshaw, rickshaw and freight vehicle. For the first 1,000 e-cars or electric four wheelers, a subsidy of Rs 10,000 per kWh will be given, capped at Rs 150,000 per vehicle.To push people to shift to EVs, the policy also has a “scrapping incentive” for those who make the switch.“Many people own polluting petrol and diesel vehicles. Since EVs are still relatively costlier in the market, under this policy, now an old fuel-based vehicle can be exchanged while purchasing a new e-vehicle so that it reduces the cost of the EV further. This scrapping incentive is being given for the first time in the entire country,” Kejriwal said. Talking about providing adequate charging infrastructure to support the demand for EVs that the policy aims to create, Kejriwal said the government aims to set up at least 200 new EV charging stations across Delhi in 12 months. At present there are less than 25 operational authorised EV charging stations across Delhi. Kejriwal said the policy -- it will be valid for a period of three years, after which it will be revised -- will also help in creating jobs “at a huge level” in the fields of driving, servicing, financing, charging and so on.Gahlot said that the policy lays the maximum emphasis on two-wheelers, public transport and shared vehicles, and goods-carriers instead of private four wheelers.“To purchase an electric commercial vehicle, the government will also offer loans to the people on low-interest rates. There are two types of electric vehicles, one which runs on fixed charging and the second, in which there is a need for battery swapping. The incentives will be available on all kinds of electric vehicles. All Delhi government vehicles will be EVs in the next 12 months. All two-wheelers engaged in last-mile deliveries such as food delivery, e-commerce, logistics etc. will be expected to shift 50% of their fleet to electric by March 31, 2023, and 100% of their fleet by March 31, 2025,” the transport minister said. Kejriwal stressed that the grants offered by the Delhi government will be in addition to the subsidies offered by the Union government under its FAME India Phase 2 scheme, which offers similar incentives, especially on the purchase of electric two-wheelers and electric heavy passenger and goods vehicles, and has a total budget allocation of ₹10,000 crore nationally. The government will set up a State EV fund, which will encompass all the expenditure of the EV Policy. A State Electric Vehicle Board will be constituted for effective implementation of the EV policy and managing the EV fund, and the chairman of the board will be the transport minister. Besides, a dedicated EV cell will also be constituted. Experts and stakeholders from the industry welcomed the move. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said it is commendable that despite the economic slowdown this policy has set a target to achieve 25% electrification of new fleet by 2024. “This zero emissions mandate is needed to cut air pollution and toxic exposure. But firm milestones are needed for time bound implementation. This move is an important message for green recovery post pandemic,” she said adding that at present only 0.2% of Delhi’s registered vehicles are EVs. Naveen Munjal, managing director, Hero Electric Vehicles Private Limited, said the policy is “a great move towards a pollution-free nation”.Mahesh Babu, CEO, Mahindra Electric thanked the Delhi government and Kejriwal for announcing “a long term futuristic” EV policy. “Mahindra will work jointly to transform the mobility sector to a sustainable one in Delhi,” he said. RMI India, an independent think-tank that works with stakeholders to support India’s clean energy transition and which also worked with the Delhi government in this policy called the document a “game changer” in India’s EV story.“Anchored to the objective of improving Delhi’s air quality, it is by far the most comprehensive sub-national policy that focuses on making EVs affordable to consumers and gives confidence to the industry. The system-level approach to vehicle electrification and emphasis on enabling an EV ecosystem will ensure that supportive conditions are in place to enable the much needed transition to zero emission mobility in Delhi,” said Akshima Ghate, director, RMI India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/big-push-for-electric-vehicles-to-boost-demand-cut-air-pollution/story-AEmIqU6B5zcYZhpP1goVnN.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||Consider environmental impact before approving Nauroji Nagar plan, NDMC urged||Prominent environmentalists have written to the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) to assess the green impact before sanctioning the building plan for Nauroji Nagar commercial complex.The project is part of the Union government’s ambitious project to redevelop seven government residential neighbourhoods in south Delhi. As per the plan, a state-of-the-art commercial complex, spread over 25 acres, will come up in Nauroji Nagar. It will have 10-storeyed towers with parking space for 8,000 vehicles. The government plans to develop office space, exhibition halls, banquet halls and food plazas at the proposed complex.The commercial hub will be linked to the nearby residential government colonies, which are being redeveloped. The project is being executed by NBCC India.With the Delhi high court vacating the stay on the construction in Nauroji Nagar, NBCC India is in the process of submitting all necessary approvals to the NDMC to get approval.While the plan is yet to be sanctioned, experts point out that the Nauroji Nagar project can’t be considered a standalone project while giving approval. The letter has been written by environmentalists and civil society members Kanchi Kohli, Bhavreen Kandhari, Manju Menon and Meenakshi Nath.In the letter to NDMC chairman Dharmendra, they said, “The various issues that need to be looked into are water availability, use of public streets for traffic, generation and disposal of solid waste, increase in air pollution due to construction activity, loss of over 14,000 trees and increase in health hazards and many other related matters that are important to the well-being of Delhi-NCR…. Nauroji Nagar cannot be considered a standalone construction project in any approval process.”When contacted, a senior NDMC official said, “There were a few deficiencies in the plan that they (NBCC) had submitted. We have asked them to rectify it.” NBCC India has been asked to take submit approvals from various government bodies such as the Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC) on traffic related matters; the Delhi Urban Art Commission on aesthetic matters, and the requisite approvals from the fire and forest departments.“Once they submit all these permissions, the project will be put before the council meeting for approval. So far, they have not submitted any of these approvals,” the official said. According to NBCC India, all statutory approvals from fire department, the pollution control board and the forest department, among other, for the Nauroji Nagar redevelopment project have been obtained. “Regarding the UTTIPEC clearance, a comprehensive proposal covering all development colonies in the vicinity, including AIIMS, has been prepared and cleared by the core committee and working committee of the UTTIPEC and is being put before the governing body of UTTIPEC,” a senior NBCC India official, on condition of anonymity, said.Environmentalist Kandhari said the Nauroji Nagar project is part of seven general pool residential accommodation (GPRA) projects proposed and the NDMC should assess the impact of all these redevelopment colonies together before granting a final approval. “It is necessary to ascertain the total impact of these projects to prevent the burden of such impact being passed on to the people of Delhi,” she said.Stressing on the need for a detailed traffic assessment, she said these colonies are in areas that are already congested. “The projects are located near two major hospitals (AIIMS and Safdarjung). The construction of commercial infrastructure and increase in traffic can disrupt access to these hospitals,” she said.While vacating the stay, the high court bench had said, “We see no violation of the master plan and are of the view that the environmental clearances have been correctly given for the Nauroji Nagar project. Since NDMC is still seized of the matter, we may only observe that while granting the final sanction, the concerns of the petitioner be taken into account.”Kohli said the environmental aspects of Nauroji Nagar and the other six GPRA colonies need to be addressed on merit. “The court did not assess or adjudicate on issues such as water, traffic, biodiversity, ecology or air pollution. On the contrary, the judgment has recorded that all environmental concerns are significant and the NDMC should consider it while approving the project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/consider-environmental-impact-before-approving-nauroji-nagar-plan-ndmc-urged/story-Snveo7cCrif8USpDaoJetJ.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||Applicants shortlisted for 1 million jobs on Delhi govt’s job portal||For around 1 million jobs that were posted on the Delhi government’s job portal launched on July 27, employers have either employed or shortlisted applicants, even as around 900,000 more posts on the portal have been put up, said Delhi’s labour and employment minister Gopal Rai on Friday.Rai said, “We had set up a task force to analyse the job details posted on the portal. Around 350,000 entries were cancelled because of duplication or lack of details. Around 1,000,000 entries were closed, which means employers have either hired or shortlisted applicants for these posts.”“However, around 900,000 posts in the job portal are still open at this juncture as against 864,000 candidates who have updated their resumes but are still to get work. We urge more people to register in the portal,” said Rai.The job portal was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on July 27, on the recommendation of a committee set up by the Delhi government to advise them on economic revival in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. The portal was launched primarily to help people who lost their job during the nationwide lockdown that was imposed on March 25 to arrest the spread of Covid-19. However, anyone can register and create profiles.As many as 6,271 companies have so far posted job vacancies on the portal, apart from thousands of entrepreneurs—in sectors that include banking, finance, e-commerce, insurance, hospitality services, security and few cooperatives based in other states, said Rai.He further said that the highest job availability at this point is in sales, data entry, customer support, teaching, tele-caller, warehouse management, lighting, information technology, hardware networking and doorstep delivery of products.“We are aware of the fact that many construction workers will not have access to the Internet. I request the youth of Delhi to help such persons. There are various private websites for jobs but this website is completely free. I want to inform every citizen that nobody will need to pay a single penny through this platform,” said Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/applicants-shortlisted-for-1-million-jobs-on-govt-portal/story-I4AvZyEEvxhiZenyaoXjOJ.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Police circular does not cause prejudice, says Delhi high court||The Delhi High Court on Friday said that a July 8 circular issued by a Delhi police crime branch chief related to the investigation into the February riots did not cause prejudice to any community. The court, while refusing to quash the order, also said that investigating officers need not follow any such circular because there are enough laws in place for investigating purposes. On July 27, two riot victims had filed a plea citing a news report in an English daily about the circular. The two, in their plea, stated that special commissioner of police Praveer Ranjan had directed his team to be careful while arresting Hindu persons for the north-east Delhi riots. The plea seeking the court’s intervention to quash the order was filed by the victims, through advocate Mahmood Pracha.When the contents of the circular were widely circulated on social media last month, the police had tweeted that the order clearly mentioned that any arrest, irrespective of any class, community or religious group, must be made based on evidence, and not give an impression of being arbitrary. The police wrote that the order mentioned intelligence reports regarding the arrest of Hindu youths, which had led to some resentment, as a backdrop to sensitise officers about the case.During the hearing on Friday, justice Suresh Kait said, “I have noticed, while going through the petition, that the electronic and print media have reported news that is against the letter and spirit of the order issued by respondent no. 4 (Ranjan)... I suggest to the media, the fourth pillar of democracy, that news should be reported after verifying facts so that there is no hate between communities in this country.”The police also produced similar communications (orders and circulars) given to investigating officers in the past about such intelligence inputs .The judge reminded investigating officers that they need not be influenced by an order or instruction by their superiors but clarified that no prejudice was caused to the people of any community by this circular.Advocate Pracha had said in the plea, “According to the news report, the special commissioner had sent out a circular that there was a degree of resentment in the Hindu community against the arrest of certain Hindu persons, and directed investigating officers to be careful in the future when making arrests. The arrests of persons should be made only after discussing evidence with special public prosecutors who have been appointed to represent the police in these cases.” On Friday, agreeing with the submissions of officer Ranjan, who was present during the last date of hearing, the judge said that the persons accused in the case have already been charged and that the July 8 order issued by the senior police officer would not cause prejudice.“This period was unfortunate for everyone in Delhi. So I think we should not continue it (petition) further,” the judge remarked during the hearing.It said the observation made by the court would not cause prejudice to Ranjan or any other officer in their service careers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-police-circular-does-not-cause-prejudice-says-high-court/story-gk4RwaclSptyv6j1Qff8PJ.html
08-08-2020||Gurugram||Property IDs in next 15 days across Haryana, says govt||The Haryana government on Friday said that property IDs would be issued in areas under nine municipal corporations and 15 municipal committees across the state within the next 15 days. A special mechanism for registration of properties in controlled areas is also being developed under which no-objection certificates (NOCs) would have to be issued by the departments concerned within 14 days. The area for registration of plots in controlled area would be increased to one acre from current two kanals, it said.Addressing mediapersons in Chandigarh on Friday, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said that the objective of all these steps was to streamline the mechanism of registering property deeds and to reduce human intervention to the minimum. “A review meeting in this regard was held on Thursday in which it was decided that for registration of plots in controlled areas the area would be increased from two kanals at present to one acre. This is being done to ensure registration of plots for unauthorized development of colonies is stopped,” said Chautala. In controlled areas, the deputy CM said, the department of town and country planning has been asked to create a mechanism so that NOCs can be issued in a time bound manner or else a process would be created for deemed approval as it happens for other departments. Chautala also said that they have decided to create a portal that will allow people to pay their pending property tax and development tax online so that they can get the NOC automatically. “Within next one month, all the related departments will be linked online so that registries can be carried out without any hassle,” he said. The revenue department, he said, will be making the process of registration deeds easy and simple to carryout. He also said that divisional commissioners of Gurugram, Bahadurgarh, Sonipat, Ambala and Faridabad have been asked to enquire into irregularities pertaining to registeries and send a report within 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/property-ids-in-next-15-days-across-haryana-says-govt/story-4mDfxrbBmg3bTvBJkyfQUI.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||Decomposed body of man found wrapped in gunny bag near Tughlaqabad Fort||The decomposed body of an unidentified man, aged around 30 years, was found wrapped in a gunny bag and dumped in a forested area near the Tughlaqabad Fort in south Delhi late Thursday morning, the police said. The police said four words – Heena (or Reena) Shambhu, Durga, and Devi -- were tattooed in English on the left forearm of the man. Officers believe that the names could be his and/or those of his loved ones. A silver metallic ring with black stone was found on the right hand while a copper metallic ring was there on the left hand. Police suspect that the man may have been killed elsewhere and his body dumped in the forested area to mislead investigators. Deputy commissioner of police (south-east) RP Meena said around 11am Thursday, the Govindpuri police received a call regarding the body lying in the forested area. A team went there and found that the body had decomposed beyond identification. “We have registered a case of murder and have formed teams to establish the man’s identity, nab his killers and ascertain the motive behind the crime. The details about the man’s physical appearance, clothes he was wearing, and the tattoos along the pictures of the body have been uploaded on the Zonal Integrated Police Network (ZIPNet),” the DCP said. Meena said the investigating teams are preparing a list of men, in the age group of 20 to 40 years, who had been reported missing in Delhi-NCR in the past seven to 10 days. “Apart from scanning ZIPNet, our teams would also be visiting police stations in Faridabad, Noida, Gurugram, and Ghaziabad for investigation purposes,” he said. The police said some tyre marks were found near the spot where the body was dumped. The spot is located nearly 20 metres away from the main road. The footage from CCTV cameras on the route leading to the spot is also being scanned for clues, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/decomposed-body-of-man-found-wrapped-in-gunny-bag-near-tughlaqabad-fort/story-aB4RE4s5luIrY76g6INjnJ.html
08-08-2020||Pune||Covid-19 jumbo centres: Ajit Pawar orders contractors, administration to ensure ICMR guidelines are strictly followed||While constructing the jumbo Covid-19 centres in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, the contractor and administration must ensure that all the facilities provided are sustainable during monsoon and natural calamities, said Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister, on Friday.Pawar visited and took a review of the three facilities at College of Engineering, Pune, Shivajinagar; Annasaheb Magar Stadium, Pimpri and Balewadi sports complex.Pawar said, “While erecting the jumbo facilities, administration and contractors must ensure that there is enough drainage facility. Also, when the facility is being constructed on open ground they should consider the natural calamity possibility as it is monsoon.”Pawar said, “There should be a proper audit of electric supply, water supply, approach roads and guidelines given by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) should be strictly followed.”“The authorities should ensure doctors and nurses are provided with good facilities, he added.Pawar said, “State government will provide good health facilities to the residents during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. These jumbo facilities will help deal with the bed shortage problem.”Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, district collector Naval Kishor Ram, Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) metropolitan commissioner Suhas Diwase were present with Pawar for the site visit.Meanwhile, Pune district guardian minister Ajit with the help of Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana launched ‘Mission Pune zero’. Bharatiya Jain Sanghtana’s president Shantilal Mutha said, “The mission aims to conduct maximum testings with the help of mobile vans. The mobile vans can conduct 3,000 to 5,000 rapid antigen tests per day. These vans will visit places with maximum population and conduct tests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-jumbo-centres-ajit-pawar-orders-contractors-administration-to-ensure-icmr-guidelines-strictly-followed/story-cCGiXJKgsxRxRQvhQPvA5K.html
08-08-2020||Delhi||Only 50% students pay annual fees at Delhi’s tech varsity by deadline||Of over 7,000 students at the Delhi Technological University, around 50% have paid the annual fee for the upcoming session, university officials said. This varsity had given them less than a week’s time to pay the nearly Rs 2 lakh fee, students said, with August 5 being the last date for fee submission. After that, the varsity had warned of a late fee ranging from Rs 2,000-10,000 and after August 27, their names may be struck off the rolls.A handful of students also protested outside the university on Friday demanding that they be allowed to pay the fee in instalments as many families were in financial distress. BTech students have to pay their annual fee of Rs 1, 90,000 by August 5 while BBA and BA students have to pay Rs 90,000. Anoop Lather, the university’s public relations officer, “As per data received by our accounts and computer department, around 50% of students have already paid their fee by Thursday. Keeping the Covid-19 situation in mind, we have granted fee concessions to around 500 students like we did last year. Apart from that, we have allowed students to submit the loan application details for late fee exception if their loan hasn’t been processed yet.” Lather, however, said there has been no extension of the last date so far.In a July 24 directive that was uploaded on the university’s website on July 28, the university had mentioned that students who pay the fee after the August 5 deadline, between August 6 and 13, will have to pay a fine of Rs 2,000. Those who pay between August 13 and 20 will have to pay a fine of Rs 5,000; and those who submit the fee between August 20 and 27 will have to pay a fine of Rs 10,000. Students who fail to pay by then may have their names struck off university rolls.Those who fail to pay their fee by August 27, may have their names struck off the rolls.While the university said it has allowed some concessions, students believe that these may not benefit all. Sumit, 18, said his father, who works as a plumber, had found no work during the Covid-19 lockdown for four months.“We have been trying to avail of bank loans to pay the fee but that too wasn’t possible as we live in a rented accommodation. We have asked our relatives for some help but they don’t have the means to help us right now,” said the Gokalpuri resident, who is a second-year engineering student. He had applied for a scholarship but the money hasn’t come through, Sumit said.Manish Kumar, 18, a second-year engineering student from Bihar was already reeling under the stress of his father losing all crops to floods in Saharsa district when the fee notification came on July 28.“Even though I have a scholarship and have to pay a lesser amount than the others, I have written to the university saying that I won’t be able to pay the fee before September,” Kumar said. The first-generation learner lives with his relatives in Delhi and is looking to give tuitions to earn some money, but the Covid-19 health crisis has made it difficult. “Students were barely given a week to arrange such a huge sum of money. Many of my classmates have not been able to arrange the money,” he said.Vice-chancellor Yogesh Singh said, “Students in distress or from marginalised backgrounds should write to the registrar or dean and we will find a way to resolve issues on a case-to-case basis.”Students are also worried about how the fee issue would impact their stay in college. Aparnendu Ram Tripathi, president of ABVP-DTU unit, said, “There has been indirect communication that those wanting to sit for college placement must pay their fee. Students unable to do so have been asked to write to the vice chancellor. This has caused additional stress to students during a pandemic.” Lather responded to this saying, “This isn’t a new development. All dues must be cleared before events like examinations or placements. For needy students, there are committees in place to check their applications over fee concession and take decisions accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/only-50-students-pay-annual-fees-at-delhi-s-tech-varsity-by-deadline/story-gcwXCBsjbyXxV43Y9U7nWO.html
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Snatchers take away man’s gold chain in Chandigarh’s Sector 37||Another morning walker fell prey to snatchers, who took away his gold chain in Sector 37 on Friday. Anup Sharma, 48, said he was on a morning walk around 7am on when a man snatched his gold chain and fled with his accomplice waiting on a black motorcycle at a distance. Anup sustained bruises on his neck in the incident. Investigation revealed that the snatchers were following Anup and on finding an opportunity, snatched his chain. On his complaint, a case under Sections 379A (snatching) and 356 (assault or criminal force in attempt to commit theft of property carried by a person) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 39 police station.In similar modus operandi, two men on a black motorcycle snatched a woman’s gold chain while she was taking a walk in Phase 3B1, Mohali, on Wednesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/snatchers-take-away-man-s-gold-chain-in-sector-37/story-mzbdgNZCbHFTF9F8lWZg1M.html
