09-08-2020||Gurugram||Nursery admissions: Schools complement virtual tours with physical tours for parents||Private schools in the city have started inviting applications for admission to nursery classes for the academic year 2021-22. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, schools that used to invite parents to see how classes are conducted in person are now taking to virtual tours. The tours also give parents an idea about the sanitization procedures that schools are adopting to check the spread of the coronavirus. Some are also planning to complement these tours with physical tours with social distance measures post-admission.Admissions to private schools in Gurugram usually take place between July and October every year in a staggered manner with most deciding their own schedule and criteria. The new session usually starts between March and April of the following year. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, schools are exploring ways of conducting the admission process entirely online.Suncity School in sector 54 conducted its first virtual tour and virtual curriculum desk on Saturday. As part of the tour, around 100 parents were informed about various aspects pertaining to admission, school pedagogy, and the procedures it was adopting in view of the pandemic. “During the interaction, parents got the chance to send in their questions which were responded to,” said Rupa Chakravarty, director, Suncity School. “We have shared our safety guidelines. Once the admission is done, we will allow two parents to visit the school.”Manav Rachna International School, Sector 46, shows parents how it holds online classes. The school provides parents with a unique identification number through which they can access an online class and observe the activities on mute, said Dhriti Malhotra, school principal. MatriKiran School in sector 83 is also giving parents the option to choose from physical and virtual tours. “We are doing physical tours for interested parents one at a time only, and virtual tours for those wanting to avoid coming to the campus,” a school spokesperson said. Kunskapsskolan School is also exploring the possibility of providing both virtual and physical tours to parents applying for admission. “We are trying to facilitate school tours in a meaningful way. Parents will get the chance to opt for a physical school tour followed by a virtual interaction or a virtual tour of the school,” said Kunal Bhadoo, director of Kunskapsskolan Schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nursery-admissions-schools-complement-virtual-tours-with-physical-tours-for-parents/story-C5j3Sh6bmATdhB0UduL1QI.html
09-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram records fewer than 100 new Covid-19 cases for ninth consecutive day||On Sunday, for the ninth consecutive day, the district reported less than 100 new cases of Covid-19.With 80 new positive cases being detected on Sunday, Gurugram’s total tally of reported infections now stands at 9,714 cases, of which just seven percent ( 663 patients) are classified as ‘active’. This is down from 883 patients a week ago, on August 2. At that time, Gurugram’s total reported infections stood at 9,245, indicating an average growth of 67 cases per day for the past seven daysHealth department officials confirmed that data now indicates a continued slowdown in new infections. Between July 26 and August 2, the district saw an average of 90 new cases of Covid-19 every day.“Week on week, we are seeing the growth rate come down. It is currently under one percent,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s (IDSP) district surveillance officer (DSO) in Gurugram.State health department data show the district’s daily growth rate to be 0.7 percent, which is the lowest in Haryana. Data also shows Gurugram to be one of just two districts in the state with a growth rate under one percent (the other being Jind, which is adding new Covid-19 cases at a daily growth rate of 0.9 percent).Gurugram’s daily test-posivity rate -- or ratio of new positives to new samples tested -- stood at 3.5 percent on Sunday, which is within the World Health Organisation’s recommended positivity rate of 5 percent or less. “We have sustained a TPR of below five percent for over two weeks now,” Sharma said.The WHO’s recommendation for lifting curbs on public mobility is a daily TPR of five percent or less, over a period of at least two weeks. Health department officials said that, over the past week, Gurugram’s TPR has been consistently recorded below 5 percent, and that it would likely remain thereabouts in coming days.Of the current tally of 663 active patients, 65 are hospitalised, while a majority (523 people) are under home isolation. This is down from 685 people under home isolation a week ago. Another 73 patients (down from 109 on August 2) are under observation at the district covid centre centres). In the past week, Gurugram reduced its burden of active patients by close to 24 percent.Gurugram on Sunday also recorded 100 new recoveries (down from 114 the previous day), taking the district’s cumulative recovery rate to 91 percent (from 89 percent a week ago). Sunday marked the ninth straight day when daily recoveries exceeded new positive cases.The district recorded no new deaths on Sunday. The mortality rate in the district, thus far, is 1.2 percent (down from 1.34 percent a week ago), with 125 fatalities.Gurugram on Sunday also collected 2007 new samples for testing, down from 2314 samples collected on Saturday. Of these, 338 samples were taken by private labs for RT-PCR tests, while the majority of remaining samples are those of RT-PCR and antigen tests by the health department.The doubling-rate stands at 84 days (up from 74 days a week ago), while active cases make up only seven percent of the reported case load (down from 9.5 percent a week ago).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-records-fewer-than-100-new-covid-19-cases-for-ninth-consecutive-day/story-EC5qhA2SJ14bTB5WR1jbwN.html
09-08-2020||City||Kejriwal inaugurates new 200-bed hospital, to be a dedicated Covid facility||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday inaugurated a 200-bed hospital in south-east Delhi’s Ambedkar Nagar, which would currently operate as a dedicated Covid facility.Currently, all 200 beds in the hospital are fitted with oxygen concentration system but it has no intensive care unit (ICU). The chief minister said that more beds and ICU facilities in the hospital would be added at the earliest.The hospital – which goes operational from Sunday – is the first public hospital in close vicinity of several localities other than Ambedkar Nagar which includes Dakshinpuri, Khanpur, Madangir, Tigri and large parts of Sangam Vihar. These are all densely populated localities -- mostly comprising unauthorised colonies with a mix of pockets of small apartments for the economically weak and scores of slum clusters.“There was no big hospital in this area and the nearby constituencies. And the idea of the construction of this hospital was conceived in 2013. I am happy that after many years, this hospital will be inaugurated today. 200 beds will be made operational today, and this hospital has a capacity of 600 beds. The hospital will further become operational in its full bed capacity and ICUs in the coming days. The 200 beds which will be made operational from today will be a huge aid in the treatment of covid patients. Oxygen is available on all the 200 beds, as oxygen is the primary requirement in the treatment of covid patients,” said Kejriwal. Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain was also present on the occasion.The new hospital took the Covid bed capacity in Delhi to 13,717, of which 3,061 were occupied as on Sunday evening, government records showed.“The Covid situation in Delhi is under control up to a great extent. The parameters in Delhi are good, the recovery rate is improving, the positivity ratio and death rate are decreasing. There are fewer patients who require hospitalisation. I hope that the 200 beds that have begun here in the hospital today are not needed in the future, but we have to be fully prepared. Everyone says that Corona is an unpredictable pandemic and no one knows what might happen tomorrow. Even though our situation is under control, but if the situation goes out of control again, the Delhi government is fully prepared to deal with the situation,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-inaugurates-new-200-bed-hospital-to-be-a-dedicated-covid-facility/story-yZSp3ayFCzu5G5Dj28e4pJ.html
09-08-2020||Gurugram||MCG sanitation team attacked by locals in Sikanderpur, case lodged||A sanitation team of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) was allegedly attacked by around 30 locals on Thursday when they were lifting construction and demolition (C&D) waste from behind the marble market in Sikanderpur village, police said.An FIR in the matter has been registered at the DLF Phase-1 police station and investigations launched.As per the MCG’s complaint, following a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order, their team had been clearing C&D waste in the area for the last four days.While during one such drive, around 30 locals suddenly started pelting them with stones and subsequently attacked them with sticks and rods, leading to four corporation officials suffering injuries.“The incident took place around 4pm on Thursday when sanitation officials were clearing waste from the area with the help of earthmovers. Out of nowhere and without any provocation, they were attacked by around 25-30 locals from behind. They started hurling stones and bricks towards them, which resulted in a few of our workers getting injured, while some vehicles were also damaged. Later, a bunch of men armed with sticks and iron rods cornered one of our workers and started beating him up. We have been able to identify a few locals and have given their names to the police,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCG. He further said that MCG will be clearing the remaining C&D waste from the site on Monday. In the same incident, a second FIR was lodged by Ajane Hiramani, a resident of Sikanderpur village.As per her son, Raja Singh, Hiramani was present at the site from which MCG officials were clearing waste and was leaning against one of MCG’s tractors when the stone pelting started.When the violence began, an MCG worker suddenly started his tractor and as the vehicle moved forward, the woman lost her balance and fell on the ground, sustaining injuries.In the FIR, Hiramani has further alleged that had she had seen four-five MCG workers beating up a local, and when people from the colony came to save them, the MCG officials fled the spot after threatening the locals.”“We are working on both the cases simultaneously. Based on MCG’s information, we have some leads and are investigating the matter,” said KK Rao, commissioner, Gurugram police.Thursday’s incident was the third time in the last two months that MCG officials had been attacked.Last month, MCG officials were thrashed by a group of people in Sector 70A when they had gone to take action against people who were illegally dumping sewage in the open.On June 1, two MCG officials were thrashed by two locals during a stray animal drive in Sector 52.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-sanitation-team-attacked-by-locals-in-sikanderpur-case-lodged/story-SvUskkM9Yh0La5flO3OXEI.html
09-08-2020||City||Delhi’s education board to be operational by next year; not to be imposed on govt schools: Sisodia||New Delhi: A new board of education for Delhi is expected to be operational by next year, however, unlike other states it will not be imposed on government schools, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday.Sisodia said the board will be in sync with the reforms proposed in the new National Education Policy (NEP) and the focus will be on continuous evaluation and not year-end exams. “We have recently set up two committees for working on the proposed board as well as curriculum reforms. An ideal situation would be that we make it operational by next year. Initially, around 40 schools will be affiliated to the board, which could be either government or private,” said Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister, in an interview to PTI.“What happens in other state boards is that the private schools are free to make their choice whether they want to opt for CBSE, ICSE or state board, while government schools follow the state board. We will not impose anything. Affiliation to the state board would be optional for both government and private schools. We want to make the board so enriching and useful, that there is demand for it,” he added.On July 15, the Delhi government had constituted two committees — Delhi Education Board Committee and Delhi Curriculum Reform Committee — to work on setting up the state’s own education board. In a statement, the government had said that the first committee will study global best practices in learning assessment, re-imagine current assessment practices and provide a roadmap for an innovative, student-friendly scheme of assessment to be followed by the new board. The second panel will study globally renowned best practices in curriculum and reforms and recommend what is best suited for Delhi.Sisodia said the Delhi government is studying the new education policy in detail. “We have already been working on some of the reforms proposed in it. There are a few anomalies but there are a few good things too. I have told the two committees that our board will be in sync with the NEP because as a nation we are together but the focus will not be on evaluating students once a year and discouraging rote learning in process,” he said.Asked about teaching in mother tongue or regional language as proposed by the NEP, Sisodia said, “I totally agree that the medium of instruction should be the home langauge in the initial years so that foundation is strong but I believe it should be limited to foundation years or pre primary stage. Taking it up to Class 5 is not a good idea.” Sisodia also came down heavily on the proposal of a common entrance exam for universities to be conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA).“Why do we need this duplication? We already have so much focus on board exams and immediately after that we will have another exam? The focus only on exams will no way take the emphasis away from the rote learning. In my view, it has to be either of the exams,” he said.The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet last month replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower.In its Budget 2020-21, the Delhi government had announced plans for curriculum reforms and creating a new board of education for the national capital.In his book ‘Shiksha: My Experiments as an Education Minister’, which was released in September 2019, Sisodia wrote that the current CBSE board syllabus is only “10% helpful” for students preparing for competitive exams. “The truth is that for students preparing for IITs and NEET, the syllabus of the Central board is only about 10 per cent helpful. The remaining is for students to navigate…Why can’t our school boards fill the gaps that coaching institutions are filling up? Why is there such a huge difference in the preparation for boards and entrance exams?” Sisodia says in the book.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-s-education-board-to-be-operational-by-next-year-not-to-be-imposed-on-govt-schools-sisodia/story-Y8aR9Fjkb6Kjc5Nw96nneK.html
09-08-2020||Gurugram||Workers protest against Centre’s move to change labour laws||A large number of trade union workers protested on Sunday against the Union government’s move to change labour laws and to the privatization of public sector units like railways, Air India, coal mines and several other sectors. The day was observed as ‘Satyagrah and jail bharo divas’ and workers marched from Civil Hospital near Sadar Bazar to Mini Secretariat in the city. They carried banners, placards criticising government and shouted slogans during the protest. Workers from a number of private companies based in the city joined in the protest.Anil Pawar, a senior leader of the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) alleged that policies of the present government had a very negative impact on the livelihood of workers who had lost jobs and were forced to migrate in large number to their home towns villages during the Covid-19 induced lockdown. Kumar said that privatization of PSUs, liberalization and similar measures were in favour of large industrial groups and capitalists at the cost of workers.“All trade unions participated in the march jointly to protest against the failure of the government in providing relief to workers and taking decisions in the pandemic that were drastic,” said Pawar.The workers also protested against the decisions of the government taken during the lockdown such suspension of labour laws, increasing the timing of work from eight to 12 hours, changes in labour rules, and making the essential services maintenance act more stringent. Shravan Kumar, district president of AITUC said that policies of the government were anti-workers and if it continues then a movement across the country will be started to oppose such decisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/workers-protest-against-centre-s-move-to-change-labour-laws/story-oCHiUw24lY9EMTMaqxIIVN.html
09-08-2020||City||In Nuh, students find digital divide a barrier too hard to cross||For the past four months, 9-year-old Neha has not been able to attend classes. The Class-6 student has been deprived of learning ever since a nationwide lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Her family neither has a smartphone nor a functional television set at home. In the absence of both these tools, she has been unable to access remote lessons amid the continued physical closure of schools. She now prays for the schools to reopen. “I haven’t been to school in four months. Ever since the lockdown was imposed, no teacher has called or taught me. A while ago, we were called to the school and handed over books for the new class. I go through the books and study on my own,” said Neha. She has three siblings studying in various primary classes in the neighbourhood government school in her village, Kheri Kalan. None of them has had any interaction with books or teachers in the past four months. With no access to smartphones, Neha’s family is pinning their hopes on the reopening of schools — the only seemingly plausible option for the family that struggles to make ends meet amid the growing financial uncertainty unleashed by the pandemic. Neha is among the hundreds of children in Nuh who have been left behind with schools taking the online route for teaching. While the pandemic has laid bare deep economic faultlines that run across the country, the impact of such disparities is almost universal in Nuh, which the NITI Aayog had ranked as one of the most backward districts in India in 2018. In an assessment based on multiple parameters such as education, health, agriculture, financial inclusion, skill development, and infrastructure, Nuh, earlier known as Mewat, scored 26% — the lowest across the country. Currently, there are roughly 4,500 vacancies for teachers in the district and a serious shortage of local teachers. Taking cognisance of all these shortcomings, the district education department has started neighbourhood schools in various villages and also plans to use loudspeakers for relaying lessons in the coming days. Hindustan Times visited three villages across Nuh and spoke to students, parents, and teachers who are struggling to keep pace with the newer ways of learning, while coping with issues of economic uncertainty and poor internet connectivity.Smartphones remain a distant dream“My father has a small phone but it can only be used for making calls. One can’t study with a phone such as this one,” says Neha, pointing to a low-end Nokia phone with a broken screen. The family has a television set at home but that too is not in a working condition. Both her parents work at the brick kilns during the winter months and do odd labour jobs during the remaining part of the year. Neha’s mother, Sushma, said that the family can’t afford to buy a smartphone, as it was barely managing to survive. During the pandemic, the family has been managing with the meagre earnings that Neha’s father makes by working as a manual labourer in villages. “We don’t have the kind of phone that is needed for online learning. There is a TV set at home but we don’t have the money to get it repaired,” said Sushma, who goes by her first nameDespite the threat of the pandemic, she said that she would happily send her daughter to school if the government were to reopen learning institutions. “How many more months can she go without learning? If such a state of affairs continues, it will put an end to her dreams of getting educated,” said Sushma. Neha’s neighbour Manisha is among the rare few in the village who are able to attend school. The access has been made possible by a smartphone that was recently purchased by the Class-10 student’s father in a desperate bid to ensure that Manisha is able to continue with her education. It took a down payment of ₹500 for the family to purchase the phone that roughly costs ₹5,000. “Our teachers told us that classes will take place online and through WhatsApp till the time schools are closed. After waiting for a long time, my father decided to purchase the phone,” said Manisha, who studies in Government Girls School in Pinangwan, a few kilometres away from the village. Her father works as a construction labourer and heads out for work early in the morning, returning only in the evening. With only one phone in the family, Manisha only gets a chance to study after 7pm, once her father returns from work. Till midnight, she catches up on the lessons shared on the WhatsApp group of the class, completes her assignments, and sends it back to the teacher for review The family avails a data pack for ₹199 that lasts a month. However, more than the added costs of the data packs, the lack of electricity in the village is a bigger impediment. On the day that Hindustan Times visited the village, electricity had been missing for the past few days, said villagers. “Due to the erratic supply of electricity, keeping the phone charged becomes a challenge. Since the internet is being used on the phone, the phone runs out of charge frequently and we struggle a lot to get it charged once again. We go to houses that have electricity and request them to allow us to charge the phone,” said Geeta. Poor internet connectivityFamous for its historical mosque and fort, the picturesque village of Kotla village, flanked by the Aravallis, has many wonders but falls short when it comes to basics such as internet connectivity. With the terrain being rugged and mountainous, there are areas within the village where internet connectivity is erratic or missing altogether. Home to many low-income families, online lessons in the village have been undermined by the twin perils of affordability and connectivity. “Internet connectivity gets patchy as one goes further inside the village. People move out of the village or to some hilly terrain where network connectivity is better,” said Jan Mohammad, a village resident, who owns a smartphone. His younger brother, a school-going student, is among the many children who have not been able to access online learning in the past four months. “I gave my number to the school but we were never added to the WhatsApp group. My brother did not receive any notes in the past four months,” said Jan Mohammad. In the absence of classes, all that children do throughout the day is loiter, says Mohammad. “They loiter all around the village,” he says, as a group of children nods in agreement. Sitting under a tree, opposite the mosque, children murmur about classes or the lack thereof. “We are not going,” the 10-15 strong crowd says, when asked if they have been taking online classes. “We don’t have phones,” they respond in unison when asked to explain the absence from online classes. “What else do we do if not loiter around? Is it our fault that only those who have phones are being taught?” asks Parvez Khan, a Class-10 student of a government school. Like most children from the village, Parvez has remained disconnected from the school for the past four months. His father works as a truck driver and has been out of work for the most part of the pandemic.“I got a call from the school a few weeks after the lockdown was imposed. The teacher said that a WhatsApp group had been formed for the lesson and that I should join it for classes. But how could I join? I don’t have a smartphone that is needed for these online classes,” said Parvez. When asked whether he was worried about missing out on lessons in a crucial board year, Parvez said that he was helpless. “I haven’t seen books since the lockdown was imposed. Is it my fault that I am unable to study? Why is learning only reserved for those who have smartphones? Half the people in our village don’t have a phone,” says Parvez, as he looks around hoping to get an answer to the volley of questions he had raised. Community classes to the rescueTaking cognisance of the challenges of poverty and internet connectivity in the region, the district education department has started neighbourhood schools in various villages where local teachers are being asked to teach a small set of children while complying with physical distancing norms. Outlining the reasons behind the disruption of teaching in the region, district education officer (DEO) Anup Singh Jakhar said, “Education, the way it should happen, is not taking place. People do not have smartphones that are needed for the seamless delivery of online classes. In case families have a phone, they don’t have the money to invest in data packs for internet connectivity. There are some hilly areas where there is no internet connectivity,” said Jakhar. He said that since there were roughly 4,500 vacancies for teachers in the district, the department has reached out to educated persons in the neighbourhood apart from the local school teachers. Recognised as Shiksha Doots, these educated individuals are also being encouraged to take classes of children in batches of 15-20. “Private school teachers who are unemployed or students with Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees are being encouraged to take classes in their neighbourhoods during the pandemic,” said Jakhar. As per data shared by the department, there are 84 mohalla pathshalas and 104 Shiksha Doots across the district at present. The department also has plans to start teaching via loudspeakers in villages, where reaching out to children has been particularly tough. Local teachers lend a helping handEvery morning, at around 7 am, school-going children from the neighbourhood head to a makeshift classroom that has been running from the courtyard of Safi Mohammad’s house in Asaisika for roughly a month now. Mohammad, a government school social science teacher, rolls out the mats, cleans the blackboard, and places a sanitizer bottle at the entrance as he prepares for the class.One after another, children of various grades start trickling in and sit on the rolled out carpet at a considerable distance from one other. The walls of the makeshift classroom are adorned with different charts depicting the English alphabets, Hindi alphabets, numbers from 1 to 100, various fruits and vegetables, and a map of India. Mohammad starts with the lesson for the day, only to be interrupted by a phone call. “Yes, your son has reached the class,” he assures a worried parent on the phone before going back to the class. Sitting at a distance from one another, the students dutifully take notes while Mohammad scribbles on the board after every few minutes. The session lasts for two hours after which the second batch of students arrives for classes. Explaining the idea behind these community classes, he said that the initiative was started to make up for the loss of learning that students were facing due to various factors. “We are trying to cover as many children as we can but roughly 20% of children are able to take online lessons regularly. Most families do not have smartphones. We share notes but they don’t reach children due to which the results of online classes have not been very uplifting,” said Mohammad. These community classes have a strength of 12-15 students, who go to both private and government schools. While those who are connected to online classes in some way attend these classes for better comprehension and learning, for others these classes are the only connection with lessons. Apart from the community classes started by the government, educated individuals are also taking up the baton willingly in their respective villages. Arshad, a college teacher, who recently started taking classes for children in his village Kheri Kalan, said that children in his village were first-generation learners whose education had gone off the track due to the pandemic. “Children have been at home for months. Many of them can’t even hold a pencil properly. How will they keep pace with online classes? Most parents in the village are illiterate and can’t teach their children. I started these classes to extend support in some capacity,” he said. While children from the village have started joining these classes, the need for structured learning is felt heavily by the participants. Neha, who started attending these sessions last week said, “I have just started coming here and if there are doubts, I try to ask. I miss school and my friends though. Who knows where they are. It would be so wonderful if schools were to open. I will study and become a doctor when I grow up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-nuh-students-find-digital-divide-a-barrier-too-hard-to-cross/story-gQhg0xwiUelkkHuX6rpoYN.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||Leopard spotted near Andheri society, forest department sets up trap cages||After a leopard was spotted along the boundary of a residential area, near JB Nagar in Andheri-MIDC area (East), the forest department has now placed three trap cages at an abandoned factory, adjacent to the society on Sunday.According to the forest department, the local security staff of Kanakia Atrium-2, spotted a leopard between 7.30 and 8am moving along the boundary wall of the residential complex. The complex is adjacent to an approximately 20-acre area that houses an abandoned factory - Vazir Glass Factory - where forest officials believe the leopard could be hiding.“The security staff informed the local police that further called upon the forest department. With our teams on the spot since Sunday morning, the leopard has not been seen so far. If the animal is in the same location, it will be trapped within the next two to three days,” Jitendra Ramgaokar, deputy conservator of forest, Thane.Teams from the Sanjay Gandhi National Park, Mumbai and Thane forest range, and animal rescue groups were at the spot during the day, while two officers from Mumbai Police patrolled during the night. Three trap cages have been installed and 10-12 camera traps are placed across the abandoned warehouse to track the animal’s movement. A team of forest guards have been deputed at the residential complex while the area has been sealed.Ramgaokar said that factory premises had a dense green cover and thus the trap cages had been strategically placed. “However, since no movement has been noticed, it could be possible that the animal may have left the area in the morning itself. We have to wait and see,” he said.Another forest official said the society’s CCTV cameras were not working. “An animal’s pug mark was spotted on the society’s wall towards the factory side. However, the footage could have helped us understand its probable movement. The factory premise has been shut for over two decades and there are several areas covered by vegetation where the leopard can take shelter through the day. If there is any movement, it will happen only during the night,” the forest officer said.Last year in April, a leopard was rescued at the end of a three-hour-long operation after the animal entered a residential area in Marol, Andheri (East). Since 2017, there have been six such instances of leopard rescues from residential areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). SGNP and surrounding areas including Aarey Colony are home to an estimated 47 leopards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/leopard-spotted-near-andheri-society-forest-department-sets-up-trap-cages/story-Hnn0M1XrSEtAzkjN9RWhLJ.html
09-08-2020||Dehradun||Heavy to very heavy rainfall likely in Uttarakhand, 5 villages cut off due to downpour||Uttarakhand is likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall in six districts of the state over the next two days with the onset of second phase of monsoon, India Meteorological department has predicted In a weather bulletin issued on Sunday morning for the next 24-hours, the MeT department predicted that heavy rainfall with intense spells is likely to occur at isolated places in Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Nainital, Champawat, Dehradun and Pauri districts of the state. Orange and yellow alert for the state for August 9-10 respectively by IMD. On Monday, the MeT department predicted that light to moderate rainfall or thunderstorm is likely to occur at most places in Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Nainital, Champawat, Pauri, Dehradun, Haridwar and Tehri districts and many places in Almora, Udham Singh Nagar, Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Uttarkashi districts of Uttarakhand. In Uttarkashi district five villages of Mori block have been cut off since past ten days after connecting bridges broke due to heavy rainfall. The five villages; Osla, Gangad, Pawani, Dhatmir and Srigad in Mori block are located about 220 km away from the district headquarters. The villages were connected through a bridge over a stream. The villagers have since been commuting using broken logs as a makeshift bridge. Sohan Singh Saini, sub-divisional magistrate of Purola under which the area falls said that concerned officials have been asked to look into the matter and repair the bridge at the earliest. On Sunday afternoon, the Badrinath highway was also blocked after a landslide was triggered by rainfall at Lambagad region, a landslide-prone area. Till Sunday afternoon, around 12 roads were blocked in the Chamoli district, where work was underway to open them. Due to the intense rain, a large tree uprooted and fell on the road near the kindergarten on Lal Bahadur Shastri Administrative Academy Road, blocking the road in Mussoorie. A mild landslide was also reported from the Mussoorie-Dehradun highway on Sunday. Caption: A local walking by Naini Lake in Nainital district on Sunday amid heavy rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/heavy-to-very-heavy-rainfall-likely-in-uttarakhand-5-villages-cut-off-due-to-downpour/story-gcqeFCBbnYFC29ztpvVCfP.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||Woman, friend steal ₹19 lakh from father, arrested in Punjab||The Oshiwara police on Saturday arrested a woman and her friend for stealing cash and gold ornaments worth ₹19 lakh from her father.According to police, the complainant Umarandaz Qureshi, had filed a missing complaint against his daughter Uzma Qureshi, 21, at Oshiwara police station. However, he later alleged that her daughter had eloped with her friend Charandeepsingh Arora, 35. Arora is a physical training teacher at school in Versova, police said.After filing the missing complaint, Qureshi, a hotelier, returned home only to find gold and ₹10 lakh cash missing from the locker. He then recollected that Uzma, on July 23, had asked him for his locker key. She had claimed that a friend’s family members were infected with Covid-19 and were admitted to hospital and they had requested her to keep their gold in a safe place.Qureshi then lodged a case of theft against his daughter.Dayanand Bangar, a senior inspector from Oshiwara police station said, “Following his complaint, we have registered the FIR against his daughter.”“With the help of technical assistance, we traced the duo in Punjab. The accused were hiding at the hotel, near Golden Temple in Amritsar, Punjab,” an officer from Oshiwara police saidMumbai Police with the help of Amritsar Police raided the hotel and found her and Arora. During interrogation, they confessed to the crime and said they had stashed the stolen gold and cash in a bank locker.Police have booked Uzma and Arora under section 379 (punishment for theft), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code.“On Saturday we produced them before the metropolitan magistrate court. The court has remanded them in police custody till Tuesday,” Bangar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-friend-steal-19-lakh-from-father-arrested-in-punjab/story-vTrahRxujRGxhBxvlZUUZK.html
09-08-2020||Kolkata||‘Let me die with family’: Contractor awaiting dues from Bengal govt, writes to President, CM||After waiting for years for the West Bengal government to clear his unpaid bills amounting to around Rs one crore, accrued since 2015, a civil construction contractor has sought permission from President Ramnath Kovind and chief minister Mamata Banerjee to die by suicide with his family. The incident became one of the talking points in Malda district on Sunday. Jayanta Pramanik, the contractor who hails from the Pandalpara area of Chanchol sub-division in Malda, said, “In 2015-16, I constructed the bungalow of the sub-divisional officer of Chanchol. Later, I carried out several other construction works at the same site. The executive engineer’s office took Rs 10 lakh from me as security deposit. The PWD office neither paid me for the work, nor has released the security deposit.” That’s not all; he added that bills for work done in 2019 were also unpaid.“Around the Lok Sabha election in 2019, I carried out some infrastructure development projects but till now, the SDO’s office has not cleared the bills which amount to Rs 45 lakh,” Pramanik said. The contractor claimed that he had to borrow money at high interest rates to carry out the projects. “The lenders are pressuring me to repay. I have already sold my wife’s jewelry to raise money. I cannot even provide two square meals a day to my two daughters, my wife and my elder brother. I can’t bear their pain anymore and have appealed to the President and the CM to let us end our lives.” Pramanik alleged that on July 7, the SDO seized his car when he went to the latter’s office and insisted that his dues be cleared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/let-me-die-with-family-contractor-awaiting-dues-from-bengal-govt-writes-to-president-cm/story-2pR5fl2GaSm0LSoxlsXzCM.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||140 species of butterflies recorded at Matheran, almost twice as many after 125 years: Study||Researchers have identified 140 species of butterflies from Matheran, over 80km from Mumbai, during an eight-year-long study.This is the first dedicated checklist of butterflies after 125 years, at the only pedestrian hill station in Asia that documented twice as many species. The last checklist was by British researcher JA Betham who documented 78 butterfly species in 1894-95.The latest findings were published in a research paper - Finding the Forgotten Gems - in the Biodiversity Data Journal published from Bulgaria, on Saturday. The study was carried out by Mandar Sawant and Nikhil Modak from Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) along with Sagar Sarang from Somaiya College, Vidyavihar.With 140 species belonging to six families, the current list includes 15 species protected under various schedules of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, including crimson rose, orchid tit, and Daniad eggfly listed under schedule I (protection akin to a tiger or leopard). Additionally, 16 locally very rare species, 11 rare, 20 uncommon, 49 common and 44 very common species were identified. The top 10 very rare species include - orange-tailed awlet, orange awlet, Tamil spotted flat, plain banded awl, common sergeant, rustic, double branded crow, orchid tit, plain puffin, and large oakblue. Among these, the double branded crow was identified for the first time and there has only been a single sighting so far in March 2019.Matheran covers an area of 214.73sqkm and has a buffer area (eco-sensitive zone) ranging from 0 to 200m. Its resident population is 4,393, according to the 2011 census.Carried out between 2011 and 2019, the researchers studied butterfly distribution across 7sqkm of Matheran covering forest areas, hill slopes, mud patches and other habitats. “Rising tourism at this hill station threatens the local biodiversity and has already led to habitat fragmentation,” said Sawant adding, “Concretisation in the form of paving of roads, building resorts and other development associated with tourism combined with littering of waste such as plastic and alcohol bottles by tourists is a concern.”Sawant added that it had begun affecting mud-puddling, a behaviour associated with insects that suck nutrients from wet or moist soil as well as natural organic matter including rotting plant or animal carcasses. “Littering is leading to water pollution and during the months of January to March, the polluted water is making the soil hard altering the puddling behaviour,” he said.Meanwhile, the study broke down findings into seasonal patterns for butterfly species composition and their activities. A novel coloured barcode system representing data, seasons and activities along with photographs was developed. “Anyone intending on visiting Matheran during any season will be able to identify species they spot using this checklist,” said Sawant.Eminent conservationist and chairman, iNature Foundation Isaac Kehimkar lauded efforts by the researchers. “By saving their pocket money and surviving on snacks, these youngsters have brought out an elaborate checklist and getting it published. Their efforts are inspiring and stand testimony of dedication over eight years. These studies highlight the need to preserve such eco-sensitive areas while ensuring sustainable tourism with local people involved,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/researchers-record-140-species-of-butterflies-at-matheran/story-ZW8hIcWCSV5UGi6oPN88kJ.html
09-08-2020||City||Kolhapur’s positivity rate highest in state||PUNE Kolhapur district’s positivity rate is 35 per cent, highest in the state, according to state health minister Rajesh Tope. The positivity rate determines how many people are turning out to be positive out of those tested for Covid. ”The local administration has been asked to take appropriate steps,” said Tope. The district till August 8 has reported 9,991 total Covid positive cases.Tope along with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief was in Karad on Sunday to review the pandemic situation in Satara and Kolhapur districts. “We reviewed the situation in both districts, where the Covid cases are growing rapidly and as a result the doubling rate is low. As far as Kolhapur is concerned, the positivity rate is 35 per cent which is highest in Maharashtra,” said Tope while stressing that administration needs to increase contact tracing and testing of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolhapur-s-positivity-rate-highest-in-state/story-YoGYPftyI3hzwZuhyDAWfK.html
09-08-2020||City||Noida begins treatment of sewage generated in low-lying sectors||NOIDA The Noida authority has started treating of sewage collected from the city’s low-lying residential sectors. The move comes months after the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) directives on the disposal of sewage in the city.The NGT, in an order dated February 25, had directed the Noida authority not to discharge waste water into drains as it pollutes the Yamuna river. Since then, the Noida authority started taking effective measures to treat the waste water, said officials of the authority. Using sledge sucking machines, either the sewer is dumped into nearby master sewer line or transported to a sewage treatment plant (STP), said the officials. The authority has a total of six STPs -- two each in sectors 50 and 54, and one each in sectors 168 and 123.“With an aim to ensure that no untreated sewer is dumped into any stormwater drains, the authority has started taking adequate measures. We have connected community toilets and individual rest rooms built by us with master sewer line so that the sewage is treated properly. Since February this year, we started trapping the sewer from low-lying areas, treating the same and then dumping it into drains or using for irrigation purposes,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, Noida authority.According to the officials, the authority has 22 sewage pumping stations to pump out the sewer from residential areas. The pumping stations are installed in low-lying areas such as sectors 14, 14A, 15, 15A, 16A, 34, 35, and 1, among others, where gradient of the existing sewer line is such that it cannot be connected to master sewer line. Earlier, the authority used to pump out this sewer into nearby drains, which are connected with irrigation drain that is emptied into Yamuna, thereby causing pollution.“But now, we have taken steps to transport this sewer to nearby master sewer line for proper treatment,” said Tripathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-begins-treatment-of-sewage-generated-in-low-lying-sectors/story-UAq9Bqo8y73unmPTo26wZK.html
09-08-2020||Noida||Intense rainfall expected in Noida on Monday||According to the predictions of the weather department, Noida and Ghaziabad will experience moderate to heavy spells of rain from Monday to Wednesday.The maximum rainfall is expected on Monday and Wednesday. “Moderate or heavy rainfall of high-intensity (long durations) is likely to be witnessed across NCR region and western Uttar Pradesh, including Noida and Ghaziabad, on Monday. The intensity may drop on Tuesday, but the rains will be in the moderate category. The mercury levels will drop as well,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting center, India Meteorological Department.Rainfall below 15mm is considered light, and between 15 and 64.5 mm is categorised as moderate, and above 64.5mm is heavy rain.Weather analysts have asserted that the monsoon line of trough – a low-pressure line that oscillates around Delhi and brings rains to the regions – has shifted back towards the Delhi-NCR region bringing chances of heavy rainfall.The Noida district has recorded a deficit of 93 percent in rainfall this year. Since June, it has received only 19.5mm rainfall against the expected 291.6 mm. Neighbouring Ghaziabad district too saw a deficit of 73 percent, and has received 78.4 mm rainfall against expected 291.6 mm.With the predicted rainfall, the maximum temperature is likely to fall over the next three days, and is expected to hover around 33 degrees Celsius on Monday. On Sunday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 37.6 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season’s average, against 35.7 degrees a day earlier.Sunday remained to be highly humid, with parts of NCR seeing patchy rains with an average rainfall recorded at 1 mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/intense-rainfall-expected-in-noida-on-monday/story-jJzVEfEAwHYoA3RuNVhKIM.html
09-08-2020||City||Hindon water quality deteriorated during the lockdown period, reveals data||Ghaziabad: While the water quality of rivers like the Yamuna improved during the lockdown period, the situation with its tributary – the Hindon – was somewhat different. Data of the Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB) revealed that although levels of dissolved oxygen (DO) in the river were high during the first three months of the year, they deteriorated during the months of April, May and June.According to the official figures of the UPPCB, DO levels in the river at a monitoring location at Karhera in Ghaziabad stood at 2.0 milligrams per litre (mg/l), 2.4 mg/l and 2.0 mg/l in January, February and March, respectively. However, DO levels deteriorated to .62 mg/l, .8 mg/l and .73 mg/l in April, May and June, respectively. The biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) at Karhera stood in the range of 9.0 mg/l to 19 mg/l between January and June.According to officials, DO is one of the vital parameters to assess the health of a river and should be higher than the BOD. They added that DO levels of 4 mg/l or more is suitable for propagation of life in the river, while BOD is the amount of dissolved oxygen needed for organisms to break down organic material present in water. At the other downstream location – Mohan Nagar – the DO levels ranged between 1.5 mg/l to 1.87 mg/l from January to March while the levels deteriorated and stood between .48 mg/l to .9 mg/l from April to June. The BOD at this location however was higher than that recorded at Karhera and ranged from 12 mg/l to 25.3 mg/l during the six months. Further, the DO levels were zero at the downstream location of Chijrarsi during January, February, May and June, barring presence of 1.7 mg/l found only in the month of April. The BOD, on the other hand, went further high and ranged between 20 mg/l to 45 mg/l, therefore bringing down the dissolved oxygen levels.“It is ideal that BOD should be low and it will help in getting higher levels of DO. Higher DO levels indicate better river health. The lower levels of DO during the lockdown period is due to the fact that the river Hindon has no ecological flow of water of its own and is primarily dependent on rainfall or water flow from other sources like canals,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UPPCB. “During the lockdown period in April and May, majority of industrial units and commercial activities were closed but the untapped drains in Ghaziabad continued to pour in discharge. So, the DO levels were low with no fresh flow of water in the river. The increasing trend of high BOD levels starting at Karhera to Chijarsi also lowered the DO levels. It could be possible that the DO increased infrequently in between (like at Chhijarsi in the month of April) due to some rainfall activity,” he added. The experts on the other hand expressed surprise over the scenario. “While the rivers across the country showed improvement in water quality, the deterioration in the water quality of river Hindon is surprising. The figures indicate diminishing DO levels with increase in BOD levels. The figures, however, do not show the chemical oxygen demand (COD) which is generated from chemical effluents, etc. It is a thumb rule that COD will always be higher than BOD, about 2.5 times or higher,” said Dr Chandravir Singh, a retired scientist of the Haryana pollution board. COD is a measurement of oxygen required to oxidize soluble and particulate organic matter in water Singh, the convener of Doaba Paryavaran Samiti, in 2014 and 2015 filed two petitions with the National Green Tribunal and raised the issue of contamination of river Hindon water due to effluents discharge by industrial units, and about the contamination of groundwater in catchment areas. “The figures show that the DO levels remained high in the upstream location of Meerut during the lockdown months of April, May and June while the DO levels deteriorated in Ghaziabad stretch (downstream). With the figures of the UPPCB, it seems that despite the closure, there was water discharge in river Hindon and probably the industrial units were also running in Ghaziabad. Together, the higher COD and BOD lessened the DO levels as a result,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hindon-water-quality-deteriorated-during-the-lockdown-period-reveals-data/story-9kWBVUfcVBqhHrKqdcmEYP.html
09-08-2020||City||Ganga canal mishap: Trying to help victims, man loses ailing infant daughter||Ghaziabad A family from Masuri, who was on the way to get their ailing baby girl admitted to a hospital in Delhi on Friday night, spotted the car that plunged into the upper Ganga canal at Masuri in Ghaziabad. Salman Qureshi and his family soon decided to help out the car’s passengers, but in turn lost his infant daughter. Salman, 26, helps out his elder brother Ashim Qureshi who operates a hotel in Masuri. Salman’s six months old daughter was down with high fever and a hospital in Ghaziabad asked them to take her to Hapur. The family, including Salman and his wife, his brother, an aunt and a nephew, headed to Hapur in their SUV, a white Scorpio, around 10.30pm on Friday. “In Hapur, a doctor told us to go to Meerut. In between, my sister-in-law called and advised that we should take the child to Delhi. From Hapur, we headed to Delhi. It was around midnight when we reached the Ganga canal. My nephew, Shadab, who was in the rear seat, shouted that he had spotted a car in the canal. I stopped my car and came out to have a look. The tail-light of the car in the canal was still on. We tried calling police control room number but it did not connect. Then we looked for a PCR van but could not locate any. Thereafter we turned the SUV back and headed to the police station,” Salman said. At the Masuri police station, the cops upon information by the family sent out a wireless message to the PCR vans to check the incident site. “From the police station we drove back to the canal in order to find if anyone was still alive. By then, the car had plunged completely into water. Soon, a police team arrived and was not satisfied with what we had said about the incident. Suddenly, we spotted a man near the banks. The cops pulled him out. The man said that there were three others with him and two had managed to climb onto the car, but could not recall anything thereafter,” Salman added. While the two brothers also moved along the canal to find out three others, they ended up losing precious time in getting the infant child to a hospital in Delhi. “We lost about one hour to the incident. But I thought that helping out others was worth and the almighty may help my ailing daughter. Then I sped the car to a hospital in Ghaziabad and later to Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya at Geeta Colony in Delhi. While I got the documents prepared, my wife came running and told me that our daughter was not responding. She had succumbed,” Salman said. The child was second daughter of Salman who got married four years ago. Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural), said, “Qureshi’s family had come in their car to the police station and informed us about the incident at the canal. They had also said that they were on way to get treatment for their daughter but stopped to help the four men. As a result, we could save one of the four on the spot. Unfortunately, Qureshi’s daughter died when the family reached the hospital in Delhi. Without his help, we may have not got clues to the accident as there is heavy flow of water in the canal.” Two bodies recovered from canalThree persons had gone missing when their Swift Dzire car carrying four men plunged into the canal at Masuri on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The four men from Bareilly were on the way to Chandigarh for their work. The one survivor who was saved with efforts of Salman and the local police was identified as Paramvir Singh, 28, while three others, Ashish Dhyani, 30, Sanjeev Kumar, 44, and Vinod Kumar, 30, had gone missing. The police continued with the search operation for the three missing men on Sunday, and said that they recovered two bodies from the canal. “The bodies of Ashish Dhyani and Vinod Kumar have been recovered. Both were found about 500 metres away from the incident site. We are still trying to trace the third missing person,” Jadaun added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ganga-canal-mishap-trying-to-help-victims-man-loses-ailing-infant-daughter/story-EUYNNQIoWC0oZJwKOB9VAP.html
09-08-2020||Patna||IIT and NIT graduates running examination racket in Bihar arrested||Bihar police claims to have busted an interstate gang duping unemployed youths by promising to help them clear National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and other engineering entrance examinations. Six persons including three National Institute of Technology (NIT) pass outs and one Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) pass out were arrested from a Patna apartment on Sunday.Four laptops, one CPU, 10 cell phones, five drives, two hard disks, eight cheque books, two bank passbooks, two cheques valuing Rs 6 lakh, several original matriculation certificates and a motorcycle were among the articles seized from the hideout of the accused at Vindyachal Apartment under Buddha colony police station.“Arrested persons were identified as Ujjawal Kashyap, of Marufganj, Patna City, Ramesh Kumar Singh, Nitesh Kumar and Sourabh Suman of Patna, Prashant Kumar, Bhagalpur and Rohit Kumar,” said S K Prabhakar, DSP, Sachiwalaya.Also Read: Two teens stabbed to death in Bihar’s Aurangabad, hate crime suspected Three of the fraudsters had passed out from NITs in various states while one of them was an IIT pass out, police said. Two others arrested in connection with the examination racket had passed out from a private business school in Patna.The DSP that mastermind Ujjawal was allegedly involved in collecting huge sums of money from youths in the name of helping them clear NEET and other engineering examinations.“During the raid, the police also recovered documents linking Delhi-based fraudster Atual Vats to this gang. It appears he was extending his racket in other states with the help of Ujjawal,” Prabhakar added.Also Read: CM Nitish Kumar conducts aerial survey of flood-affected areas in BiharThe DSP said the accused were taking up to Rs 15 lakh with the promise to help candidates clear the NEET and Rs 8 lakh for other engineering examinations. They were also charging up to Rs 8 lakh with the promise to help candidates clear examinations for appointment of police sub-inspectors in Bihar.“They were also involved in duping youths worth lakhs of rupees for clearing ANM, Bihar legislative examinations etc. After interrogation, the accused have been sent to jail,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/iit-and-nit-pass-outs-running-examination-racket-in-bihar-arrested/story-EAVnlKpEsuJryxNCky5gfJ.html
09-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Zonal centres to come up for Covid patients in home isolation||Ghaziabad: In order to deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the Uttar Pradesh government has sent revised guidelines to the Ghaziabad district, directing setting up zonal centres to cater to asymptomatic patients in home isolation. At present, the assessment, monitoring and referral of the patients who opt for home isolation is done through the Integrated Covid Command and Control Centres (ICCC) which have come up in districts across the state.According to figures of the state health department, about 18,412 out of the 47,890 active patients in UP are under home isolation while 155 have opted for semi-paid isolation in hotels and 1,373 are in paid private facilities. In Ghaziabad, 410 patients have applied for home isolation since July 21 and 377 were allowed after assessment of conditions, till August 8. About 118 of them have completed their 10-day home isolation period while 236 people are still in isolation and 23 were referred to Covid facilities.Semi-paid facilities refer to hotel isolation facilities which is available at nominal rates on the basis of single occupancy and double occupancy, in which government healthcare staff provides care to the patient. “In order to better monitor the rising number of patients in home isolation, the districts will set up zonal offices where a team of doctors and staff along with a rapid response team will be stationed and work in two shifts from 7am to 11pm. Upon information of positive patients from the ICCC, the zonal offices will make assessment over phone whether the patient needs home isolation or needs to be sent to a Covid facility,” the order by Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health), said.The new directions mandate that the zonal centres will assess patients, inspect whether their houses fulfil criteria for home isolation and teams from the zonal centres will also maintain the daily health status of the patients and also upload it to the state portal.Till now, the coordinated works were done through ICCC but are now decentralised. Even the rapid response teams were sent to the patient’s house through ICCC while another set of doctors taking daily health status of the patients were also stationed at the ICCC.The new directions have, however, not undermined the role of the ICCC which is operational round the clock. The ambulance booking facility will be taken care of by the ICCC. The directions said that it can also intervene in case of emergency situations. The zonal offices will also keep ICCC posted about the daily developments. In case any home isolated patient develops health complications, the zonal offices will immediately inform the ICCC so that their referral to a Covid facility is ensured. “We will come up with the zonal offices at different locations and they will work in complete coordination with the ICCC which is setup at the district headquarter. We have defined the zonal areas with the help of three police stations each under one zone. In all, we have divided the district under six zones. The role of the ICCC is to centrally supervise different activities like surveillance, patient referral, home isolation and supervising functioning of survey teams, among other activities,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Home isolation was allowed by the UP government through an order on July 20 which based the facility on the basis of certain criteria. The conditions for home isolation include an undertaking from the patient, a consulting doctor to declare the patient asymptomatic, round-the-clock availability of a caregiver for the patient, a minimum of two toilets at home and a separate isolation room. Patients are also required to purchase pulse oximeter, thermometer, mask and gloves, among others. The new directions have also fine-tuned the ambulance facility. The order said that one house should be treated as one unit and any number of Covid-19 patients from one house should be taken to Covid facility in the same ambulance. The order said that there was time delay in picking up several patients from nearby houses and such arrangement is not feasible. Earlier in last week of June, the state government had issued directions that no ambulances will be provided to the patients for home drop after they get discharged from Covid hospitals. The government had earlier directed that ambulances will ferry only patients and not to be used by healthcare staff for field duties. Officials said that to facilitate the referrals, Ghaziabad district has 19 dedicated ambulances, including two life-support ambulances, which are running round the clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-zonal-centres-to-come-up-for-covid-patients-in-home-isolation/story-NEi3skB3QC4r0YTYGtb2pK.html
09-08-2020||City||Noida: Over 30 housing societies face action for disposing of untreated sewage into drains||NOIDA More than 30 group housing societies in the city are facing action from the Noida authority for disposing of untreated sewage into drains in violation of norms, thereby polluting the Yamuna river.The authority is in the process to impose heavy penalty on such societies for non-compliance of sewage treatment norms. As per the building bylaws-2010 of the Noida authority, each group housing complex must set up a sewage treatment plant (STP) on its premises to treat the waste water before being disposed of. “In violation of norms, many group housing complexes are dumping their sewer into drains that empty into the Noida’s biggest drain, irrigation drain, which meets Yamuna. In our inspection, we found that five housing complexes did not even set up the STP and the remaining societies, out of 33 under scanner, were having technical violations,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, Noida authority.From August 2 to August 6, the authority’s three teams -- each consisting of a senior project engineer, a project engineer and a junior engineer -- conducted inspections at the 33 housing complexes in sectors 74, 75, 76, 77, 78 and 79, among others, officials said, adding that most of these societies either did not have functional STPs or partially treated sewage.“The teams found out that 28 societies had STPs, but they were not functioning as per rules. We have started the process to calculate the penalty against those engaged in violations of the directions of the National Green Tribunal. We will calculate the penalty on the basis of scale of violations,” said Tripathi.Apart from this, the authority will also write to the UP Pollution Control Board, Central Pollution Control Board and the NGT about these societies for further action, the officials said.There are a total of 130 housing complexes, which got occupancy certificate from the Noida authority. The officials said that there is a need to inspect all the societies if they are using STP to handle waste water or not.“We aim to finish inspection of remaining societies in the next two months. Our objective is to ensure that the city’s untreated waste water is not dumped into drains, which empty into the Yamuna river,” said Tripathi.In its February 25 order, NGT had directed the Noida authority not to discharge the untreated water into drains as it pollutes the river.The residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) have welcomed the authority’s action against the violators. “The Noida authority must take strict action now to ensure that all housing societies adhere to norms and make their sewage treatment plants functional, as non-compliance is polluting drains and the Yamuna. Housing complexes are flouting the rules for long,” said PS Jain, president of Confederation of NCR RWAs, an umbrella body of RWAs.Vikrant Togad, an environmental activist from Greater Noida, said, “The Noida authority must carry out regular inspection and ensure compliance because dumping of untreated sewer water into drains is causing huge pollution not only to the river but also to the groundwater.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-over-30-housing-societies-face-action-for-disposing-of-untreated-sewage-into-drains/story-ICYAsKTNQLU01VAxVC2Y3L.html
09-08-2020||City||Vasai MLA gets power bill ₹5.50 lakh for his 2 colleges||Vasai member of legislative Assembly (MLA) Hitendra Thakur has received an electricity bill of ₹5.50 lakh for the month of July, for his two colleges, run by his Viva Trust. He has, however, decided to not pay the bill and has appealed to his electorate to not pay inflated power bills.“Since March 22, my two colleges are shut due to the lockdown, yet, I have received the July bill of ₹5.50 lakh,” said Thakur. “All my college offices are closed and no staffers are attending. I use a single fan in my office which is located inside the college premises, said Thakur. So how could I get this bill from the MSEDCL? I appeal to the residents of Vasai and Virar to not pay the inflated bills.,” said Thakur.Even my residential power bill is around ₹70,000 to ₹80,000 but I did clear those bills, said Thakur. Dinesh Bhikkad, executive engineer, MSEDCL, Virar said, “We will do a re-check of the power meters of the two colleges and send a rectified power bill if they are inflated, that is.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vasai-mla-gets-power-bill-5-50-lakh-for-his-2-colleges/story-tSnacKIKVyYPxgOM6t7BeI.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Factory worker crushed to death in Ludhiana||A 65-year-old factory worker died in a freak mishap on Sunday after the factory’s gate was hit by a truck and fell on him in Giaspura on Sunday. The driver of the truck managed to escape the spot, leaving the vehicle there.The victim has been identified as Vinod Jha of Giaspura.According to eye-witnesses, Jha was standing near the gate when the truck hit the gate of the factory, which fell and crushed him to death.On being informed the Sahnewal Police reached at the spot and initiated investigation.Inspector Inderjit Singh, station house officer at Sahnewal police station, said police will register a case after investigation.The victim is survived by two sons, one of whom is in the army and the other is a banker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/factory-worker-crushed-to-death-in-ludhiana/story-AMOieUYwVkIGYxyzKZtHAJ.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Labour shortage hits work, Kharar flyover deadline pushed to December||The much-delayed Kharar flyover now has an eighth deadline of December 2020 as shortage of skilled labour due to the lockdown following the Covid-19 outbreak has hit work and impacted the previous time limit of November.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had handed over the Rs 368-crore project to Larsen & Toubro (L&T), which began construction in November 2015 with completion planned in three years by December 2018. Over five years however, only 76% of the work was done even as seven deadlines expired from December 2018 to January 2020, then March and on to June, July, September, November and now December 2020. “We are trying our best but face labour shortage,” says Bhavnesh Kumar, manager, NHAI. “From 300 labourers earlier we are now left with only 200 as most of them have gone back to their native places and are unable to return due to the lockdown. Construction of the bridge at Khanpur will take some time and we are expecting the work to finish by the year-end,” said an L&T official not wishing to be named. Work on the flyover was suspended on March 22 after the lockdown, but resumed from April 20, with authorities hoping to finish it by September amid restrictions on movement of traffic. Kharar sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Himanshu Jain, who is supervising the project, said he had issued several deadlines for various works on the flyover, but labour shortage was a problem. “We are hopeful that the project will be completed by the year end,” he added. The national highway where the flyover is coming up connects Chandigarh to parts of Punjab, besides Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. This leaves Kharar as a major bottleneck. About 50,000 vehicles were crossing the stretch on an average before the lockdown. Among disgruntled locals, Kartar Grewal, a resident of Kharar, says, “The delays are endless and it has become a challenge to cross the stretch. Often ambulances are held up. I request the state government to intervene and expedite the project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labour-shortage-hits-work-kharar-flyover-deadline-pushed-to-december/story-s6bg8yKMiMr4JrKjkI7RIJ.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Members of labour unions protest outside Ludhiana DC’s office, demand health care benefits||On the call of Centre of India Trade Unions (CITU), over 500 members of 11 labour unions protested outside Ludhiana deputy commissioner’s office on Sunday and demanded health care insurance among other benefits for Covid warriors. Members of unions including anganwadi workers, kisan union and Lal Jhanda Punjab Bhatha Mazdoor Union raised slogans against the Centre and state governments.Amid surging Covid-19 cases, protesters were seen wearing masks but did not adhere to social distancing norms. They got into a heated argument with police personnel deployed outside the DC’s office to stop them from entering the premises. Barricades were installed near the office and workers sat there and protested for two hours.Subhash Rani, general secretary of Anganwadi Mulazam Union, said, “We have been working as Covid-19 warriors since March, but no benefits have been provided to helpers and workers. The government must increase honorarium of workers to Rs 25,000 and provide health care insurance benefits to anganwadi and ASHA workers.”“The state government assured workers that children between the age of three to six years will be admitted to Anganwadi centres, but this year too, they have been enrolled in government schools. If this continues, anganwadi centres will close down and all workers and helpers will become jobless,” she said.Meanwhile, Karkhana Mazdoor Union, Ludhiana, protested at Focal Point and textile workers union raised slogans at Tajpur Road against the centre government for changing labour laws. They said increasing working hours from eight to 12 hours will lead to exploitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/members-of-labour-unions-protest-outside-ludhiana-dc-s-office-demand-health-care-benefits/story-o4aq0lIApDj6BLp2QpgJwO.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||In 2 days, 33 register online for BA courses at Govt College, Ludhiana East||: As many as 33 students have registered online for bachelor of arts courses at Government College, Ludhiana East, in two days. The course has 80 seats and the online registration process was started on Saturday. The last date to apply is August 12.In BA courses, the college offers economics, history and political science, English and Punjabi and history and culture of Punjab. Principal Dharam Singh Sandhu said, “Students have five days to apply and all seats will be filled easily. The counseling will be conducted online on August 17 after verifying documents. Students will be informed through a message to deposit fee.”The new building of Government College, Ludhiana east, situated opposite Vardhman Mill on Chandigarh Road, is under construction since 2018. In the meanwhile, classes had been conducted at SCD Government College.The work on two blocks- arts and science- has been completed and the administrative block is also expected to be ready in four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-2-days-33-register-online-for-ba-courses-at-govt-college-ludhiana-east/story-u5NoYWnEeWFDm3u3TgUkgJ.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to decide on remission of hostel fee for guest-basis students for lockdown period||Panjab University has constituted an eight-member panel to take a call on remission of hostel fee for students who live there on guest basis for the lockdown period. The panel, which includes PU’s dean students’ welfare (DSW) SK Tomar, senators Navdeep Goyal and Rajat Sandhir and PU’s finance and development officer, is scheduled to meet on August 13 to take a decision on the matter.Students living in hostels on guest basis pay monthly as opposed to paying for the entire semester at once. “We received representations from students demanding remission of hostel fee for students living there on guest basis. Many factors are being taken into consideration before the decision is taken,” Tomar said.The representation given by former PU students’ council president Chetan Chaudhary and former joint secretary Manpreet Mahal in June will be tabled during the meeting of the panel. The former council members had demanded remission of hostel fee for March and April.“Students were in panic as authorities are demanding fee from those living in the hostel on guest basis for the lockdown period,” Chaudhary said.There has also been growing demand from PU students to waive off fee for the current semester, online classes for which have already commenced.National Students Union of India (NSUI) PU president, Nikhil Narmeta said, “The authorities should also take a decision on adjusting the fee for hostellers who were not here during the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-decide-on-remission-of-hostel-fee-for-guest-basis-students-for-lockdown-period/story-WHusD9B9rCG7cstCvGVPZL.html
09-08-2020||City||Union decries higher age bar for coveted posts in Punjab water & sewerage board||An advertisement inviting applications for the post of superintendent engineer and chief engineer at Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board by candidates up to 64 years of age has led to strong resentment among employees.In a memorandum to the higher authorities in the Punjab local bodies department, members of the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Employees Union have stated that finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal had clearly stated that government officers will retire at the age of 58. However, their department had sought applications for the coveted posts with eligibility up to 64 years. “It seems some officers want to appoint persons of their choice,” the union members alleged. The advertisement for the posts of three superintending engineers and three chief engineers was released after a meeting of the Board of Directors of the sewerage board on June 23. Chairman of the Punjab water supply and sewerage department Pargat Singh Dhunna said the newspaper advertisement was given by the board’s chief executive officer (CEO).On his part, CEO Ajoy Sharma said, “It was a decision of the board members. It was decided to appoint officers with considerable experience. We will consider all applications.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/union-decries-higher-age-bar-for-coveted-posts-in-punjab-water-sewerage-board/story-kIS5jXDw37bfD8o8BDXFwL.html
09-08-2020||Jaipur||11 fatalities take Rajasthan’s Covid-19 death toll to 789; tally of cases reach 52,497||Eleven new fatalities due to coronavirus infection pushed Rajasthan’s death toll to 789 on Sunday, while 1,169 fresh cases took the tally in the state to 52,497, a health department official said.So far, 35,553 people have been discharged after recuperating from the disease while 13,473 patients are still under treatment, he said. Of the fresh deaths, four each were reported from Jaipur and Kota, and one each from Jalore, Nagaur and Pali, the official said.Jaipur alone has reported 219 deaths due to the coronavirus infection, followed by Jodhpur 85, Bharatpur 57, Ajmer 55, Bikaner 48, Kota 45, Nagaur 35, Pali 32, Alwar 23 and Dholpur 19.  Among the new cases reported on Sunday, Jaipur accounted for 127, Kota 115, Ajmer 98, Jodhpur 79, Udaipur 78, Chittorgarh 58, Sikar 57, Pali 55 and Rajsamand 52.Bharatpur reported 46 new instances of Covid-19, Barmer 42, Dholpur 39, Baran and Nagaur 34 each, Tonk 31, Bikaner 29, Alwar and Ganganagar 26 each, Sawaimadhopur 25, Bhilwara 23 and Karauli 19.Eighteen people contracted coronavirus infection in Jhalawar, 15 in Bundi, 11 in Jalore, eight each in Hanumangarh and Pratapgarh, five each in Dungarpur and Dausa, four in Jaisalmer and two in Jhunjhunu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/11-fatalities-take-rajasthan-s-covid-19-death-toll-to-789-tally-of-cases-reach-52-497/story-Sx4ynIHIehOGyjsBJnd7kL.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Janmashtami shobha yatras banned in Ambala district till August 13||Ambala district magistrate Ashok Kumar Sharma on Sunday banned large gatherings for Janmashthami-related functions till August 13 .Sharma said that to prevent the Covid-19 spread, large gatherings need to be restricted, as per instructions issued by ministry of home affairs.He added that anyone violating the order will be booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Covid-19 cases have risen at an alarming rate in Ambala since July. So far, 2107 positive cases have been reported from the district, of which 391 are active. As many as 19 people have succumbed to the virus so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/janmashtami-shobha-yatras-banned-in-ambala-district-till-august-13/story-avNIsq8VON6td7FvVD8dLL.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC likely to allot road recarpeting works in two weeks||With the Municipal Corporation finally getting a positive response for its tenders, the allotment of road repair and recarpeting works for the current financial year is expected to happen within two weeks. The work will be started in a month’s time.The MC had in June had floated 13 tenders worth ₹40 crore. But, it failed to get any bidders. It re-invited the applications by floating the tenders again in July.“This time, we have got positive response for every tender we floated. These range from two to five bidders per tender. After scrutiny of the bids, we expect to allot the work within two weeks,” said MC chief engineer Shailender Singh.However, the long-awaited road recarpeting isn’t likely to start before mid-September. “Even if the allotment is done in the next two weeks, we will not start the work during the rainy season. The monsoon is expected to end on September 15, and recarpeting will start thereafter,” said Singh.The road recarpeting in the city has been long overdue as the MC was struggling with paucity of funds. Even after the UT administration sanctioned special grant for road recarpeting, the work couldn’t be started because of the Covid-19 lockdown.The MC has also faced severe criticism over the poor quality of roads. Consequently, it introduced the clause of 5-year mandatory maintenance. As per the clause, the firm which gets the contract for road recarpeting has to maintain it for five years.“The bank guarantee deposited by the contractor will be forfeited if he/she fails to maintain the road for five years,” Singh added.105 ROADS TO GET ATTENTIONIn the current financial year, as many as 105 major and minor city roads will get the MC’s attention. On 61 roads, major recarpeting will be undertaken, while 44 roads will undergo repair and maintenance. Widening of some existing roads will also be carried out.Roads to be up for recarpeting include v-6 road of phases 1 and 2 in Ram Darbar, v-5 road in Sector 56, v-3 road in sectors 55/56, v-3 road in sectors 53/54, v-3, v-4, v-6 roads and parking of sectors 34, 35, 44 and 45; v-3, v-4,v-5, v-6 roads and parking of sectors 37, 38, 39 and 40; v-6 roads of rehabilitation colony, housing board and electricity board colony in Sector 52; v-6 roads of housing board colony in Sector 61, v-6 road in Sector 42-B, v-4 and v5 roads of Sector 49.50% WORKS PENDING FROM LAST YEARWith the old works still pending, the road recarpeting planned by MC is expected to get delayed. The civic body is yet to complete 50% of its pending road works from the 2019-2020 financial year. Though it had started the works immediately after the lifting of lockdown restrictions, the same were discontinued because of monsoon. “We will start the works for the current financial year only after the pending projects from last year are finished,” said Singh. Works worth ₹25 crore are pending from last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-likely-to-allot-road-recarpeting-works-in-two-weeks/story-qzJLobMUUKpDfqKHdDSJ5M.html
09-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi BJP hits out at AAP govt for ‘running away’ from responsibility||The Delhi BJP on Sunday attacked Health Minister Satyendar Jain for claiming that patients from outside the city are the reason for the rise in Covid-19 cases here, and alleged that the AAP government was running away from its responsibility.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageJain has attributed the recent rise in cases to “patients from outside getting tested here”.“I fail to understand whether it is Delhi chief minister or his ministers who consider outsiders and migrants in the city as a problem?” Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta questioned.“Earlier also, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that people from Bihar come to Delhi with a Rs 500 ticket and get back after availing treatment worth Rs 5 lakh. Also, the AAP government had denied treatment for people from other states, while the Modi government had ensured treatment for them,” Gupta claimed.Talking to reporters, Jain said, “Many patients from outside Delhi are getting tested here, hence the rise in the number of cases. There is otherwise a decline in cases here”. Jain said the hospital admissions have also increased due to the patients coming from outside Delhi.  “Such statements show that the Delhi government is running away from its responsibilities and diverting the attention of the people,” Gupta said.He said the Kejriwal government should help the people. “It still needs to work very carefully in view of the Covid-19,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-bjp-hits-out-at-aap-govt-for-running-away-from-responsibility/story-CZKtkpoFGuC1taURwJxWxM.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Strict Covid-19 curfew gave Chandigarh cleaner air||While the lockdown between March and May restricted people indoors, this brought about a positive – a major decrease in the city’s air pollution levels compared to last few years.From the ‘satisfactory’ to ‘moderate’ air quality in the same period last year and in 2018, the level remained ‘good’ this year (see box), as per figures shared by the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) recently.This is good news for Chandigarh amid the Covid-19 pandemic when scientists have contended that prolonged exposure to air pollution leads to a chronic inflammatory response even among the young and healthy, which may translate into higher Covid death rates in cities with more pollution, as seen in north Italy. On the flip side, on June 1, when most of the curfew restrictions were lifted in Chandigarh, the AQI jumped to the ‘satisfactory’ level at 56, while a day before on May 31, the air quality was ‘good’ with an AQI of 35. The average AQI for June hovered around 57. The air quality is measured through the air quality index (AQI). Lesser the AQI count, better the air quality. An AQI between 0-50 is considered good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 moderate, 201-300 poor, 301-400 very poor and 401-500 severe.The average AQI in March during the lockdown was 51 (34 during the lockdown period). But, last year during the same period, it was nearly double at 83. In comparison to April 2019, when AQI was 91, this year, the air quality improved greatly with an average of 42. Similarly, AQI in May this year was 66 against 113 last year.“Owing to the lockdown period imposed from March 24 to May 30, major air pollutants have been restricted. There was progressive improvement in overall air quality during the lockdown period,” the CPCC report states.“This change can be attributed to restricted industrial and commercial activities, minimum vehicular congestion and zero construction activities,” it adds.Right before the lockdown started, the AQI was largely under the ‘satisfactory’ category and shifted to ‘good’ category as the curfew period progressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/strict-covid-19-curfew-gave-chandigarh-cleaner-air/story-Wx0UaX9H2vekgHAGeqyMcP.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Covid patient jumps quarantine to meet newborn child in Uttarakhand||A Covid-19 patient admitted in a quarantine facility here went missing on Saturday morning. However, he was later apprehended and quarantined in Uttarakhand, where he had gone to check up on his newborn baby.The patient, identified as Mohammad Arif of Haridwar in Uttrakhand, allegedly escaped from Sood Dharamshala in Sector 22, which houses a Covid centre and post-discharge quarantine facility.Sood Dharamshala nodal officer Shreya told the police that Arif, who had come to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research for his son’s treatment, was tested positive for Covid-19 and referred here on July 29. He was supposed to be shifted from Sood Dharamshala to the Covid centre set up at Panjab University on Saturday morning, but he was nowhere to be found.Arif’s roommate said when he didn’t see him there at night, he assumed that he (Arif) had been shifted to the PU Covid centre.Officials said Arif’s wife had recently delivered a baby who was sick, so Arif escaped the quarantine facility and travelled all the way to Uttarakhand to see his child at the Roorkee civil hospital. Arif has now been quarantined there as per the protocol.Police said a team has left for Roorkee to examine how Arif had been able to break out of the Covid centre. A case has been registered under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 17 police station.Earlier on May 5, a Covid patient in Sector 56 had got out of self-isolation and rode to his village in Uttar Pradesh on a motorcycle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-covid-patient-jumps-quarantine-to-meet-newborn-child-in-uttarakhand/story-YOFC78DgzI2CfeZkV3iaJL.html
09-08-2020||City||Ludhiana records 224 new Covid-19 cases, 10 more deaths||With 224 fresh cases and 10 deaths being reported on Sunday, Ludhiana seems to be getting no relief from Covid-19.The number of Covid-19 cases reported in the district so far is 5,032 and the death toll 168.This is the third consecutive day, the city has witnessed over 10 Covid-19 deaths in a single day. The fatalities include a 19-year-old woman who tried to escape the Covid Care Centre of Civil Hospital by jumping off the first floor of the building on August 7. She died at Dayanand Medical College (DMC). Confirming this, medical superintendent of DMCH, Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said that the patient died of heart blockage on Sunday. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga who has sought a report in the matter, said, “The woman was suffering from depression and was admitted at PGIMER, Chandigarh. She was tested Covid-19 positive and was admitted to a government hospital in Samrala and later referred to Covid Care Center at civil hospital Ludhiana. She was later taken to DMCH on August 7, where she died today.” Other fatalities include a 53-year-old man from Guru Arhan Dev Nagar, a 65- year- old man from Dhandra road, a 50-year-old woman from Model Town, 64- year- old man from Subash Nagar, 54-year-old man from Jawaddi, a 50-year-old woman from Sant Street Civil Line, a 46-year-old woman from Tibba Road, an 81-year-old man from Durgi and a 60-year-old woman from Mohalla Jagdish Nagar. Those who tested positive include eight healthcare workers, nine police personnel, one undertrial, five pregnant women and others.Sharing details deputy commissioner said that there are 1,696 active cases in the district.He said that sincere efforts are being made to keep people safe from Covid-19. He said that a total of 246 patients (224 from Ludhiana district and 22 from other states/districts) have tested positive in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-records-224-new-covid-19-cases-10-more-deaths/story-Eq5e2p1sCO67L3WxKw4EeP.html
09-08-2020||City||Violators pay in cash and time for not wearing masks in Ludhiana||People caught without face masks and for violating other orders were hit with a double whammy on Sunday. They were not only fined by the police but also made to stand at one place for an hour as punishment.The police, who are issuing nearly 900 challans every day, also gave free washable masks to the violators.The initiative has come following verbal orders from chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who during a live session on social media on Saturday, was suggested by his web audience to start time penalty for those who go out without masks.Police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal said the CM’s orders have been implemented as the violators are being made to stand for up to one hour after issuing challans to them. The police on Sunday also provided washable masks to the violators and gave them a warning too.Agrawal said people usually pay the fine on the spot. Those who try to act oversmart and don’t pay the fine, the police lodge FIRs against them, he said, adding that this drive would help police in making people follow the rules and wear masks.The police have already issued 45,000 challans to violators for not wearing masks and collected fine of ₹2.35 crore from them, the top cop informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/violators-pay-in-cash-and-time-for-not-wearing-masks-in-ludhiana/story-W3AVRnKgQbnUxyhDOMHPgM.html
09-08-2020||City||Two civil hospitals refuse admission; Tarn Taran man dies, cremated as covid suspect||TARN TARAN A 38-year-old man, Sardool Singh, of Patti city, around 20km from district headquarters, was cremated as a covid-suspect on Sunday morning. The district health department, however, has not taken his pre-death or posthumous sample for covid-19. He was refused admission at civil hospitals in Patti and Tarn Taran, ultimately breathing his last on way to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH), Amritsar, on Saturday night. For the family, which is alleging negligence from hospitals and the health department, the ordeal started on Saturday evening. The victim’s cousin brother Kuldeep Singh, 32, said, “On Saturday, about 6pm, my brother Sardool Singh, 38, who had been suffering from piles, complained of weakness. We took him to Sandhu Hospital, where he was given first-aid. They asked us to take him to the Patti civil hospital, due to the pandemic.” “About 7pm, we reached Patti civil hospital, where doctors asked us to call 108 ambulance service, and take the patient to the Tarn Taran civil hospital. At Tarn Taran hospital, they asked us to take him to Amritsar’s GNDH hospital,” Kuldeep said, adding when they reached GNDH around 9pm, doctors declared Sardool brought dead. “Why has the government opened hospitals in Patti and Tarn Taran, if there is no treatment of patients?” Kuldeep added.Patti civil hospital senior medical officer Dr Birinder Kaur said, “The patient had come to us and his condition was serious. He had symptoms of covid-19 and was referred to Tarn Taran civil hospital.”She added samples for covid-19 were not taken as he was ‘critically ill’. “We did not take posthumous samples of the victim as the family didn’t inform health authorities about his death in timely manner. We will conduct the testing of the victim’s family members once they come out of the grief,” she added.Tarn Taran civil surgeon Dr Anoop Singh said they considered the patient positive and he was cremated after following covid guidelines. He said the patient had been unwell for around a year.Patti sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Rajesh Sharma said, “If the health department was aware that the patient was a covid suspect, it should have informed us, so that follow-up could have been done. I will direct health authorities to provide details.”The victim’s father Pyara Singh said if his son was a covid suspect, then why were other family members not quarantined. “First, they killed my son and then they played with our sentiments. My son just needed timely treatment as he was only suffering weakness, because of piles. He had no other disease,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-civil-hospitals-refuse-admission-tarn-taran-man-dies-cremated-as-covid-suspect/story-923RVnjOaU72XjWQocxyNI.html
09-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: Cop’s car stolen from outside police station||The car of a senior constable was stolen from outside Sahnewal police station on Sunday.The Sahnewal police have lodged an FIR against an unidentified person and initiated an investigation.A complaint was given by Kuldeep Singh of Manngarh village, who had parked the cop’s car outside the police station on Sunday.In his complaint, Singh said that on Saturday he had gone to meet Raj Kumar in his car, that he outside the police station. When he came out after some time, he was shocked to see the car missing from outside the police station.A case under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified accused.ASI Sadhu Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the police have been scanning CCTVs installed in the area to get a clue of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-cop-s-car-stolen-from-outside-police-station/story-sq1V2MFQ7SBmn3VzvNZ7gO.html
09-08-2020||City||LIP team ‘attacked’: Party threatens to gherao CP’s office||A day after Lok Insaaf Party leader Gagandeep Singh was allegedly attacked by Congress workers near the residence of Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, LIP leader and MLA Balwinder Singh Bains demanded adding Section 295- A and 153- A of the IPC to the FIR for hurling racial slurs at the party workers.He also demanded the inclusion of MP Ravneet Singh Bittu’s name in the FIR. Bains said if the cops fail to act, the LIP will gherao the office of Commissioner of Police on Tuesday. The LIP workers led by Gagandeep Singh alias Sunny Kainth were staging a symbolic protest against the shortage of ventilators at the civil hospital. The LIP leader had collected money at Bharat Nagar Chowk and went to the MP’s residence to hand over the collected amount when the clashes occurred. Gagandeep Singh accused the Congress workers of tossing his turban as well as those of his aides.While showing the audio and video recording of the incident, Balwinder Singh Bains said that Kainth had followed the government protocol and visited the MP’s house after taking due permission. “It is sad that instead of addressing the issue, the goons of MP attacked Kainth and tossed the latter’s turban. Sadly, the police acted as a mute spectator to the incident and later booked Kainth in a cross FIR. It is a gross misuse of police power,” said Bains. The purpose of the attack was just to toss the turban of Sunny Kainth, “It is a sin. We will not stop the agitation until we get justice,” said Bains. The absence of LIP supremo Simarjeet Singh Bains was conspicuous during the occasion who is stated to be unwell for the past couple of days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lip-team-attacked-party-threatens-to-gherao-cp-s-office/story-0e74SFwNJS6qYV2HdzyrjL.html
09-08-2020||City||Woman ends life after marriage turns sour||A 19-year-old woman ended life by hanging herself, barely two months into the marriage in Ghawaddi village on Saturday. According to the police, the woman committed suicide due to strained relations with her husband.A case of abetment to suicide has been registered at Dehlon police station.In her complaint, the victim’s mother stated that her 19-year-old daughter had solemnized love marriage with the accused. She alleged that her daughter took the extreme step as her marriage turned sour.On Saturday, she received a call from her son-in-law informing her that her daughter had committed suicide.ASI Ranjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused who has been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-ends-life-after-marriage-turns-sour/story-AITni0QYwiQzD5Sf2bDS0H.html
09-08-2020||City||SCD College merit cut-off starts from 115.78% in BCom||The tentative rank list of applicants seeking admission in Satish Chander Dhawan (SCD) Government College and Government College for Girls, was released on Sunday on the college website.With SCD College authorities giving 20% weightage to computer and mathematics, the cut-off for BCA rested at 118% and 115.6% at Government College for Girls. There are 40 seats for this course in both colleges. Colleges are giving 10% weightage, to applicants who had opted for mathematics or any computer-related subject in Class 12.At SCD Government College, 657 candidates have applied online for BCA and at Government College for Girls, 407 applicants have registered.The final merit list was uploaded at the SCD Government College website at 8 pm.In BCom, the maximum weightage is 16% for commerce subjects. Colleges are giving weightage of 4% each to subjects in commerce stream. Topping the charts in the general category for BCom is a student who scored 115.78% at SCD College, while that in GCG was 115.11%. There are 140 seats for the course. AT SCD Government College, 1,584 students have applied online for BCom and 1514 have applied for the course at GCG.SCD Government College, Principal Dharam Singh Sandhu, said, “Committees have been formed for scrutiny of documents uploaded by the students online. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, students have been asked to stay at home and after approval from the committee members, a message will be sent to the students to submit the fee. The counselling process for BCA will start from Monday.”In GCG, the final merit will be displayed on the college website on August 11. The college authorities have given two days’ time to students for correction in the online form.Paramjit Singh Grewal, GCG principal with DDO powers, said, “The counselling will be conducted online and committees will check the documents uploaded by the students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scd-college-merit-cut-off-starts-from-115-78-in-bcom/story-oE7BuCAK5Znnh9ZM09oOaJ.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||2 booked for raping 14-year-old girl, videotaping act in Payal||The Payal police lodged a case on Sunday against two men from Jallah village for raping a 14-year-old girl and blackmailing her.In her complaint, the victim said that the two men, Vinay Pal and Vicky, kidnapped her in a car and drove to an isolated spot where they raped her and videotaped the act.They threatened to make the video viral if she complained against them, the victim alleged.The victim was brought to the police station by her parents when she returned home and informed them about the attack on her.Inspector Karnail Singh, station house officer at the Payal police station said a hunt had been launched for the two men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-booked-for-raping-14-year-old-girl-videotaping-act-in-payal/story-g2UGXhEArlnbmhzShkBxAO.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Now, an app to check availability of beds in Punjab hospitals||HBMS Punjab, a mobile phone app to help users in the state check availability of vacant beds in private and government hospitals, was launched by Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Sunday.Speaking at the launch, Ashu said the app was currently available only on Google Play Store (for Android phones) and that the iOS version would be launched in the next few days. He said it would be of great benefit to users as they would get information about vacant beds before going to a hospital for treatment. To check bed vacancies, users could also click on the official web link: https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district/ or www.hbmspunjab.in. Lists of all private hospitals offering Covid treatment had been added on the app as well as the weblinks. Ashu also urged the residents to act responsibly and follow the government directions on Covid-19 safety measures, wear masks at all time, maintain physical distancing and hand hygiene. He said that under the Mission Fateh of the Punjab government, 10 lakh masks would be distributed to the needy in Punjab, out of which 80,000 would be distributed in district Ludhiana alone. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, who was also present at the launch, urged the residents not to panic and assist the district administration in fighting Covid pandemic and break the chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-an-app-to-check-availability-of-beds-in-punjab-hospitals/story-8I4L9VH4mtomR5uc7TNT0L.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||IMA Ludhiana docs start Covid centre at Lord Mahavira Homeo College||Doctors of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Ludhiana have set up a Covid care centre at the Lord Mahavira Homeopathic Medical College and Hospital on Hambran Road here. While inaugurating the centre on Sunday, Punjab cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu thanked IMA Ludhiana and the Lord Mahavira Hospital management for assisting the district administration at “this hour of need”. Ashu, who was also accompanied by deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and others, said he was talking to private hospitals to take over government hospitals to provide quality healthcare facilities to local residents. Even though a number of people from other districts were coming for treatment to Ludhiana, Ashu assured the locals that there was no shortage of beds in the city and urged them to visit the nearest hospital if they suspected they had contracted Covid-19.Dr Sunil Katyal, president, IMA Ludhiana, informed that to start with the Covid centre would have 25 beds, which would be upgraded to 50 beds later.Specialist doctors, medical officers, nurses, ward boys, technicians, sweepers and other staff had been hired to ensure its smooth functioning, with all expenses paid by IMA Ludhiana. The entire hospital would be sanitised daily and Covid samples would also be taken here, Katyal added. Speaking on the occasion, DC Sharma said that people from all sections of the society should contribute to help others during the pandemic, He also urged other social organisations to come forward and set up such centres and assured all possible help from the district administration to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ima-ludhiana-docs-start-covid-hospital-at-lord-mahavira-homeo-college/story-Oh2a50sv6q3qTtD5aD3K8M.html
09-08-2020||City||Jakhar refuses to get into slanging match with Bajwa||Chandigarh Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Sunday refused to get into a public slanging match with party’s Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa against whom he has sought strict disciplinary action for “anti-party activities”. Taking a dig, Jakhar, who sought Bajwa’s expulsion from the party for speaking out against the Amarinder Singh government, accused him of using foul language. “To Bajwa ji and also to my friends who want me to respond to his vitriolic and foul raving and ranting – all I want to say is – Enjoy this nazam (poetry),” he wrote in a tongue-in-cheek tweet with the video of ‘Jo Khandaani Raees Hain Woh Mizaj Rakhte Hain Narm Apna’. The Punjab Congress chief’s tweet came after Bajwa’s continued diatribe against him and chief minister Amarinder over the hooch tragedy in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts. He had, in a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi last week, demanded the expulsion of Bajwa and another party MP Shamsher Singh Dullo after they went to Governor VP Singh Badnore last week to seek CBI and ED probes into liquor deaths in the state. Jakhar, who has also sought an audience with Sonia Gandhi, said the party should immediately act against the duo for their “brazen” attacks against the Congress government in Punjab to ensure discipline in the party. “We have to take action now to send a strong message of zero tolerance for indiscipline. I have made a strong case for action against them for the sake of the party,” he said. However, there has been no word from the party high command on the stand-off so far. Bajwa and Dullo are both former presidents of the state Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jakhar-refuses-to-get-into-slanging-match-with-bajwa/story-vr1RPgebmCaznsbZdaU1CO.html
09-08-2020||City||PSPCL to pay Rs 30,000 to farmer for default in electricity supply||The district consumer disputes redressal forum, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, has directed the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to pay Rs 30,000 compensation to a Balachaur farmer, who could not irrigate his poplar trees due to fault in electricity supply.Gurdian Singh, a resident of Mehatpur village, had alleged that he had planted 450 poplar trees on his land. For the proper growth of the trees, timely irrigation was a requisite. The only source of irrigation for the trees was his electric tubewell, having power supply from a transformer installed near Government Middle School, Lalpur.“Due to a default in the power supply, I could not carry out irrigation, which ultimately led to the trees’ damage,” he said in a complaint registered on September 3, 2019.The PSPCL, its written reply, said that the disputed transformer has been supplying electricity to many other consumers but nobody other than the complainant had a problem.“This act of the PSPCL amounts to deficiency in service and negligence,” observed the forum while directing it to pay Rs 30,000 to the farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-to-pay-rs-30-000-to-farmer-for-default-in-electricity-supply/story-VMsZjKOZUGcz1b4QHfwg2I.html
09-08-2020||Pune||Engineering diploma admission process begins today||The Directorate of Technical Education in Maharashtra (DTE) has released the schedule for engineering diploma courses after 10th and 12th standard. The students willing to pursue the course can start applying for admission online from August 10, Monday. The merit list for admission as per the applications will be declared on September 2. This year, for the first time the entire admission process will be carried out online. As per the admission circular issued by DTE, the application, verification of documents and payment of fees will be carried out online from August 10 to August 25. Once a student applies for admission, he/she will be able to digitally verify the submitted documents. Any student that is unable to upload the documents has an option to go to a nearby facilitation centre of the DTE and get the documents verified. Students will be given a prior appointment before visiting the centre and with proper social distancing, the documents will be verified. Meanwhile, the admission seats for diploma admissions to the government and private polytechnic colleges have drastically reduced in the state. Also, many polytechnic colleges have closed down in the last few years due to fewer admissions. Currently, in Pune district, there are seven government polytechnic colleges, four aided colleges and 105 private polytechnic colleges. From 2016 until 202, around 16,000 seats have been cut down in these polytechnic colleges. While 26 private colleges shut down due to lack of admissions. Speaking about the issue, Dilip Nandanwar, joint director at Pune regional office of DTE said, “The percentage of admissions happening in government and aided polytechnic colleges are good in Pune district. And in some of the private colleges, the admission rate is also good, but in a majority of private colleges due to the lack of infrastructure, good faculty and placements, seats remain vacant on a large scale. In the last five years many such private colleges have closed down and even the numbers of seats are reduced.” BOX Engineering diploma admission schedule August 10 to 25 – Students can apply online August 11 to 25 – Documents verification Temporary merit list will be declared – August 28 Students can take objection on the merit list – August 29 to 31 Final merit list to be declared – September 2 BOX Shrinking polytechnic admissions in Pune 2016 – Number of colleges – 142 Number of seats – 51,889 Number of admissions done – 22,957 2017 – Number of colleges – 130 Number of seats – 44,722 Number of admissions done – 19,555 2018 – Number of colleges – 123 Number of seats – 38,299 Number of admissions done – 17,582 2019 – Number of colleges – 116 Number of seats – 35,432 Number of admissions done – 18,947||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/engineering-diploma-admission-process-begins-today/story-PVcSPf9rse8s2EgDH4jnVK.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds over 12,000 Covid-19 cases on second day; 390 fresh deaths||Maharashtra on Sunday reported the second highest single-day spike of 12,248 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count to 5,15,332, state Health department said.At 12,822, the state had reported the highest one-day rise in cases a day before.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWith 390 fatalities reported on Sunday, the death toll in the state went up to 17,757, a Health official said.At the same time, a record 13,348 patients were discharged in the day, taking the count of recoveries to 3,51,710, the official added.The state now has 1,45,558 active cases compared with 1,47,048 of Saturday, he said.Mumbai added 1,066 new cases and 48 deaths in the day, taking the case tally to 1,23,382 and death toll to 6,799.At 1,433, Pune city reported the highest number of new cases in the day and 58 deaths.A total of 27,25,090 samples have been tested so far in the state, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-over-12-000-covid-19-cases-on-second-day-390-die/story-k4nmJIldkrr0ZpS2Dg3BSL.html
09-08-2020||City||45 test positive for Covid-19 in Mohali, 32 in Panchkula||Mohali on Sunday recorded 45 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the district’s total past 1,300. The last 1,000 cases have surfaced in just 36 days with the latest century being recorded within 24 hours.Now, the total stands at 1309, of which 596 cases remain active. While 694 people have recovered, 20 of whom were discharged on Sunday, 19 patients have succumbed to the disease. The fresh cases are spread across the district and include 20 from Mohali city, 13 from in and around Kharar and six from Dera Bassi subdivision. Meanwhile, 32 people tested positive for the disease in the neighbouring Panchkula district, taking its tally to 939. The fresh cases include one CRPF personnel. As many as 405 cases remain active, as 531 patients have recovered while three have died so far.The fresh cases are spread across the district, with 16 from Panchkula city. Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the process of tracing the patients’ contacts is on and departments concerned are working on demarcating containment zones in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mohali-32-in-panchkula/story-etSFC5I5AafD0vIDXRwl0O.html
09-08-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt puts cap on advance deposit for private hospitals||Private hospitals in West Bengal cannot charge patients more than 20 per cent of the estimated cost of treatment or a maximum of Rs 50,000 at the time of admission, as per a new directive of the state government, a senior official said on Sunday.The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC), in a notification, also said private hospitals should not refuse admission or treatment if payment was not made immediately.“After due deliberation and careful consideration, it is decided that clinical establishments would not be entitled to demand more than 20 per cent of the estimated cost of treatment or a maximum amount of Rs 50,000 whichever is less, at the time of admission,” it said.In case the patient is not in a position to deposit the required amount at the time of admission, the hospital would grant provisional admission and provide necessary treatment, the notification said.“However, the admission would be regularised upon the deposit of the amount within a period of 12 hours. In case the deposit is not made within the time stipulated, the hospital would be at liberty to cancel the provisional admission...,” it added.In another advisory, the commission asked hospitals to intimate patients regarding billing on a daily basis.Henceforth, all investigations amounting above Rs 2,000 should be done with prior intimation to the patient and his family members, it said. PTI SCH RBT RBT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-govt-puts-cap-on-advance-deposit-for-private-hospitals/story-Cxe9ouLv3ncJphC1tEbRnL.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||No incentives, long duty hours, say nurses as 60 SPS Hospital staffers go on strike||Over a 60 staffers, including ward boys and nursing attendants of SPS Hospital here went on strike on Sunday to protest against long working hours and non-payment of incentives for Covid duty and raised slogans against the hospital authorities. Even as patients were inconvenienced, hospital authorities said they were following government orders and had informed the district authorities about the matter.The employees accused the human resource (HR) department of the hospital for violating labour rights and alleged that they are being made to work for over 12 hours wearing Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits during which they could not use the toilet or drink water. They said promises to pay each nurse Rs200 extra for Covid-19 duty had not been honoured. Not just that, “Our carry home salary, which is a mere Rs 13,000 after deduction, is getting delayed,” said Jaipreet, one of the protesting nurses. A majority of nurses were working in double shifts. At times just two nurses were handling nearly 15 patients, many of them on ventilators. Many nurses have tested positive while treating the patients, claimed Jaipreet. The change of duty roster proved to be the latest trigger as nurses were asked to perform two morning, two evening and two night duties in a week. When the nurses did not want the changes incorporated they were “ made to go from one department to another. After no one listened to our demand we were left with no option but stage a protest,” said two other nurses Gurpreet and Harpreet Kaur. ‘No talks with authorities’When asked to comment, medical superintendent Dr Rajiv Kundra said that instead of talking to the authorities and trying to resolve the issue, the nursing staff went on strike. “No one approached us and tried to resolve the issue,” he added, saying the roster had been changed following government directions. “The authorities have directed us to accommodate more Covid patients. So we made changes in the roster and used the staff deployed on non- productive duties for the treatment of Covid patients. As nurses have gone on strike against the new arrangement, we have informed the officials of the district administration to look into the matter,” said Dr Kundra. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said as staging a protest violated the Epidemic Act, “I urge the staff and hospital authorities to resolve the matter amicably.” A number of patients, meanwhile, were inconvenienced due to the strike.Kulwinder Kaur said her father-in-law who suffered from renal problems could not get his regular dialysis at the hospital. “ My father- in- law was not feeling well today so we rushed him to the hospital, but the hospital authorities refused to admit him and asked us to take him to another hospital. Even the doctor is not answering our call. In such a situation where shall we go?” she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-incentives-long-duty-hours-say-nurses-as-100-sps-hospital-staffers-go-on-strike/story-0cklkmZxcdFChnAqGRKkFM.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 25th Covid fatality, steepest spike of 89 cases||A 32-year-old woman succumbed to Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Sunday, as the Union Territory recorded its steepest single-day spike in cases yet, with 89 people testing positive for the disease. Earlier, it was on August 5 when the city reported its highest spike with 64 positive cases.The fresh cases also took Chandigarh’s tally past 1,500. Now, 1,515 people have been infected in the UT, of whom 585 are yet to be declared recovered. As many as 25 have died so far.The deceased was a resident of Sector 32 and was sampled after her death at her house on August 7.“She was a known case of heart disease and was suffering from jaundice and ascites too,” the UT bulletin stated.Among those who tested positive are nine health workers from various hospitals and one staffer of Elante Mall.Of the 89 cases, 29 were diagnosed through rapid antigen testing. Meanwhile, 32 people were discharged on Sunday, taking the number of those cured to 904. The fresh infections are spread across various sectors and colonies of the city. The patients are either contacts of previous cases or have travel history to Punjab, Delhi or Gurugram.At least nine health workers got the infection from their workplace contacts. They include a 33-year-old woman from Sector 30, who is working in the civil hospital, Sector 45, a 46-year-old woman from the PGIMER, and a 26-year-old woman from Sector 39, who works in Fortis Hospital, Mohali.Six health workers from GMCH, Sector 32, have also tested positive, including a 34-year-old man from Sector 43, 45-year-old woman from Sector 33 and 30-year-old man from Raipur Khurd .A 30-year-old man from Daria who works in Elante Mall was also found infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-25th-covid-fatality-steepest-spike-of-89-cases/story-cmrXIBKHUYYWketMzR5MMM.html
09-08-2020||City||Fake Twitter handle of J&K L-G Sinha detected, FIR lodged||Three days after new lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha took over the post in Jammu and Kashmir, a fake Twitter handle in his name sent many including police officials into a tizzy. Superintendent of police (cyber police) Tahir Ashraf said, “We started getting complaints that a Twitter handle in the name of honourable L-G has come up and that he has been responding to congratulatory messages. We took cognizance of the matter. An FIR has been registered and investigations have been initiated.”The fake Twitter handle has a picture of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha. The SP said the accused will be arrested soon. The LG, however, has a genuine Twitter handle by the name Manoj Sinha@manojsinha_.In the latest post on August 7, he had expressed shock and grief over loss of life in Air India plane crash in Calicut. The SP said amid the pandemic, any such hacking, that too of a constitutional post, can lead to widespread rumours leading to chaos. He also advised people not to blindly trust content posted on social media and verify first about the authenticity of such accounts when it comes to important officials and departments. “People should also refrain from sharing posts from such fake accounts without cross checking it because doing so may lead to disharmony and create law and order problems,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-twitter-handle-of-j-k-l-g-sinha-detected-fir-lodged/story-G9yct1ZXZDx4vPlQqJKhiK.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Boiler operators’ exam postponed||To fulfil technical manpower requirement of the boilers functioning in the state and to tap the employment potential, Boiler Operation Engineers (BOE) examination would be held in October or November. The exam which was earlier scheduled for August has been postponed due to the Covid situation, the spokesperson of the industries department disclosed here on Sunday. The spokesperson said a board of examiners, comprising of members having high academic and practical knowledge of modern boiler practices, has been constituted to maintain the high-level of the exam. The written examination will be conducted by Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh. So far 430 students have applied online through the Invest Punjab portal, the spokesperson added.LAST DATE FOR BOILER REGISTRATION EXTENDED In another decision, the industries department extended the date for availing the amnesty scheme for regularisation of boilers. The last date for applying for regularisation is August 31. A nominal fee of Rs. 25,000 will be charged for unregistered boilers while those that are registered but don’t have a renewed license, as on December 31, 2019, the fee will be Rs 10,000. To avail this benefit, the boiler users will have to apply to director of boilers, Punjab, for regularisation of boilers online on Business First Portal on or before August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/boiler-operators-exam-postponed/story-FunQ9W0jf7EMj9BuKIJM4L.html
09-08-2020||City||Two arrested for forging documents for e-passes||The Navi Mumbai crime branch on Friday arrested two men who forged documents to apply for e-passes during the lockdown. The accused made money by charging the applicants between ₹1,000 and ₹1,500 for their illegal services.The accused duo, identified as Navnath Dabde, 37, and Ishwar Shinde, 30, had been applying for passes since the start of the Covid-19 lockdown in March. In the last four months, they applied for around 40 e-passes, the police suspect.Dabde, a driver, was rendered jobless during the lockdown. He decided to partner with Shinde, a real estate agent to commit the forgeries. The duo started getting clients through word of mouth after they successfully tricked the system early in April. Prior to the relaxation of lockdown rules, passes of those residing outside Navi Mumbai were not approved by the city police as local address proof was essential. “The duo used to forge the address on the Aadhaar card of applicants from outside Navi Mumbai. Using a made-up reason, they would apply for the pass and get it approved,” said NB Kolhatkar, senior inspector, central unit.After police received a tip-off, they set up a sting operation with a dummy customer and contacted the accused. The men were called to meet in Belapur, near the police commissioner’s office on Friday, where they were taken into custody after they told the dummy customer how they would get the e-pass approval. So far, police have found 15 persons who paid the men for the passes. An investigation is on to find out how many other passes were issued using fake documents. Officers said that not all the passes applied for by the duo were approved.Dabde and Shinde do not have a prior criminal history. They have been remanded in police custody till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-forging-documents-for-e-passes/story-q9Z0ZxaMusVlQA6PijLpkI.html
09-08-2020||City||Ludhiana police bust gang of honey-trap robbers||The local police have arrested three female members of a gang, who used to rob men on the National Highway-44 near Ladhowal after luring them with sex.The accused would lure men with offers of sex and take them to obscure bushes along the roadside.“There, other gang members would threaten the men of implicating them in a sexual assault case and make off with their valuables and other belongings,” said inspector Gopal Krishan, SHO, Salem Tabri police station.On Saturday, following multiple complaints of such robberies, police laid a trap and arrested the three women while they were on the prowl for their next victim.As many as six stolen mobile phones and Rs 1,500 in cash was recovered from them.“The women are aged between 30 and 35 years and separated. They have confessed that they were active on the highway for the past 20 days. Before this, they targeted commuters on the Ludhiana-Delhi road,” the SHO added.“Amandeep is facing trial in three more criminal cases. A hunt is on to nab the other gang members,” he added.A case under Sections 379 (theft) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at the Salem Tabri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-bust-gang-of-honey-trap-robbers/story-qz4cWeWcFGhTc21GLVOeZN.html
09-08-2020||City||Himachal reports 1 death, 107 fresh virus infections||A 74-year-old man from Sarakar village in Hamirpur district died due to Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh, taking the death toll in the state to 13, officials said on Sunday. The patient died at around 9:30 pm on Saturday at the Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital, Ner Chowk in Mandi district. Chief medical officer Dr Devender Sharma said he was suffering from a kidney disease and blood deficiency and was under treatment in Chandigarh from where he returned to Hamirpur on July 26. He was admitted at a Covid Care Centre in Hamirpur for a day and was referred to Ner Chowk hospital on July 28 after his health deteriorated. INFECTION TALLY REACHES 3,371 Himachal Pradesh on Sunday recorded 107 fresh Covid-19 infections. With this, the total number of positive cases in the state has reached 3,371, officials said. Also, 100 more patients have recovered and active cases in the state stand at 1,149.Of the new cases, 23 were reported in Chamba district, 14 in Mandi district, 13 in Hamirpur district, 11 each in Solan and Sirmaur, nine each in Bilaspur and Kangra district, seven in Shimla, five each in Una and Kullu district.In Hamirpur district, the new cases include a 19-year-old man from Dhanavi village in Bhoranj sub-division, a 25-year-old man from Romehera village in Barsar tehsil, a 40-year-old woman from Jhareri village, a 23-year-old resident of Kohala village who had returned from Baddi on August 1. Others include a 21-year-old man from Rakkar village, a 53-year-old man from Jangalu village and a 37-year-old woman from Loharara village. Chief medical officer Dr Archana Soni said all of them have been shifted to a Dedicated Covid Care Centre. In Mandi, 10 migrant labourers who had recently come to the state tested positive. Besides, three policemen of Gohar police station and an army personnel from Thunag tehsil has also tested positive, DC Rugved Thakur said.In Una district, a 23-year-old pregnant woman, who is a resident of Puboval village, tested positive. She had returned from Delhi and was in home quarantine. A five-year-old girl and a 25-year-old woman have also tested positive in Lalri village. They had returned from Delhi and were under institutional quarantine. A 22-year-old man of Bhatoli village and a Bihar native is also among new cases. In Kangra district, of the new cases, a 36-year-old army jawan of Harchakian village has tested positive. He had returned from Jammu on July 31. Another 37-year-old army jawan of Badukhar village in Indora tehsil, who had returned from Pathankot, Punjab, on August 1 is also among new cases. A 66-year-old man of Badukhar village also tested positive. In Kullu district, a 25-year-old woman from Nirmand and a 23-year-old labourer in Naggar are among the new cases. Special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal said so far 13 deaths have been reported in the state while 2,181 patients have recovered. With 822 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra with 529 cases. Sirmaur has 414 cases, Hamirpur 360, Una 278, 250 in Mandi district, 216 in Chamba, 204 in Shimla district, 147 in Bilaspur, 101 in Kullu and 46 in Kinnaur. Lahaul and Spiti remains the least affected district with only four cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-reports-1-death-70-fresh-virus-infections/story-ga28QcNtFAoBvGm4dfqfbJ.html
09-08-2020||City||Gangster Gagan Judge’s mother, two aides arrested for extortion from Moga||Three persons, including the mother of gangster Gagan Judge, were arrested from Moga on charges of extortion on Sunday.The accused have been identified as Swaranjeet Kaur of Ferozepur, Harpreet Singh of Bhamba Landa village in Ferozepur and Amandeep Singh of Chuhar Chak village in Moga.As per information, the trio was coming to collect extortion money from someone in Moga when they were caught.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Barjinder Singh Bhullar said that an informer had tipped them off about the trio’s visit. “We recovered two weapons from their possession,” he said. The DSP further said, “As per preliminary probe, gangster Gagan Judge, who is currently lodged in Amritsar jail in a gold robbery case, has been operating the extortion racket from the jail.”Sources said the gangster used to make threat calls to the victims from the jail while his aides collected the money later.A total of six persons, including the gangster, the trio arrested on Sunday, and two unidentified persons, have been booked in the case. The case has been registered under Section 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act.Gagan Judge was arrested by an organised crime control unit (OCCU) team in March this year. He was among the five suspects who made off with about 30kg of gold ornaments from a branch of India Infoline Finance Limited on Gill Road in Ludhiana on February 17 this year.Judge and his gang members are reportedly involved in more than two-dozen crimes of contract killing, attempt to murder, extortion, auto snatching and other criminal activities. He is said to be closely associated with another absconding gangster Jaipal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gangster-s-mother-two-aides-arrested-for-extortion-from-moga/story-XPxrveWkomULyfaW3ZPnXJ.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Biggest haul ever of 27,600 litres of illicit chemicals by excise dept in 3 Dera Bassi units, 4 arrested||Cracking down on illicit liquor trading and smuggling in the state where more than a 100 persons died after drinking hooch recently, the excise department on Sunday seized 27,600 litres of illicit chemicals with spirits from three industrial units in Dera Bassi, Mohali district. This is claimed to be the biggest seizure of its kind.The excise and taxation department said in a press release that its special team from Mohali seized 27,600 litres of chemicals containing spirits stored in 136 drums of 200 litres each from three places in Dera Bassi. The seizure was made in Devinagar village.In raids in the Focal Point area, about 82 drums of 200 litres each were found at the Allychem Chemicals godown, (unit number E-68/69); 49 drums of 200 litres each at Om Solvi Trading (D-11) and seven drums also of 200 litres each at Pure Solutions (F-28).Rajat Aggarwal, Punjab excise commissioner, said a case under section 61 ( 1) of the Punjab Excise Act had been registered. In-depth examination of the chemicals was being done with the help of the forensic team and modus operandi of those involved, and forward and back linkages were being probed.The press note also disclosed that the four persons arrested in the case were AK Chaudhary and KP Singh, directors of Allychem Laboratories Pvt Ltd, Gaurav Chaudhary, proprietor of Om Solvi Trading Co and Jagmohan Arora, proprietor of Pure Solutions.The raids were carried out after disclosures were made by three persons who were arrested after the excise department seized 5,300 litres of chemicals and spirits from Binny Chemicals in Dera Bassi.It is reported that these firms used to supply the material to Binny Chemicals from where it was sold to the market.During interrogations, those who were arrested revealed that they were disposing of waste from pharmaceutical companies. However, they couldn’t clearly spell out which products they were manufacturing and who their customers were.Investigations are in progress to examine the record and to trace the links of the accused in the case. Taking no chances, the excise department has also requested for help from the Forensic Science Laboratory experts to examine the chemicals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/27k-litres-of-illicit-chemicals-seized-by-excise-dept-in-3-dera-bassi-units-4-arrested/story-YKev8h0jPg3IjinbCl1WGI.html
09-08-2020||City||4 tourists held for entering Kullu with fake Covid reports||Four people were arrested for trying to enter Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district by using fake Covid-19 reports on Sunday, police said.Police officials said they were all tourists and were on way to Manali. The accused are Sagar Kumar,22, Pankaj Kumar Sarvan,21, Ram Vilas ,20, all residents of Delhi and Jai Chand ,28, resident of Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh.Superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said they were travelling in a car towards Kullu from Mandi at around 2:00am and were stopped for checking at Ropa barrier. “During checking, they were asked to show their Covid-19 test reports. When cross checked, their test reports were found to be fake. They had forged their test reports by using Specimen Referral Form (SRF) Ids of other labs,” he said.All of them have been institutionally quarantined and a case under Section 465 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of NDMA Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-tourists-held-for-entering-kullu-with-fake-covid-reports/story-c6pjFlLNZAomVXQ2nbLfSJ.html
09-08-2020||City||Fake degree scam: SIT seeks records from private varsities in Shimla||The special investigation team of Himachal Pradesh Police crime branch that is probing the fake degree scam has sought records of last five years from private universities in Shimla.Besides number of students enrolled and placements, the police have asked authorities of Alakh Prakash Goyal University located in the outskirts of Shimla town to submit records within the next week. The university had allegedly sold fake degrees to scores of people in different states and many of them secured jobs in government departments as well as private companies.Last month, the crime branch had registered a case of forgery against the university after its special investigation team found that more than 200 degrees issued by the university were fake.A case was registered under Sections 465, 467, 471 of the Indian Penal Code at the CID police station in Shimla. The investigation agency found that the university had issued the degrees without relevant records. Authorities had failed to provide satisfactory reply to repeated queries made by the sleuths. “Now, we have sought fresh records from the university pertaining to admissions and degrees issued by them, which will be analyzed and investigated thoroughly, “ said a high rank police officer, requesting anonymity.The university had been maintaining that it was not able to provide the records due to the Covid-19 lockdown. However, amidst the lockdown, the university had organised various webinars. CONGRESS DEMANDS CBI PROBECongress legislator Rajendra Rana on Sunday asked the state government to explain the reason for hesitation to hand over the investigation of fake degrees scam in Manav Bharati University to the CBI. Rana alleged that the arrest of the king pin has proved that more than six lakh degrees were sold in India and in foreign countries and that many lawyers are practicing on the basis of fake LLB degrees.He said the rates of fake degrees varied from Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh and alleged that there was a nexus between the private universities and then government officials.THE CASEThe fake degree scam, which was unearthed in February this year, after the University Grants Commission (UGC) received an anonymous complaint, involves the alleged sale of more than five lakh degrees by two private universities in Himachal, including MBU, Solan and APG University, Shimla.The UGC had informed the state government about the alleged sale of fake degrees by the two universities seeking an appropriate action. A SIT was constituted to probe the fake degrees issued by the Manav Bharti University in Solan. The CID had filed its report revealing forgery in documents. In mid June, the police arrested the chairman of Manav Bharti University (MBU), Raj Kumar Rana, after the Himachal Pradesh high court refused to grant him an anticipatory bail. Earlier, the police had arrested KK Singh, former registrar of the university. Two university officials—registrar Anupama Thakur and assistant registrar Munish Goel—were also arrested in March.The investigation revealed that MBU had issued several fake degrees to students. It also revealed that Rana and his family also possessed fake degrees. Since then, cases have been filed against MBU at various places, including Datia in Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Lucknow, Bilaspur and Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-degree-scam-sit-seeks-records-from-private-varsities-in-shimla/story-eH1YYiknXC0Xl2ni58wPPI.html
09-08-2020||City||Jai Ram inaugurates Rs 80 crore development projects in Kangra||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday laid foundation stones of developmental projects worth over Rs 80 crore in Sullah Vidhan Sabha area of Kangra district. The CM inaugurated the public health center at Daroh (level-II) constructed at a cost of Rs 57 lakh, additional accommodation of government senior secondary school, Pahra, constructed at an estimated cost Rs 108.35 lakh, sub-tehsil Sullah, Flow Irrigation Scheme at Kathul Kuhal in Palampur constructed at a cost of Rs 1.94 crore, FIS Book Kuhal in Palampur with an estimated cost of Rs 1.47 crore, Lift Irrigation Scheme (LIS) for Sanhoon and adjoining village in Gram Panchayat Sanhoon in Palampur with an estimated cost of Rs 1.16 crore. He also inaugurated the Primary Health Centre at Maranda. The CM also laid foundation stones of upgradation of Dheera to Devi Tilla (Kanpatt) road under PMGSY-II (Batch-I) with an estimated cost of Rs 10.92 crore, Chiran to Thirak road via village Devi Tilla including bridge over Bathu Khad with an estimated cost of Rs 8.61 crore, upgradation of Pharer to Thamba road under PMGSY-II (Batch-I) with an estimated cost of Rs 3.68 crore and link road Saprul to Harijan Basti Sanooh government senior secondary school Sanooh with an estimated cost of Rs 99.55 lakh. The chief minister said the government has decided to start public transport and also open all business activities in the state to boost the economy. He said people need to ensure that they adopt all safety measures to check spread of the virus. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-inaugurates-rs-80-crore-development-projects-in-kangra/story-8OpaPGCvfJ9do7opLRfqmO.html
09-08-2020||City||Raipur Rani man opens fire at ‘peeping Tom’ neighbours, booked||Accusing them of prying into his house, a man allegedly opened fire at his neighbours in Raipur Rani The accused has been identified as Mahender Singh. He remains at large.The complainant, Jagpal Singh, told the police that he had returned home on his motorcycle at 9.15pm on Saturday, when his neighbour, Mahender, came outside his house and started hurling abuses at him and his brother, Dalbir Singh.“He accused us of prying into his house all day and opened fire at us with a countrymade pistol,” he said, adding that they had a narrow escape as they ducked and ran behind a wall. “Mahender then went back inside his house and fired two more shots at our house. We later informed the police and the village sarpanch, who visited the spot,” he said.On his complaint, police registered a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 of the Arms Act at the Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/raipur-rani-man-opens-fire-at-peeping-tom-neighbours-booked/story-UIepbeWukm45nX5za6UlCJ.html
09-08-2020||City||HP: ITBP personnel shoots self, injured||An Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel sustained injuries after he allegedly shot himself twice with his service rife in Jeori, 23km from Shimla district’s Rampur Bushahr on Sunday, police said.The injured jawan has been identified as Sachin Jadhav,23, who is posted in ITBP 43 Battalion.The incident took place at around 5:15am when the jawan shot himself twice with Indian Small Arms System (INSAS) 5.56mm light machine gun (LMG) around his stomach while on duty as a guard at the main gate of the ITBP 43 Battalion, Jeori. The shots were heard by other personnel who rushed to the spot and saw him in lying on the ground in a pool of blood.He was rushed to Mahatma Gandhi Medical Services Complex, Khaneri, from where he has been referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, for treatment.Deputy superintendent of police Abhimaniyou Verma said they are investigating whether he intentionally shot himself or it was accidental.A case under Section 336, 337 and 309 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 and 27 of Arms Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-itbp-personnel-shoots-self-injured/story-0wUoc6zfQukJgInGhn8CFI.html
09-08-2020||City||Rohtak man was behind wheel of car in Mohali’s Airport Road mishap, arrested||The Hyundai Santro that left three vendors injured on Airport Road on Saturday night was being driven by a Rohtak resident, who has been arrested, police said on Sunday.The accused, identified as Shiv Charan, hails from Rohtak in Haryana and currently lives in Mauli Baidwan village here.Police said the injured men, Ram Babu, 35, Dharminder, 35, and Om Beer, 50, all residents of Bariyali village near Balongi, are fruit and vegetable vendors.“They were hit by the rashly driven Santro around 10.30pm while they were commuting towards Kharar on Airport Road,” said ASI Kewal Singh, the investigating officer, Balongi police station.Shiv Charan, who was driving under the influence of liquor, was intercepted by some passers-by after a chase. The injured were admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh, where doctors referred Om beer to PGIMER due to his grievous injuries. Ram Babu was also in critical condition at GMCH, the police said.On the statement of Dharminder, Charan has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code. “The medical examination of the car driver confirmed that he was under the influence of alcohol,” said inspector Amardeep Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohtak-man-was-behind-wheel-of-car-in-airport-road-mishap-arrested/story-OFcY1F4CYn6yfRBkX7FIDO.html
09-08-2020||City||Women among four arrested for murder bid on relative in Balongi||Four persons, including a woman, were arrested for allegedly attacking their relative with various weapons over a property dispute in Balongi village on Saturday.The accused – Harvinder Singh, Sukhwinder Singh, Simranjit Singh and Rupinder Kaur – are all residents of Balongi village.The victim’s father, Jaspal Singh, said there was an ongoing dispute within their extended family over the possession of a plot in the village.On Saturday, his son, Inderjit Singh, was present at the disputed plot, when the four persons attacked him with a knife, shovels and sticks. Inderjit was rushed to the Kharar civil hospital by villagers. His condition remains critical.A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 341 (wrongful restraint), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Balongi police station on Sunday.The accused were later produced in a local court, which sent them to three-day police remand, said inspector Amardeep Singh from the Balongi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/women-among-four-arrested-for-murder-bid-on-relative-in-balongi/story-MYkL1akJbufTniOZO5cY4M.html
09-08-2020||Lucknow||UP reports 4,571 new Covid-19 cases, 41 more fatalities||Uttar Pradesh reported 4,571 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total in the state to 1,22,609 as 41 more fatalities pushed the death toll due to the disease to 2,069.The count of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 47,890, and 72,650 patients have been discharged after recovering from the disease, Additional Chief Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said.“The case fatality rate, which was at three per cent till last month, has now further dipped to 1.68 per cent,” Prasad said.The number of Covid-19 cases stood at 1,18,038 on Saturday, while the death toll was at 2,028.However, the government said 4,687 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the past 24 hours. It did not mention which 24-hour period it was referring to.Meanwhile, chairing a meeting of senior officials of the Uttar Pradesh government, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said, “Special alertness should be exercised in Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Prayagraj, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Jhansi and Varanasi.” He said more tests must be conducted and directed that dedicated Covid hospitals in Bareilly and Shamli should become operational by August 16.Instructions were also issued to the Health department to double the number of ICU beds in all district hospitals, a statement issued by the state government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-reports-4-571-new-covid-19-cases-41-more-fatalities/story-ijxGcSt5gWyPBJjZO1SfUN.html
09-08-2020||City||Punjab orders social audit of stubble management scheme||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday ordered a social pre-audit of the crop residue management (CRM) scheme in supplying farm equipment and machinery on subsidy to farmers to prepare for paddy harvest. The first-of-its kind audit was recommended after allegations surfaced that certain manufacturers were being favoured. “The audit by the agriculture department will nail the lies being propagated by certain vested political interests,” said the CM, adding that not a single farmer had questioned the quality of the machines and equipment supplied in the past. The scheme was started on the intervention of the National green tribunal (NGT) and the Prime Minister’s office in 2018 for distributing farm machinery among farmers and cooperative societies for in-situ management of the paddy straw. Under the scheme, farmers from Punjab were given subsidy of nearly Rs 460 crore on 50,815 farm machines. The Centre has already listed around 180 manufacturers from Punjab to ensure supply of farm equipment and machinery. This year, the Centre has sanctioned a subsidy of Rs 300 crore to give at least 23,500 such machines on subsidy. A spokesperson added that CM has directed additional chief secretary (development) Anirudh Tiwari to provide these machines to farmers and societies only after the completion of the audit. Tiwari added the social pre-audit would be completed before the distribution of farm machinery and 7,000 individual farmers are expected to get machines at 50% subsidy, while 5,000 cooperative societies, panchayats and farmers’ groups would be given these machines at 80% subsidy. These machines include super straw management system fixed on combine harvesters, happy seeder, paddy straw chopper-cum-shredder, mulcher, reverse plough, zero till drill and super seeder to ensure zero burning of paddy residue in open fields. The agriculture department has also decided to provide to farmers and coop societies mechanised equipment, needed for ex-situ management of paddy straw, such as balers and rakes, on subsidy, the ACS added.Agriculture secretary KS Pannu has urged all farmers, farmer organizations, political parties, machine manufacturers and NGOs to give suggestions and objections. He added that suggestions or objections can be submitted till August 17 to the director, agriculture and farmers welfare department, Punjab by post or via email at directoragriculturalpunjab@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-orders-social-audit-of-stubble-management-scheme/story-VKDzKwxcq4iD02M7Vqx4VM.html
09-08-2020||Delhi||1,300 new coronavirus cases take Delhi’s tally past 1.45 lakh mark||Delhi on Sunday recorded fresh 1,300 coronavirus disease cases, taking the cumulative tally past 1.45 lakh mark. The national capital also recorded 13 new cases of deaths, taking the death toll to 4,111. Out of 1,45,427 total positive cases recorded, 1,30,587 cases have been registered as recovered, discharged or migrated. According to the statistics provided in the health bulletin, Delhi’s recovery rate has reached 89.8 per cent. Delhi, as of Sunday, has 10,729 active cases, out of which 5,462 are being treated in home isolation. The positivity rate in Delhi rose to 5.5 per cent after total 23,787 tests were conducted by state authorities –18,085 rapid antigen tests and 5,702 RTPCR, CBNAAT and TrueNat. Delhi has conducted 11,92,082 tests so far, taking the tests conducted per million to 62,741. At present, Delhi has over 17,458 beds available, out of which 2,792 beds of COVID care centre are occupied by people under quarantine including those who have travelled through Vande Bharat Mission and Bubble flights. According to the health minister Satyendar Jain, the recent rise in Covid-19 cases is due to “patients travelling from outside and getting tested in the national capital.”“There have been reports that coronavirus cases are increasing in the national capital. Many patients from outside Delhi are getting tested here, hence the rise in the number of cases. There is otherwise a decline in cases here,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/1-300-new-coronavirus-cases-take-delhi-s-tally-past-1-45-lakh-mark/story-0Ex2HWWCxs6SHe19v575JM.html
09-08-2020||Jaipur||Six more people die due to Covid-19 in Rajasthan||Rajasthan on Sunday recorded six more fatalities due to Covid-19, taking the death toll to 784, while the virus tally mounted to 51,924 with detection of 596 new cases, officials said.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 13,847, they said.A total of 34,688 people in the state have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection, a health department official said.Of the new fatalities, four were reported in Kota and two in Jaipur, the official said.Jaipur alone has reported 217 Covid-19 deaths so far, followed by 85 in Jodhpur, 57 in Bharatpur, 55 in Ajmer, 48 in Bikaner, 45 in Kota, 34 in Nagaur, 31 in Pali, 23 in Alwar and 19 in Dholpur.Among the fresh cases, 71 were reported in Jaipur, 57 in Sikar, 46 in Rajsamand, 43 in Ajmer, 42 in Barmer, 39 in Chittorgarh, 34 in Nagaur, 29 in Bikaner, 28 in Udaipur, 26 in Alwar, 25 in Sawai Madhopur, 23 each in Baran and Sriganganagar besides those recorded in other districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/six-more-people-die-due-to-covid-19-in-rajasthan/story-A0c36U0aPqdw8vakzfFkjJ.html
09-08-2020||Real||Migrants who left during lockdown returning to construction work in Noida: Naredco||Around 150 migrant workers, who had left for home in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown, returned to construction work in Noida Saturday, a realtors’ body said.The workers had gone to their homes in Deoria district in eastern Uttar Pradesh and their return would help developers complete the projects soon, the state unit of Naredco said.Their return in buses has been facilitated by Naredco-UP as part of a memorandum of understanding it signed with the Yogi Adityanath government on May 29, it said in a statement.The state government has been pushing for employment to migrant workers within the state and had reached out to realtors through Naredco.“The workers who had left their workplaces in different states and gone to their villages in Uttar Pradesh in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown have started joining real estate projects,” Naredco President and Supertech Chairman group R K Arora said.“The real estate developers are providing free transportation to them from their native villages to the place of employment, in addition to free ration and accommodation,” he said.The workers who have returned from Deoria will join Supertech’s Supernova project.“Large numbers of labourers from eastern UP now want to join real-estate projects and we are arranging their transportation and employment in coming days, to help them earn livelihood and restore construction activities at project sites,” he said.Their return to project sites would enable the developers to complete construction and the flat buyers get their flats at the earliest, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/migrants-who-left-during-lockdown-returning-to-construction-work-in-noida-naredco/story-wG0mWg8K2nniIb6ndC0MzN.html
09-08-2020||Delhi||Eye on MCD polls, AAP names new office bearers, attacks BJP-run civic agencies||The Aam Aadmi Party has shifted into preparation mode for 2022 polls for political control on three units of Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) by accusing the BJP-ruled civic bodies of insensitivity and apathy, alleging children in schools run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation have not been given curriculum books five months into the new session. The party also appointed new office bearers including Lok Sabha district presidents, district communication in charge and observers for 70 assembly constituencies in the city-state with a view on the MCD polls.“Three lakh children study in schools run by BJP ruled North MCD, where the new session has begun in April but the kids have not been given books yet. This is about children’s future. How will they study in the absence of books? This is sad and therefore we plead with the North MCD to provide books to children as soon as possible,” AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said.The party led by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also announced the reorganization of the Delhi unit from the top to the bottom, up to the booth level ahead of the MCD polls in the capital.Also Read: Delhi CM Kejriwal asks NDMC to fix stench from compost pit in Gol Market areaThe reorganization has taken into account the hard work put in by volunteers and party workers in the last Delhi assembly elections that was swept by the Aam Aadmi Party. The names of new office bearers will be announced in three phases, said senior party leader Gopal Rai. He added that the party aims to complete the process by 20th of September. The first set of names for Lok Sabha district presidents, district communication in charge and observers for 70 assembly constituencies were announced on Sunday.The second round will see the announcement of organization presidents for all assembly constituencies and names of 272 ward presidents will be announced in the third phase, Rai added.After winning the Delhi assembly polls in 2019, party had said it would focus on cleanliness and sanitation as the government’s top priorities during its third term.Also Read: Covid-19 situation in Delhi under control, recovery rate improving: CM KejriwalThe AAP has previously described MCD as the “den of corruption” but CM Kejriwal had said that he would look to cooperate with the civic agencies instead of following a path of confrontation.The east, south, and north Delhi municipal corporations (EDMC, SMDC and North MCD) are ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which won 181 of the 272 wards in the April 2017 MCD elections. The AAP was a distant second, winning 49 wards, and the Congress was pushed to third position with 31 wards.2022 MCD elections will be AAP’s second attempt to dethrone the BJP. The civic agencies in Delhi are considered flush with money and are largely responsible for cleanliness apart from running some schools, parking lots and maintaining streetlights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/eye-on-mcd-polls-aap-names-new-office-bearers-attacks-bjp-run-civic-agencies/story-okHBRNB4oRyFs53q4XAT5I.html
09-08-2020||Ranchi||6 die after inhaling toxic gas inside septic tank in Jharkhand’s Deoghar||Six men died after inhaling toxic gases inside an under construction septic tank in Jharkhand’s Deoghar district on Sunday, officials said. The dead have been identified as Brajesh Chandra Barnwal, 50, Mithilesh Chandra Burnwal, 40, Govind Manjhi, 50, Bablu Manjhi, 30, Lalu Manjhi, 25, and Leelu Murmu, 30. The accident took place at Devipur market area under Devipur police station where Barnwal had constructed a new septic chamber, about 20 feet deep and 7 feet wide. “All the six people were rushed to the Sadar Hospital but they were declared brought dead by doctors. Prima facie, it seems that they died of suffocation due to possible accumulation of lethal gases such as carbon dioxide or monoxide in the septic tank,” Kamleshwar Prasad Singh, Deoghar’s deputy commissioner (DC), said. Construction labourer Leelu Murmu was the first to go inside the chamber after removing the tank cover as per the scheduled work.“The casting of the tank was completed around a fortnight ago. On Sunday, centering materials were to be removed from inside the tank,” Manish Kumar, a neighbour of Barnwal, said. “However, neither any sound of removing centering material was coming nor he was replying to anything. To check on the labourer, the contractor of the septic tank, Govind Manjhi, entered the tank but he also did not come out. One by one, Govind’s two sons Bablu and Lalu went inside the tank but they also did not come up,” Kumar said.Barnwal entered the tank when the four men did not respond and he too did not come out, Kumar said. “In a bid to rescue his elder brother and the other four people, Mithilesh went into the tank but he met the similar fate,” Kumar said, adding they immediately informed the administration and brought an excavator to destroy the tank to rescue the men. Sunil Kumar, the circle officer (CO) of Devipur, said when the tank was broken all six the men were found lying on the ground unconscious. “They were immediately rushed to Sadar hospital where they were declared brought dead,” he said. The official also said that the autopsy of the bodies was being conducted. “After the postmortem, the actual reason of the deaths could be ascertained,” he said. Kumar said they would try for a widow pension for Barnwal’s and the wives of other men and Rs 20,000 to the labourer. “Besides, 10kg of food grain would be provided to the victims’ families,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/6-die-after-inhaling-toxic-gas-inside-septic-tank-in-jharkhand-s-deoghar/story-O9yZRyWLazPZzEUBymmQQL.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||3 arrested in Mumbai suburb Mankhurd for kidnapping, raping minor||The Mankhurd police on Saturday arrested three persons accused of gang raping a minor. The accused kidnapped and allegedly sexually assaulted the 15-year-old survivor in a moving vehicle on July 29. The complaint was filed at Mankhurd police station after the survivor narrated her ordeal to her aunt.According to the police, at around 11 am when the survivor was walking on the Ghatkopar Mankhurd link road, a silver coloured WagonR car intercepted her and the occupants forcefully grabbed her, pulled her inside and drove off.In her statement, the survivor told the police that when she started struggling to get out of the car, the accused overpowered her and kept on driving. They touched her inappropriately and threatened her with dire consequences if she tried to oppose them. The accused then allegedly sexually assaulted her in the moving car and later dropped her near the highway. Before letting her go, they warned her against disclosing the incident to anyone and also threatened her that if she did, they would kill her.Prakash Chougule senior inspector from Mankhurd police said, “The survivor shared her ordeal with her aunt and then they filed a complaint. Following her complaint, we registered the first information report and arrested three accused.”“The survivor and accused are not known to each other. We are investigating the case thoroughly,” Chougule added. Two of the arrested accused are 25-year-olds and the third one is a 24-year-old.Police booked the accused under various sections of the IPC and POCSO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-arrested-in-mumbai-suburb-mankhurd-for-kidnapping-raping-minor/story-wwdiB3nLNqJnYCa0idp4pO.html
09-08-2020||Pune||One dead, 11 injured in cylinder blast in Dighi in Pune district||One person died and 11 were injured after a LPG cylinder exploded in a residential society at Mahadevnagar in Maharashtra’s Dighi on Sunday morning, police said.Ten fire tenders were rushed to the Ashtavinayak Society to control the situation and rescue work was underway, according to the fire brigade officials of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation.According to Police sub inspector Raviraj Kamble, who is investigating the case, the gas started leaking from flat number 102 belonging to Mahindra Surawade family in the morning. “The leaked gas reached Dnyaneshwar Temkar’s flat which has a common wall with Surawade’s flat. When a member of Temkar’s family lit the stove, it led to the explosion and subsequent fire there,” said Kamble.The blast, which occurred at around 6:30 am, resulted in the death of 40-year-old Temkar while four other members of his family sustained injuries. The common wall between the two flats and the wall of another flat collapsed in the blast, causing injuries to seven others.Fire brigade officials reached the spot at around 7 am, police said.Among the injured are seven children while others are women and elders. They have been taken to the YCM Hospital for medical treatment after first aid was administered first by locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/one-dead-11-injured-in-cylinder-blast-in-maharashtra-s-dighi/story-sGdeaHZnLxlGcLMuK6Sx5I.html
09-08-2020||Ranchi||Hope for HCL’s Surda mine reopening as state issues letter of intent||Chances of early reopening of the Surda mine of Hindustan Copper Limited (HCL)-Indian Copper Complex (ICC) brightened after the Jharkhand government recently issued its letter of intent, following a meeting between Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato and state chief secretary Sukhdev Singh.“I thank the state chief secretary for his intervention in issuing the letter of intent soon after our meeting with him in Ranchi on Thursday. This paved the way for the HCL-ICC management to submit the same to the expert appraisal committee of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (UMoEFCC) during the video-hearing for environment clearance held on Thursday itself,” Mahato said Friday.The letter of intent, issued on Thursday, has paved the way for early ministerial approval and reopening of the Surda mine that will benefit 1,500 workers, who are currently unemployed.The MP said the state government’s letter of intent was the basic requirement for environment clearance by UMoEFCC for HCL-ICC request to mine 9 lakh tonnes of copper annually from Surda mine.“This will pave the way for environment clearance by the UMoEFCC and subsequently expedite the process of lease renewal of the Surda copper mine by the state government shortly. This will directly benefit 1500 workers rendered jobless because of the closure of Surda mine. My next objective is to reopen Rakha-Chapri mines which will provide jobs to thousands more,” said Mahato.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/hope-for-hcl-s-surda-mine-reopening-as-state-issues-letter-of-intent/story-qpkJxQAo8TOEze5ZB7f4wM.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal to sit on dharna outside Sonia Gandhi’s residence over Punjab hooch tragedy||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said he will sit on a dharna outside Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s residence here on August 11 to protest against “the party’s involvement in production and pedalling of spurious liquor that killed more than 100 people in Punjab.”The SAD chief said he will demand for the resignation of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh over the incident and will push for a statement on the issue from top central leaders of the Congress party.On Friday, the Punjab Chief Minister had said that perpetrators of the hooch tragedy would not be spared at any cost and properties of those responsible would be confiscated.Singh, who visited Tarn Taran to share his sympathies with the bereaved families hailing from the district, said that perpetrators of the heinous crime would not be spared at any cost and severest of severe action would be taken against them.The CM said that in order to ensure that culprits get exemplary punishment special prosecution teams would be deputed to vigorously pursue these cases adding “that the properties of those responsible for this unpardonable act be confiscated”.“The perpetrators of this heinous crime deserve no leniency since it is a man-made tragedy,” he said.According to an official release, the Chief Minister also enhanced compensation to the families of victims of hooch tragedy from existing Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. The death toll in the hooch tragedy has risen to 121. Singh pointed out that investigations are already underway and Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta has been directed to expedite them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sukhbir-badal-to-sit-on-dharna-outside-sonia-gandhi-s-residence-over-punjab-hooch-tragedy/story-gYnhS8WQcHlUMQtH7e1SaJ.html
09-08-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 situation in Delhi under control, recovery rate improving: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the Covid-19 situation in the national capital is under control and deaths due to the disease have reduced.“The Covid situation is under control in Delhi, all parameters are good, recovery rate improving and positivity ratio and deaths have reduced,” he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI following the inauguration of a 200-bed hospital in Ambedkar Nagar. The CM said that the beds at the hospital will be used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. At the same time, he expressed the hope that they would remain unoccupied.“I hope these 200 beds remain unoccupied... we never get to a situation where we have to use these beds.”However, if the situation turns bad again, his government is fully prepared to deal with it, Kejrriwal added.Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain corroborated the chief minister’s statement on the Covid-19 situation in the city and refuted reports that the number of coronavirus infections are on the rise.He said that the reason for positive cases showing an increase is because many people from outside Delhi were getting tested here.“There are reports that Covid-19 cases are increasing in Delhi. The reason for this is that many people from outside Delhi are getting their tests done here. Hence, counting of positive cases is rising here. Otherwise, the trend of Covid-19 cases in Delhi is decreasing,” Jain told news agency ANI on Sunday.Delhi’s total count of Covid-19 cases now stands at 1,44,127. On Saturday, 1,404 new infections 16 deaths and 1,130 recoveries were reported. Overall, there are now 10,667 active cases and the death toll stands at 4.098.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-situation-in-delhi-under-control-recovery-rate-improving-cm-kejriwal/story-027iAWPlAGqWPevYbVablO.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||Man’s wallet lost in local train found by cops after 14 years in Mumbai||A man, who lost his wallet containing Rs 900 in a local train here in 2006, was in for a pleasant surprise when the police informed him that they have found it after 14 years and returned him part of the amount.Hemant Padalkar had lost his wallet while travelling in a Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus-Panvel local train in 2006, a Govrnment Railway Police (GRP) official said on Sunday.In April this year, he received a call from GRP, Vashi, informing that his wallet was found.However, he could not then go to collect his wallet because of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown.After the easing of restrictions, Padalkar, a resident of Panvel in neighbouring Navi Mumbai township, recently went to the GRP office at Vashi where he was given part of the money that was in the wallet. “My wallet at that time contained Rs 900, including a Rs 500 note which was later demonetised (in 2016). The Vashi GRP returned Rs 300 to me. They deducted Rs 100 for stamp paper work and said the remaining Rs 500 would be returned after exchanging the scrapped currency note with a new one,” Padalkar told PTI.He said when he went to the GRP office, there were many who had come to collect their stolen money, amounting into several thousands in demonetised currency, and wondered how they would get it back.Padalkar said he was happy to get his money back.A GRP official said those who stole Padalkar’s wallet were arrested sometime back.“We recovered Padalkar’s wallet containing Rs 900 from the accused. We handed over Rs 300 to Padalkar and the remaining Rs 500 would be returned to him after the currency note is exchanged with a new one,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-s-wallet-lost-in-local-train-found-by-cops-after-14-years-in-mumbai/story-EwOHsIxWLToE4Vk5OaH5xN.html
09-08-2020||Kolkata||3 Kolkata Durga puja committees to offer drive-in viewing of pandals to tackle Covid-19 crisis||With little more than two months to go for Durga puja, festival committees in the city are brainstorming ways to ensure the safety of pandal-hoppers amid the Covid-19 crisis, while offering them a glimpse of the goddess.Three Durga puja committees in the city, all crowd- pullers and located within one-km stretch in south Kolkata, have joined hands to introduce a drive-in ‘darshan’ concept - an arrangement which would allow people to slow down their car to take a look at the pandal and the Durga idol without having to alight from their cars.“As maintaining physical distance is mandatory, we had to think of a concept that would avoid crowding near the pandals. Our patron, Texas-based Mridul Pathak, came up with this drive-in concept during a video conference. Shortly after, we set the ball rolling,” Kapil Dev Pathak, an officer-bearer of Badamtala pujo committee, said.Sanitiser will be sprayed on the cars before every puja pandal, he said.“The drive-in route has been mapped in a certain way... Revellers will get to catch a glimpse of the Badamtala puja decoration, before proceeding westwards to 66 Pally, and finally the Nepal Bhattacharya Street Durga Puja at the end of the trail,” Pathak explained.The organisers have decided to pay tribute to auteur Satyajit Ray this time, he said.“As this year marks Ray’s birth centenary, we chose Apu trilogy as the theme for the three marquees. Badamtala will portray scenes of ‘Pather Panchali’, 66 Pally of ‘Aparajito’ and Nepal Bhattachaya Street Pujo will depict ‘Apur Sansar’,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/3-kolkata-durga-puja-committees-to-offer-drive-in-viewing-of-pandals-to-tackle-covid-19-crisis/story-2nnK3qEZtnSQwegyBNC6IM.html
09-08-2020||Gurugram||Khattar, Gangwar inaugurate plasma bank at ESIC medical college in Faridabad||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Union Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar on Friday inaugurated a plasma bank at ESIC Medical College and Hospital in Faridabad, according to an official statement. Plasma banks have also been set up at Rohtak, Gurgaon and Panchkula districts. The human trial of anti-Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin is also underway at Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences in Rohtak. Khattar and Gangwar inaugurated the plasma bank through video conferencing from Haryana Bhavan in New Delhi. Both of them urged people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma to critically ill patients. Khattar said so far, 350 people in Haryana have donated their plasma. An online portal for plasma donation has also been started by the Haryana government, he said. The chief minister said 20,000 tests are being conducted on a daily basis in the state. So far, nearly seven lakh tests have been done. “ESIC hospitals have done commendable work in treating Covid-19 infected patients,” he said. Gangwar lauded the arrangements made by the state government for treating coronavirus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/khattar-gangwar-inaugurate-plasma-bank-at-esic-medical-college-in-faridabad/story-MIcRAm0JWC5uUVrVWzJTWO.html
09-08-2020||Ranchi||Ranchi municipality shut for 5 days as official, 3 workers test positive for Covid-19||The district administration on Saturday temporarily shut down Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) for the next five days till August 13 after one of its senior officials and three frontline workers were found infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus.Confirming the development, RMC commissioner Mukesh Kumar said, “A deputy municipal commissioner and three frontline workers have been tested positive for Covid-19. Contact tracing exercise has been initiated to identify people who came in direct or indirect contact with these people and sampling will be done in the next couple of days.”He added, “We have temporarily closed down the corporation for the next five days to carry out sanitization work and other procedure as per protocol. However, people have been instructed to work from home and keep their mobile phones on.”“The daily cleanliness work of the city would not be affected,” the commissioner said.Reportedly, the RMC officer, who tested positive on Saturday, had been on field duty for the last one week. He had monitored the sanitization and other works at the chief minister’s house after 19 staff of the CM’s residence and office were found infected with coronavirus early this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/ranchi-municipality-shut-for-5-days-as-official-3-workers-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-GfuWi0nVW4kj9vM86MypMI.html
09-08-2020||Lucknow||18 districts in UP affected by floods, major rivers flowing above danger mark||The number of flood-affected districts in Uttar Pradesh rose to 18 on Saturday with Sharda, Rapti and Saryu-Ghagra rivers continuing to flow above the danger mark in different places.Deoria was hit by the deluge on Saturday taking the number of affected districts to 18. So far, 672 villages have been inundated, according to a statement issued by Relief Commissioner Sanjay Goyal.The statement said that 460 villages in these districts are marooned.According to the irrigation department, the Sharda river in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Palia Kalan, Rapti river in Gorakhpur’s Bird Ghat, Sarya-Ghagra in Ayodhya’s Elgin Bridge and Ballia’s Turti Paar were flowing above the red mark, it said.On Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s directives, Minister for Backward Class Welfare Anil Rajbhar and Minister of State for Water Resources Baldev Aulakh visited flood-affected Bahraich, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur and Barabanki districts for on-the-spot review of the situation there and held meetings with senior officials.In Gonda and Balrampur there have been reports of damage to Sakraur-Bhikharipur embankment and Balrampur-Bhadariya embankments respectively. Steps were being taken to mend the damage. All other embankments are safe, the statement said.Twenty-two NDRF, SDRF and Uttar Pradesh Provincial Armed Constabulary(PAC) teams have been deployed for search and rescue works.The chief minister has directed officials to ensure the safety of people from snake bite which is common in deluge-hit areas and to see to it that flood shelters are not set up in places where overflowing rivers are causing land erosion.Adityanath has also directed officials to make sure that electric poles in the affected areas were safe, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/18-districts-in-up-affected-by-floods-major-rivers-flowing-above-danger-mark/story-MYMRmCGfSGlva7zceOqjdM.html
09-08-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Covid-19 death toll surpasses 2,000||The coronavirus toll in West Bengal crossed 2,000 Saturday and its caseload the 90,000 mark, according to a bulletin of the state health department.The number of active cases in the state crossed the 25,000 mark, the bulletin said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe toll reached 2,005 after 51 people succumbed to the disease during the day and the tally touched 92,615 after 2,949 people tested positive for the disease during the day, it said.The number of recoveries was 65,124 people, the bulletin said.During the last 24 hours, 2,064 people have been discharged from different hospitals in West Bengal taking the discharge rate to 70.32 per cent.There were 20 fatalities in the city, while in neighbouring North 24 Parganas 19 people succumbed to the disease on Saturday.There were three deaths in Howrah, two each in South 24 Parganas, Nadia, Paschim Bardhaman and one each in Dakshin Dinajpur, Darjeeling and Hooghly districts, it added.Of the 51 who died on Saturday all but one fell victim to comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental, the health department bulletin said.The city accounted for 684 new infections, while another 653 was reported from North 24 Parganas, 232 from South 24 Parganas, 217 from Howrah, 185 from Hooghly, it added.There were 141 cases reported from Purba Medinipur, 122 from Malda while 87 and 84 from Jalpaiguri and Nadia districts respectively.The remaining 544 new cases were reported from 14 other districts of West Bengal pushing up the number of active cases to 25,486, it said.So far a total 10,79,657 samples have been tested in the state, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-covid-19-death-toll-surpasses-2-000/story-uPmzIJnPr7HdlawRSy2c8K.html
09-08-2020||Ranchi||Seven men held for rape of 2 minors from UP in Garhwa||In a major breakthrough, the Garhwa police on Saturday managed to nab seven youths allegedly involved in gang raping two UP minor girls on July 29 under Nagar Untari police station of the district.Garhwa superintendent of police (SP) Shrikant S Khotre had formed a special investigation team headed by the Nagar Untari sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Ajeet Kumar to crack the case at the earliest.The SP said, “We have arrested all seven accused involved in the act. They had taken turn to rape the two victims and this had confused the victims as they had earlier informed the police about the involvement of 12 persons in the incident.”“The accused riding on three bikes had been tracking the girls from Nagar Untari. They intercepted them in a deep forest and forcibly took them in different directions before perpetrating the crime.”All the seven arrested accused were aged between 18 to 26 years.They hailed from Chechariya and Bishunpur villages under the Nagar Untari police station.The police also seized three bikes, four mobile sets besides recovering the victim’s rape survivors’ Aadhar Cards from their possession.Incidentally, the minors had come to Nagar Untari for getting their Aadhar Cards updated.Interstate arms supply network bustedIn a separate development, police busted an illegal arms supplying network in Garhwa that provided country made weapons to criminals in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, officials said on Saturday.The police also arrested Pappu Chaudhari, the kingpin of this network and based on the leads provided by him, had unearthed a mini gun factory at Batto Kala village under the district’s Ketar police station area on Friday.Garhwa SP said, “Besides busting the arms supply racket, recovering huge caches of arms and unearthing a mini gun factory, we also arrested seven persons in this connection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/seven-men-held-for-rape-of-2-minors-from-up-in-garhwa/story-S502V1LwE4xouVyVtpxW5J.html
09-08-2020||Lucknow||Mukhtar Ansari’s close aide killed by Uttar Pradesh STF in encounter||A dreaded shooter, who along with gangster turned politician Mukhtar Ansari and another gangster was accused in the killing of BJP leader Krishnanand Rai in 2005, was gunned down by a team of Uttar Pradesh police’s Special Task Force (STF) on the outskirts of Lucknow on Sunday morning, said officials.The officials said Rakesh Pandey alias Hanuman Pandey carried a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head.They said Pandey was involved in several murders and shootouts carried out allegedly by Mukhtar Ansari’s gang in the past 23 years. Ansari was accused of hatching a conspiracy to kill Rai, who was an MLA from Mohammadabad assembly constituency in Ghazipur, while in jail but was acquitted during the trial at a lower court.Prem Prakash Singh alias Munna Bajrangi was shot dead by another gangster Sunil Rathi inside Baghpat jail on July 9, 2018.Amitabh Yash, STF’s inspector general (IG) of police, said a team was continuously trying to track him for the past many months. Yash said he was gunned down in retaliatory firing while the team was trying to arrest him when he had come to meet one of his accomplices on Kanpur Rad under Sarojini Nagar police station limits.Yash said Pandey had at least 10 criminal cases registered against him between 1993 and 2010. He said Pandey disappeared around 10 years ago and was untraceable since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mukhtar-ansari-s-close-aide-killed-by-uttar-pradesh-stf-in-encounter/story-cg4Jp3Cu2e32fG68yoF4AM.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||‘Security withdrawn as I spoke against administration’: Cong Rajya Sabha MP||Congress MP Pratap Singh Bajwa has alleged that the Punjab government has decided to withdraw state police security provided to him as he had spoken against the failure of administration and improper functioning of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh.In response to the withdrawal of state police security by the Punjab Government, Bajwa in a statement said, “I had spoken openly against the failure of administration in Punjab and improper functioning of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Obviously, in his usual manner, he had to resort to hitting below the belt by withdrawing my security and exposing my whole family to risk.” The Punjab government has decided to withdraw the state police security provided to Bajwa after an assessment showed that he had virtually no threat perception and was, in any case, now getting central security directly from the Union Home Ministry.A state government official spokesperson said the state police security provided to Bajwa had become redundant since he had procured personal security directly from Home Minister Amit Shah.According to the spokesperson, the central security Bajwa had got was not at the behest of the Congress leadership. “In fact, the Union Home Ministry had not even consulted the state government to gauge the threat perception, which is usually done before providing central security to any person,” he added.“Bajwa, as Rajya Sabha MP, may have simply approached the party’s leader in the House, Ghulam Nabi Azad, to seek central security, and as is the norm, the latter could have simply sent his request to the Union Home Ministry. However, for some reason, the Home Ministry chose not to discuss the matter of Bajwa’s threat perception with the state government in this case, which was a clear deviation from the norm followed in such cases,” the spokesperson said.The spokesperson said Bajwa has actually been getting enhanced security from Punjab Police, way beyond what he was entitled to as Rajya Sabha MP.“Bajwa was given Z Category security cover by the MHA on March 19 and as of date has 25 CISF personnel for personal security, house protection and escort, besides two escort drivers. Till March 23, he also had 14 Punjab Police personnel deployed with him but a few were withdrawn for COVID-19 duties. He currently has 6 Punjab Police personnel and an escort with a driver, which are now being withdrawn,” said the spokesperson. Earlier on Thursday, the Punjab cabinet demanded immediate expulsion of Congress MPs Pratap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo for attacking their own Congress government in the state over the hooch tragedy, the chief minister’s office had said in a statement.Recently, close to 110 people had died after consuming illicit liquor in three districts of the state.While on Saturday, Bajwa said that mining, liquor, cable, drugs and transport mafias which state Chief Minister promised to end are thriving under his rule. “Captain Amarinder Singh promised to end the rule of mining, liquor, cable, drugs and transport mafias within four weeks if he came to power, but now even after four years of his rule, these mafias are thriving,” Bajwa told ANI.He said, “If the Congress has to be saved, then we need to change the leadership in the state.”Bajwa said many party members have repeatedly requested the Chief Minister to sanction a probe into the big distilleries which illegally sold the liquor during lockdown to other states.Talking about the hooch tragedy, Bajwa said that excise, taxation department along with police and politicians are involved in the illicit liquor trade, and investigation by state authorities can be influenced and so he is demanding a CBI probe.“CM Captain Amarinder Singh has excise and taxation, home department and police under him. All fingers are being raised at the excise department. No state official has enough power to investigate the Chief Minister’s office. If justice has to be given to 121 people who died in the hooch tragedy, then an investigation should be done by CBI or ED,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/security-withdrawn-as-i-spoke-against-administration-cong-rajya-sabha-mp/story-CDElUMvbOQb9GTWHFbdoZK.html
09-08-2020||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar conducts aerial survey of flood-affected areas in Bihar||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday undertook an aerial survey of different embankments and flood-affected areas in many districts of Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, Munger, Purnia and Kosi divisions and directed the concerned authorities to carefully operate Gandak Garage.The chief minister inspected the flood and Covid-19 situation in these areas. He said the water levels of rivers in this region are comparatively low, however, the flood situation will remain till September. He directed the officials to enhance Covid-19 testing in flood-affected areas by setting up a camp at Air Force station.He was accompanied by the state’s chief secretary Deepak Kumar, principal secretary to the Chief Minister Chanchal Kumar and the WRD secretary Sanjiv Hans.He also flew over Ganga river in Bhagalpur and Katihar districts and over many areas in Supaul, Saharsa and Bhagalpur which have been affected by the floodwaters from Kosi river.Meanwhile, flood situation continues in Muzaffarpur district as the water level of Bagmati river has risen following incessant rainfall in the region.Over 30 teams, including those of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and SDRF were deployed to tackle the floods which have affected multiple districts in Bihar on August 6, according to the Disaster Management department of the state government. According to the data released by the department on Wednesday, 16 districts in the state have been affected by the rising waters.This has resulted in the loss of 19 human lives and affected a combined population of 66,60,655. A total of 12,202 people have been shifted to relief camps as of Wednesday.The chief minister had conducted an aerial survey of flood-affected areas of the State on Wednesday. He had visited a flood relief camp and a community kitchen for flood victims in Darbhanga, one of the districts worst affected by floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/cm-nitish-kumar-conducts-aerial-survey-of-flood-affected-areas-in-bihar/story-ccQC5an7tEt5ZinWapce7H.html
09-08-2020||City||Teen jumps off first floor to escape Covid care centre||A 19-year-old girl tried to escape from the Covid Care Centre of Mother and Child Hospital by jumping off the first floor of the building on Friday, following which senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Amarjeet Kaur sought a report from doctors at the centre.As per information, the girl did not suffer much injury as she fell into the lawn. She was counseled and taken back into the Covid Care Centre, Dr Hitender Kaur, the in-charge of the facility said.She had been brought to the centre on August 5, however, she had been upset ever since and had been asking her parents to take her elsewhere. Later, her patients took their daughter to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) for treatment, as per officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teen-jumps-off-first-floor-to-escape-covid-care-centre/story-KBFT2mRS3JImKAFchz7m3M.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai school increases fees for Class 1; hike amounts to what parents paid previous year, claims trustee||After a Dadar school hiked its fees, the parents of students studying there have complained to the state education department about the institute’s decision. According to the parents, the school decided to impose the fee hike despite the Parent Teacher Association (PTA) opposing the move. In a letter sent on Thursday, the parents of Sane Guruji English Medium School said the members of the PTA had disagreed on the 12% fee hike proposed by the school for Class 1. “The fee went up from ₹2,400 to ₹3,200 per month for Class 1 students. This is a big hike and parents had clearly mentioned that it is unacceptable. Despite that, the school has gone ahead with the hike,” stated the letter to the education department. However, Mohan Mohadikar, the school’s trustee, said that only the entry-level fee has been hiked. “Parents whose children were in Senior KG last year, have to pay the same fees for Class 1 this year. So as such, there will be no difference for those parents. Besides, we have also waived off the term fees for this term, considering the fact that school activities won’t happen owing to the Covid-19 situation. We have also allowed parents to pay in installments and have not discontinued classes even if parents have pending payments,” he added. However, parents have alleged that the school was violating the terms of the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fees Act) 2011. “For Class 1, the school should charge the amount which was the same for the class last year. Any addition to it will be considered a hike,” said a parent, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-school-increases-fees-for-class-1-hike-amounts-to-what-parents-paid-previous-year-claims-trustee/story-uZD1hgtH2yndV4ZDIVBG6K.html
09-08-2020||City||Gyms open to tepid response in city||It seems like a long road to recovery for the fitness industry as cautious residents stay put even as the government has allowed gyms to reopen after nearly four months of lockdown. Gym owners say that they getting only about 15 to 20% response even though they have ensured all precautions.CAN’T EVEN MEET FIXED EXPENSES: OWNERSPunjabi Gym Welfare Society president Nanveet Singh says, “It was a major relief for us when the government allowed gyms to open after four months of lockdown, but the present conditions are not favourable as we are getting only 15% of our normal turnout. With this, we can’t meet even our fixed expenses.” He adds, “There are over 700 gyms in the city and all are taking necessary precautions. In fact, we have not even started our high-intensity group classes. But still, the response has been tepid. Our future seems gloomy.”‘TAKING EXTRA PRECAUTIONS’Gym Ekta Welfare Association director Ramesh Bangar says, “In some ways, the government is responsible for this situation. As the gyms were closed for four months, people think that there is some risk here.”Bangar adds, “The government is allowing 25 persons in a 100-yard gym at a time, but we are taking extra precautions and allowing only around 10-12 persons at a time.” ‘BATCHES PREPARED FOR ENTRY’Simardeep Singh, owner of Concept Fitness gyms, says, “We are preparing batches to avoid overcrowding. Residents need to be aware that only strong immunity can save us from Covid-19. Recent studies have also shown that the virus is more likely to affect obese persons.”Though most gyms were scanning visitors thoroughly before allowing them entry, at some small gyms, thermal scanners and oximeters were missing.FITNESS ENTHUSIASTS’ TAKE Meanwhile, residents who have rejoined the gyms say that they are happy to back to their routine after four months. Earnest Paul, 55, who was exercising at a gym near Issa Nagari Pull, said, “It is a completely different experience as the crowd is missing now. My health was deteriorating during the lockdown as I was not able to exercise.”Gurjit Singh, 38, another fitness enthusiast, said, “Exercising is necessary to keep yourself fit. If everyone follows the guidelines, there is nothing to worry and one can remain fit and healthy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gyms-open-to-tepid-response-in-city/story-cCbqhD7lodkPknLaTRn6FP.html
09-08-2020||City||Liquor theft probe: Dushyant’s defence of excise department needs more answers||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s defence of excise and taxation department in wake of adverse findings by a special enquiry team (SET) seems to be on a weak footing. In fact, his Friday remarks–rejecting allegations against excise and taxation commissioner (ETC), Shekhar Vidyarthi, justifying decision to not facilitate the visit of SET to a distillery and his own disagreement with the inquiry findings—left a lot to be answered. 29 permits, 90 passes issued to move liquor The excise and taxation minister defended the move to successfully close down the liquor vends during lockdown without issuing written instructions after the SET had blamed the ETC for not issuing written orders. Information sent by department to SET, however, showed that 29 permits authorising contractors to procure supplies from wholesale Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and country liquor godowns and 90 passes for transporting liquor were issued online by the officials in several districts during lockdown. Officials said more than one pass to transport liquor supplies can be issued against a permit. Data shows that a total of 67,035 proof litres of IMFL, 11,404 proof litres of country liquor and 48570 bulk litres of beer, ready to drink beverages and wine were procured by the liquor contractors from the wholesale godowns during the lockdown. Similarly, 90 passes for transporting liquor were issued online during the lockdown period facilitating the movement of 89,983 proof litres of IMFL, 49,225 proof litres of country liquor, 151969 bulk litres of beer, ready to drink beverages and wine and 474 proof litres of imported foreign liquor (from Gurgaon east only). “ There was no rationale for physical movement of stocks during lockdown… it is evident that there was huge unauthorized movement of liquor. The complicity of excise, police officials cannot be ruled out. Probe needed as movement of not a single soul except those involved in essential duties was permitted during lockdown,’’ said the inquiry report. ‘Why three distilleries produced liquor during lockdown?’ The SET also questioned why ADS Spirits, Jhajjar, Piccadily Agro Industries, Karnal and Frost Falcon distillery in Panipat produced liquor during lockdown even as others showed zero production. The department also did not provide information pertaining to movement of liquor from wholesale IMFL and CL godowns to retail outlets between March 1 to March 31 despite the orders of the Chief Minister. The information was vital to compare the availability of the liquor stocks till March 31 and after. ‘No bar in the excise act and distillery rules on visits’ While the SET said the department hampered their visit to a distillery, Chautala on Friday defended the move saying since no officer was allowed to visit a distillery as per the Punjab Excise Act, such a demand could not be considered. Excise law experts however said that there was nothing in the Act to prevent visit of officials to a distillery. Former Haryana advocate general, Mohan Jain said that clause 12 of the Punjab distillery rules allowed Financial Commissioner or Collector or any officer authorized by them to inspect and examine a licensed distillery, its premises and warehouses connected therewith. Jain, an excise law expert said distilleries are mandated to render all assistance to officers in making inspection. Chautala’s response 1. Permits, passes got issued as the software was designed to be operational till March 31 and cannot be interfered with for security reasons. No vehicle left distillery, explanation of officials sought. 2. Three distilleries were allowed to bottle available raw material in form of mixed chemicals to avoid being wasted. No distillery supplied bottled liquor during lockdown. 3. All information sought by SET for its three objectives was provided. 4. As per distillery rules, no third person can visit a distillery without written permission. Since SET didn’t seek permission for any specific distillery, it could not be given.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-theft-probe-dushyant-s-defence-of-excise-department-needs-more-answers/story-2FiwND7YPP5SNbBLPnsRVP.html
09-08-2020||City||Alleging police inaction, rape victim protests outside Ludhiana CP’s office||Alleging police inaction, a rape victim staged a protest outside the office of Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal on Saturday, demanding the arrest of the accused.The victim alleged that the accused was hiding in his house in Bilaspur but the police are not arresting him and are instead pressuring her to withdraw the case.The woman said the accused was her co-worker and had established physical relations with her on the pretext of marriage. However, later he refused to marry her. She then filed a complaint in the Punjab and Haryana high court following which panchayat members of his village intervened and assured to get them married before March 2020.However, in December 2019, the accused barged into her house and raped her again. Following this, she filed a police complaint but eight months on, no action has been taken, she alleged. The woman further said that the accused’s father filed a missing person’s report at Jamalpur police station in a bid to save him. The woman said she will continue the protest till the accused is arrested. Focal Point station house officer, inspector Mohammad Jamil said cops have conducted multiple raids at the house of the accused in Himachal Pradesh, but he was not present there. He also refuted the claims of pressuring the victim to withdraw her complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/alleging-police-inaction-rape-victim-protests-outside-ludhiana-cp-s-office/story-SDKKgkUFCAhKig8sDlqk5N.html
09-08-2020||City||Haryana revenue officers’ delegation meets deputy CM over suspension of six naib tehsildars||A delegation of Haryana revenue officers on Saturday met deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala at his residence here to raise grievances after six revenue officials of Gurugram were placed under suspension for allegedly registering land deeds in violation of the Haryana Development and Regulations of Urban Areas Act.The delegation president Abhishek Bibian said they are being unnecessarily blamed and victimised for mushrooming illegal colonies across the state. “The revenue officers have very limited responsibilities under the 1975 Act. The prime duty to prevent the development of illegal colonies lies with the officials of town and country planning and police officials of the concerned area as per the law. We demand that a regular inquiry should be conducted by the revenue officers before taking any legal action in this matter,” he said.The delegation also apprised Chautala about the recent FIRs lodged under Prevention of Corruption Act in alleged irregularities in registration of EWS flats in Gurugram as baseless. The delegation said Chautala assured them that the innocent officers will not be victimised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-revenue-officers-delegation-meets-deputy-cm-over-suspension-of-six-naib-tehsildars/story-YQ9vpNDDnaIHrAIyEq7H0O.html
09-08-2020||City||Factory worker dies, friend suffers injuries in Ludhiana hit-and-run||A factory worker died while his friend suffered severe injuries after a speeding truck hit their motorcycle on Chandigarh road near Fortis Hospital on Saturday.The victim was identified as Sumit Verma, 30, of Moga Colony, Mundian. He was the nephew of a local Congress leader Susheel Kumar Sheela.The injured man was identified as Deepak Kumar, 28. Sumit and Deepak worked in a factory and were returning after finishing up for the day.Police said as the duo reached near Fortis Hospital, a speeding truck hit their motorcycle. In the mishap, Sumit died on the spot. Deepak’s legs were crushed and he was rushed to a nearby hospital, from where the doctors referred him to PGIMER, Chandigarh.Inspector Mohammad Jamil, SHO at Focal Point police station, said that a case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence was registered against the truck driver and a hunt was on to nab him.Sumit is survived by a wife and two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/factory-worker-dies-friend-suffers-injuries-in-ludhiana-hit-and-run/story-ajOL1TvDAcuumTrETqGRTP.html
09-08-2020||City||Cross-FIRs lodged after Youth Cong, LIP supporters clash outside MP Ravneet Bittu’s residence||Cross-FIRs were lodged after Youth Congress leaders and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) supporters got into a brawl outside Member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Bittu’s residence on Saturday. The LIP leaders were staging a symbolic protest against the shortage of ventilators at the civil hospital when the incident took place. LIP chief spokesperson Gagandeep Singh Sunny Kainth, who was leading the protest, said, “When we reached the MP’s house, over 200 Congress supporters had already gathered there. They attacked us when we questioned the failure of government and the MP. In the melee, some of our supporters’ turbans were also tossed in the air. The police, including the SHO remained a mute spectator.”Following the incident, LIP leaders, including MLA Balvinder Singh Bains, staged a protest outside the office of police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, seeking suspension of Division Number 8 station house officer Jarnail Singh, alleging inaction.MP Ravneet Bittu said, “It is a condemnable incident and it should not have taken place. The incident took place due to an old enmity between the two groups as Kainth was also a part of the Congress once. A video has also surfaced wherein a LIP supporter is trying to attack Congress supporters with a ‘kirpan’. Doing politics at this time of crisis is also not good. I was not aware that so many Congress workers had gathered outside my house as I was not in the city. If I had known, I would have sent my representative or any officer to collect the LIP’s memorandum.” Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Sameer Verma said, “We have received complaints from both parties. The LIP leaders have not mentioned anything about the SHO’s role in their complaint but we will still verify the allegations.”SHO Jarnail Singh said that FIRs have been registered against supporters of both the parties. Former district president of Youth Congress, Rajiv Raja, Congress supporter Abbas Raja and others have been booked on the complaint of Kainth.LIP’s Sunny Kainth and others have been booked on the complaint of Congress supporter Tarwinder Singh. The FIRs have been lodged under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (likely to spread the infection), 323 ( voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cross-firs-lodged-after-youth-cong-lip-supporters-clash-outside-mp-ravneet-bittu-s-residence/story-tWfn5gYFGZgavanv9O3xII.html
09-08-2020||City||Night curfew strikes another blow to Ludhiana’s already-struggling restaurant sector||The restaurant business in the city has suffered another blow with the imposition of a night curfew in the district from 9pm onwards.With fear gripping the residents and not much support provided by the government, the owners said the sector will not be able to survive for long. Owner of Basant restaurants, Bhupinder Basant, said, “Only 25% restaurants had reopened so far due to low footfall and high expenses. Businesses had slowly started to come back on track after the government allowed the restaurants to open till 10 pm, but the new decision to shut down the units at 9pm will further hit the business. The government should at least allow home delivery till 10pm, so that owners can at least bear the expenses to run the restaurant.” Owner of Hawai Adda restaurant, Prince Makkar, said, “We haven’t opened the restaurant since the lockdown was announced in March. After the government allowed restaurants to operate till 10pm from August 1, we felt relieved and were planning to reopen. But with these new conditions of allowing restaurants to operate at only 50% capacity and only till 9pm, we have decided to further delay the opening.”The office bearers of the Hotel and Restaurant Association rued that the government was not bothered about the hospitality sector and hoteliers were muling shutting down due to their negligent behaviour. President of the Hotel and Restaurant Association Amarvir Singh said, “It is high time that the government provides relief to the sector otherwise the businesses will collapse and many owners will be forced to shut their establishments permanently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/night-curfew-strikes-another-blow-to-ludhiana-s-already-struggling-restaurant-sector/story-wug6KOzUNi4uiVgBqjKgxL.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Blast in Amritsar cracker factory, workers escape unhurt||An explosion triggered by fire took place in a cracker factory at Ibban Kalan village in the Amritsar district on Saturday morning. Three-four labourers present in the factory at the time of the incident escaped unhurt. The blast that took place around 9am was so powerful that it ripped apart some walls of the factory. The fire broke out in the unit due to short circuit, police said. It took nearly two hours for four fire tenders to douse the flames.Police officials said their preliminary investigation suggested that the factory was legal as its owner Tarwinder Singh has the licence to run it. “Four of our fire tenders reached the spot within 15 minutes of getting information. The fire was doused by 11am,” said fire officer Lovepreet Singh.Chatiwind police station in-charge Kashmir Singh said, “As per the statements of the labourers, the fire broke out due to a short circuit that took place while switching on a tubewell motor. Though factory owner Tarwinder Singh of East Mohan Nagar in Amritsar has produced the licence , we are registering a case of negligence against him.”Sub-divisional magistrate (Amritsar-2 SDM) Shiv Raj Singh Ball said, “We will investigate the records of the factory. It will also be probed whether the factory owner was following proper guidelines while running the unit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/blast-in-amritsar-cracker-factory-workers-escape-unhurt/story-JSSLOlxgqwc8WE7cToCcgL.html
09-08-2020||City||Miscreants injure money exchanger in Ludhiana, rob Rs 2.7 lakh||Three miscreants on a motorcycle injured a money exchanger and his son with sharp-edged weapons and fled away with their scooter containing Rs 2.7 lakh in cash in Samrala on Saturday evening.The victim, Naresh Kumar, 55, of Samrala was admitted to a hospital after he suffered injuries on his head and arms.Kumar said that he and his son were returning home after finishing up for the day on a scooter. He had kept Rs 2.7 lakh in cash under the seat of the two-wheeler. When they neared their home, three motorcycle-borne men struck, injured the father-son duo with sharp-edged weapons and rode away their scooter with the cash.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Samrala) Jaswinder Singh Chahal and inspector Sikandar Singh, station house officer, reached the spot and initiated investigation. The inspector said that the miscreants had been keeping a tab on the movement of the victim. The police are scanning CCTV cameras installed in the area for identification of the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/miscreants-injure-money-exchanger-in-ludhiana-rob-rs-2-7-lakh/story-zDWgtYvgOHJ18IWmJitamO.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai wins Covid fights, battle goes on||On the day Maharashtra crossed 500,000 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai recorded 1,304 fresh infections – highest 24-hour spike in August so far. The city on average has reported around 900 cases in the first eight days of this month, down from 1,133 in July. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), however, is still in a ‘wait-and-watch’ mode, as the government has been lifting restrictions as part of its Mission Begin Again. “Saturday has more cases in comparison to other days in August, but if we compare today’s [Saturday] situation to earlier days when Mumbai got similar number of cases [1,300-1,400], we were conducting 5,000 or 6,000 Covid-19 tests a day. Now we are conducting 9,000 to 10,000 tests a day. So Saturday’s number cannot be termed as a spike,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of the health department in BMC. Kakani, however, sounded a word of caution too. “We are preparing and are equipped to handle cases shooting up to 2,000 or more, too. As Mumbai opens up, the cases may increase. Even when you go out on the road, you see a lot of traffic these days, mobility is high, people-to-people interaction is high and it will further increase. We are ready for a possible spike,” he said. Mumbai on Saturday reported 58 fatalities, taking the city’s toll up to 6,751. The city’s fatalities are 38.87% of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 toll as on Saturday. This is a significant drop from more than 60% in March and April.While there are 19,914 active cases in the city that translate into 13.54% of Maharashtra’s active cases, Mumbai’s recovery rate is 77%, growth rate 0.78%, and doubling rate is 89 days.The city’s case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 5.5%, higher than Maharashtra’s 3.45%. Reducing number of deaths remains a challenge. The rate, however, has reduced from 5.8% and 5.9% in June and the beginning of July.The turnaroundSince the first two weeks of July, when the average number of daily cases in the city stood at 1,300, to the first week of August, the city has witnessed a significant dip in the number of cases per day, with a few exceptions. The dip is despite Mumbai liberalising its testing on July 7, allowing any person to approach a laboratory and get tested for Covid-19 without a doctor’s prescription. BMC expected Covid-19 cases to increase after this, but that did not happen. As of August 7, Mumbai has conducted 592,230 tests, with a positivity rate of 20.44%.The strategyWhen BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on June 22 launched ‘Mission Zero’ – drawn up based on the success of models implemented in slums such as Dharavi, Mankhurd, and the settlement of Worli Koliwada – to reduce surge of cases in high-rise buildings in the western suburbs, he attributed the success of these models to the 4T formula – testing, tracing, tracking of high-risk contacts and treating patients. BMC used mobile ambulances that went door-to-door to screen patients. Watertight containment zones and institutional quarantining of many high-risk contacts to break their interaction with the community, and stop further spread of the virus, also helped, Chahal had said. Road aheadAs Covid-19 cases moved from slums to high-rises after the government lifted lockdown restrictions on June 5, BMC had launched the 35-day ‘Mission Zero’ plan. The civic body, however, now plans to extend the plan indefinitely.R-Central ward (Borivli West) has the highest growth rate of 1.37%, with a doubling rate of 51. Other suburban wards – R-South (Kandivli), R-North (Borivli), P-South (Goregaon) and T (Mulund) – have a growth rate of 0.9%, above the city’s average. Similarly, D ward (Malabar Hill, parts of Pedder Road, Mahalaxmi and Girgaum) has a growth rate of 1.3%, and a doubling rate of 59 days. “Cases in the suburbs are fluctuating, so there are some days where number of cases is low, and some days where they shoot up. So we have decided to continue with Mission Zero,” said Vishawas Shankarwar, deputy municipal commissioner in-charge of Borivli, Kandivli, Dahisar, and parts of Goregaon.Kakani said BMC has noticed that whatever strategies they have been using are working, whether it is ‘Chase the Virus’ or ‘Mission Zero’. “But we can’t be complacent because of the trend in cases and are alert,” he said. BMC is also focusing on reducing the number of deaths. “Our aim is to reduce the number of deaths. We have managed to bring down fatality due to ‘Mission Save Lives’, but we need to focus on it even more,” said Kakani. ‘Mission Save Lives’, a nine-point strategy to reduce fatalities includes video surveillance of each patient, mandatory audit of every death and giving bedpans to serious patients. It was launched on June 30. “The situation has improved, and cases are not increasing at an alarming pace as we saw earlier. But we will know if we are really in control of the situation when the lockdown eases substantially. Mumbai needs to bring down its fatalities,” said Brinelle D’Souza co-convener of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-wins-covid-fights-battle-goes-on/story-kCv7WGSsQDcl7rrjI4BWlI.html
09-08-2020||City||Palghar mob lynching case: Maharashtra CID files third charge sheet||The Maharashtra Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Friday filed a third charge sheet as part of its probe into the mob lynching from April 2020 in which three were killed. The state CID also submitted a charge sheet against two minor accused before the Juvenile Justice Board in Bhiwandi. On April 16, Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri, 70, Sushilgiri Maharaj, 35, and Nilesh Telgade, 30, were killed when a mob of locals attacked them at Gadhchinchale, approximately 140 kilometres from Mumbai. The trio were on their way to Surat and Telgade had been driving the car. Five police personnel were also injured in the attack. According to CID, the lynching was caused by rumours that were circulated using Whatsapp, which warned against a group of organ and child traffickers passing through the area. The gathered mob had mistaken the two travellers and their driver to be the traffickers. In July, CID filed two charge sheets in the case and 226 witnesses have been examined as part of the investigation. So far, 154 people and 11 juveniles have been arrested. On Friday, the state CID charged two juveniles who are directly involved in the lynching, according to the police. Additional director general, CID, Atulchandra Kulkarni said, “Though there are 11 juveniles involved in the case, we have filed against only two of them. Another chargesheet will be filed against the remaining nine after collecting all evidences.” The charges against the accused include murder, attempted murder, rioting, and violations of the Disaster Management Act, the Epidemic Diseases Act, and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. The third charge sheet, filed before a Dahanu court on Friday, is related to an incident of a police officer opening fire on April 17, the first information report (FIR) for which was filed in Kasa police station, in Palghar. This charge sheet charges 47 people with obstructing the police, rioting and attempted murder. “When the police had gone to arrest them [in connection with the lynching case], they [the accused] had pelted stones and used catapults against the police. A firing was ordered by by deputy superintendent of police, Jawhar, Bhagwat Sonawane,” said Amrut Adhikari, who is the counsel for some of the accused. The 47 accused were later arrested on May 13. Of those currently in judicial custody, 28 have applied for bail on the grounds that CID has not collected any evidence against them. Adhikari said, “CID is still collecting evidence against the 28 accused even though they have been arrested. We have the right to apply for bail as it is a case of illegal detention.” The bail plea will be heard on Monday. Meanwhile, the state is preparing a report on the action taken against police personnel from Kasa police station following the mob lynching. Over 35 police constables and other personnel were transferred the then Palghar district police chief, Gaurav Singh, was sent on compulsory leave. On Thursday, the Supreme Court asked the state to submit a report on the actions taken against the errant police personnel. The bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy will also examine the charge sheets that have been filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-mob-lynching-case-maharashtra-cid-files-third-charge-sheet/story-sUdX76VIgXyKcvgT34pfoJ.html
09-08-2020||City||1.2K recoveries at Railways’ Covid hospital in Mumbai||The Jagjivan Ram Hospital, operated by the railways at Mumbai Central, discharged its 1,257th Covid-19 patient on Saturday. The Indian Railways dedicated the Covid-19 hospital for railway staff as well as general public.The hospital will soon get a dedicated coronavirus testing laboratory in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-2k-recoveries-at-railways-covid-hospital-in-mumbai/story-MQrTBJcHi7oLjxxEkoqE2J.html
09-08-2020||City||Financial woes among parents impact college admissions in Ludhiana||The Covid-19 pandemic has induced a financial crisis, which has put adversely impacted college admissions in the city.Facing financial constraints due to job losses, pay cuts, losses in businesses, many parents have requested college principals to provide them more time to pay the fees. Principals of colleges affiliated with Panjab University stated that students were visiting colleges to buy forms, but a majority of them were not turning up to submit the forms citing financial problems at home. The percentage of students citing such reasons has increased from 10% earlier to 50% this year, said many principals.At SCD Government College, the authorities are receiving 150 queries daily from students that are related to the admission process. Nearly 80% students are sending emails to the college stating that they are facing a financial crisis at home due to which they will not be able to submit the entire fee of their respective semesters. The situation is the same in other colleges.OPTION TO PAY IN INSTALMENTS OFFEREDPrincipals are worried as fee-related issues will take a toll on the admission process and seats will also be left vacant. Kirandeep Kaur, principal of Master Tara Singh Memorial College for Women, said, “Parents and students are inquiring regarding the admission process, but due to financial problems, many are not turning for counselling. Parents are visiting the college and sharing their monetary problems. To provide them some relief, we have asked them to deposit the fee in three instalments.”Principal of Mata Khalsa College, Kottan, Kuldeep Kaur Dhaliwal, said, “Students of 161 villages normally take admission here, but due to the pandemic, the process has been impacted. The major issue we are facing is parents have no funds, so the admission process has slowed down. When teachers contact students of second and final years regarding fees, many of them express inability and demand time. There is not much demand for BA, and BCom is still students’ first preference.”For BCom and BA courses, SCD College charges approximately ₹7,600- ₹8,700; Government College for Girls charges ₹9,200 without practical, ₹10,000 with practical and ₹11,000 for BCom (first semester). However, for both the courses, private colleges are charging ₹16,000- ₹18,000 for BA and ₹18,000-₹21,000 for BCom. Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal at SCD Government College, said, “Being a government college, the fee structure is already low and ranges between ₹5,000 to ₹12,000 which includes the examination fee. The charges differ from course to course.”At Arya College, the authorities have already started with the counseling process for BCom, first semester. More than 100 students took admission in BCom on Friday, among which 50% students have opted for fee payment through instalments. GOVT COLLEGES PREFERREDRamanpreet Kaur, a student from Mangli Uchi village, said, “I scored 92% marks in Class 12 and applied for admission in two girls colleges. My father runs a cloth shop and due to Covid -19, the shop remained closed for three months and we used the savings to survive. I am hopeful that I will get admission in BCom in a government college. I will request the authorities to allow my parents to pay the fee in instalments.” Suresh Kumar, who hails from Doraha, said, “I have registered online for BA, first semester, in SCD college and Karamsar government college because of lower fee structure. My father was out of work for three months. I have decided to pay the fee in instalments and have submitted a letter to the college authorities to allow me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/financial-woes-among-parents-impact-college-admissions-in-ludhiana/story-mTrfVPBns0cYA8OgWXKXFM.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-Punjab IPS woman officer booked for cheating to claim family property||A retired Punjab woman Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Amrit Kaur Brar has been booked for cheating by allegedly concealing the will of her late father to gain property rights of her widow sister-in-law and her children.A case under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was lodged at the NRI police station here on Friday, after a preliminary police investigation.Patiala division assistant inspector general (AIG) for NRI cell Balraj Singh said the case is being investigated.The complainant Sukhdeep Kaur Brar, a retired IAS officer currently residing in the US, is the widow of an IPS officer Avinder Singh Brar who was shot dead by terrorists in Patiala in 1987. He was then senior superintendent of police of Patiala district.The accused Amrit is the younger sister of the slain officer. She was given a compassionate appointment as an assistant commandant in the Central Reserve Police Force. In 1993, she was taken on deputation in the Punjab Police and, five years later, absorbed as DSP in Punjab police. She retired as AIG last year.Amrit could not be reached immediately for her comment on the FIR against her.According to the FIR, accessed by HT, Avinder’s father Gurdarshan Singh had properties in Punjab and Delhi.In 2001, Gurdarshan had registered a will for distribution of properties among his family members.A preliminary police investigation found that as per the will of 2001, if Amrit Kaur gets married, she will get property only in Delhi whereas rest of the assets will go to Sukhdeep, her two children and Gurdarshan’s wife.After her father’s demise in 2013, Amrit allegedly secured a share in her paternal properties located at Abulkhurana in Muktsar and Fazilka through a natural succession right.In 2018, Sukhdeep filed a case in a Delhi high court to claim her share in the Delhi properties. According to a legal document submitted by Amrit in the court, she got married in 2009 and sold her inherited Delhi property.The Delhi case is sub judice, according to the police report.Officials of state police’s NRI wing found that Amrit secured the Delhi properties through the will but the same will (that states she will lose property rights in other than Delhi assets after marriage) was concealed from all while claiming her share for properties in two locations in Punjab.The police probe has found that Amrit had submitted only a death certificate to get a share of her father’s property in Punjab whereas she had produced will, that otherwise restricts her claim on the inherited properties, to the Delhi authorities to secure valuable assets there.The FIR says that prima facie, Amrit had wrongfully secured ancestral property shares in Punjab. The FIR was registered after the prosecution and litigation division of the NRI police cell gave the go-ahead on the basis of the investigation conducted by the AIG office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-punjab-ips-woman-officer-booked-for-cheating-to-claim-family-property/story-CDuGmOBB58zGcC0cmd1UOK.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||As Maharashtra crosses 5-lakh Covid case milestone, ‘worst not over yet’||Maharashtra crossed the grim 500,000 Covid-19 cases milestone on Saturday, 153 days after reporting the first case in Pune, and health department officials said “the worst is not over yet”, as the state has not reached the peak of infections. The officials said Maharashtra is also witnessing “early signs of community transmission”, but it is not a cause for concern as the spread would remain “local”. Health experts and state officials said Maharashtra could continue to witness a rise in the number of daily Covid cases till next month, but the growth rate of transmission will remain low.September is crucial A senior health department official said while the state will continue to see higher number of cases as testing, too, has increased, the downward curve of Covid-19 infections will begin by September-end. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said although the absolute number of cases is increasing, the growth rate is not high. “There are indicators that suggest the outbreak is under control. It also suggests transmission is not happening rapidly. The doubling rate has improved. The overall growth rate is 3%, and in some cities, it’s fewer than 2%. The positivity rate, too, is much lower now despite the increase in daily testing. On Friday, we tested 81,655 samples and the positivity rate was around 12%,” Awate said.In the past seven days, the state has averaged 9,735 cases daily. From August 1 to August 7, the state added 68,144 cases to its tally. “We have not reached the peak yet; we are still getting there. The absolute cases are expected to increase for some more weeks. We could see the decline in cases by September-end or early October,” said Awate. “But the virus will not vanish. There will be scattered cases coming in from areas as we had seen in the case of H1N1 (swine flu). When H1N1 outbreak happened in 2009, we thought it would go away the next year, but even today cases are reported every alternate year.”Warning signs?Kerala was the first state in India to announce that two coastal towns had reached community transmission stage. Community transmission is when the index case from where a person contracted the virus is not traced. State health minister Rajesh Tope had recently denied that the state has entered the transmission stage. However, Awate said the state is “showing early signs” of having reached the stage. A senior health department official, who did not wish to be named, said, “The ICMR has a parameter for community transmission stage – when 20% of cases cannot be traced back to the source. Therefore, it is a contentious issue because no local body or district administration has followed the process to trace the index cases. For instance, if a city like Pune is reporting 1,500 cases daily, it does not have the manpower to do the tracing. Whether or not Maharashtra has reached the stage can only be announced after a go-ahead from ICMR.”Awate, who is also an epidemiologist, said, “We are seeing signs of community transmission. There have been cases where source of the infection has not been traced.”Deaths a concernThe case fatality rate (CFR) of the state stands at 3.49%, second only to Gujarat’s 3.82%, as of Friday. The national CFR is 2.04%. The absolute number of Covid-19 deaths, too, is a worry for the state government. Between July 7 and August 7, 8,066 fatalities were reported in the state. These constitute 47.19% of the total deaths in the state due to coronavirus.The Central government has also expressed concern over the high number of Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra and has listed 10 districts that need to do more to tackle the crisis. These districts are Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Sangli and Nagpur.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday directed the district and municipal officials to work on lowering fatalities on priority. A state health department official said, “Districts have been asked to ramp up tracing and testing. Densely populated areas are being looked at.”“Death rate is a concern and we have been modifying our standard operating procedure. Drugs like hydroxychloroquine, dexamethasone, etc, are being used extensively,” Awate said.Unlocking the stateThe state has been cautious in announcing the lifting of lockdown restrictions. Several civic bodies have been announcing their own versions of lockdowns to contain the spread of the virus. Earlier this month, the government announced opening of malls and market complexes, but food courts, cinema halls and gymnasiums have been kept shut. “Initially, industries, factories, shops were allowed. Now, further relaxations were provided to start the cycle of economic activities. We wanted to give these relaxations in July, but in view of the rising cases in the MMR, the state did not go ahead. Cases in Mumbai have now stabilised. The government will gradually see how things are going and ease restrictions further,” said a bureaucrat. Dr Lancelot Pinto, Mumbai-based pulmonologist and epidemiologist, said the number of cases going up is a “price to be paid for opening up”. “Looking at the situation from the point of view of cases rising wouldn’t necessarily give a complete picture. One has to check the severe cases, ICU beds occupied, etc. Mumbai has certainly improved in terms of availability of beds. Testing has been made easier, therefore, we are picking up cases that we did not earlier. All centres need to learn from what Mumbai learnt after initial days. Everywhere the cases will start and peak; all the cities will go through this cycle,” said Pinto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/as-maharashtra-crosses-5-lakh-covid-case-milestone-worst-not-over-yet/story-wmgciWRaJThvDdVzlMWOIN.html
09-08-2020||Lucknow||Will take all Covid precautions for monsoon session of legislature, says UP minister||The Uttar Pradesh legislature’s monsoon session is scheduled to begin on August 20 amid the fight against Covid-19. Adhering to social distancing norms during the session will be a big challenge as the space for seating the members is limited. For the first time, the members will be adjusted in the lobbies and, possibly, in the galleries so that at least one seat between two members remains vacant. Uttar Pradesh minister for finance, medical education and parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna spoke about the ongoing preparations for the monsoon session. Excerpts:Are you ready for the monsoon session?  Yes, we are getting ready for the monsoon session of the state legislature commencing on August 20. We will follow the government’s directions and take all precautions for protection from Covid-19. Use of masks and following social distancing norms will be mandatory. How will you follow social distancing norms? We will use lobbies on both sides (treasury benches and the opposition) of the House. If necessary, the viewers’ galleries will also be used for members. Will you have a sound system installed for members sitting in the lobbies/galleries? Yes. We will have a sound system for the members sitting in lobbies/galleries. How long will this session be? We can’t say anything at this stage. But I don’t think there can be a longer session in the prevailing conditions.Will the state government table the first supplementary demands for grants? Yes, the state government may bring the supplementary demands for grants for 2020-2021.Covid-19 has adversely affected revenue. How will you meet this challenge?  We have explored all the possibilities. Covid-19 has stalled economic activities and this has had an adverse impact on the state government’s revenue. We hope our economic condition will improve when the Covid-19 pandemic ends. Is there any improvement?There has been a gradual improvement in the collection of revenue in the past few months. Recovery of revenue realisation has improved every month. Will the state government propose any new taxes? We have taken steps in accordance with the situation. We have suspended the Vidhayak Nidhi (local area development fund) for the legislators. We have cut down the salaries and emoluments of legislators by about 30%. We have taken a number of other steps to increase our income and cut wasteful expenditure. We have tried to maintain financial discipline. In April, we realised less than 10% of the targeted revenue. We improved a bit in May 2020. We, however, touched 61% revenue against targets in June 2020. Will there be an emphasis on e-office? Yes, the e-office system will be encouraged. But switching over to the e-office system completely will take some time. Those belonging to the old generation are not comfortable with using the new technology. But the young generation uses the new technology with much ease. Some departments have implemented e-office and more will do so in the coming months. How is the state government doing in the fight against Covid-19? We have less positive cases vis-à-vis other states. In smaller states, the number of cases and deaths is much higher than UP. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi have more deaths. We have tried to check the spread of Covid-19. We have been successful in keeping a low mortality rate. We have 25 government labs and 30 labs in the private sector for Covid-19 testing. We have increased the number of Covid-19 tests being carried out in the state. Uttar Pradesh was able to do only 100 tests in April. But we are now carrying out 34,000-35,000 tests per day by RT-PCR. We are also conducting rapid antigen tests and using the TrueNat machines too. We conducted about 1,15,000 tests on Saturday. We have worked really hard to build testing capacity and achieve these testing figures. How are you protecting yourself? I don’t take any medicines for this. But I follow the steps that have been suggested for protection from Covid-19 from time to time. Covid-19 can infect anybody. Those who do not adhere to the government guidelines of using mask or follow social distancing may face problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/will-take-all-covid-precautions-for-monsoon-session-of-legislature-says-up-minister/story-WfQFoMDefG6Oejz0rE9K2H.html
09-08-2020||City||Railways to operate 200 special trains to Konkan ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi||The Western Railway and Central Railway will operate around 200 outstation trains to Konkan region on account of Ganesh Chaturthi. The special trains are likely to start from August 11. On Friday, the state gave its approval to the railways to operate the special trains and said care must be taken to ensure that all precautionary measures, including social distancing and sanitization, in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, are followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/railways-to-operate-200-special-trains-to-konkan-ahead-of-ganesh-chaturthi/story-koXO1JkDEXfg6ggXAGiGrL.html
09-08-2020||City||Two men pose as cops, steal 4 rings worth ₹1 lakh from 75-year-old in Navi Mumbai||Two men, posing as police officers, allegedly stole gold rings worth ₹1.17 lakh from a 75-year-old retired BEST [Brihanmumbai Electric Transport and Supply] undertaking employee, after offering to help him adjust his mask at Koparkhairane on Thursday morning. Around 11am, the complainant, Narayan Vhatkar, was on his way to pay the electricity bill. While walking at Bonkode Road in Sector 12, Vhatkar noticed two men standing by the footpath. “The men wear wearing white shirts and approached Vhatkar and claimed that they were police officers. One of them asked Vhatkar to wear the mask properly. The accused then asked him what he was carrying in his pockets after noticing fgold rings on his fingers,” an officer from Koparkhairane police station said. The accused allegedly told Vhatkar that there is a police checkpoint ahead and that he should not wear gold jewellery in public. They then asked him to wrap the rings in a piece of paper and keep them in his pocket. “Vhatkar put the rings in his pocket and asked the two men to show him their police identification cards. But the duo kept him engaged in the conversation, distracted him and walked away with the rings,” the officer said. After walking a little further, Vhatkar did not find any uniformed police personnel and checked his pocket for the rings. When he opened the piece of paper in which he kept the rings, he realised they were missing. The rings collectively weighed 32.5 grams, said the police. Vhatkar then approached the police, following which a case of cheating was registered against the two unidentified accused. The police are checking the CCTV footage of the nearby areas to verify their identities and are probing the case further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-pose-as-cops-steal-4-rings-worth-1-lakh-from-75-year-old-in-navi-mumbai/story-MQJ2vFVPZgXpc8SOCLO7eO.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||Social impact of crimes against women call for exemplary treatment to accused: Bombay HC||Social impact of any crime against women requires exemplary treatment to be meted out to the accused,the Bombay high court (HC) said on Friday, while refusing to let off a city resident who is sentenced for six years by a sessions court for attempting to murder his girlfriend, after she refused to marry him. “We are conscious that social impact of the crimes against women cannot be lost sight of and per se require exemplary treatment,” said the bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik, while rejecting the prayer of the convict, Arumugum Arundatiyar. According to the prosecution, Arundatiyar and the woman were in a relationship for two years and he wanted to marry her. The woman, who worked as a babysitter, refused to marry him, as her family opposed their relationship. After she refused his proposal, Arundatiyar assaulted her twice. On May 8, 2014, when the woman was returning home from work, the accused barged into the rickshaw in which she was seated and threatened the auto driver with a knife and pulled her out of the vehicle. Arundatiyar then attacked her with the knife in front of the people nearby. He stabbed her on her neck and also threatened to attack the eyewitnesses who tried to save her. He then fled the spot after a police vehicle reached there, but was arrested some time later. After the sessions court convicted him for attempted murder of his girlfriend, Arundatiyar moved HC to appeal against the sentencing. His counsel advocate Aniket Vagal primarily stressed before the HC that the injuries caused to the woman not grievous in nature, and the incident took place mainly because the victim refused to marry the convict after two years of their relationship. Vagal also sought sympathy for his client on the ground that he was a young man, of about 25 years at the time of the incident, and came from a very poor background. Claiming that the sentence was grossly disproportionate to the crime, especially when the injuries were not grievous, he urged the court to let the convict off with six years, improving which he already served as an undertrial. The HC, however, refused to show any undue sympathy for the convict. The bench said any liberal approach by imposing meager sentences or taking too sympathetic view of crimes against women will be result-wise counter-productive in the long run and against societal interests. But the court found that life imprisonment was an excessive punishment for the crime, as the injuries inflicted on the woman were not life-threatening, and reduced the convict’s sentence to 10 years imprisonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/social-impact-of-crimes-against-women-call-for-exemplary-treatment-to-accused-bombay-hc/story-swl49mHKJZ1EKktoazHgJL.html
09-08-2020||City||Two held for break-ins flee Covid-19 centre near Mumbai||Two accused, held for house break-ins, escaped from a Covid-19 facility in Ulhasnagar on Friday. The two accused – Mukesh Jagtap, 24, and Kunal Patel, 19 – were undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the facility after they were tested positive for the virus. They police have launched a manhunt to search for the two. Jagtap and Patel were arrested by the Bhiwandi police last month, following which they were taken into custody by Ulhasnagar Hill Line police. On August 3, the duo tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted to the Tevram Hall Covid-19 Centre in Ulhasnagar. Senior inspector Sanjay Sawant of Hill Line police station said, “The accused were arrested for cases of house break-ins during the lockdown. Both of them also looted a grocery store in Ulhasnagar. On Friday, they jumped from the second floor of the Covid-19 centre where they were undergoing treatment.” The police are now checking the CCTV footage around the facility and also the check-posts at the city borders. Sawant informed that the police have also alerted the other police stations and are checking if they are hiding at the homes of their relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-break-ins-flee-covid-19-centre-near-mumbai/story-KrDmKOhcTwkHkhHX5NIw7N.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Another spurious liquor module busted, two arrested in Amritsar||Busting another spurious liquor module on Saturday, Punjab Police arrested Gurwinder Singh and Lovepreet Singh from Majithia. Their supplier, Raju, who hails from Sultanwind, is absconding. In all, 160 litre of spurious alcohol, in four cans of capacity of 40 litre each, along with two empty drums of capacity of 200 litre each, two empty cans of capacity of 40 litre, and seven small pouches of 2-3 litre each, were seized from Gurwinder’s house, where the two accused were apprehended.The arrests took place during an early morning raid on the basis of tip-off received by Majithia station house officer (SHO). A Majithia police party, led by assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Mukhtiar Singh and ASI Nirmal Singh, conducted the raid, said Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta. The DGP added that they are also in search of one Bikka, who had allegedly purchased liquor from the duo in this instance, and are also tracking nine others, identified as the duo’s regular buyers. They will all be arrested soon, said the DGP. The nine persons had been identified by Lovepreet as those who were regularly purchasing liquor from him.Chemical examination of the seized liquor has revealed that it was spurious and completely unfit for human consumption. Its key chemicals were 1-propanal, iso-butanol, acetal, ethyl lactate and ethyl hexanoate, the DGP added. A case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and Sections 61,1,14 of the Excise Act has been registered against Lovepreet Singh, Gurinder Singh and Raju.State-wide raids continued as part of the crackdown with over 100 arrests and 146 cases registered over the past 24 hours.The DGP said he had also directed district cops to collate a database of all individuals (transporters, drivers, workers etc) working at distilleries in their districts to ensure stricter vigilance. He also said that young direct PPS officers had been posted in Tarn Taran and Amritsar Rural for a more focused drive against illicit liquor and drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/another-spurious-liquor-module-busted-two-arrested-in-amritsar/story-0YY0aiU5Stx7rezDiEHy9J.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||24.6% of state’s cases from Mumbai; Thane, Pune emerge as new hot spots||The Covid-19 case curve of Mumbai has plateaued, which in turn has brought down the city’s share of infections in Maharashtra to 24.31%. This is a significant drop from 54.82% on June 12, when the state reached its first 100,000 Covid-19 cases. Currently, Thane and Pune have emerged as hot spots, with 20.60% (103,642) and 21.86% (109,988) of Maharashtra’s 503,084 cases in these two districts. Thane and Pune had 11% and 16% of the state’s cases on June 12. State health minister Rajesh Tope said these two regions will reach their peak in the next two weeks, after which cases will dip. “We are expecting that either these two regions are already in the middle of the peak or will reach there within two weeks. Then we can expect a drop in the cases graph, as we have witnessed in Mumbai,” said Tope.Mumbai’s share in Maharashtra’s Covid cases dropped gradually over a period of two months. On July 12, when the state had 254,427 infections, Mumbai’s share was 36.55% (92,988). This further came down to 33.34% (100,350) on July 18, when Maharashtra had 300,937 cases.Officials from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) predict that by August-end, the city’s share of cases will drop even further. “It has been almost two months since we have noticed any sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai. The slums have recovered. Dharavi, which was our main concern due to the huge population, is recording cases below two digits on an average,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.The number of active cases in the city is also lower than in Pune and Thane. On Saturday, the city had 19,914 active cases, while Thane reported 22,943 active patients. Pune, meanwhile, had 41,266 active cases —highest in the state. “Due to their connectivity with satellite towns, numbers in these two regions have jumped. Detection of cases has also risen due to an increase in testing using antigen kits,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health expert, said, “As Mumbai and MMR (Mumbai Metropolitan Region) are interconnected, we have to be careful before opening up transportation or local trains which can bring the second wave of pandemic. Just like in Mumbai, the curve is expected to come down in Pune and Thane also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/24-6-of-state-s-cases-from-mumbai-thane-pune-emerge-as-new-hot-spots/story-zZDzScesCxw244swC8gdTP.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||Model, who aced UPSC, files complaint over fake online profiles||Aishwarya Ajay Kumar Sheoran, a 23-year-old former national-level beauty contest finalist who ranked 93rd in the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exam in 2019, filed a complaint with the Colaba police station on Thursday after discovering 20 fake accounts in her name on a popular photo sharing social media app. According to the complainant, an unidentified person created her 16 fake accounts on the social media site and posted several of her photos without her consent. “It’s not a serious issue as of now, but [the photos, accounts] could be misused in the future,” Sheoran said. The 23-year-old, whose father is a colonel in the Army, lives with her family at Army Officer’s Colony in Colaba. In her complaint, she said on August 5, while speaking to a journalist for an interview, she was informed that there were multiple social media accounts in her name. She told the journalist that she has no account on the app.Later, she asked her brother to check the app and they found 16 fake accounts in her name, featuring photos and videos of her. “We don’t know how the accused may misuse these 20 fake accounts. He may misuse my sister’s name and photos for illegal monetary gain, hence we decided to report the matter to the police,” said Sheoran’s brother, Aman.On Thursday, Sheoran filed a complaint with the Colaba police. A first information report (FIR) has been registered under section 66C (identity theft) of the Information Technology (IT) Act.“The accused person has created accounts using her photos without her permission. We have registered a case of identity theft and have started an investigation. These fake accounts will be pulled down with assistance from the service provider, and we will trace the person who had created them,” said Shivaji Fadtare, senior inspector of Colaba police station.The accused may have misused the complainant’s photos to attract more online followers, another police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/model-who-aced-upsc-files-complaint-over-fake-online-profiles/story-t4Q16rtctpHmxT62hCD2UN.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Capt as usual hit below the belt, won’t be cowed down: Bajwa||Congress’ Rajya Sabha member Partap Bajwa on Saturday hit back at chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh over withdrawing security cover given to him by Punjab Police, saying the CM as usual has resorted to hitting below the belt and has exposed his family to risk. “Security is given to a person for protection of their life and should not be a tool to browbeat them into submission. In any case, this trick will not work on me,” said Bajwa.“Why had the Punjab government given me police security cover if my threat perception was zero? My father was martyred in the fight against terrorism in Punjab. I survived a bomb attack in 1990 and was given security for decades due to high threat perception. Now suddenly, my threat perception becomes zero,” the Rajya Sabha MP said. “I was not aware that the Punjab Police had become so spineless that they would withdraw security to a person having a genuine threat perception only because he has spoken against their political boss,” said Bajwa. The senior Congress leader said granting security involves intelligence inputs from ADGP (intelligence) with consent of the ADGP (security) and the DGP. “Obviously, all these three officers have intentionally chosen to prepare a fabricated threat perception. Preparing false intelligence inputs is evidently a violation of the service law and a punishable offence,” he said.“If the Centre has granted me Z security it clearly shows the actual threat perception I have. This security was provided to me by the UPA government in 2013 in addition to the security cover by the Punjab Police,” Said Bajwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-as-usual-hit-below-the-belt-won-t-be-cowed-down-bajwa/story-fTFtLKAW0a0QESgGYT4cLL.html
09-08-2020||Pune||Passion for heritage: Former civic executive engineer in Pune civic body turns house into heritage complex||Passion to preserve heritage comes naturally to former executive engineer and head of the department of the heritage cell, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) Shyaam Dhavalaey, so much so that post retirement, he turned his home into a heritage complex.Set up in 5,000 sq ft plot Mystic village, Daravali, Paud village; Dhavalaey built a Maharashtrian style two-storey building on a 2,000 sq ft space, which houses all the collectables he has accumulated over the past 20 years. The house will be open for the public after three months.His tryst with heritage and conservation came in the form of restoration and conservation work on the Vishrambaug Wada in 2001 when he took up the post of head of heritage cell, PMC. “I was on the verge of quitting my job with the PMC, where I had worked for 20 years in the garden department, water supply and as ward officer when I got this opportunity,” said Dhavalaey who is a civil engineer by profession.“I was always attracted towards art and this was an opportunity for me to delve further into this world,” he said.Attraction When you see the pastel pink house, its traditional doors, windows and shingles, all made of wood, draw you in. Dhavalaey began collecting antique doors, hinges, window panes from Juna Bazaar, or during his trips to different parts of Maharashtra, whereupon, simplicity of the forms of the ‘Uhkhal’ (grain husker), stone vessels and stone bearings attracted him, enough to start his collection.His interest in conserving heritage and antiques also made him study Indology at the Tilak Maharashtra Vidyapeeth and also get a post graduate degree in Archaeology and heritage management, which helped him in his work on various heritage sites like Lal Mahal, Nana Wada and Mahatma Phule Mandai in the city.How the journey startedAfter retirement, Dhavalaey realised that the ‘treasure’ he had collected over 20 years at his old house in Parvati, had to be showcased. He thought of creating a special place to curate and showcase the treasure for the new generation to know more about our rich heritage and culture. Thus in 2017, he began laying the foundation of his dream and built a house which is completely made out of antique doors, window panels, even the electric switches are all of the old styles – black switches mounted on wooden boards.Recycle and reuseDhavalaey has recycled a lot of the old stone plinths to build this historic house. “My work during the restoration and conservation of heritage buildings taught me that there is a lot of history in the pots, pans and even in traditional architecture which I have tried to recreate in this house,” he said.All of the collection, right from a wooden desk to the ‘khunti’ (wooden hangers), ‘kerosene diyas have been recycled from parts, if not found. “Many of these objects emphasise the importance of art and tradition, heritage has been permanently preserved in the form. This project has been set up not only to preserve the invaluable heritage that our forefathers, past generations have given us, but also to create something for the future generations,” added Dhavalaey.He has spent Rs 8 lakh till date on building the house. He plans to hold art and craft workshops, lectures, and demonstrations in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/passion-for-heritage-former-civic-executive-engineer-turns-house-into-heritage-complex/story-W7in4gNAZ29s5NRzg7yh1M.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||Act against accused in Anvay Naik abetment to suicide case: Shiv Sena MLA writes to Maharashtra home minister||Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik on Thursday wrote to state home minister Anil Deshmukh, demanding action against the accused in the suicide case of architect Anvay Naik. In the letter to Deshmukh, Sarnaik wrote that the police should actively work to solve the suicide case of a “common man” just like it is working in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. Naik, 53, and his mother Kumud, died by suicide in Alibaug two years ago. A suicide note, purportedly written by Naik, the managing director of Concorde Designs, said that a news channel editor and two others owed him ₹5.40 crore for some services rendered by the victim’s firm, and as they failed to repay him, he was compelled to take the extreme step. In May, the state announced that the abetment to suicide case registered against the three people named in the note will be inquired into again by the state criminal investigation department (CID). Sarnaik demanded that the prime accused in the case should be called for an inquiry and booked if there is any suspicion against him. “The accused in the case is allegedly being protected by the police. Therefore, there should be complete transparency in the case and all information should be put before the people,” Sarnaik wrote. “The government should act to give justice to architect Anvay Naik, who is a native of the state. Two months after announcing a CID probe, the government should give details of the development in the case to the family members of the victims. Like the developments in the Sushant Singh Rajput case are shared with the people through the media, I wish that as the home minister, you would do the same in this case too,” the Sena legislator wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/act-against-accused-in-anvay-naik-abetment-to-suicide-case-shiv-sena-mla-writes-to-maharashtra-home-minister/story-UKkAotqeHFNl6JFuqmzxII.html
09-08-2020||Pune||Businessman duped to the tune of Rs 1.63 crore by duo claiming to be Zambian businessmen||The city police have filed First Information Report (FIR) against two men from the city who were claiming to be businessmen from Zambia in Africa and duped a businessman and eight others to the tune of Rs 1.63 crore. The victim identified as Vikas Sawant ( 59), a businessman from Model colony, has lodged a complaint against the accused identified as Ajaz Riyaz Sherkar (49) , a resident of Kondhwa and Praveen Vasant Mate, a resident of Karvenagar under relevant sections of breach of trust and cheating of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). According to the police, the victim runs a firm by the name Indway International which is into export and import business. He was introduced to Ajaz Sherkar in 2016 by a common friend during a meeting held in Cafe Coffee Day. Sherkar claimed that he was a Zambian national engaged in the business of importing goods from the said country to India and gave a proposal related to importing goods to the victim. Police said it was decide that that Sawant would import books wherein Sherkar asked him to meet a businessman in Sangli who was into notebooks business. Sawant and his wife went to Sangli and met him personally and the said person gave his approval for proceeding ahead with the business of book buying. However, he asked him to meet another person in Mumbai for moving ahead in the business deal to which he complied. The two accused then imported notebooks, sanitizers, napkins and electronic equipment in the name of Samruddhi Investment and Logwalk Zambia in seven containers. They returned only 43,000 US dollars to the complainant and reneged on the remaining payment of Rs 2.33 lakh dollars totally estimated to be worth Rs 1.63 crore and cheated him. Deccan Police Station in-charge, Police Inspector Deepak Lagad said that the case was initially lodged with Economic Offences Wing (EOW) and was transferred to Police station for investigation. “We have registered a case against the duo based on the complaint. Besides, Sawant, there are eight others who have been cheated by them. Investigation is on to find out more in detail,” he said. No arrest has been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/businessman-duped-to-the-tune-of-rs-1-63-crore-by-duo-claiming-to-be-zambian-businessmen/story-zlviMcvQDXfjApAYQNBVMJ.html
09-08-2020||Pune||Motorcyclist killed after truck collision||A motorcyclist was killed while the pillion rider sustained serious head injuries after their two wheeler was hit by a speeding truck on Pune–Satara road on Friday evening.Nilesh Sitaram Bhud ( 24) was killed while Pandurang Motal ( 24) sustained serious head injuries on Friday evening. The Bharti Vidyapeeth police have lodged a case against an unidentified driver who hit them from behind while they were in the tunnel en route to Patan in Satara district. Both were residents of Patan and had come to Pune for some work, police said.While in a separate incident, the Bhosari police arrested a truck driver for rash and negligent driving on the Pune-Nashik highway at Bhosari on Friday afternoon in which an auto driver was killed.In the second case, a truck driver who was driving under the influence of drugs rammed onto a moving tempo on the busy Pune-Nashik highway killing the auto driver on Friday. According to highway police, the impact of the accident was such that the auto driver came under the truck wheels and was killed instantaneously. The deceased has been identified as Shivaji Bajirao Dandawate ( 32), a resident of Bhosari and his relative Akshay Dandwate ( 24), a resident of Landewasti in Bhosari lodged an official complaint in this regard. Based on the FIR, the Bhosari police arrested Pradeep Singh Vijay Singh Sondha ( 29), a resident of Gujarat who was found driving the truck on after consumption of drugs. According to police, the accused knew that the victim was already under the wheels and could have stopped but still went ahead dragging the deceased for some time leading to his death. He also hit a Maruti Wagon R and another auto before he was stopped by onlookers. He was caught and handed over to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/motorcyclist-killed-after-truck-collision/story-JSkOvbhlIztAZ4CcBUrIGJ.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana cops dump 8.64 lakh litre hooch in Sutlej, stir up row||Police have disposed of 8.64 lakh litre confiscated hooch in the Sutlej or on its banks in the Ludhiana district, prompting the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to take samples of water and soil from the river. Action is likely against the police personnel, it is learnt. The police had started the drive against illicit liquor under ‘Operation Red Rose’ in the wake of the hooch tragedy in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts that has claimed at least 121 lives.A significant amount of hooch was recovered from Ludhiana’s Rajapur and Bholewal Jadid villages that are located near the Sutlej. The hooch was kept in large polythene tubes hidden in water or on the river banks. The police instead of destroying the illicit liquor in a controlled environment dumped in the river itself.The police without realizing the fact that they were actually polluting the river had videographed the process and shared it on their official Facebook page, which triggered reaction. PPCB chief engineer Gulshan Rai said they have started investigation into the matter after they came to know that the police dumped hooch into the river.“This is harmful for humans as well as animals. Reports of samples are awaited and we will take appropriate action accordingly.“Polluting water bodies is a crime. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had earlier slapped a fine of Rs 2.28 crore on skinners for polluting the water body and soil by dumping remains of dead animals on the river banks,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-cops-dump-8-64-lakh-litre-hooch-in-sutlej-stir-up-row/story-BEj0bWSRiigXf9lYNR4NaO.html
09-08-2020||Pune||University flyover will take three more days to demolish||The demolition of the university chowk flyover on Ganeshkhind road be completed by August 11 though it may take a few more days to remove the structure in front of E-square. After the structure is removed in entirety, the road will be opened up for commuters. “80 per cent of the demolition work of the university chowk flyover has been completed and in the next three days the remaining 20 per cent will be demolished,” said Vivek Kharwadkar, metropolitan planner, Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA). The demolition of the arm of the flyover in front of E-square will take a few more weeks to be completed, said Kharwadkar. “40 per cent demolition work of the flyover in front of Esquare has been completed. The work will be expedited in the coming days,” added Kharwadkar. However, a PMRDA official has confirmed that metro line work will only begin after six months. “It will still take time, around six months to start work on the two tier flyover for Hinjewadi-Shivaji nagar metro rail corridor. First, let’s focus on demolishing the two flyovers properly,” said a junior engineer at the site requesting anonymity. The new flyover will cost around Rs 240 crore, and PMRDA will be discussing funding options with the state government as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has refused to share the cost. The demolition of the flyover was expected to get over at the end of July but it got delayed due to traffic.The demolition is causing a big trouble to commuters as they have to take internal roads to commute which is causing traffic congestion. “It takes me extra 30 minutes to reach Shivajinagar as I have to go from Model colony,” said Akshay Kaipiwar, who works at a private company in Shivajinagar. The demolition work of the flyover began on July 14. The traffic was diverted to the portion of the Savitribai Phule Pune University campus and Model colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/university-flyover-will-take-three-more-days-to-demolish/story-dCh3resF9FHqi6NLsl3fPK.html
09-08-2020||Pune||MoD revises height restrictions norms in big relief to PMC||The Ministry of Defence (MoD) has given a big relief to construction activity in Pune after it relaxed the No Objection Certificate (NOC) norms for height restrictions in areas surrounding a defence airport. Pune has two defense airports, one at Lohegaon and the other one at the National Defence Academy (NDA).Pune city engineer Prashant Waghmare said, “We got a great relief from the new notification which was issued by the Indian Air Force (IAF). Around 90 per cent projects will get relief now. We gave various recommendations to the MoD which were accepted. Even the elected members, MP Supriya Sule, MP Girish Bapat and other leaders had also given letters and requested for a relief to Pune.” Waghmare said earlier the red zone extended to a six kilometre stretch on both sides of the airstrip at Lohegaon and the NDA. There was a funnel zone restriction of six to 18 kilometres near the airfield. As most parts of the city were falling under these guidelines, almost all projects were going to the MoD for obtaining a NOC.“We conducted various meetings with the officials of MoD and requested them to make changes in the colour coded maps but as Pune has many defence establishments, they were strict on their stand. We requested them to make some changes. The MoD suggested giving concrete suggestions to sort out the problem,” Waghmare added. Acccording to Waghmare, many PMC projects were also tucked as the PMC too needed to submit their proposals for getting a NOC from the MoD. Since the MoD receives proposals from across the country, the city projects were delayed. “We had given various suggestions which were as per their original notifications and later they got sorted out,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mod-revises-height-restrictions-norms-in-big-relief-to-pmc/story-1w4YQfh5zHPx08H4qgwzZJ.html
09-08-2020||Pune||ARDE approves survey for underground tunnel connecting Panchavati to Kothrud, Gokhale nagar||The Pune Municipal Corporation has received all required permissions to conduct a survey and feasibility study of an underground tunnel that will connect Panchavati, Pashan to Senapati Bapat road and Paud road.The project was planned 20 years ago but has been in the pipeline ever since. After the ARDE gave a nod for carrying out the survey and feasibility study, Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar immediately conducted a review meeting for the same and instructed the administration to immediately begin the survey and feasibility study of the underground tunnel that would connect various parts. Pune is surrounded by many hills which are located in the city. Due to the hills, commuters are forced take a longer route to their destinations. Project department chief engineer Srinivas Bonala said, “We got all the necessary permissions to carry out the survey. Already there is a budget provision for the project in the municipal corporation budget. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol have conducted meetings for the same.”Shivajingar MLA Siddharth Shirole said, “ARDE has granted permission to survey feasibility of the underground road from Panchavati (Pashan) to Senapati Bapat road and Paud road. This approval will give impetus to the work of the new proposed route that is much needed as a long term solution to the traffic movement on Paud road, Senapati Bapat road and Shivaji Nagar area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/arde-approves-survey-for-underground-tunnel-connecting-panchavati-to-kothrud-gokhale-nagar/story-DxpKk3TXiXF0ra3xwHhfgL.html
09-08-2020||Pune||Stock at human milk bank hit amid pandemic||The rise in Covid-19 positive cases has caused a sharp decline in storage of human milk bank since March, say officials. The human milk bank at Sassoon General hospital that stores four-five litres of milk per month is left with one-two litres. “We have seen a few donors since March. We are not allowing Covid-19 positive mothers to become donors,” said Dr Aarti Kinikar, head of paediatric department, BJ Government Medical College, Sassoon. In a deep freezer, a mother’s milk can be stored for six months, say doctors. Amid the pandemic, the human milk bank has played an important role in saving newborns’ life. “If the mother is tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19 and the child is tested negative, we wouldn’t advise her to breastfeed the baby. But now, according to the norms of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a Covid-19 positive mother is allowed to breastfeed,” Kinikar said. “While breastfeeding, wearing a mask, washing hands and other preventive norms are a must for mothers. Also, in case if the health of the mother is serious due to Covid-19, we keep the baby in a separate area,” she said. The bank began operations in Sassoon from 2013 and gets milk from mothers from two other hospitals, besides Sassoon. “After ICMR has allowed Covid-19 positive mothers to breastfeed, the demand for human milk has gone down at the bank,” Kinikar said. “Many babies have benefitted from human milk bank and lactating mothers should come forward to donate. I hope the storage rate will improve soon,” Kinikar said. Procedure for donating milk A consent form is filled Donor should fit the criteria set by authorities Milk undergoes tests and procedures Feeding happens through the hospital staff - nurses and doctors - with the consent of mother and family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stock-at-human-milk-bank-hit-amid-pandemic/story-Gr0im9agD82KNRm0XecV1L.html
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||23 deaths, 998 fresh Covid-19 cases in Punjab||Punjab on Saturday reported 23 deaths and 998 fresh Covid-19 cases. With this, the state’s positive patients’ count has reached 22,928 and death toll 562. According to the government’s bulletin, 14,860 patients have been discharged so far and the state has 7,506 active cases. Ten people died, while 296, including ACP Sandeep Wadhera, tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Saturday. Two Covid-19 positive patients died and 111 tested positive for the virus in Amritsar district. Forty-two people from Gurdaspur district and 36 from Tarn Taran, including 16 from Patti sub-jail, contacted the infection. A 42-year-old man hailing from Sunam town died of Covid-19 at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala on Saturday. Besides, 16 people were tested positive for coronavirus in Sangrur district. Of these, six are from Sunam, three from Bhawanigarh, two from Malerkotla, one each from Amargarh, Dhuri, Sherpur, Kauhrian and Longowal blocks.A total of 104 positive cases were reported in Bathinda on Saturday. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said patients are from different parts of the district and migrant workers from Raman Mandi area.In Ferozepur, 18 people were tested positive and 13 coronavirus cases were detected from Muktsar. Total eight residents of Fazilka were also tested positive. Moga reported 37 fresh cases and Faridkot 37. One person died while 66 tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar. The district has reported 2,977 positive cases and 76 deaths to date. In Kapurthala, 22 people tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/23-deaths-998-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-punjab/story-FmfkS9H6IhZ12cDiuurBRJ.html
09-08-2020||Pune||Pune dist tops in testing across state, but PMC’s figure dips||Pune district till Friday had tested 4.83 lakhs swabs as of August 6, which is highest as compared to other districts in Maharashtra, according to data of state health department. However, the civic body since past one week is testing samples within the range of 5,000-5,500 swabs which was earlier close to 7,000 in mid-July. It also has led to drop in positive cases reported in the city, according to civic officials. The district has been testing more swabs per day. With increase in number of labs conducting tests and usage of rapid antigen detection kits, the city’s testing capacity has risen drastically. However, in the past few days, the civic body has reduced its testing from between the range of 6,500-7,000 in July last week to 5,000-5,500 in August second week. On Saturday, the civic body tested 5,051 samples, according to civic officials. Pune district tops in the cumulative tests done till date in the state with over 4.83 lakh tests done till date as of August 6, followed by Mumbai city which consists of two districts, Mumbai island district has done 4.68 lakh tests while suburbs has done 69,000 tests, Thane has conducted about 3.17 lakh tests while Aurangabad district has 1.05 lakh tests. Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner heading the PMC health department, said, “We are sticking to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocols and testing only those required. We had conducted random testing of traders, other essential services and stopped when we found that the positivity rate is only 2 per cent. Despite all this, we are testing the highest number of samples in the country.” The city’s positivity rate stands at 20.48 per cent as of August 6. While in the week (July 17 and July 23) to 45,007 which went down by 9,303 tests in the week (July 31 and August 6). The city has also seen a growth in the number of private and government labs testing Covid-19 samples. In April, Pune had seven labs approved by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) which now stands at 21 labs, including both private and government for RT-PCR. In addition, the civic body has also started rapid antigen detection testing which has further improved its testing capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-dist-tops-in-testing-across-state-but-pmc-s-figure-dips/story-qbdR3dKzfCCOwA6e3tIDvL.html
09-08-2020||City||Drunk car driver leaves four migrants critically injured in Mohali||A speeding car trying to escape after hitting another vehicle ran over four migrant workers who were crossing Airport Road near the Industrial Area, Phase 8, on Saturday night. All four are critically injured and have been referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, after being rushed to the civil hospital in Mohali. Police are yet to ascertain their identities. According to police, a Delhi resident under the influence of liquor hit a vehicle on Airport Road around 10:30pm and was trying to escape. He was intercepted by another vehicle that was chasing him, but only after the four men had been hit. The accused was handed over to police, who have not revealed his identity. Assistant sub-inspector Kewal Singh of the Balongi police station, where the accused has been detained, said the condition of the injured men was critical as they had sustained head injuries. A case is yet to be registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drunk-car-driver-leaves-four-migrants-critically-injured-in-mohali/story-ORqYvtN4uDa5comjX03LwJ.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||A letter and water bottle are all I have of Sushant, says Rhea||A day after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) interrogated her, actor Rhea Chakraborty on Saturday released a statement, through her lawyer, saying that the only belongings of Sushant Singh Rajput she had in her possession were a note of gratitude written by the late actor and his water bottle. ED had questioned Chakraborty for nine hours in a money-laundering case that it registered on July 31, on the basis of a first information report (FIR) by the Bihar Police. The FIR was registered following a complaint by Rajput’s father, who accused Chakraborty and her family of abetting Rajput’s suicide and siphoning off his money. KK Singh said close to ₹15 crore was transferred from Rajput’s account to unknown persons. He said that his son’s credit cards were with Chakraborty. Alongside ED, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), too, has launched a probe on the request of Bihar government and has named Chakraborty, her brother and four other family members, apart from unknown persons, as accused. Chakraborty, on Saturday, released a message through her advocate Satish Maneshinde, where she posted a picture of a bottle and said, “The only property of Sushant that I possess.” Chakraborty also released a note under the heading of “gratitude list”, supposedly written by Sushant in her notebook where he has expressed gratitude towards Chakraborty’s family and her, along with his dog. “I am grateful for my life, I am grateful for Lillu in my life. I am grateful for Bebu in my life. I am grateful for sir in my life. I am grateful for ma’am in my life. I am grateful for Fudge in my life. I am grateful for all the love in my life.” Explaining the names in the note, Chakraborty left a message stating, “And this is his handwriting, Lillu is Showik, Bebu is me, sir is my dad, ma’am is my mom, Fudge is his dog.” However, it wasn’t clear when the note was written or how she found it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/a-letter-and-water-bottle-are-all-i-have-of-sushant-says-rhea/story-69pupn3WHOHQVFecjPQbdN.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid-19 count goes over 500K with sharpest 1-day spike||Maharashtra on Saturday registered its highest single-day spike of 12,822 Covid-19 infections (first in excess of 12,000), which also took it past half-a-million cases to 503,084. Maharashtra took 153 days to cross the grim milestone, which would have made India’s worst-hit state, if it were a country, join a list of six nations having more than 500,000 cases. As per data from worldometers.info, Maharashtra’s tally surpassed sixth-placed Mexico’s count of 469,407 cases.The state’s first lakh cases took 96 days, the second took 22 days, third 14 days, fourth 11 days, while the fifth lakh took just 10 days, indicating a surge in daily caseload.As of Saturday, active cases in the state stood at 147,048 cases, accounting for 29.69% of the total infections. The state’s death toll went up to 17,367 after 275 more fatalities were reported, of which 222 happened in the past 48 hours, another 28 deaths were from the past week, while the rest 25 deaths were from the period before past week, state health officials said. Why the surge?The major reason for the surge is that more cases have started coming from semi-urban and rural areas. Two months ago, majority of the cases were coming from 19 cities declared as red zones, but the situation started changing ever since the state decided to ease lockdown restrictions with its ‘Mission Begin Again’ from June 3. The 19 cities were Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Panvel, Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Mira-Bhayander, Vasai-Virar, Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Nashik, Malegaon, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur.On June 3, the 19 cities had 67,885 cases, which accounted for 90.68% of the total cases (74,860). On August 8, they have reported 348,778 cases, 69.32% of the total cases (503,084), meaning that the rest of the areas, including semi-urban and rural areas, are contributing more cases than earlier.This can be further understood as all the 34 districts had contributed only 6,165 cases on June 3 (8.23% of the total cases), which has increased to 115,303 cases (22.91% of the total cases) on August 8.Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhari said with unlocking of restrictions, they were expecting a rise in cases and preparing accordingly. “For five months, we have kept new cases in check, but with the relaxations, rise in cases was expected because lots of people travel to and from Mumbai and surrounding cities,” Choudhari said.“In tehsils like Roha, Mahad and Mandgaon, most cases are detected in industrial employees as industries have opened up there. The rise is also proportionate to the number of tests that has been increased to 1,700 per day, from 400 previously,” Chaudhari added. Raigad is one of the ten districts contributing heavily to the daily figures, according to the observations made by Lav Agrawal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, in a review meeting called by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday.He has said that ten districts have contributed 79% of the total cases detected in the past one week. Their case fatality rate (CFR) was also higher that the state’s average and asked the state to focus more on them.The list also included Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Sangli and Nagpur. On Saturday, Raigad recorded 237 cases, taking its tally to 11,297 cases. Active cases in the district are 4,335.The surge in small cities and rural areas is a cause for concern for the state, given the limited capacity of existing health infrastructure. “It is concerning that the cases are increasing in rural and small cities because they don’t have adequate infrastructure to cope the load on the healthcare system. Even our major cities were not in a position to deal with such a health crisis. The state government is now augmenting health infrastructure in each and every district, along with the cities,” said an official from the state health department.It has developed field hospitals in Mumbai and similar field hospitals are now coming up in other eight satellite cities — Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayander, Ulhasnagar, Panvel, Vasai-Virar and Bhiwandi-Nizampur — of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).On Friday, chief minister directed to develop field hospitals in all major cities of the state. “We want to be prepared if cases further rise as the existing health infrastructure is already overburdened,” said another official privy to the development.The state is also facing shortage of health staff, that includes doctors, nurses, para medical staff etc. the officials said.Pune still leadsMumbai seemed to have maintained sort of stability in daily cases with 1,304 cases reported on Saturday. Its case count stood at 122,316, of which active cases were 19,914.On June 27, Mumbai had reported its highest single-day spike of 2,077 cases. The city’s toll stood at 6,751, after 58 deaths were reported in a day.But Pune continued to contribute maximum infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 1,457 cases on Saturday. Its tally stood at 69,500 cases. Pimpri Chinchwad, satellite city in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), recorded 890 cases, third-highest contributor in the state. Its tally went up to 27,463.Rise in deaths a major issueRise in death figures is another cause of concern that the state is struggling with. Maharashtra still has highest number of deaths across states in the country.As many as 2,373 deaths have been reported in the last eight days of this month, as against 6,988 deaths in July, 5,638 in June, 2,286 deaths in May, 449 in April and 10 deaths in March, when the pandemic had started.With 17,367 deaths, the CFR of the state was recorded 3.45% on Saturday. It continued to be second highest in the country after Gujarat, where CFR was 3.79%, with 2,605 deaths (68,768 cases) till Friday, according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.Dr Om Shrivastava, infectious diseases specialist and member of the 11-member task force appointed by the state government for clinically ill patients, said there may be many reasons behind large number of deaths. “One part is to do with the basics of infection-control properly. It is also to do with large part of immunity of Indians and there may be other genetic factors and all of that may be coming in to play. I don’t think we know enough about the virus at this time. For all of us, it is also a learning experience,” he said.As many as 338,262 infected patients have recovered and discharged from various hospitals across the state till date. On Saturday alone, 11,081 have recovered, taking the recovery rate of the state to 67.26%, against the national average of 68.32%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-19-count-goes-over-500k-with-sharpest-1-day-spike/story-sexCyB0N2zwshlG8FM578O.html
09-08-2020||Delhi||Disabled students denied entry to JNU campus, alleged students’ union||Students of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Saturday said the administration did not allow a second-year undergraduate student, who is 80% physically disabled, to enter the campus to appear for online exams. The JNU students’ union (JNUSU) said the student was made to wait for eight hours at the varsity gate and turned away. “He [the student] had been informed that his exams were starting from August 10. As he could not access internet at home and could not concentrate on his studies, due to pre-existing issues at home, he decided to return to his hostel on the JNU campus,” the JNUSU said in a statement. The union said the student waited outside the gate from 6am for around eight hours and was forced to return disappointed. “He was even denied permission to use the washroom,” the union alleged. In response, registrar Pramod Kumar said the university has formulated clear guidelines about the entry into the campus. “So many students have left their belongings behind and we can’t allow them to enter the campus to even collect it because that holds a two-way threat -- either they can get infected or infect others,” he said. There have been 46 cases of Covid-19 in the JNU so far. “We don’t have quarantine or isolation facilities. We have a responsibility towards those residing on the campus. If we allow people to move in and out of the campus and that leads to more cases, who will bear the responsibility for it?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/disabled-students-denied-entry-to-jnu-campus-alleged-students-union/story-yrA3S7sm1NPXsWdOcSIsnK.html
09-08-2020||Delhi||How Covid-19 killed the economy of Delhi’s ‘coaching colonies’||Two years ago, Prateek Vats, 25, quit his job as a digital marketer to start Timple Tiffin Services in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar, a hub of coaching institutes for chartered accountancy and banking exams. He rented a place, hired four female cooks, and a delivery boy. Within a couple of months, business picked up, and he was delivering 300 tiffins every day, mostly to students living in hundreds of PG accommodations in the area. In March, he was planning expansion when the Coronavirus disease broke out, leading to lockdowns. In April, he folded up his business. “The students were suddenly afraid of ordering food from outside. By April, orders came down from 300 tiffins a day to just 10 tiffins. The Coronavirus has killed the economy of this student hub,” Vats says. Vats is not exaggerating. A committee set up by the HRD ministry (now called education ministry) in 2015 pegged the annual turnover of the coaching industry at Rs 24,000 crore, and while Kota may be the coaching capital of the country—Delhi is not far behind. Delhi has hundreds of institutes providing coaching for IAS, engineering, medical and a host of other competitive exams in places such as central Delhi’s Old Rajender Nagar, north Delhi’s Mukherjee Nagar, Laxmi Nagar, and Jia Serai and Ber Serai in south Delhi, which together are home to about 1 lakh students. The economies of these areas have, over the years, come to depend on the mushrooming coaching centres, which have led to many ancillary businesses such as bookshops, PG guest houses, study libraries, binders, photocopiers, and students mess and tiffin services. With coaching centres remaining shut, the streets that were swarming with students not so long ago are now emptier than ever before. While many businesses have shut down, others are struggling for survival. “I had to permanently close one of my three study libraries as I was unable to pay rent,” says Rajeev Nathani, who co-founded Tranquil Reading Zone in 2015 in Old Rajender Nagar, a resettlement colony, which transformed into a hub for IAS coaching in the past decade. A ‘study library’ is a large air-conditioned reading room divided into small cubicles for students, with a hotel-like reception area. Over 200 such 24/7 facilities had come up in Old Rajender Nagar and other student hubs where one could see students, their heads buried in the books, till late into the night. Almost all of 15,000 students who lived in the colony have gone back. “My daily sale was about Rs 80,000 per day; now it is down to Rs 8,000. About 20 book shops came up in the area in the past few years, and about four have shut as they were unable to pay rent. Even I had to close one of my two shops,” says Anil Kumar, who opened his first bookshop 10 years ago in Old Rajender Nagar, which has about 60 IAS coaching institutes. Kumar’s first was an instant success, encouraging him to open another in the same area. With the continuing uncertainty about when they will be allowed to reopen, most IAS coaching centres have not started admissions, which in normal times take place between May and July for a nine-month course. “We have been treated like any school and college by the government. The civil services is a syllabus-heavy exam and online education is not effective. We expect the government to find a way to enable in-class coaching,” says Arjun Ravindran, director, Vajiram & Ravi, one of Delhi’s oldest and much sought-after IAS coaching institutes. The institute, the first to arrive in Old Rajender Nagar in 1996, is credited with transforming the resettlement colony into a vibrant students’ hub. Many coaching institutes across the city had to shed staff, including teachers. For example, ALS IAS Coaching Institute, in Mukherjee Nagar, reduced staff by 50%. “With no new admissions, and revenue falling to zero, we did not have a choice,” says Jojo Mathew, chief executive director, ALS, which had about 2,000 students at its Mukherjee Nagar branch and charged about Rs 75,000 for the course. In Old Rajender Nagar, which is preferred by English medium IAS aspirants, the fee in various institutes varied from 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh. Hundreds of teachers in these institutes, who charged anything between Rs10,000 and Rs20,000 per hour, depending on their reputation, too, have lost income. Interestingly, most coaching centres were started by former IAS aspirants. Mathew, who hails from Kochi, came to Delhi in 1994 to prepare for the Civil Services Examination. Having failed to make it to IAS, he turned a teacher and started ALS in 1998 in Mukherjee Nagar. “I had no intention of going back to my home town, defeated. I had cleared the Mains, and I thought I could as well teach. There were only a few IAS coaching institute in the area those days,” says Mathew. Today, Mukherjee Nagar has about 100 small and big Civil Services coaching institutes catering to Hindi-medium IAS aspirants, mostly from UP and Bihar. With a constant flow of students—IAS aspirants as well those studying in DU—from all parts of the country, Mukherjee Nagar, along with adjoining colonies such as Nehru Vihar and Gandhi Vihar, became the city’s biggest hub of students, home to about 70,000 of them. Almost 60% of the houses in the resettlement colony were serving as PG accommodations or student guest houses—houses with single rooms, sharing rooms on different floors, with a bed, a table, a cooler or an AC. While a double room would cost about Rs 12,000 each in Old Rajender Nagar, in Mukherjee Nagar and Laxmi Nagar it would cost about Rs 8,000 each.Today, almost all of them are empty.“All 25 rooms in my guest house have remained unoccupied since May. My owner is demanding rent. Besides, I have to pay fixed electricity charges. I am not sure whether I should hand over the property to the owner, or wait for the students to come back. The problem is I have spent lakhs on furniture, and I do not know what to do with that,” says Rohit Tomar , who runs Tomar Luxury PG in Mukherjee Nagar. Rajesh Tiwari, who runs MP Galaxy PG Boys hostel in Laxmi Nagar, faces a similar dilemma. “Today my 50-room guest house looks haunted. I have massive debts,” he says. Jagdish Chandra Gosain, chairman of Mukherjee Nagar Niwasi Manch, an RWA in the neighbourhood, says the collapse of the coaching industry in the colony has created a livelihood crisis for a large number of people who were dependant on rent. “About 50% house owners in the colony were dependent on rental income, and many of them moved to neighbouring colonies on rent after renting out their own houses to students,” says Gosain, adding most of those who operate student guest houses are from outside Delhi. “They locked the premises and moved to their native places. Property owners do not know what to do.” Things are no better in south Delhi villages such as Ber Sarai and Jiya Sarai, other thriving student hubs in the capital. Their close proximity to IIT and JNU turned them into havens for students studying for various competitive examinations such as JEE ( Mains), CSIR NET, Jam , among others. Like elsewhere, most businesses catering to students are facing tough times.“Earlier, my machines never stopped, and students had to wait. Now I am waiting for students. I thought mine was a recession-proof business, but now I have learnt my lessons,” says Shaan ( he uses one name) who started New Star Binding House five years ago in Ber Sarai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/how-coronavirus-killed-the-economy-of-delhi-s-coaching-colonies/story-6Tzovzx4VhR94GZ0emD3vJ.html
09-08-2020||Delhi||Man held for stalking, threatening Telugu cinema actor||A 26-year-old pharmacist with a private firm in Gurugram was arrested Friday for stalking a prominent Telegu cinema woman actor, sending her lewd messages, threatening her with images of guns, and finally landing outside her home in Delhi’s Rohini, the police said on Saturday. Investigators said the suspect, Nikhil Gangwar, was “obsessed” with the woman and was angry with her for repeatedly ignoring his social media proposals for marriage. “While the stalking dates back to as early as 2016, it began to take the form of threats and lewd messages about a year ago. The woman ignored him for a long time believing him to be an obsessed fan, but she decided to approach the police after he revealed to her on social media that he had tracked down her Delhi home address,” a senior police investigator, who didn’t want to be identified, said. PK Mishra, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini), confirmed the incident and said Gangwar has been arrested and booked for stalking and criminal intimidation. The suspect, who belongs to Jharkhand and holds an MSc degree from a reputed college, was working as a pharmacist with a private firm in Gurugram. He lived alone in a rented flat in Rohini, police said. The woman actor has had a successful career as a model and has been working in the Telugu film industry of late. She has over 1.5 million followers on social media sites such as Instagram and Facebook, police said. “Her family lives in Delhi while she shuttles between Mumbai and Hyderabad for work,” another investigator said. The first time the actor recalls noticing Gangwar was in 2016 when he allegedly began posting multiple comments on her social media posts. “She just saw him as a fan at that time,” the investigator said. “But, last year, he began posting marriage proposals on her social media posts. Such comments went unnoticed until their frequency increased. The actor finally blocked his account,” the first officer said. But Gangwar allegedly went on to create other profiles to continue stalking her. “When she realised that these profiles belonged to the same man, she began blocking all those accounts until she tired of it,” the officer said. “Gangwar, meanwhile, was angry at not receiving any response from her and began sending her lewd messages. In early 2020, the messages turned into threats warning her of physical harm. At one point, he even sent her images of guns to frighten her,” the officer said. The actor finally decided to seek police help late last month after he turned up outside her house.”She had come to her Delhi home to visit her parents in March and hadn’t been able to return due to the lockdown. It was during this period that Gangwar managed to procure her Delhi address,” the officer said. In July, he allegedly visited her neighbourhood, but found her house locked. “So, he took photos of her house and sent them to her on social media as evidence that he had tracked her down. It was then that she decided to file a police complaint,” the officer said. The FIR was registered at Rohini (North) police station based on her statement. “We then procured details of all the accounts he had used to harass the woman. That led us to Gangwar’s home in Gurugram and wee arrested him on Friday,” the investigator said.The actor refused to speak to HT about the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-held-for-stalking-threatening-telugu-cinema-woman-actor/story-4IPIIGN7gd9tYTn5tFMXeJ.html
09-08-2020||Delhi||Commuters hassled as Noida shuts Kalindi Kunj border for CM Yogi’s Noida visit||Saturday morning turned into a nightmare for commuters between Delhi and Noida with the Noida police shutting the Kalindi Kunj border and placing barricades to check vehicles at the other entry points to Noida -- on Noida Link Road, Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway, and Mayur Vihar Phase-2 -- as well as the entry points to Ghaziabad. The Noida traffic police said the restrictions were part of heightened security on account of a visit by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who was in Noida’s Sector 39 to inaugurate a hospital. He later visited Sector 59 to inspect a Covid-19 management control room. Commuters complained about the “unannounced” border closure, which led to serpentine traffic queues at the Delhi-Noida borders. The situation was particularly bad at Kalindi Kunj, where vehicles were being turned back by the police. “I was on my way from Sarita Vihar to Noida. At Kalindi Kunj, police had put up barricades stopping vehicular entry from the Delhi side. I was left waiting for an hour, before traffic cops told us that the restrictions will be removed only by afternoon,” Saurav Kumar, a commuter, said. The Kalindi Kunj border closure had a cascading effect on the traffic on Delhi-Mathura Road, which became choked. Many said the chaos on the stretch was also aggravated by drivers reversing their vehicles on seeing the barricades and trying to make their way back against the flow of traffic. In a series of advisories issued on Saturday through their social media accounts, the Delhi traffic police informed commuters from Delhi about the barricading on the Noida borders and suggested that they take alternative routes. “Traffic movement is very slow from Delhi towards NOIDA on Kalindi Kunj Flyover due to very tight barricading/checking by NOIDA Police. Motorists are advised to use DND,” read the first advisory, issued at 10am. However, a while later, the high traffic volume on the DND Flyway route brought vehicles to a standstill. “Being the weekend, the traffic was still under control. We were issuing regular advisories but the closure of borders was a call taken by the Noida police on account of VVIP movement. By evening, the traffic had eased,” a senior Delhi traffic police officer said. A large number of trucks and bikers were also stranded. Noida traffic police said vehicles attached to essential services were allowed to proceed and others were requested to take the DND Flyway. “We reinforced the border restrictions today (Saturday) morning which led to slow movement of traffic. The traffic on Kalindi Kunj route was stopped for less than 10 minutes due to the CM’s visit and it did not cause any major snarls. However, for threat assessment, some vehicles were being checked and necessary documents verified,” deputy commissioner of police, zone 1 (Noida), Sankalp Sharma said.Frustrated commuters took to social media to vent their anger. Many posted pictures and videos of the stagnant traffic, while others complained about the lack of prior information and absence of traffic personnel to redirect vehicles. Devendra Mawai, a commuter, tweeted, “Whole Noida and Delhi border is blocked for last four hours without any prior information, it’s absolutely chaotic and there is a terrible jam on the Delhi-Noida border; I’m on the Yamuna bridge for last three hours . Please allow smooth traffic. (sic)” Noida also has weekend restrictions on account of the “mini lockdown” in place to help with Covid-19 social distancing norms. Police said the borders will be monitored as long as these lockdowns continue in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/commuters-hassled-as-noida-shuts-kalindi-kunj-border-for-cm-yogi-s-noida-visit/story-o2QZxPLCsQexjKfE6EHeJP.html
09-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi to soon get startup policy, CM Kejriwal meets stakeholders||Delhi will soon have its own start-up policy, aimed at supporting entrepreneurs and generating employment, spokespersons from chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said on Saturday.To kick-start the consultation process to draft the policy and discuss ideas to develop Delhi as a leading choice for start-ups, Kejriwal on Saturday convened a meeting with industry leaders and young entrepreneurs, who joined hands with the government to advance its plans in the sector.Among those who attended the Saturday meeting include Ajai Chowdhry (co-founder, HCL), Padmaja Ruparel (co-founder, Indian Angel Network) and young leaders like Sriharsha Majety (co-founder and CEO, Swiggy), Farid Ahsan (co-founder, ShareChat), Suchita Salwan (founder and CEO, Little Black Book), Riyaaz Amlani, CEO and MD, Impresario Handmade Restaurants. The national capital is a hub of students, industries, and several prestigious institutions, and over the last few years, the start-up ecosystem here has amassed a plethora of opportunities for budding entrepreneurs.At the launch of the policy consultation process, Kejriwal said, “Since my IIT days, I have seen some of the most brilliant minds from India go abroad looking for better opportunities. I believe Indians are the smartest entrepreneurs in the world and all they need are the right opportunity and the right conditions to help them thrive. With this start-up policy, we aim to make Delhi one of the top five global destinations for start-ups.”Kejriwal is a student of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur.According to a September 2019 report by TiE, sections of which Kejriwal quoted on Saturday, Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) house over 7,000 start-ups. As per the report, the region has the highest number of active start-ups in the country as well, and has a 23% share of all start-ups in the country. The report states that Delhi-NCR is set to become one of the top five global start-up hubs by 2025 with 12,000 start-ups, 30 unicorns, and a cumulative valuation of about $150 billion. A unicorn is a start-up firm with a valuation above $1 billion.The objective of the draft policy is to support entrepreneurs and build a robust economic and policy infrastructure that will create new jobs and bring new competitive dynamics into the current economic system, Kejriwal said.The government in a statement said policy consultations will be held over two stages.“Firstly, in the spirit of the Delhi model of teamwork, the Delhi government on Saturday invited industry leaders, entrepreneurs, and policy experts from various sectors to provide inputs in drafting the new start-up policy. Following this, the Delhi government will soon release a draft start-up policy and launch an online forum to seek inputs from the general public on the start-up policy,” the government said.Industry stakeholders, meanwhile, welcomed the initiative.Rajan Anandan, managing director, Sequoia Capital, said, “NCR is already the largest start-up region in India and within NCR, Delhi has the most start-ups. We were honoured to be invited by the chief minister of Delhi to provide suggestions on how to make Delhi one of the world’s top five start-up destinations. The discussion was very good with many ideas on what it will take Delhi’s startup ecosystem to the next level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-to-soon-get-startup-policy-cm-meets-stakeholders/story-WtXZmwGYcgkzkZW8btfuMI.html
09-08-2020||Delhi||As Delhi testing hits high, 1,404 Covid-19 infections added||Delhi reported 1,404 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, the highest single-day increase since July 18, according to data from the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin. Till Friday, the Capital had recorded a weekly average of 1,018 cases.However, the increase in the number of detected cases is likely due to an increase in testing. In fact, Friday’s testing numbers were the highest in the Capital since the Covid-19 crisis began, with over 24,500 samples collected.The positivity rate — the percentage of people who test positive among those tested, at 5.7%, was lower than the week’s average of 6.6%.The number of tests being conducted during the week had been low – dipping to 9,295 in the bulletin released on August 4, and the positivity rate for the day had touched 7.25%.The number of tests for the viral infection being conducted in Delhi had shot up in the third week of June after rapid antigen testing was rolled out.More than three in four of the 24,592 tests reported in Saturday’s bulletin were conducted using these rapid test kits. A person testing positive on the kit, is considered to be a “true positive” or truly having the infection. However, due to low sensitivity, the test tends to throw false negatives. Hence, the government tests the symptomatic people who have tested negative with the rapid kit using RT-PCR again.The “slight increase” in the number of cases should not be a cause of concern, say experts.Dr Puneet Mishra, professor in the department of community medicine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences said, “A jump from 1,200 cases to 1,400 cases just for a day is not a cause for worry. It could be because of the increased testing. If we compare the number of cases now to what was being reported daily in Delhi just two months back, the difference is huge. For now, we need to observe the trend. Ups and downs are okay, unless the numbers keep increasing consistently over the next week or two.”A high prevalence of antibodies in the population could also be the reason for transmission slowing down in Delhi.“The number of cases in Delhi have gone down even as the cases continue to rise in the other parts of the country. It is likely that the prevalence of antibodies will be higher in the second round of sero-surveillance. If it is 40 or 50%, it might be the reason transmission is slowing down in Delhi. There are just two ways of gaining immunity to the infection – either through a vaccine or through natural infection. There is no vaccine against Covid-19 at present, so immunity can be developed only through natural infection. It is a good thing if a high percentage of people develop the immunity without getting sick and needing hospitalisation. At least for the time being, they will be protected against the infection and also protect others through her immunity,” said Dr Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-delhi-testing-hits-high-1404-covid-infections-added/story-I0fXUkOuvsU5NMbcI8s6xK.html
09-08-2020||Delhi||14 injured in LPG cylinder blast at South Delhi slum||Fourteen people were injured when an LPG cylinder exploded at a jhuggi in South Delhi’s Tigri, triggering a fire in the slum on Saturday evening, the police said.Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (South), said while a middle-aged woman sustained serious burns, the injuries received by the others were relatively minor and were either due to the blaze or because of the collapse of some parts of the ‘jhuggi’ in which the blast took place.“We are yet to ascertain the identity of the injured people. It is still too early to say how serious the woman’s condition is,” Thakur said on Saturday evening.The call about the cylinder blast was received by the fire department at 7pm and eight fire tenders were dispatched to control the situation at the Jhuggi Jhopdi Colony of Tigri, said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services.The LPG cylinder blast had led to the collapse of some parts of the one-storey jhuggi and the fire had spread to some other nearby shanties, the DCP said.“The fire was quickly doused and we removed the injured from the rubble and moved them to a hospital,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-injured-in-lpg-cylinder-blast-at-slum/story-qB579rPKItZiuAs0DYcWzH.html
09-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal asks NDMC to fix stench from compost pit in Gol Market area||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday while on a visit to his assembly constituency asked the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) to look into the foul stench from a compost pit in central Delhi’s Gol Market, pointed out by residents, by August 20. Kejriwal, who was visiting market area under the New Delhi constituency, directed NDMC officials to solve the problem by then or shut it down, a Delhi government statement said. “The chief minister has given a deadline of 10 days to the NDMC officials to ensure cleanliness in the area and said that if the problem is not addressed by August 20, the plant will be shut down,” read a statement from the government. When contacted, a senior NDMC official said that the plant will be inspected and the issue will be resolved within the stipulated period. “The matter has been brought to our notice and we will get a team of engineers to work on it so that the stench from the plant is controlled,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-asks-ndmc-to-fix-stench-from-compost-pit-in-gol-market-area/story-elsA6aY7er1QIt9HlJz4wN.html
09-08-2020||Delhi||Safe to breastfeed newborns even if moms are Covid positive, say doctors||With the current evidence indicating that the risk of transmitting the coronavirus disease through breast milk is minimal, doctors suggest that mothers with the infection should continue to breastfeed their newborns as it confers the baby with immunity against several diseases and improves their survival rate.Sharing rooms should also be promoted to ensure that the mother and child bonds, the doctors said. “Mothers who are either positive or are suspected to have Covid-19 should not be separated from their newborns. They can safely be in the same room on a separate cot. The mothers can safely breastfeed the children after taking some precautions such as wearing a mask, following strict hand hygiene, and cleaning any other surfaces she is likely to touch while feeding,” said Dr Sushma Nangia, head of the department of neonatology at Lady Hardinge Medical College. Lady Hardinge is attached with the Kalawati Saran Children’s Hospital, which is one of the biggest stand-alone paediatric hospital in the country. She said babies have to be placed in a separate cot about six feet away from the mother’s bed. And, every two hours, the mother may breastfeed the baby. “There is no evidence to suggest that mothers can transmit the infection to babies through breast milk and given the benefits of it, breastfeeding must be promoted. Only a few cases have been reported globally wherein viral particles have been found in the breast milk, but these were dead particles that cannot cause infection. Breastfeeding provides protective elements against several other diseases,” Dr Nangia said. At least 18 newborns in Delhi have tested positive for Covid-19, but the route of transmission of infection is unclear. “There is no conclusive proof of vertical transmission of Covid-19 in babies. And, in many cases, the babies test negative on a repeat test which could suggest that the virus detected could be fluids from the mother that the baby might have taken in,” Dr Nangia said. Vertical transmission is when an infection is passed on from a mother to a child through the placenta or breast milk just before or immediately after birth. Horizontal transmission is when Covid-19 is passed on from person to person through respiratory droplets. The World Health Organization recommends that “mothers with suspected or confirmed Covid-19 should be encouraged to initiate or continue to breastfeed. Mothers should be counselled that the benefits of breastfeeding substantially outweigh the potential risks for transmission”. The same has been endorsed by the National Neonatal Forum, Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI), and the Indian Academy of Paediatrics. A study of 120 newborns in New York city, United States, published in the journal Lancet Child and Adolescent Health, shows that none of the babies got the infection during childbirth or after two weeks of breastfeeding and skin-to-skin contact. “There is no contraindication for breastfeeding even with Covid-19. Even for mothers with viral infections like HIV, breastfeeding along with proper therapy is best for the baby. That is much better than providing contaminated cow milk etc,” said Dr Roopali Diwan, head of the department of gynaecology, Safdarjung hospital. However, it is easier said than done. Doctors say families push back thinking that breastfeeding while being infected will put the baby at risk. “A lot of my students working across the country have said that many mothers or family members believe that if the mother is Covid-19 positive, breastfeeding would harm the baby. This is the reason I suggest that the entire family should be counselled that breastfeeding is safe,” Dr Nangia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/safe-to-breastfeed-newborns-even-if-moms-are-covid-positive-say-doctors/story-iT0bJZs1PQyJv5ObiY3pAN.html
09-08-2020||Gurugram||Illegal call centre that duped US citizens of millions under garb of tech fix busted||The chief minister’s flying squad Saturday busted yet another illegal call centre operating from Sohna Road that allegedly duped people, especially those in English-speaking countries like the US, under the garb of providing technical support. Two directors of the firm were arrested.According to the police, the company had duped at least 35,000 users of millions of dollars. The victims used to receive an email with fake pop-up error messages stating that a malware had infected their computer and if not rectified immediately, their personal and financial data would vanish. It urged the user to call on a certain phone number. A pop-up would be displayed on full-screen mode and would lock the user’s screen within a few minutes with messages like “personal information is not safe” or “you computer has been locked”, enough to scare an unsuspecting user. “The number would be operated by employees of Green Rock Enterprise from the fifth floor of JMD Megapolis Mall on Sohna Road,” said Police commissioner KK Rao. “The operator would urge the users get their system repaired against a one-time fee and buy anti-virus software that they would say was of reputed companies through gift cards that would cost at least $250.” The bogus anti-malware application would in reality be a bug that would give the operator access to the victims’ computers. Police said the firm had about 150 employees, including those who worked remotely. The raiding team allegedly found 26 people, including seven women, at the firm on Saturday. The directors were identified as Delhi resident Vikram Verma, and Gurugrma resident Rishab. Police said they had a criminal record and were earlier also involved in similar fraud. The firm did not have any permits from the government to operate either.Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of CM Flying Squad, said that employees working at the call centres were not arrested but were not given a clean chit either. “They may be questioned. Action will be taken against them if we found their involvement in the fraud,” he said. Yadav said they would write to the US agencies to record statements from victims. The employees were paid between ₹15,000 and ₹25,000 per month and would work from 8 pm to 5 am, five days a week. “They were working as per the US time,” said Yadav. A case was registered under sections 420 (cheating), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and sections 66D (cheating by personation by using computer resource) and 75 (committing offence outside India using computer network) of IT Act 2008 at Sadar police station. Earlier, in December 2018, similar 17 FIRs were filed by Microsoft Corporation (India) Private Limited in Gurugram and Noida with regard to fake tech support from users in 12 countries, including the USA, UK, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, among others. In 2019 more than nine fake call centres were busted, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-held-for-running-fake-call-centre-and-duping-us-citizens/story-C9sF8paIp2kWyBh3vvcgsJ.html
09-08-2020||Pune||Pune sees more discharges than fresh positive cases in 24 hours||The city is witnessing a dip in the number of active cases with more discharges than fresh positive cases being reported. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday reported 1,290 fresh Covid-19 positive cases in 24 hours which took the progressive positive count to 64,576, while 1,961 people were discharged, taking the count of those cured and discharged to 46,735.Currently, there are 16,325 active cases of which 717 are critical cases, 443 on ventilators and 274 are in the ICU without ventilators. At least 2,318 people are undergoing oxygen treatment in the city’s hospitals.PMC data also recorded 37 deaths and the death toll now stands at 1,516. Meanwhile, the state health department reported 1,457 positive cases and 39 deaths. The progressive positive count is 69,500 and death toll is 1,744, as per the state data.  About 5,051 rapid antigen tests were conducted on Saturday, which took the final count of tests conducted to 3.13 lakh. Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) reported 14 deaths on Saturday, five from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH) and five from Naidu hospital, four from Kashibai Navale hospital and two from Poona hospital. One death each was reported from Inamdar hospital, Bharati hospital, Pune Adventist hospital, Dalvi hospital, Sancheti hospital, Noble Hospital and Life Care hospital. Thirteen deaths were also reported of those from out of the PMC limits. Two deaths from cantonment were reported at the SGH and Ruby Hall Clinic and 11 deaths were reported from out of district, PCMC and rural areas, including three each from SGH and command hospital, two each from DMH and one each from DH Aundh, O & P Hospital and Kashibai Navale hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-sees-more-discharges-than-fresh-positive-cases-in-24-hours/story-AkLSZEjvPPnYwPNxpvKWyO.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||Abhishek Bachchan tests negative for Covid-19, discharged from hospital||Actor Abhishek Bachchan on Saturday got discharged from Nanavati Hospital after he tested negative for Covid-19. He was admitted to the hospital for almost a month.Abhishek took to Twitter to thank his well-wishers. “A promise is a promise! This afternoon I tested Covid-19 NEGATIVE! I told you guys I’d beat this. Thank you all for your prayers for me and my family. My eternal gratitude to the doctors and nursing staff at Nanavati hospital for all that they have done. THANK YOU!” he tweeted. Later, he posted a picture of his care board from the hospital.On July 11, both Abhishek and Amitabh Bachchan were admitted to the Mumbai hospital after testing positive for the virus. The next day, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and daughter Aaradhya also tested positive. However, they were discharged from the hospital after recovery within two weeks. Amitabh was discharged on August 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/abhishek-bachchan-tests-negative-for-covid-19-discharged-from-hospital/story-4yoO87J73c2dpcApVxEWQJ.html
09-08-2020||Mumbai||Aishwarya Sheoran, who aced civil services exam, finds 20 fake accounts of her; FIR filed||A 23-year-old former Miss India contestant who recently shot to fame after her success in the 2019 Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exam has filed a complaint with the Colaba police station in the city after it emerged that there were 20 fake Instagram accounts in her name. The photo-sharing platform had several accounts sharing her pictures without her consent. The woman, who had won several beauty pageants in the past, has never created any account on Instagram, say police.Aishwarya Sheoran has been living with her father in the Army Officer’s Colony in Colaba since 2017. Colonel Ajaykumar Sheoran, her father, has been posted in Karimnagar, Telangana. Sheoran secured 93rd rank in the UPSC exams in 2019 and was also finalist for Femina Miss India 2016. “It’s not a serious issue as of now, but could be misused in future,” Sheoran told HT. Sheoran, in her complaint to the police, said that on August 5 while she was speaking to a newspaper for an interview, the journalist asked her which one is her official account on the popular app as there are too many of them in her name. She told the journalist that she has no account on Instagram.Later, she asked her brother to check if there are such accounts in her name. They were shocked to discover 20 fake accounts in her name. Many accounts claimed to be her official account. One of the Instagram accounts has over 27,000 followers.“We don’t know how the accused may misuse these 20 fake accounts. He may misuse my sister’s name and photos for illegal monetary gain, hence we decided to report the matter to the police,” said Aman, Sheoran’s brother. The FIR was registered on Thursday.“The accused person has created Instagram accounts using her photos without her permission. We have registered a case of identity theft and have begun investigation. These fake accounts would be pulled down with the assistance from the service provider and we would trace the person who had created these accounts,” said Shivaji Fadtare, senior inspector of Colaba police station.The police have registered a complaint under section 66C (identify theft) of the Information Technology Act.“The accused might have misused the complainant’s photo as she is a popular face and has an inspiring success story. The accused may have done this in order to attract more followers on Instagram,” added another police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/23-year-old-who-aced-upsc-exam-finds-20-fake-accounts-of-her-fir-filed/story-4yCDiMdNsbUucyXx3N3ziI.html
09-08-2020||City||Yamunanagar district BJP chief Mahender Khatri dies at 65||Yamunanagar district’s BJP president Mahender Khatri, 65, breathed his last on Friday night at a hospital in Chennai where he was undergoing treatment for a lung disease. Khatri is survived by his wife and three children.MLA Ghanshyam Das Arora said, “I got to know about his sad demise early morning. Khatri’s son left for Chennai in the afternoon to bring back his body. After the procedures are completed, the body will reach Yamunanagar on Sunday and the funeral could take place on Monday.”“Khatri was unwell from quite some time. Even then, he was involved in party activities with dedication and discipline. He helped party workers in every possible way without any bias,” Arora said. His younger son Prateek said his father was unwell since November last year and had to undergo transplant. “My father had some problem in the heart and lungs for which we had planned a transplant in April but it was delayed due to the lockdown and he was admitted at the hospital on July 17 for the same. The transplant was pending but in the meantime he suddenly had a cardiac arrest and died late on Friday,” he said. Khatri was elected as BJP’s Yamunanagar district chief for the second time in 2016. Earlier, he had served as the district chief from 2006-2008.Education minister Kanwar Pal has also expressed sorrow on his demise. “Mahender Khatri and his family have remained connected with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) since long. Khatri has held various positions in the party and has served as district general secretary, district deputy president,” Pal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamunanagar-district-bjp-chief-mahender-khatri-dies-at-65/story-e5IFKp9AzI9M2c3Cg4ZLyI.html
09-08-2020||Pune||Boundary dispute between PMC and ZP, leads to 6-hr delay in cremation of Covid-19 patient||The family of a 48-year-old Covid-19 positive patient, who had been declared dead at a private hospital on Friday afternoon, had to wait for six hours to cremate the body. The resident of Hadapsar was declared dead by a private hospital located in Manjri Budruk, which is located on the border of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Haveli taluka limits, which comes under the Zilla Parishad (ZP). One of the relatives of the deceased said, “He was admitted on July 25 and was undergoing treatment for Covid-19. During the admission too, we faced problems of non-availability of beds and ambulances. Somehow we were informed of a bed at this hospital and we admitted him there. We did not think about the hospital being inside PMC limit or ZP limit. We just wanted our family member to get good treatment. Unfortunately, he succumbed to the infection.”“We had to arrange for a hearse van as we did not get any help from the hospital. We got the cremation certification for Yerawada’s ‘Amardham’ cremation centre. We dialled the PMC number for a hearse van, but they refused to come stating that the hospital was located outside the PMC limits and that the gram panchayat or the taluka administration has to take responsibility. After no response from the civic body, we contacted the local councillor for help, who later arranged for a private van and the cremation took place almost six hours after my uncle was declared dead.”PMC assistant health officer Dr Kalpana Baliwant, who is handling Covid-19 dead body management, said, “The gram panchayat authorities are supposed to manage Covid-19 dead bodies if the death is reported from a hospital under their limits. I did get a call on Friday night for the same, but the PMC cannot keep doing the work that the ZP or Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is supposed to do, even though we have enough hearse vans and ambulances. There are so many deaths reported at Sassoon hospital of people from outside the district too, but since the hospital is in our limits, we cremate those bodies. We do not check their ration cards. Often PCMC and gram panchayats dismiss their responsibilities and call for the PMC van because the person was living within our jurisdiction.”Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of the Pune Zilla Parishad, said, “Every hospital within the ZP limits has been asked to display boards giving information about the hearse vans, ambulances and other important contacts. We have a decentralised system with five nodal officers for all gram panchayats, so that the calls are responded to immediately. This is the fifth complaint, regarding Covid-19, be it shortage of beds, ventilators or dead body management. I will look into the issue and see what went wrong.”NCP councillor from the area, Yogesh Sasane, said, “I tried to contact the PMC’s health department and the electricity department who refused to attend to the query. After much delay, I finally had to call a private hearse van and the body was taken to the cremation centre. Even though the deceased lived in PMC limits, the civic body refused to send a van.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/boundary-dispute-between-pmc-and-zp-leads-to-6-hr-delay-in-cremation-of-covid-19-patient/story-uR4xWpjgFPhT3f6zhqlnlL.html
