10-08-2020||Gurugram||Inspections reveal inadequate fire safety measures at two Covid hospitals in Gurugram||After incidents of fire were recently reported at Covid-19 facilities in Ahmedabad and Vijaywada, the Gurugram fire department on Monday conducted an on-site inspection at Civil Hospital in Sector 10 and ESIC (Employees State Insurance Corporation) Hospital in Sector 9, and found that they do not have a valid no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department. Furthermore, both the hospitals were found to be violating fire safety norms. Both hospitals are being used extensively for Covid-19 operations. While the ESIC hospital has 58 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 has been designated as a centre for testing suspected patients through reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests.Two fire safety officers from the fire department, Sunil Adlahka and Ramesh Saini, conducted on-site inspections at both the hospitals. At the Sector 10 Civil Hospital, Adlakha said, the fire-fighting system was yet to be properly installed, while the building had never obtained a fire safety NOC.“The Sector 10 Civil Hospital has not obtained even the first fire NOC certificate. They had obtained the fire scheme only last year. Upon inspection, a lot of items were found to be non-functional or improperly installed. Both the fire pumps and fire hydrants were not properly installed, while the smoke detector system, although present, was found to be in a dysfunctional condition. Additionally, the sprinkler system was also found to be missing,” said Adlakha.Adlakha further said that the officials at the ESIC hospital had applied for a fire NOC renewal in 2018 but upon a visit by fire officials at that time, shortcomings were found and subsequently, objections were raised. However, the hospital staff never solved the discrepancies, neither did they reapply for an NOC once again.“ESIC hospital has a fire-fighting system but it was found to be largely in a dysfunctional condition. We found the smoke detector system and the hydrant system to be non-functional, while a few fire extinguisher cylinders were found to be empty. We have informed the concerned staff members of these hospitals to get their fire-safety and fire-fighting measures in order,” said Adlakha.Adlakha further said that he is compiling a report on the team’s visit to the hospitals and will be submitting a report to Satyavan Samriwal, assistant divisional fire officer, for further action.“Based on the findings of the report, fresh notices will be issued to the respective in-charges of both the hospitals on Tuesday. Even after repeated notices if they fail to comply, we will issue a notice to their respective headquarters to take action and caution them that further failure to get the fire-fighting systems in place will lead to the hospitals getting sealed,” said Samriwal.Samriwal said that the action was initiated in the wake of the fire incidents in Ahmedabad and Vijaywada. He added that since most isolation centres in the city are situated in one-storey structures the chances of fire violations are low. Nonetheless, routine inspections for checking the presence of fire extinguishers will be conducted soon. Dr Shubra Gupta, medical superintendent, ESIC Hospital, said, “The fire NOC has to be renewed. Certain changes have been suggested for the revised NOC after the expiry of the previous one. The regional director’s office in Faridabad has already been informed about the NOC and they are likely to float a tender of ₹40-50 lakh for adequate arrangements at the hospital.” Gupta further said that the issue of fire NOC issue was also raised with the Gurugram administration when the facility was being declared as the designated Covid-19 hospital for the city in April.At that time, due to poor infrastructure and medical facilities at Sector 10 Civil Hospital, the ESIC Hospital had to utilise its 58-bed facility for Covid-19 patients, despite having improper fire safety measures.In the case of Sector 10 Civil Hospital, Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), said that a file has been sent to the Public Works Department (PWD) for upgrading the existing fire system.“The main shortcoming at the Sector 10 Civil Hospital is of the absence of a sprinkler system. We have sent estimates and the projected cost to the PWD for this, and they will soon be floating requisite tenders for it,” said Yadav.Dr Deepa Sindhu, principal medical officer of Sector 10 Civil Hospital, was unavailable for further comments on the matter.On Sunday, at least 10 people died and 20 injured following a fire at a hotel in Vijaywada, which was being used for isolating Covid-19 patients. On Thursday, eight Covid-19 patients died in a fire at the ICU of a Covid-designated hospital in Ahmedabad. Besides the two hospitals, fire department officials also visited the practically defunct Civil hospital in Civil Lines, opposite the old Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) office on Monday. Since the building will be soon demolished and currently serves limited functions, inspections will be carried out once the new building is constructed, said fire department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/inspections-reveal-inadequate-fire-safety-measures-at-two-covid-hospitals-in-gurugram/story-LZTb3EbN97PIlZAhUM0HwL.html
10-08-2020||Gurugram||Industries in Manesar asked to get 10% of workers tested in August||The district administration has made it mandatory for all the industrial units in the district to get 10% of their employees tested in August, and thereafter 5% tested for every subsequent month. In a notification issued by the district administration on July 31, the cost of the Covid-19 test will be borne by the industrial units, most of which are located in Manesar. As per the notification, the first round of testing must start by August 15. Industries will be free to choose between Reverse Transcription – Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test and the rapid antigen test. The antigen test, however, would be conducted by the health department for which different industrial units will have to procure the kits and hand them over to the health department’s Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) in Manesar. Currently, only health department can conduct antigen test. Manmohan Gaind, general secretary, Manesar Industries Welfare Association, said, “Industries have been asked to place bulk orders of antigen kits with the health department. We have been asked to place an order of more than 1,000 kits for which we will be bearing the cost. As per the notification, the first round of 10% testing of the manpower has to be conducted by August 15.”According to him, more than 650 industrial units under the association have so far given a lukewarm response to the testing of their workers as they are already struggling to run their units. They are in the favour of enforcing social distancing norms instead. “Till now, 30 industries have collaborated to place the requisition for Covid-19 antigen detection kits. Each of them has placed an order for only 15 to 20 kits for the first round of testing,” said Gaind, adding that industries can also opt for RT-PCR and get it done via private labs. The RT-PCR which is the gold standard of frontline testing is much more expensive than antigen test. The state government has fixed the charges for RT-PCR at ₹2,400, while an antigen detection kit can cost nearly ₹540. As per the notification, industrial units cannot deduct wages or remove an employee for testing positive. Positive cases will have to be shifted to isolation facilities. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said, “The expenses for the test have to be borne by the respective industries to avoid undue financial pressure on the workers. The plan is to test a minimum of 500 people and a maximum of 1,000 people by organising camps. The department will deploy sufficient number of teams for conducting screening of workers in the industrial areas. The process will start once we receive the kits.”Under Manesar, there are three UPHCs, namely Bhangrola, Kasan and Aliyar. Health officials said that testing camps have been organised in the past, which have helped in bringing down the positivity rate to less than 2% in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/industries-in-manesar-asked-to-get-10-of-workers-tested-in-august/story-NmroVA7c8P5sps368o85cI.html
10-08-2020||City||Amandeep murder case: 2 police officials acquitted||After 11 years of trial, a local court on Monday acquitted two police officers allegedly involved in the fudging of evidence in murder case of son of a National Conference politician, was shot dead in Jammu’s Shastri Nagar in 2009. The then senior superintendent of police (SSP) Manohar Singh and Gandhi Nagar police station’s SHO Sultan Mirza were both acquitted in the murder case by second additional sessions judge Jammu Virender Singh Bhau. The deceased, Amandeep Singh, son of former NC MLA Deepinder Kour was shot dead in Shastri Nagar on August 29, 2009 outside his residence. A third policeman, sub-inspector Satnam Singh, who died during trial, was also acquitted. Jatinder Singh alias Raja, son of a government contractor Choudhary Nagar Singh aka Nago, was the prime suspect in the case but he also died under mysterious circumstances in Udhampur jail in 2017. However, the court held Jatinder Singh alias Raja, and another suspect, Royal Singh, guilty for murder. While Raja died in Udhampur prison during trial, court awarded life sentence to Royal Singh. The judge in his lengthy 178 page verdict was furious over the ‘botched up’ investigations. “This Court has no hesitation to observe and say that investigators while conducting proceedings and collecting evidence have acted as if they were writing script of a movie and were conducting shooting of a suspense movie and, thus, indulgence in twisting of true facts and use of false facts to convince and persuade this Court to come to false conclusion cannot be ruled out and, thus, this Court cannot resist to observe and place on record the conduct, behaviour and role of the investigators and sound a note of caution for all the investigators, who are in service to be attentive, vigilant, careful, fair and professional in their dealings in future lest they should be put to task for their wrong doings,” observed the judge. “Further, prosecution has miserably failed to prove the relevant facts leading to the occurrence and role played by other accused persons in conspiracy of swapping of alleged weapon of offence to screen the main accused and also for changing the bullet during investigation on the basis of evidence, which is conflicting, contradictory and suffers from factual gaps, loopholes and missing links, beyond reasonable shadow of doubt, so the benefit of doubt goes to accused, namely, Nagar Singh, Jagar Singh, Rakesh Singh, Manohar Singh, Sultan Mehmood Mirza and S.H. Bukhari. Resultantly, the challan (charge sheet) against these accused fails and is accordingly dismissed so far it pertains to these accused persons. He further directed that DGP, UT of Jammu and Kashmir is notified regarding this observation of the Court to seek an explanation from all the investigators, who are in service regarding lapses and gaps left in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amandeep-murder-case-2-police-officials-acquitted/story-den2hBIZbLy414OMhi5ixL.html
10-08-2020||Gurugram||15 teams formed to keep a check on Gurugram farmhouses for hosting parties amid pandemic||The police on Monday identified over 400 farmhouses in the Aravallis and Sohna to keep a check on group parties being organised in these areas, despite a ban on public gathering due to the Covid-19 pandemic, said the police. The commissioner of police, KK Rao, said that they have formed 15 teams, including three from crime units, for this purpose. The move comes in the wake of a raid that was conducted on Saturday night on the Gurugram-Faridabad Road. “We have directed our teams to also keep a check on the sale of liquor in the nearby liquor shops to get an idea if any party is being organised,” he said. The police have identified the nearby liquor shops in the area and have started deploying personnel in plainclothes outside these shops late in the evening to keep a watch on the buyers. “We have received information that people who organise these parties are advertising on social media and asking people to pay online for such events. People from Delhi-NCR are coming to Gurugram for the last few days for such parties since the pubs and the bars are still not serving liquor,” Rao said. As per government guidelines on Unlock 3.0, only 50 people can gather for a wedding ceremony and 20 people at a funeral. No other gathering is allowed.However, party organisers are hosting pool parties at some of these farmhouses, taking advantage of the absence of their owners. They are advertising online, hiring musicians and young men and women to manage such parties, said the police. The police said the organisers have fixed a minimum entry price of ₹500, while at many places they are charging ₹1,000, depending on the number of people attending the party. “During the questioning of people who were arrested on Friday night from a party place, it was revealed that young men and women are earning well by inviting their friends from Delhi, Noida, and Ghaziabad to attend such parties. They get a 20% share of the bill raised by their friends, while the charges for their entry, food, and liquor are waived off. Due to the coronavirus crisis, many have lost their jobs and are finding it difficult to make their ends meet,” said Rao. The police said they have received information on several such parties being organised on the weekends in areas such as Gurugram-Faridabad Road, Sohna Road, and the Aravallis. However, during the raid, only one was found to be operational on Friday night. The officer said that the initial investigation has revealed that the party was convened over social media and was pitched as a 12-hour weekend celebration that went by the name, ‘Weekend Pool Party’. “The organiser who was arrested from Gururgam-Faridabad Road has confessed to having organised at least 50 such parties in Gurugram in the last three months,” said Rao. The investigation has also revealed that girls are hired for the “entertainment” of the guests at such parties. They are paid ₹5,000 per party, while musicians are paid ₹10,000 for a six-hour-long party, said the police.Rao said strict action will be taken against the organisers of such parties as well as the owner of the farmhouses, where such events are hosted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/15-teams-formed-to-keep-a-check-on-gurugram-farmhouses-for-hosting-parties-amid-pandemic/story-zHeePR4TDniXRnLqXBJYAI.html
10-08-2020||Noida||With 71 new positives, overall tally crosses 6,000-mark in GB Nagar||With 71 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported in Gautam Budh Nagar district in the past 24 hours, the cases tally crossed the 6,000-mark on Monday with the count reaching 6,016.According to the district health department’s data, it took the district 34 days to double the Covid-19 cases to 6,000. On July 8, the district had crossed the 3,000-mark.As per the daily health bulletin released by the state control room, a total of 5,041 people have been cured or discharged, including 71 on Monday, in the district so far. “So far, 43 Covid-19 positive patients have lost their lives in the district. As a result, the district now has 932 active cases,” the bulletin stated.Meanwhile, the GB Nagar district has received 35,000 tablets of ivermectin—a tablet used to treat parasitic infections—from the state government after the latter decided to replace anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for treatment of Covid-19 in a decision announced on August 4.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said these tablets will be effective not only in the treatment of Covid-19 patients but will be used as a prophylactic for preventing large scale infection among front line health workers engaged in the treatment and handling of Covid-19 patients.“There were some concerns about HCQ from the beginning. That’s why we have now been instructed to use ivermectin in its place. We’ll soon start distributing this medicine to front line health workers. This medicine will also be distributed to those who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients,” he said.The CMO further said that for Covid-19 patients, ivermectin will be administered along with doxycycline— a broad-spectrum antibiotic. “For front line healthcare workers, ivermectin will be given on the first, seventh and 30th day and then once a month,” the CMO said.In another development, deputy commissioner of police (Greater Noida) Rajesh Kumar Singh had tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. His son is also positive for the infection and the two are being treated in a hospital.“ My son and I are symptomatic and have some fever. We are being treated at a hospital and our health is improving. My driver and gunner, are also positive, but as they are asymptomatic they are isolating at home,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-71-new-positives-overall-tally-crosses-6-000-mark-in-gb-nagar/story-KKBN4VFxF813Ue2jYbHCkP.html
10-08-2020||City||Noida: Security guard dies in fire at ball pen factory in Sector 63||Noida: A 27-year-old security guard was charred to death in a fire at a ball pen manufacturing unit in Noida’s Sector 63 in the wee hours of Monday. His body has been sent for an autopsy. The deceased was identified as Sandeep Kumar, from Behraich, who worked as a security guard at the unit on night duty.According to the police, the fire was discovered by a patrolling PRV vehicle around 2am who then alerted the authorities.“The deceased was the only person in the three storey building and it seems that he never got the chance to escape. His body has been sent for an autopsy and will be handed over to the family afterwards. No complaint has been filed in the case yet,” said Amit Kumar Singh, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.He said that although the cause of the fire is not absolutely clear at the moment, a short circuit seems to the probable reason.According to officials of the fire department, it took 14 fire tenders nearly three hours to control the blaze.“We got the information around 2.10am and by the time our teams rushed to the spot, the blaze was already raging across all three floors. The basement was the only portion of the building that was not completely damaged in the incident,” said Arun Kumar Singh, chief fire officer of the district.He said that the presence of flammable materials like thinners used in the manufacturing firm led to the fire spreading in such a manner. It is suspected that the losses sustained in the incident go up to several lakhs.“It seems that the fire had already been going on for a while. The victim’s body could be pulled out only after the fire was controlled,” said the CFO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-security-guard-dies-in-fire-at-ball-pen-factory-in-sector-63/story-Q51upN0DKvOcC3UhN41G6L.html
10-08-2020||City||Complaint filed against builder after another plaster collapse in highrise||Noida A resident of a highrise in sector 78 has filed a complaint against the society builder and management alleging negligence, after a portion of the ceiling plaster in his flat collapsed on Monday morning.The resident, Ajay Pandey, a resident of Hydepark Society, has alleged that Monday’s was the tenth such incident to happen in the society in the last couple of months.“Last year, plaster had fallen on my car destroying it. The builder had taken responsibility then. In the last two months, there have been several such cases in the society. We have pushed for action to be taken but nothing has been done in this regard so far. There are visible cracks in balconies and building structure. The quality of construction here is extremely poor,” said Pandey.He said that on Monday his five-year-old son was sitting for his online classes when the incident occurred.“He is scared at the moment. He was uninjured but the laptop he was using was destroyed. A similar incident occurred today morning itself in another block of the building. This is becoming a scary situation for residents with no action being taken despite several complaints,” he said.The family has filed a complaint with the sector 49 police against the builder and society management but an FIR is yet to be registered.“A probe in the matter is underway which will be conducted by the city magistrate. Due legal action will be taken if lapses are found,” said Dharmendra Kumar Sharma, station house officer, sector 49 police station.The management has however, denied, negligence.“A small portion of the upper POP layer fell down. Our supervisors immediately went to do the repair work but the family said they didn’t want our help. Police personnel visited the spot and we will cooperate with the probe,” said KK Upadhyay, general manager, society management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/complaint-filed-against-builder-after-another-plaster-collapse-in-highrise/story-y0IhhyezkthEmyh7dezBxN.html
10-08-2020||City||Greater Noida: Woman dies after consuming toilet cleaner||Greater Noida: A 38-year-old married woman died Monday morning allegedly after consuming toilet cleaner at her residence in Greater Noida West, the police said. According to the police, they are investigating the case from all angles as the woman’s husband is not sharing the sequence of incident that led to her death. The couple had married six years ago, and has two children, said the police. The police are considering the woman’s husband a suspect in the case, an official said. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Noida Central, said that the Bisrakh police received a call on Monday morning about the incident. “A team reached the spot and found the woman dead. Her husband, a software engineer, told the police that she had consumed toilet cleaner two days ago following a domestic issue, after which she fell unwell,” the DCP said. Chander said that the woman’s husband failed to show a doctor’s prescription and did not reveal about what triggered the incident. “The suspect is not sharing sufficient information about how the woman fell unwell and died. He has not shared what triggered the incident upon which she consumed the harmful substance. We have sent the body for a post-mortem and investigating the matter from all angles,” Chander said. The police said that the woman’s family members live in Pune. “We have informed her family members who would be visiting Noida soon. We will take action depending on the post-mortem report and a complaint filed by the family,” Chander said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-woman-dies-after-consuming-toilet-cleaner/story-a45nDjdvcJeyc2dYltFGxJ.html
10-08-2020||City||Construction still continues in Shahberi, alleges developer||Greater Noida: A 45-year-old real estate developer, who was arrested for his alleged involvement in illegal construction in Shahberi and charged under the Gangster Act, has alleged that his former business partners continue to carry out the construction in the village, despite the high court’s stay on it. The developer, Anil Kumar Chauhan, who has filed a complaint with the police, said that his former partners framed him in several cases and he was sent to jail. Chauhan, a resident of Noida Sector 73, said that he worked with Shakir Akil and two other partners. “But in 2017, I quit the project in Shahberi after I came to know that the Allahabad High Court has stayed construction in the village,” he said.Chauhan, who has been released on bail, claimed that his former partners have developed the project, despite the court stay. “I had sold my share in the property to my then business partners and opted out. However, in July 2018, two buildings in Shahberi collapsed and the police and the administration launched a crackdown. My partners hatched a conspiracy and framed me in illegal construction cases. I was arrested in April last year and served three months in jail,” he said. Chauhan said that he had visited the site in Shahberi when he was released on bail. “I found that my ex-business partners were developing the building despite the court stay,” he said. The complainant said that he visited the contested site last week and made a small video of the project and circulated it on social media to highlight the illegal development. “My ex-business partners had given a cheque for my share in the property that I sold off. But the cheque bounced. I want my money and also want the police to probe the matter and take action against the erring developers,” he said. However, Shakir Akil refused the allegations and said that Chauhan’s all the dues were cleared, and he has the proof. “We have developed one-storey apartment and not a multi-storey buildings. We have not violated any court order or guidelines,” Akil said. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Noida Central, said that the police have received the complaint. “The complainant, Chauhan, is also accused in some cases of illegal construction. We need to investigate his contract with his ex-partners. We have assigned an assistant commissioner of police to probe the matter in two weeks,” Chander said. The construction of illegal flats in the Shahberi village had come to fore after twin buildings collapsed in July, 2018, in which nine people were killed. Chander said that a police team visits the area to check illegal construction on a regular basis. So far, FIRs have been registered against 181 developers, out of which 19 have been listed as gangsters and two have been booked under the National Security Act, the police said.Rajeev Rai, Dadri SDM, refused to comment on the issue.In 2014, the high court had passed an order to put a stay on any illegal construction in Shahberi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/construction-still-continues-in-shahberi-alleges-developer/story-QXqlZo2vEzv0xilGRCpnqM.html
10-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Man murders 35-year-old widow, arrested||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad police on Monday arrested a 28-year-old man who allegedly murdered a 35-year-old widow. According to the police, the murder was allegedly planned and after executing it, the suspect dumped the body in the Hindon canal on the night of August 6.The suspect was identified as Mustafa, who goes by a single name, and is stated to be a meat trader at Gyan Khand – 2 in Indirapuram. The police said that the woman, Madhuri Singh, who has three children, worked at a spa in Noida. Her body was found late Sunday near the Sector 4/5 culvert of Hindon canal near Vaishali. She was a resident of Makanpur village in Indirapuram.“The woman had gone to her office on August 6 but did not return till late night. Thereafter, her family launched a search and finally approached the police with a missing complaint on Sunday. Upon information, a body was found in the bushes near the banks of the canal on late Saturday. It was identified as that of the victim by her family members,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city).Police said the suspect and the victim had allegedly known each other since the past six-seven months. However, off late, there had allegedly been frequent altercations between the two and he planned to get rid of her.“He was arrested from Indirapuram upon information and he allegedly admitted to the crime. He allegedly said that he planned the murder in order to get rid of the woman,” Mishra added.“On the night of August 6 he called the woman to his shop where he slashed her throat with a knife. Later, he took an auto of his friend and alone took the body to the canal and dumped it there. He also threw away the belongings of the victim nearby and returned home,” he added.After the victim’s family identified her body, they gave a police complaint naming Mustafa and the police lodged an FIR under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-man-murders-35-year-old-widow-arrested/story-7HMO7NyJAS0UfXbudHlvTL.html
10-08-2020||City||Charge-sheet against 5 ex-revenue officials for fraudulent sale of temple land in Jammu||The Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Monday produced a charge-sheet against five former revenue officials and two others for disposing of 150 kanals (7.58786 hectares) of land belonging to a temple in Jammu. The accused have been identified as the then Muthi patwari Dalip Singh of Trikuta Nagar, the then Muthi tehsildar Manohar Singh of Talab Tillo, the then tehsildar Shanti Saroop of Peermitha, the then Jammu tehsildar Surinder Gupta, the then Muthi patwari Babu Ram, Mahant Bawa Ram Milan Dass of Ram Janki Temple in Udheywala and Damodar Dass of Basti in Uttar Pradesh. The three revenue officials Shanti Saroop, Surinder Gupta, and Babu Ram are no more. The case was registered on February 21, 2011. During the investigation, it was established that Baba Ram Milan Dass (mahant), custodian of Thakur Dwara Shri Ram Janki Pracheen Mandir, Udheywala, Jammu, had no authority or competence to alienate or transfer or lease out the land belonging to the said temple but to take undue benefit to himself and wrongful loss to the temple, he hatched a criminal conspiracy with the accused revenue officials, said a spokesman. The accused revenue officials issued the revenue extracts for the execution of the sale and lease deeds illegally and later entered and attested mutations of different pieces of land, he added. This action on their part individually as well as collectively was found to be illegal and sheer abuse of their official positions and powers to confer an undue benefit to Mahant Bawa Ram Milan Dass and wrongful loss to the temple which fully constitutes the commission of criminal misconduct as defined under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The accused officials disposed of 150 kanals of land belonging to the temple situated in villages Muthi and Paloura, said the spokesman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/charge-sheet-against-5-ex-revenue-officials-for-fraudulent-sale-of-temple-land-in-jammu/story-778f827hRTN6hVNPkFoS6N.html
10-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad increases RT-PCR testing in high incidence areas||Ghaziabad: In the wake of the fact the rapid antigen tests are not always reliable when it comes to testing to detect the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, the Ghaziabad district officials have now started deploying more reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests in areas such as Indirapuram and Vaishali as well as city areas from which high numbers of cases have come up. Rapid antigen testing was started in the district on June 26.According to official records, areas of Indirapuram and Vaishali, among others, which fall under the jurisdiction of the Indirapuram police station, had about 84 containment zones with 151 active cases till August 7, while other localities in city areas under the Sihani Gate and Kavi Nagar police stations had 68 and 57 containment zones with 163 and 162 active cases, respectively, till August 7.“A lot of tests have been conducted in the district with the help of rapid antigen kits. Since areas from where a lot of cases were reported are still topping the charts, we have decided to focus increasingly on RT-PCR testing. This is because RT-PCR tests are more reliable than rapid antigen tests. So, to find out more suspected cases we have decided to increase the daily number of RT-PCR tests in such areas,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “Rapid tests will continue but the number of RT-PCR tests will be increased to find out positive cases from suspected cases such as influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) among other high risk groups,” he added. According to officials, the district has been taking up about 1,500 rapid tests and another 1,000 RT-PCR tests per day, currently.The high risk groups include close contacts of Covid-19 positive cases as well as persons with co-morbidity and old age, among others.According to figures of the health department, the district till August 7 conducted a total of 1,24,639 tests out of which 73,966 were through rapid antigen kits which were roped in on June 26. Out of the total results from the rapid tests, only 1,853 came out positive, at a rate of 2.5%, while the rest, 3,813 of a total of 5,666 total cases on August 7, came out positive with the help of RT-PCR tests at a rate of about 7.5%.“Since positivity rate through the use of rapid antigen kits is lower than the RT-PCR tests and the fact that cases are still rising from the high incidence areas, we have decided to deploy about 500 more RT-PCR tests daily at our two centres in Indirapuram and Vaishali and more will be done soon in other high incidence areas. With this, we will be able to find out positive cases from the suspected cases better,” said an officer from the district health department, who wished not to be named. To gauge the difference, a total of 73,966 rapid tests yielded 1,853 positive results. Out of those turning negative, 26,056 tests were conducted through RT-PCR tests to find true negative status of those who tested negative through rapid kits. Out of the 26,056 subsequent RT-PCR tests, 22,444 tests have been conducted so far and resulted in 1,097 positive cases while the result of the rest, 3,612, is awaited. The subsequent RT-PCR tests are taken up only for symptomatic patients and also for all patients having comorbid conditions. Experts said an increase in the number of RT-PCR tests will yield better results. “Since the RT-PCR test is more reliable, an increase in these tests will help us find out more positive cases. This will help for better detection in suspected cases and once positive, they can immediately be sent for treatment. On the other hand, the rapid kits have low positivity but their high use will bring down the overall test positivity,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. According to the official records of the health department, during the week from May 31 to June 6, the test positivity in Ghaziabad stood at 9.19% while it increased to 15.33% during the week, June 21 to June 27. However, ever since the rapid kits were deployed on June 26, the positivity is on decline with more number of tests. During the week June 28 to July, it stood at 5.29% and has now come down to 2.97% during the week August 2 to August 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-increases-rt-pcr-testing-in-high-incidence-areas/story-YdtQYlK4z3qUgUtO76ShwI.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali gets two Covid-19 testing laboratories||Countering the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Punjab government has upgraded facilities to 20, 000 tests a day, OP Soni, the state’s medical education and research minister said on Monday.He was inaugurating two testing centres at the Punjab Biotechnology Incubator (PBI) Agri and Food testing Laboratory in Phase-5 and the Punjab Forensic Science Laboratory (PFSL) in Phase-4 of the city with Balbir Singh Sidhu, state health minister.Each lab, expected to test 1,000 samples a day, had been set up with approvals from the Indian Council of Medical Research. PBI had been given 25 and PFSL33 samples, respectively, for testing on Monday. Of the four laboratories starting operations from today, the other two are the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, and the Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana. In his address, minister Sidhu stated that the surge in Covid-19 cases showed that large scale testing was being done and infected people were being isolated from others, thus preventing further transmission. Pertinently, Punjab has become “first state in the country” where apart from the departments of health and medical education and research, the facilities of the home department (Forensic Science Laboratory at Mohali); animal husbandry department (Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar; GADVASU, Ludhiana; and Science and Technology Department (Punjab Biotechnology Incubator, Mohali) would be put to use for viral testing.The four laboratories which started operations on Monday are each equipped with 16 pieces of equipment, including refrigerated centrifuge, fully automated biosafety cabinet and other testing tools, costing Rs 1 crore per lab.About 83 staffers, including microbiologists, research assistants, medical laboratory technicians, data entry operators and other ancillary staff, had started working in the labs, minister Soni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-gets-two-covid-19-testing-laboratories/story-uGSVnw2TSnjBgDs9l3TwsI.html
10-08-2020||City||Glitches mark day 1 of DU’s online open-book exam||New Delhi: Day 1 of the first online open-book examinations (OBE) held by Delhi University for its final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students on Monday was marked by glitches that ranged from downloading question papers to submitting answer sheet.The online exams, being held as a one-time measure in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, will continue till August 31 for around 240,000 students of the university– including those enrolled in non-collegiate courses of School of Open Learning (SOL) and Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB).Social media platforms such as Twitter and WhatsApp were flooded with complaints of glitches, including alleged cases where students received question papers four hours before the stipulated time and confusion over the number of questions to be attempted.“Our Technical Writing paper was supposed to start at 3.30 pm but we got it at 11 am. Not knowing what to do and with no help from the grievance cell, we started writing our papers. At 3 pm, we received another question paper,” said Deewansh Khatri, a final-year BA programme student. “We had to discard what we wrote earlier and begin afresh. There were also conflicting instructions in the general guidelines and the question paper on how many questions we had to attempt.”For Avijit Singh, a PG student of History, the problem was entirely the opposite. “We received the question papers an hour late on our email accounts and could not finish on time. Some couldn’t submit their papers on time. A friend who received the question paper first shared on our class WhatsApp group but we could not be sure it was our paper. There was so much anxiety.”Poor internet connectivity in several parts of the country did little to help DU students – many of whom had gone back home due to Covid-19. Abhay Krishna, an undergraduate student of Physics, who is in flood-hit Kerala, said, “Data connection here is very poor. I struggled to upload my answer sheets using my phone on the website and ultimately had to take a friend’s help using WiFi. To be sure, I emailed my answers to the university.”Maria, a final-year Chemistry student from Jammu and Kashmir, said she faced more hassles than her peers in other states. “Students with 4G connection could not upload their answers on time. It can be well imagined what we might have gone through having a 2G internet connection. We ran out of time and had difficulty in even writing the answers since we could not prepare enough due to lack of resources,” the student said. She said Covid-19 concerns prevented her from going to Common Service Centres in the region.Common Service Centres are facilities created under the ministry of electronics and information technology to access government services online. But due to lack of awareness, many students were not able to avail of the facilities on Monday.Students from the School of Open Learning complained of a host of issues. Bhim, a final-year student of political science at SOL, said, “Apart from the upload and download issues, which took up more than the designated time, a few papers were not bilingual like previous years, which might be a disadvantage to some people.”Sanjeev Singh, head of DU’s Computer Centre, said, “Around 35,000 students appeared for their exams on Monday. It will be difficult to compile the actual data because students also submitted their answer scripts through e-mails. The grievance cell is active and we have been responding to students’ queries. As far as question papers are concerned, all papers are available on the website and students can go and download it session-wise.”Professor KS Rao, deputy chairperson of the grievance redressal committee reconstituted by Delhi High Court, which is hearing a plea on the matter, said, “There is a set procedure for the exams. We are compiling the complaints we received and will submit them in court. If there are any complaints, students have the option of taking physical exams later. The decision will be taken by the court because it will look at the data and pass the final order.” Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said, “We got positive feedback from students and other stakeholders that the exams were conducted in an excellent manner. Students who weren’t able to able to upload their answers resorted to alternative system to email their answers, which worked for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/glitches-mark-day-1-of-du-s-online-open-book-exam/story-GkgXqcp27AtyzaH1TFXUSO.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||TISS defers admissions to MPhil after NEP calls for its discontinuation||The National Education Policy (NEP) has invited mixed reactions from the stakeholders across the country. While the implementation of the policy is still unclear, the admissions to the Master of Philosophy (MPhil) course at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) for their 2020-21 batch has been stalled for now.In a short clarification on their website, the TISS administration has stated that “In light of the recent changes proposed in the National Education Policy (NEP) concerning the MPhil program, the admissions for 2020 batch are deferred until further notice.”As per NEP 2020, MPhil courses are to be discontinued, and students are worried about its immediate implementation.Admissions to MPhil courses had already kicked off and personal interview (PI) rounds were conducted between June 22 and July 17, 2020. However, the final list of candidates has not been revealed as yet. In June this year, with several parts of the country in lockdown due to the ongoing Covid-19 situation, the TISS administration had started conducting online interviews of candidates interested in MPhil or PhD courses for the new academic year. These interviews were conducted separately for candidates opting for a seat in either course at any of the four TISS campuses - Mumbai, Hyderabad, Guwahati and Tuljapur.“Most of us have applied to other institutes as well, but TISS would be our first preference. We’ve been waiting to hear about admission confirmation for weeks now, but nothing has been confirmed by the institute as yet,” said one of the applicants. The NEP 2020 was approved by the Union cabinet in the last week of July, but the implementation of the policy remains unclear to states as well as institutes. “When the government itself has not clarified how and when the new policy needs to be implemented, why is the TISS administration jumping the wagon and deferring admissions? What’s worse is that the institute has not even informed us about this delay, we had to find out by reading their one-line explanation of the same,” said another candidate.A senior official from TISS refused to divulge details on this matter but reiterated that MPhil admissions have only been deferred for the time being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tiss-defers-admissions-to-mphil-after-nep-calls-for-its-discontinuation/story-YZEAB5hnjoD2N9I1E8N3CJ.html
10-08-2020||City||Online portal activated to issue digital degree certificates: DU to HC||New DelhiDelhi University (DU) on Monday informed the Delhi High Court that it had activated an online portal for the issuance of digital degree certificates, which students can get in a week after verification of records.The university informed this to Justice Pratibha M Singh, who was hearing a bunch of pleas filed by 21 doctors who had not received their degree certificates to date as DU’s contract with the printer had expired. The university said students have to register on www.digicerti.du.ac.in, and submit details, including academic qualification and name of college. After verification, DU will issue digital degree certificates within a week.On the court’s earlier directions, DU had prepared a sample digital degree with help from officials from Digilocker, an initiative by the ministry of electronics and information technology, and the high court’s IT department.“The court perused the digital degree certificate which has been sent by e-mail and is satisfied with the contents ... The issuance of similar digital degree certificates duly verified by two officials of the DU and digitally signed by the authorised officer of the DU would, in the court’s opinion, satisfy the purpose of the petitioners,” Justice Singh said.The court directed that digital certificates would be issued to the petitioners by email, on or before August 13, as they wished to apply for residency programmes in the US and to sit in the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE).The court said the doctors, represented through advocate Sarthak Maggon, are free to use the digital degree certificates for their ECFMG applications. It said if the ECFMG authorities need any clarification, they may write to the email IDs of DU officials, Sanjeev Singh or Vinay Gupta.The court asked DU to see if mark sheets and transcripts of students can be issued digitally and asked the university to deal with this aspect in its affidavit, while listing the matter for further hearing on September 7.It asked the ministry/Digilocker to list what steps DU has to take to ensure the data is made available to the students through the online platform.The court was earlier unhappy with DU for not taking proper steps to issue digital degrees to students who had graduated, saying there was a “complete collapse of administration” and reflects a “sorry state of affairs”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-portal-activated-to-issue-digital-degree-certificates-du-to-hc/story-DPItoPN5fnTIPemJhFQxqO.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||FYJC aspirants can fill college preference forms from tomorrow||Students applying to first-year junior colleges (FYJC) can start filling Part 2 of the forms, which consists of their college preferences, from Wednesday, August 12. The state education department declared the admission schedule for FYJC on Monday. As per the schedule, admissions under management, in-house and minority quotas will be held between August 12 and 22. The first merit list would be declared on August 30. Until Monday, around 2.50 lakh students registered for admissions in colleges across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), while 1.84 lakh students got their forms verified. The education department earlier asked students who did not lock Part 1 of their admission forms to do so at the earliest. Similarly, many students, whose forms are pending for verification at schools or guidance centres, are asked to revise the forms as per requirements. “Several students of ICSE (Indian Certificate of Secondary Education) have entered their total marks out of 600, which is not the mandate. As per the government resolution dated June 29, 2019, they are supposed to enter total marks out of 700 or their best-of-five scores. Students can convert their scores on the website itself. Similarly, for CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education) students, marks of five subjects are to be considered, and students who have entered marks out of 600 need to resend their scores,” stated the circular. Students who confirm their admission under the various quotas or the merit lists will be out of the admission process. Similarly, students who are allotted the college of their first preference, have to take admission for the college. If they fail to do so, they will have to wait for special rounds. Meanwhile, Pune-based think tank SYSCOM urged the education department to take action against aided junior colleges which are charging more than the government-approved fees. “Some colleges are charging 10 times the permissible fees and parents have no idea that they are being cheated. The government should act against such colleges,” said Vaishali Bafna from SYSCOM. ScheduleAugust 12-22: Filling of Part 2 of admission forms, quota admissions August 23: Display of provisional general merit list August 30, 3pm: First merit list to be declared August 31-September 3: Online confirmation of admission to round 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-aspirants-can-fill-college-preference-forms-from-tomorrow/story-BgvcoRxZHbSvN5rGYmQjhK.html
10-08-2020||City||Palghar lynching: 28 accused get bail as CID yet to gather evidence||The Dahanu court on Monday granted default bail to 28 accused in the Palghar lynching case as the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) is yet to collect evidence against them.However, only 10 will be released on bail, as the other 18 accused are named in the third charge sheet filed by CID on August 6, which includes names of 47 accused. On April 16, Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri, 70, Sushilgiri Maharaj, 35, and Nilesh Telgade, 30, were killed when a mob of locals attacked them at Gadhchinchale, approximately 140 kilometres from Mumbai. The trio was on their way to Surat and Telgade had been driving the car. Five police personnel were also injured in the attack. According to CID, the lynching was caused by rumours that were circulated using Whatsapp, which warned against a group of organ and child traffickers passing through the area. The gathered mob had mistaken the two travellers and their driver to be the traffickers. “We had the right to apply for default bail, as it was a clear case of illegal detention. All the accused were in judicial custody and were lodged in Thane, Taloja, Palghar, Boisar and Wada jails, for more than 90 days,” said Amrut Adhikari, counsel for the accused.RB Walvi, public prosecutor, opposed the bail citing that the CID was gathering evidence against the accused in the case. However, judicial magistrate MV Jawale granted bail to the accused on a personal surety bond of ₹30,000 each. “We will also apply for bail before the Thane court for the remaining accused next week,” said Adhikari.So far, 226 witnesses have been interrogated and over 808 suspects are detained, mentions the charge sheet. The state CID had last week filed a report before the Juvenile Justice Board, Bhiwandi, against two juveniles arrested in the April 16 lynching case. “Though there are 11 juveniles involved in the case we have filed a charge sheet against only two of them. Another charge sheet will be filed against the remaining nine,after collecting evidence,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-28-accused-get-bail-as-cid-yet-to-gather-evidence/story-OylZR5yRtniZ4VKF4dNU9L.html
10-08-2020||City||Civil Defence volunteer’s body found||New DelhiThe body of a 26-year-old Civil Defence volunteer, who worked in containment zones, was found in a forested area in outer Delhi’s Samaipur Badli area on Friday, two days after he mysteriously went missing from Swaroop Nagar. The police are yet to register a case in connection with the man’s disappearance and recovery of his body. “We are waiting for the autopsy report of the man to ascertain the cause of death. Accordingly, we would take further action,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Gaurav Sharma. The Civil Defence volunteer, identified by his first name Dinesh, lived with his relatives at their home on Kushak Road in Swaroop Nagar. He had joined Delhi Civil Defence a year ago and he was on Covid-19 duty in containment zones, his co-worker Anuj Pratap Singh said. According to Singh, Dinesh went missing on August 5 and a missing complaint was lodged at the local police station the following day. “On August 7, Dinesh’s body was found in a forested area in Samaipur Badli. His cellphone and a wallet containing money were missing. There were injury marks on his body,” Singh said. DCP Sharma said in Dinesh’s missing report filed by his family, it was mentioned that he had gone out with two known persons – Nitu and Tinku – around 4 pm on August 5 but did not return home. “Nitu and Tinku told the police that they had gone for an outing with Dinesh on August 5. After having dinner, the duo dropped Dinesh in Swaroop Nagar and returned to their respective homes. Nothing suspicious emerged during the duo’s interrogation. We are now exploring other possibilities,” Sharma said. The police are looking into the case from personal enmity and robbery angles. The Civil Defence comes under the Delhi Government, which refused a comment. It was not clear whether the incident happened when Dinesh was on duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civil-defence-volunteer-s-body-found/story-fXVXTAN4i9PbHsfPQndoZP.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Janmashtami celebrations in Chandigarh to be toned down this time||Janmashtami is set to be a subdued affair this time with the usual carnivals missing and temples set to allow only a few people to enter to ensure social distancing amid the pandemic outbreak. Besides, in view of the night curfew that starts at 10pm, temples in the city will close their doors by 9pm, said BP Arora, president of the Sector 40 temple and chief of the Hindu Parv Mahasabha in the city.He added, “To ensure distancing, we will allow only a certain number of people within the temple premises at a time. Pre-packaged prasad will be distributed and entry to the Shiv Mandir of temples in the city will not be allowed.” The poojas, which go on till late at night, will be performed by the priests who stay within the temple premises.‘EXPECTING ONLY A SMALL TURNOUT’Shyam Sunder, joint secretary of the Sri Laxmi Narayan Temple in Sector 20, said, “This time, we are expecting only a small turnout. Even during the holy month of ‘Saavan’, nobody came to offer prayers at the temple. With the rise in Covid cases, people are scared to venture out.”Saurabh, who runs a shop near the three temples in Sector 20, said that their sales are virtually non-existent this time so they are not stocking up anything, not even balloons or toys for kids.ISKCON TO OFFER DIGITAL DARSHAN The International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) is likely to keep their gates closed this year and offer digital darshan through the Zoom app. Nand Maharaj, the head of ISKCON Temple in Sector 36, said, “We get thousands of visitors during Janmashtami and maintaining social distancing won’t be possible. Due to this, we won’t open doors for devotees this time. There are a few people who live inside the temple. They will carry out a pooja, which will be livestreamed and shared among devotees through the Zoom video conferencing app.”He added that the celebrations will go on for two days, with decorations starting from Monday night itself. “We have asked people to make idols for Krishna and offer him home-cooked sweets to celebrate the festival,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/janmashtami-celebrations-in-chandigarh-to-be-toned-down-this-time/story-431Tcf5WarI9iURVE16OSL.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||₹1,000-crore heroin seizure: Firm owner, 2 aides arrested||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), which busted an international narcotics racket and seized 191.6kg of heroin worth ₹1,000 crore from an imported container at Nhava Sheva, have arrested the owner of the import company that had ordered for the narcotics to be smuggled from Afghanistan to India. Two aides of the owner have also been arrested.Suresh Bhatia of Sarvim Exports Ltd, Delhi, was arrested and brought to Mumbai on Monday, along with accused Mohammed Nauman and Mahendra Nigam. Sarvim Exports Ltd company’s Import Export Code (IEC) was used for smuggling the drug under the pretext of ‘Mulethi’.Nigam looked after the logistic support on the instructions of Nauman. Nauman is a key lieutenant of Bhatia and was looking after the entire import and transportation-related work for him.DRI probe has revealed that Suresh Bhatia has past criminal antecedents. He was convicted in the year 2008 case for smuggling 1,200kg of hashish. He completed his sentence under the charges of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Mohammed Nauman too has past criminal antecedents.The probe has so far revealed that Nauman had given the custom clearing work and transportation of the consignment to Meenanath Bodake and Kondibhau Gunjal. Both have been arrested in the case on Saturday and presently are in judicial custody.Bodake, a Nerul, Navi Mumbai resident, is a partner in MB Shipping & Logistics Solution, a Customs Broker firm which was facilitating the clearance of the imported consignment having the Container number INKU2267955.Bodake was facilitating the custom clearance on Nauman’s instructions to whom he was introduced by his relative and Mumbra resident Gunjal.Nauman had entrusted Gunjal with customs clearance work, and later for arranging the transport of the smuggled item. He was promised hefty sum as commission if he facilitates safe and timely delivery of the consignment, investigations have revealed.Gunjal had been in touch with Nauman since June 2019 and he was very much aware of the fact that the Heroin was being smuggled, sources said.“Bodake and Gunjal have helped the drug racket for clearing the consignment containing the banned drug. Their role in the crime is clear. They have been sent to judicial custody for 14 days by a court,” said Jitentra Mishra, the special public prosecutor for DRI.The investigations in the case is on and Bhatia, Nauman and Nigam are being thoroughly questioned. Their phone call details would also be analysed to probe if more people are involved, sources said. The three would be produced in court on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-000-crore-heroin-seizure-firm-owner-2-aides-arrested/story-gXrLGw6gYzl0mTHR6b5QLO.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||Passengers take to road as Delhi to Shirdi flight remains grounded||Passengers on IndiGo’s Delhi-Shirdi flight took the road on Monday to reach their destinations after the airline’s A320 Neo aircraft operating 6E 2019 flight remained grounded at the Mumbai airport. On Sunday evening, the flight had made priority landing in Mumbai due to hydraulic failure. Despite repeated attempts, IndiGo did not provide the status of the aircraft and the passengers. However, sources from Mumbai airport confirmed that the aircraft stayed grounded, and unable to let stranded passengers continue their air travel to Shirdi.“Due to the limited number of flight operations from Mumbai’s CSMIA (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport) flights from Mumbai to Shirdi are not being operated daily,” said a Mumbai airport official.HT had reported that the Shirdi- Delhi flight had made a prioritylanding at CSMIA at around 7pm on Sunday. The IndiGo pilot had requested Mumbai air traffic control (ATC) to provide towing assistance for vacating the runway. This was done as the aircraft witnessed hydraulic failure. IndiGo, on Sunday, had said the flight had a caution message on one of the hydraulic systems and as a precaution, the pilot diverted to Mumbai. An airline source said, “With no other option left, all the 64 passengers were taken to Shirdi by road.”Budget carriers- IndiGo and GoAir have been facing issues with its A320Neo aircraft powered by Pratt & Whitney engines both mid-air and on-ground since 2017 following which DGCA at the end of 2019 had directed that the two low-cost airlines replace them with a modified version by May 31 this year.Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on June 1 extended its May 31 deadline to refurbish engines in A320Neo fleet to August after supply chains and production lines were hit owing to the ongoing pandemic.The airline is expected to finish replacing its last batch of 14 A320Neo engines by August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/passengers-take-to-road-as-delhi-to-shirdi-flight-remains-grounded/story-IpaD4hNAng7XEzgY8wiqoI.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||23-year-old woman dies by suicide after quarrel with husband||A 23-year-old mother of two hanged herself from a tree at Kajheri village in Sector 52 opposite the Sector 43 Inter State Bus Terminus on Monday evening reportedly after a quarrel with her husband. The couple fought after she was stopped from going to her sister’s house and she left home, her husband said, adding that she was found hanging later. She was taken to the Government Multi Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 where doctors declared her dead. No suicide note has been recovered and police have initiated inquest proceedings. The deceased is survived by two sons aged five and two years and her husband. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/23-year-old-woman-dies-by-suicide-after-quarrel-with-husband/story-eOajsDuCkECamZjJlb1lbI.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||Ambience Mall case: CBI raids chairman’s office||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday conducted raids at the premises of Raj Singh Gehlot, chairman of realty firm Ambience Group, and others after registering a case in the alleged illegal conversion of residential land to raise the swanky Ambience Mall in Gurugram, officials said. The agency has acted on the orders of Punjab and Haryana high court, which last month asked it to probe the irregularities. CBI Spokesperson R K Gaur said, “The case is related to alleged illegal construction of commercial building at approximately 18.98 acres of land in Gurugram by blatantly flouting the building by-laws and statutory provisions in collusion with others.” Those named in CBI FIR include Raj Singh Gehlot, and companies Ambience Ltd and Ambience Developers and Infrastructure besides unidentified officials of Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) and Town and Country Planning (TCP) departments. The raids were carried out at Gehlot’s residence in Hauz Khas, company’s office at Green Park, HUDA office in Panchkula and TCP office in Sector 18, Chandigarh. A spokesperson for the Ambience Group refused to comment. The high court had sought a separate investigation by the CBI to probe alleged illegal actions, if any, and possible collusion between the builder and state authorities. The Ambience Group runs Ambience Malls in NCR and luxury hotel The Leela Ambience Convention Centre in east Delhi among other real estate properties. The petitioners in the case had alleged before the high court that 18.98 acres of land on Delhi-Jaipur National Highway in Gurugram earmarked for Ambience Lagoon Island Residential Complex was reduced to just 7.9 acres and a commercial complex was built on the remaining land. It was further alleged that such violation of the builder-buyer agreement and provisions of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Act, 1975 was not possible without the collusion of officials and builders. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had raided Ambience Group and Raj Singh Gehlot on July 31 in a separate case of money laundering against a company run by Gehlots – Aman Hospitality Pvt Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambience-mall-case-cbi-raids-chairman-s-office/story-iQDB2qRFpL5bHXupnLNqVI.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||2 deaths in Dera Bassi take Mohali Covid-19 fatalities to 21||Two more Covid-19 deaths in Dera Bassi took Mohali’s fatalities on Monday to 21, even as 76 new cases pushed up the count to 1,385. The deceased included a 38-year-old man from Mubarakpur and a 70-year-old from Preet Nagar. The former was admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research at Chandigarh on July 22 and had brain surgery. The latter, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, was admitted to a private hospital in Panchkula on August 5. Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, said the bodies were cremated as per protocol and supervised by health officials. Of the new cases, 40 were from the Dera Bassi sub-division, 23 from Mohali and 13 from Kharar. Also, 21 persons had recovered, bringing down the number of active patients to 649 in the district. Till date, 715 persons have recovered, while 21 have lost their lives in the last four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-deaths-in-dera-bassi-take-mohali-covid-19-fatalities-to-21/story-0ffqF2JaQR7k1aOXWdu16J.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Live webcast of I-Day ceremony in Mohali||Safety protocols during the Covid-19 outbreak will mean toned down Independence day ceremonies with the district administration organising a live webcast on Facebook and other platforms of the Punjab chief minister’s flag hoisting and other programmes being held at the Shaheed Major Harminderpal Singh (Shaurya Chakra) Government College in Phase-6. In a 20-minute programme, the hoisting of the Tricolour will be followed by a march past by police contingents and the chief guest’s address. “We will be telecasting the programme online and the public will be informed (about it) well in advance. Only 10 persons will be allowed on the stage and the entire programme will be a 20-minute affair,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Monday. Directions had been issued to the district education officers (primary and secondary) to ensure that no government or private school organised any celebrations on campus involving student participation. Additional deputy commissioner Aashika Jain said no large congregations would be allowed at any other place and celebrations limited to unfurling the National Flag, march past, address by the chief guest, singing of the National Anthem and release of tricolour balloons. Social distancing would be maintained strictly, she said. ,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/live-webcast-of-i-day-ceremony-in-mohali/story-Yl5WV93WASAxLYejWTXzaP.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||Will take over MCD schools if they fail in duties: Manish Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday asked the state urban development department to submit a proposal so that the Delhi government’s directorate of education (DoE) can take over schools run by the three BJP-ruled municipal corporations in case they failed to “perform their primary duties” such as paying salaries to teachers and distributing textbooks to students. The minister, who also holds the education portfolio, said the civic bodies were “diverting” funds provided for education by the Delhi government for other purposes.In a letter to urban development minister Satyender Jain, Sisodia said, “I have received complaints that the schools run by municipal corporations, especially North Delhi Municipal Corporation, have not yet distributed textbooks to school children. The allegations against the civic body, if found true, are serious and no one can play with the lives of young children... It is unfortunate that even after a lapse of five full months during the academic year 2020-21, textbooks are yet to be provided to children, which can play havoc with their lives.”Sisodia alleged that the municipal corporation had failed to pay salaries to its teachers and issue books to students even after the Delhi government gave them the required funds. “The Delhi government has paid Rs 853 crore for primary school education to the three municipal corporations and bulk of the share, i.e Rs 393.3 crore, has been provided to North Delhi Municipal Corporation. The money was to be spent on the salary to the teachers and providing textbooks to the school children. There are several news reports that neither the teachers got their salaries nor the students got their textbooks,” he said.“If for some reason, the municipal corporation is unable to perform their primary duty, steps are to be taken by the urban development department for taking over the schools by the directorate of education, Delhi government. Instead of paying huge grants to the municipal corporation, which divert the funds provided by the Delhi government for other purposes, it would be appropriate in the interest of students and teachers that the schools are taken over and run directly by the DoE,” Sisodia said in the note.“An action taken report to be submitted at the earliest in the matter,” he added.Senior officials in municipal corporation said the allegations of “diversion of funds” were baseless and the delay in distribution of books happened due to the lockdown between March and June.Ira Singhal, spokesperson of the north corporation, said, “Before Covid-19, we had placed an order to purchase books but it turned out that the rates had been revised. We again submitted the proposal for approval from the education committee and the mayor. This was stalled due to nationwide lockdown owing to the coronavirus pandemic. The new purchase order has now been approved by the mayor and the education committee. Books will be distributed to the students latest by the first week of September,” she said.Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said, “This has been one of their agendas ever since they came to power in the Delhi government...they are struggling to provide essential facilities and infrastructure. The government should tell people of Delhi why funds have not been released to the three civic bodies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-take-over-mcd-schools-if-they-fail-in-duties-sisodia/story-CsVFjlqgeCYJJW2yfpn6PM.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||Work on installation of smog tower has started: Centre to SC||The central government told the Supreme Court on Monday that work had started on the installation of a smog tower at Anand Vihar in east Delhi according to its directions.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, informed a three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra that survey of the site for constructing the tower was complete and that the installation was being done in collaboration with IIT Bombay.“Collection of soil samples is in progress and we are in the process of appointing an architect to make site drawing, etc. IIT Bombay and TATA projects have tied up with University of Minnesota as it is a patent-protected innovation. University of Minnesota has agreed to share the technology,” Mehta submitted.The development came after the Supreme Court had, on July 29, threatened contempt of court action against IIT Bombay after it expressed unwillingness to take responsibility for the project and proposed to back out.The proposal to construct a smog tower in collaboration with IIT Bombay was put forward by the Centre in December 2019 after the Supreme Court raised serious concerns about the rising pollutions levels in Delhi.The court in January 13 had given the green signal for the proposal and asked the Centre and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to install a smog tower at Anand Vihar in east Delhi in three months. The project got delayed after IIT refused to take overall responsibility, including verification of works carried out by Tata Projects Limited (proposed to be involved by IIT for construction, operation and maintenance of the smog tower).The CPCB initiated various rounds of talks with IIT Mumbai regarding the project and three versions of MoU were exchanged between them. But the talks bore no fruition. When the court was informed on July 29 about IIT backing out, a livid justice Mishra had threatened to initiate contempt action against the institute.“How can they back out from a central government project after this court passed orders? Is it a child’s game? We will not tolerate this nonsense. We will draw contempt against them,” he said.The Centre then informed the court on August 4 that the smog tower will be built under IIT’s supervision.The court on Monday also refused to entertain a plea to reconsider the proposal and recall its orders directing installation of the smog tower. The plea filed by an intervener in the case, KK Mishra, said smog towers were not effective and there was no scientific basis to validate the claim that they would reduce air pollution.“We are not recalling our order. The plea is without merit,” the court said.Besides the smog tower, the issue of stubble burning in the north Indian states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, a major contributor to air pollution from October to November, also came up Monday’s hearing .The court asked the three states to file reports regarding the steps taken by their panchayat departments to educate public and spread awareness about the ill-effects of stubble burning. It asked Delhi government to look into pollution hot spots identified by IIT Delhi and file a status report regarding steps taken to deal with these places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/work-on-installation-of-smog-tower-has-started-centre-to-sc/story-shlTUUipud8hIOrnePoVdN.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||CBI should probe Justice Loya, Munde death cases too: Sena||The Shiv Sena has now hardened its stance on Sushant Singh Rajput death case citing that even the deaths of Judge BH Loya and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Gopinath Munde should be probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Former Union minister and Sena leader Arvind Sawant said, “Even we demand CBI inquiry into the death of Justice Loya. What about the death of Gopinath Mude? The CBI should investigate that too.”Sawant said that the whole attempt was made to subvert the Constitution of India which emphasised on the federal system of Governance.This move is seen as an attempt to embarrass the BJP as a Union minister’s name was allegedly dragged in the Loya case. Though Munde had died in a road incident, there were some murmurs of foul play in the incident. However, no one has so far, demanded any such inquiry.Sena was pushed on the back-foot after a troll raised the name of a leader in the Rajput case. The BJP said that the whole attempt was being made to divert attention from Rajput’s death. “Why is the Sena afraid of a CBI probe? Is it an attempt to save a Sena minister,” BJP legislator, Ram Kadam, said.“The Supreme Court of India has already given a judgement in the Justice Loya case in 2018, wherein it ruled out any foul play, and the Sena needs to clarify whether it respects the decision of the highest court of the land,” said Kadam.Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in Bandra on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cbi-should-probe-justice-loya-munde-death-cases-too-sena/story-W0YTjS6W6Y0CbwReEOivTO.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||Netizens, NGOs donate smartphones to help marginalised students with online classes||Fourteen-year-old Yuvika, a Class 10 student of a Delhi government school in Dakshinpuri, was worried when her online classes began. “I have two other siblings and one of them is in Class 8. Sometimes we have our online classes at the same time and there is only one low-end smartphone in the family. Due to this, we end up missing classes and often can’t interact with our teachers,” she said.As the Covid-19 crisis caused classes to move completely online, school-going children from marginalised backgrounds were left in the lurch due to lack of devices and Internet access. While the Delhi government has announced a semi-online education model keeping such students in mind, they are still facing issues as they often receive notes on WhatsApp and need them for assignments.Yuvika’s father, who worked as a ward boy at a hospital in Malviya Nagar, has been unemployed ever since the lockdown came into effect. Her mother also lost her job as a domestic worker. “We were missing our online classes but buying another phone was not on our priority list,” said Yuvika. “I borrowed notes from friends but it was not a permanent solution.”On Saturday, she received a new smartphone after a group of strangers raised money for her on the Internet. “Now I can take time to focus on the lessons instead of worrying about finishing them quickly. I think it will help me learn better,” she said.For the past couple of weeks, Ankit Gupta, a content writer and an Urdu poet based in Delhi, has been raising money to get smartphones for marginalised children to ensure their studies are not disrupted. “Help has poured in from various sources and we have been able to arrange smartphones for 36 students so far. We got to know about most of them through common contacts or news stories. As many as 18 smartphones will be delivered after August 15 since they are for students in Srinagar where the lockdown has been extended till August 15,” he said.Gupta is not the only one attempting to bridge the learning gap by providing smartphones to students. Saajha, a non-governmental organisation which works in the public schools’ sector, also started a collaborative initiative asking people to donate their extra smartphones and deliver them to needy students after refurbishing them.“While surveying over 2,000 parents, we found out that nearly 40% did not have access to even WhatsApp. The first phase of our campaign lasted less than a week and we were able to collect 12 phones through Cashify, a platform that deals with used phones. These phones will be delivered to female students as their education is often not prioritised. If there is one phone in the family, it is often used by male students,” Saransh Vaswani, the director of Saanjha, said.Vikaspuri resident Rajni, a Class 12 student at a government school nearby, is one such student. “I have to go to my friend’s place to attend classes. My brother, who is in Class 10, has borrowed a smartphone from our neighbour for his studies. I get to use that phone sometimes. But if I get a phone of my own, accessing the Internet anytime and going through my lessons will be easier.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/netizens-ngos-donate-smartphones-to-help-marginalised-students-with-online-classes/story-nNgi00TV2gL6aqgQ14DKGP.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||More raids in Dera Bassi, 875 litres of illicit raw spirit seized||Continuing with its raids for the second day on Monday to seize illicit chemicals, a special investigating team (SIT) with the excise department on Monday recovered 875 litres of raw spirit from an industrial unit in Dera Bassi in Mohali district. On Sunday, the team seized 27,600 litres of illicit chemicals with spirit from three industrial units in Dera Bassi in what it claimed was the biggest such haul in Punjab. The spirit was recovered at Om Solvi Trading, which had been raided on Sunday too The raids followed the recent tragic deaths of more than a 100 people, mostly in the Majha area, after drinking hooch. SIT head, deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Hardyal Singh Mann, said around 875 litres of raw spirit recovered from Om Solvi Trading had been sent for analysis at a forensic laboratory. SIT would investigate the source and customers of the units which had been raided.However, it was suspected that most of the spirit was being sold to illicit liquor manufacturers, Mann added. The SIT raiding team headed by deputy superintendent of police Bikram Singh Brar said that in disclosures of four persons arrested after Sunday’s raids revealed that they had hidden raw spirit in small 25-litre and 50-litre drums within the “inner circle” of the factories.“Searches (on Monday) led police to the small drums with 875 litres of raw spirit. These have been seized and handed over to the excise department,” the DSP said. The four men arrested after Sunday’s raids, namely AK Chaudhary and KP Singh, directors of Allychem Laboratories Pvt Ltd, Gaurav Chaudhary, proprietor of Om Solvi Trading Co and Jagmohan Arora, proprietor of Pure Solutions, were produced in the local court of Dera Bassi on Monday and sent to two-day police remand. The joint commissioner of the excise and taxation department Naresh Dubey said a detailed report on whether the spirit was being used to manufacture illicit liquor would be out in some time after the remand period (of the four men) was over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/more-raids-in-dera-bassi-875-litres-of-illicit-raw-spirit-seized/story-8Jsh09cmkxOhl6CAuJYgzH.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala DC favoured BJP in forming panel on MC ward delimitation: Cong||The Haryana Congress has levelled allegations of misconduct in the constitution of an ad hoc committee for the delimitation (wardbandi) of wards in the Ambala city municipal corporation, following which a party delegation led by treasurer Rohit Jain met deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma on Monday. Sharma, who has been accused of favouring the BJP in setting up the committee, which allegedly did not give due representation to the Congress and other opposition parties, has refuted the charges. All rules have been followed, he has said. Handing over a memorandum to the DC at his office, the Congress members requested him to stop the delimitation process and set up another panel following mandatory protocols with other party members of the dissolved MC.‘Five members out of four in panel have links to BJP’ Rohit Jain, who is also the Ambala Bar president, said, “The rules say that the committee has to comprise five members belonging to various interests/groups out of the sitting members of the corporation or out of the members of the dissolved municipality. But the present committee is illegal as out of five members, four have links to the BJP and one has been a nominated corporator. This happened despite Congress being in majority in the last municipal body that was dissolved in 2018. Interestingly, only one out of those included as the members is a corporator of the last body (2013-18) and most others don’t have any link to the MC, which is also against the rules.”Jain alleged that the aim of the existing committee was to deprive the strong prospective candidates of Congress and other opposition parties a right to contest in the upcoming MC elections and to divide the pre-existing wards in such a manner as to give an edge to the prospective candidates of the BJP. Commenting on the matter, Haryana Congress president and ex-MP from Ambala, Kumari Selja, who has also emailed a letter to the DC, said “This is a clear case of bias towards the ruling party... no representation has been given to any opposition party, including the Congress. All the members in the committee are from the BJP and this could have happened only at the behest of the government.”‘Rules have been followed’In his defence, Sharma, however, said all rules had been followed and “representation has been given to every group.”According to the names forwarded by the MC, “we have given proper representation to every group in the committee. We have to include a representative from women, reserved castes and others, and this was done. The process is in the draft stage, even if there is any objection from anyone, 10 days will be given to file it,” Sharma added. On being asked about the political links of the members, he said, “We have no issues with any party and while constituting the committee we don’t check which party the member is from.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-dc-favoured-bjp-in-forming-panel-on-mc-ward-delimitation-cong/story-U1sbDuuIBrcw6hfVDT0A1L.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||MCD, Delhi govt spar over salaries of sanitation workers||The Delhi government and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Monday sparred in the Delhi High Court over the salaries of sanitation workers with the civic body claiming that the city government was yet to release funds .A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan was told by advocate Mini Pushkarna, counsel for the North DMC, said that they had released Rs 76 crore for salary for the month of June. It said the Delhi government was yet to release the grant-in-aid, which could be used to pay salaries of sanitation workers.The court was hearing an application moved by North DMC, which alleged that Rs 90.60 crore payable as grant-in-aid under the sanitation/urban development head, for the first quarter ending June 30, had not been released yet and Rs 181 crore under the same head for the second quarter was also due.On Monday, the civic body informed the court that it had paid salaries to sanitation workers for April, May and June, amounting to Rs 228 crore, from its internal funds.Opposing the contention, advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel of the Delhi government (criminal), told the court the application was not maintainable and a separate petition should have been filed by the civic body. He said that corporation had not done anything to manage its accounts. After brief arguments, the court adjourned the matter for August 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcd-delhi-govt-spar-over-salaries-of-sanitation-workers/story-ITjDVAu0FyvvLhcEQearAP.html
10-08-2020||City||Ludhiana civil hospital operating without fire safety certificate||Day after a deadly fire engulfed a Covid treatment facility in Andhra Pradesh, it has come to light that the Ludhiana civil hospital is running without a fire safety certificate.As per the fire safety department officials, besides the civil hospital, the authorities have also failed to get a no-objection certificate (NOC) for the community health centres (CHCs) being run in Jawaddi and Chandigarh Road near Vardhman Mills.Covid-19 patients are being treated at the civil hospital and CHC on Chandigarh Road, while infection testing is done at the CHC in Jawaddi area. Hundreds of residents visit the hospital and CHCs daily.A fire brigade official not wanting to be named revealed that the old building of the civil hospital lacks proper fire safety arrangements, and though there is safety equipment at the Mother Child Hospital situated within its premises, it is mandatory to get a certificate issued after thorough inspection.The official added the hospital authorities have not even applied for the NOC in the past, and it is supposed to be renewed every year.A city resident, who works with an NGO associated with the civil hospital, said the authorities need to work on the infrastructure as by not paying heed to issues like fire safety, they are putting hundreds of lives at risk. If needed, the NGOs can also help, but the health department should take steps in this regard, the resident added.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “The state government had recently issued directions to the districts to make proper fire safety arrangements in civil hospitals. The circular has already been forwarded to senior medical officers (SMO) of the respective hospitals and centres. Now, it is their responsibility to apply for the fire safety certificates.”A fire broke out at a hotel being used as a Covid-19 treatment facility in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada early on Sunday. As per the reports, 10 people died in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-civil-hospital-operating-without-fire-safety-certificate/story-GmeKHFc30x1FKhCLLi8U9H.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to have follow-up clinic for recovered Covid-19 patients||The administration at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has given the approval to set up a clinic for recovered Covid-19 patients at the New OPD block.However, no date has been selected for its opening so far, but the process for setting up the clinic has been started.“Many patients, who have had complications and other related diseases, have been discharged from the Covid-19 hospital here. Even though they have recovered, there is a need to follow-up with them. Currently, they are in touch with us through phones, but the new clinic will facilitate physical interaction,” said PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram.The clinic will have doctors from different departments, including pulmonologists, cardiologists, and doctors from the department of internal medicine.“The facility will be open for the patients who have been discharged from the Covid-19 hospital of the institute,” the director said.Till now, the hospital has admitted more than 500 patients, out of which 350 have been discharged after treatment.Moreover, various research journals have cited post-discharge complications in recovered patients. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has also asked Covid care hospitals and centres if there is any provision of a follow-up clinic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-to-have-follow-up-clinic-for-recovered-covid-19-patients/story-GgXwHpNrkX1AtYv0hqkeXJ.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||Balconies collapse in Dwarka DDA flats, no one hurt||Balconies of two flats in a residential complex developed by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) in Dwarka Sector 4, collapsed on Sunday evening. While no one was hurt, the residents’ welfare association blamed the DDA for poor design and construction.According to the RWA, the society was constructed in 1997-98 by DDA. They said residents of the flats had a narrow escape.Arvind Rudhra, secretary of the RWA, said a first-floor balcony collapsed on the ground floor after a second floor balcony fell on it. “Thankfully, the residents were not in the balcony when the incident took place,” said Rudhra.The RWA filed a complaint with DDA and Delhi Police regarding poor construction.A DDA official said the residential complex is not covered under its 30-year maintenance policy. “The maintenance of these flats is with the RWA. These are not covered under our 30-year maintenance policy. These flats were constructed in 1997 -98. No such complaint was received in the past,” said a DDA official.The society has 228 flats of which 140 are two-bedroom flats. The building where the accident took place has three-bedroom flats.Residents say it is not a maintenance issue but a structural flaw. “This is nothing but a major design and construction flaw. These houses are not very old. How can the entire balcony collapse?” said Rudhra.A team of DDA officials visited the site on Monday evening. But RWA members said they had not ordered any action or asked anyone to clear the debris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/balconies-collapse-in-dwarka-dda-flats-no-one-hurt/story-8950GcrSr0KGpwjrGfONvK.html
10-08-2020||City||Dedicated biomedical waste collection for home-isolated Covid patients: Mohali DC||Allaying people’s fear of catching infection from those in home-isolation, deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan informed that no critically ill or serious Covid-19 patient is put in home quarantine.Doctors analyse the patients for co-morbidities and if they seem fit enough to recuperate at home, they are allowed to isolate there. Similarly, after recceing the locality, availability of separate room and washroom for the patient at his home, he/she is granted the permission, he said.Urging people not to panic over home-quarantined patients in their neighbourhoods, the DC said such persons are not supposed to come out of their premises so no direct threat of spread of infection exists. However, for the collection of biomedical waste of Covid-19 patients in home isolation, the district administration has passed orders assigning the responsibility to various government departments, he said.Giving details of the initiative, Dayalan said the municipal corporation and nagar councils would be responsible for collecting waste from the Covid-19 patients’ homes falling in their respective jurisdictions. Block development and panchayat officers will cater to villages, while GMADA will collect biomedical waste from urban areas outside the municipal limits. Each of these departments would provide yellow-coloured waste disposal bags in sufficient quantity to the patient as soon as he is home quarantined and thereafter arrange for daily garbage collection and disposal through the agency roped in by them.The DC said a person who does not require direct medical care can recuperate best in his/her house, thereby making room for critical patients in hospitals. “It is a well-deliberated mechanism adopted on the directions of the Centre and state governments for ensuring right persons in the right place,” he said, adding, “We need not panic on this account. This crisis period is a test of human empathy and brotherhood.”Adequate sanitisation arrangements are also in place, Dayalan informed.Besides dedicated medical follow up of home-quarantined patients, he said, the administration will provide a kit containing vitamin supplements, antipyretic medicine and a pulse oximeter to measure the blood-oxygen level. The pulse oximeter would however be given only for the quarantine duration and the patient would have to return it upon recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dedicated-biomedical-waste-collection-for-home-isolated-covid-patients-mohali-dc/story-yuHmri0kI2DNGUlpu3ZOKI.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Online training of newly-recruited judicial officers commences in Chandigarh||The online training of 50 newly-recruited judicial officers for states of Punjab and Haryana started on Monday.Justice Rajan Gupta, judge, Punjab and Haryana high court and president, board of governors, Chandigarh Judicial Academy, inaugurated the training.The opening address was delivered online from the high court in the presence of Shalini Singh Nagpal, director (administration)-cum-district and sessions judge and Balram K Gupta, director (academics).Gupta said we are going through an unprecedented crisis and new methods and lifestyle need to adopted to deal with the situation. The pandemic has restricted our physical movements but connected us digitally, he added. Justice Gupta said the exposure to the courts from Day 1, along with the interactive online sessions during the training, will go a long way to equip the trainees with necessary skills to discharge the duties of a judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/newly-recruited-judicial-officers-training-commences-online-in-chandigarh/story-OO4YEPnma8IlBMV3Qc5yAM.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||PCA names Mullanpur stadium after Patiala’s last ruler Maharaja Yadavindra Singh||Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) has decided to name its Mullanpur International Cricket Stadium after the last ruler of Patiala, late Maharaja Yadavindra Singh, who had played a test match for India in 1934.He is the father of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh.The 38.2-acre arena in Mullanpur will now be named Maharaja Yadavindra Singh International Cricket Stadium.The decision was taken in PCA’s executive committee meeting, which was attended by both president Rajinder Gupta and secretary Puneet Bali.This is the second sports infrastructure named after Patiala’s royal family. Earlier, the Punjab Sports and Science University had been named after Maharaja Bhupinder Singh, who was the captain of the Indian cricket team that visited England in 1911 and played in 27 first-class cricket matches. He was one of the great promoters of the sport in the country during the pre-independence era. He is Punjab chief minister’s grandfather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pca-names-mullanpur-stadium-after-patiala-s-last-ruler-maharaja-yadavindra-singh/story-M5uAUbTfL8jwSXVb6O9xLM.html
10-08-2020||Pune||For the first time in 127 years, Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati to hold Ganeshotsav within temple premises||In light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic the Dagdusheth Halwai Ganapati, set up by the Shrimant Dagdusheth Halwai Public Ganpati Trust and Suvarnayug Tarun Mandal will for the first time hold the 10-day celebrations within the temple premises instead of their traditional location at the Kotwal Chawdi, near Dutt Mandir. The decision was announced after a meeting between Ganesh mandals, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pune police. The decision was taken by the trustees of the mandal in the interest of the health of thousands of devotees who visit the Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati during Ganeshostav. “To curtail the spread of Covid-19 during the festival which draws more than 20 lakh devotees every year, and to continue with the public sentiment for the celebration of Lord Ganesha, we have decided to celebrate the 10-day festival within the temple premises. This is the first time that we have broken the 127-year tradition. There will be no processions on both the first and the immersion day,” said Ashok Godse, president of Shrimant Dagdusheth Halwai Public Ganpati Trust. The trust is celebrating its 128th year and is looking at strengthening their online darshan services. The trust has also arranged for online prayers, darshan of Lord Ganesha through the trust’s website, app, Facebook, YouTube and Twitter accounts. Devotees will be able to avail live darshan of Lord Ganesha at the following portals www.dagdushethganpati.com, http://bit.ly/Dagdusheth-Live, iOS: http://bit.ly/Dagdusheth_iphone_App. “We are also in talks with the police to maintain social distancing and a protocol for those who visit the temple for mukh darshan. When we celebrated 100 years of Ganesha with online seva, we had 7.5 crore devotees who performed their puja,’ said Mahesh Suryavanshi, a trustee of the mandal. The popular draw for devotees and the main attraction of the festival at the Dagdusheth Ganpati is the recitation of Atharvashirsha by women and school children, however, both the recitations have been cancelled for 2020. The trustees have appealed that all other religious rituals be conducted online. “Devotees will be able to avail darshan of bappa from outside via LED screens that will put up at Belbaug chowk and Budhwar chowk. We will also not accept garlands, flowers or coconuts,” added Hemant Rasne, a trustee of the Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati mandal. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohal who was present at the interaction said, “Pune has around 5 lakh Ganapatis for visarjan which includes both mandal as well as home idols. This year, the PMC will not be building any ‘hauds’ for visarjan and I appeal to everyone to have their Ganpati immersion at home while the mandal will hold it within their mandal premises.” There are 50 mandals in the city who have agreed to hold Ganesha celebrations within their temples which include Shrimant Bhausaheb Rangari Ganpati Trust, which is celebrating its 129th year. “The trust has organized their first online cultural festival for Ganesha devotees from all over the world, on the official website of Shrimant Bhausaheb Rangari Ganpati Trust, Pune www.shrimantbhausahebrangariganpati.com,” said Puneet Balan, festival chief of Shrimant Bhausaheb Rangari Ganpati Trust. This cultural festival will see participation from singers including Shankar Mahadevan, Rahul Deshpande, Pt. Vijay Ghate, Rakesh Chaurasia, while mayor Muralidhar Mohol, co-commissioner of police will interact through interviews with Ravindra Shiswe and musicians Ajay-Atul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/for-the-first-time-in-127-years-dagdusheth-halwai-ganpati-to-hold-ganeshotsav-within-temple-premises/story-QfxuK58f41aPyzE5ygYnVJ.html
10-08-2020||Pune||SPPU puts Shivaji’s war tactics in the classroom||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will be the first academic institution to introduce a post-graduate diploma course on the life and teachings of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. The program will begin starting this academic year. SPPU’s defence and strategic studies department has initiated this course and students can now apply for it. A special quota has been reserved for international students for this unique one-year full-time diploma course. “As we all know Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj established Swarajya in our country and to study his life, war strategies, management skills, the formation of a nation, guerrilla warfare and how he built huge forts, this course came into existence. The name of the course is PG diploma in Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj as a nation builder. There are lessons about Shivaji Maharaj in schools but until now there was no detailed study programme about his entire life. So we decided to design and start a one-year full-time PG course on him,” said Vijay Khare, head of department of SPPU’s defence and strategic studies department. “This is a unique and first-ever course started by any university in the country. The SPPU’s management council and the academic council has given sanction to this course. It will not only be theoretical studies but students will be taken to study tours at Shivaji Maharaj’ forts and other historical places. A graduate from any stream can take admission for this course, for the first-year 20 seats are available. And we have kept some seats reserved for international students too. Students can take admission for this course through SPPU’s online admission process.” added Khare. Talking about this new course, city-based senior historian Pandurang Balkawade who is also a selected member on SPPU’s academic council said, “First of all I welcome this decision of SPPU which has started this course through which now we can learn more about Shivaji Maharaj. It is really a deep subject to study about Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and his empire, his management and most importantly how he developed each person for his kingdom. His work is so huge that till now we are not able to take up it in front of the world in a proper manner. Shivaji Maharaj does not belong to any religion, caste, region or nation but he is a universal leader and across the world, his life is being studied by experts. So I am extremely happy now SPPU has started this course and now students can learn more about him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-puts-shivaji-s-war-tactics-in-the-classroom/story-2gO5CD17AyWNvKSp4RMalN.html
10-08-2020||Pune||FYJC centralised admission schedule declared||The detailed schedule for class 11 or first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions for Pune region was declared on Monday by the deputy director of education (DYDE), Pune. The first general merit list for admissions to first-year junior college will be declared online at 12 noon on August 23, state director of education Dinkar Patil said in a statement on Monday. The education department finalised the admission schedule after the state SSC results were declared on July 29, 2020. “The entire admission process will be online this year and from August 23 to 25, we will declare the first general merit list of round one admissions for eligible candidates. Students can take objection or file a correction request on the colleges allotted to them. On August 30, the junior college allocation list will be displayed for round one admission. From August 31, students can proceed to the admission process of the respective colleges where they have received an admission. On September 3, junior colleges will upload the status of the admitted students on their website and further admission rounds will be continued,” said Patil. The process of filling forms online began on July 2 when students were supposed to fill up part one of the forms. When the SSC state board results were declared on July 29, part two form of the admission process was opened up. This year due to the Covid-19 pandemic there was a delay in the SSC results and eventually a delay in the admission process to start. “All students who have confirmed their admission in any of the junior colleges through the centralise admission round or through any quota admission process, wouldn’t be allowed in any further round. The junior colleges will be permitted to surrender the vacant quota seats as per admission schedules and instructions are given from time to time. The schedule for further admission rounds will be declared thereafter.” added Patil. Important dates August 23 – First general merit list will be declared August 23 to 25 – Admissions based on the first regularized list August 30 – Cut-offs for first round and vacant seats list will be declared August 31 to September 3 – Online confirmation of admission in the allotted Junior College September 3 – Junior Colleges will upload status of admitted students on their website||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fyjc-centralised-admission-schedule-declared/story-cNJmPoJdCRaG7gQgMLUv7O.html
10-08-2020||Pune||Pawar instructs PMRDA to appoint 3-member committee to sort out metro land acquisition issues||Maharashtra deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar instructed the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) to speed up the metro work between Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar. He also instructed the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to appoint a three-member committee to sort out land acquisition issues. The PMRDA is in requirement of some pending land for the metro project construction. Both the metro lines will join and run together near Shivajinagar civil court. As the construction will have an effect on the slums in the region, Pawar instructed to appoint a three-officer committee to sort out the land acquisition issue. PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Suhas Diwase said, “Deputy chief minister took a review meeting for the third line of the metro which is in between Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, outgoing district collector Naval Kishore Ram, Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar and PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Diwase were present for the meeting which was held on August 7.” The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) appointed three officers including Madhav Jagtap, Nitin Udas and Sunanda Gaikwad to sort out the land acquisition issues in the PMC limit as instructed by Pawar. Diwase said, “Almost 75 per cent of the land is in possession of the PMRDA. Some land from private owners and the central government is yet to come. The work of the metro project would start on the ground very soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pawar-instructs-pmrda-to-appoint-3-member-committee-to-sort-out-metro-land-acquisition-issues/story-KIHC4rXMMErMBg54zlmakK.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||HC allows termination of 22 weeks pregnancy of Chandigarh woman||The Punjab and Haryana high court has allowed a 22 weeks pregnant Chandigarh woman to terminate the foetus.The termination was allowed after a medical report from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) showed non-development of kidneys in foetus, a serious congenital malformation which it said is not compatible with normal life.The woman has been asked to undergo the procedure at PGIMER within five days.It was on August 6, that the woman had approached the high court seeking termination of her pregnancy. On that day, acting on her plea, the HC had taken suo motu note and issued a notice to the Centre on ‘flaws’ with the pregnancy termination law.Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, does not permit termination of pregnancy beyond 20 weeks. The law allows termination of pregnancy by a registered medical practitioner, where the duration of the pregnancy does not exceed 12 weeks. If the duration is up to 20 weeks, the pregnancy can be terminated on doctors’ opinion that its continuance would involve a risk to the life of the pregnant woman or can cause grave injury to her physical or mental health.The bench had said the law does not provide any remedy for termination of pregnancy beyond twenty weeks even as science and technology has not been so advance as to prevent the development of any deformity in the foetus after a period of 20 weeks. Due to this, people have to approach courts. Centre has to respond on the issues raised by the high court by November 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-allows-termination-of-22-weeks-pregnancy-of-chandigarh-woman/story-iUu44kR3bT1CSCJ2F4jXOM.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana to get carcass disposal plant by Dec: Minister Ashu||With the Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) missing the deadline for setting up a carcass utilisation plant in the city, Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has said the project will be completed by December this year.Ashu, who visited the plant site at the Noorpur Bet area on Monday with mayor Balkar Sandhu, said it would ensure utilisation of animal carcasses in an effective pollution free environment, reducing chances of infection.Beset with delays, the project was initially expected to be completed by the end of June, but the deadline was extended to September 30 and then to December.Officials concerned attributed the reason for the extended deadline to the Covid-19 lockdown.Adding that the plant had the capacity to process 50 carcasses a day (50 big and a 100 small animals) Ashu said it would be set up at a cost of Rs 8 crore under the Smart City Mission.The project contract had been awarded on design, build, operate, maintain and transfer (DBOMT) basis, he added.Disposal of carcass had become a major issue for the municipal corporation in the past with the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) imposing a fine of Rs 2.28 each on the five groups running a hadda rodi (carcass dump) in the Laddowal area for dumping waste in the Sutlej river. The skinners had also stopped lifting the carcasses in June, following which some of their representatives met mayor Sandhu to discuss the matter. The hadda rodis are still being run in the Laddowal area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-to-get-carcass-disposal-plant-by-dec-minister-ashu/story-OAfRHsNBRSeKgPR54ahuCN.html
10-08-2020||City||Ludhiana reports 280 new Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths in 24 hours||A total of 280 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths were reported in Ludhiana district on Monday.The number of Covid-19 cases reported in the district so far is 5,312 and the death toll 178.The fatalities include a 59-year-old woman of Jassiyan road; a 54-year-old woman of Lalheri road, Khanna; a 52-year-old woman of Basant Avenue; a 90-year-old man from Kaler Nagar; a 27-year-old man from Harcharan Nagar; a 48-year-old man from Chandan Nagar; a 52-year-old woman from Malakpur; a 70-year-old man from Malakpur and a 45-year-old woman from Guru Nanak Nagar, Khanna. An 80-year-old woman from Moga also succumbed to the disease at Ludhiana Civil Hospital.Those tested positive include 14 police personnel, 10 healthcare workers, six pregnant women and a domestic traveller. An MC house tax inspector, deputed at Zone D office has also tested positive.As per the reports issued by the district health department, 3,432 patients have recovered.Ludhiana civil Surgeon, Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “In total 5,312 positive cases have been reported in Ludhiana till Monday, of which 178 have succumbed to the virus. And 827 samples have been sent for testing on Monday.”While 28 cases were reported from other districts/states.4 new micro-containment zones establishedThere are 20 micro-containment zones in the district. Four new zones have been established on Monday including Dhandari Kalan opposite J seven resort; Salempura village Hambran road; Sham Singh Nagar road, Civil Lines, Ludhiana; Heavenly Palace, Doraha; Bhumdi village (Manupur). The micro containment zone of Mundiyan Kalan has been excluded from the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-reports-280-new-covid-19-cases-10-deaths-in-24-hours/story-KaiV11C1RwI5c8m00zJM0O.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Semester fee row: Now, online classes at Panjab University to begin on September 1||Even as students continue to demand semester fee waiver, Panjab University (PU) on Monday decided that no online classes will be conducted till August 31 for the first semester of 2020-21 academic session.Online classes for the ongoing batches began on August 3 at PU and its affiliated colleges.The decision was taken by a special panel constituted by the university syndicate for academic session, online teaching and examination-related issues. It was headed by syndic Navdeep Goyal. However, online classes will continue at the affiliated colleges of the university.This has come after PU students held a protest on the campus on Monday for the second time, seeking semester fee waiver amid the Covid-19 pandemic.A member of the syndicate panel said, “The online classes will start from September 1 in the teaching departments of the university. Till then, the students will take admission and pay fee.”In an official communiqué, the university has stated that the faculty will engage students in online mode for clearing doubts or covering leftover topics of previous semester subjects from August 11 to August 31, 2020.The last date for depositing the semester fee has been extended till August 31. Earlier, the panel had fixed August 10 as the last date for depositing the fee.ANOTHER PROTEST HELD ON CAMPUSVarious student organisations on Monday once again protested outside the PU administration block demanding semester fee waiver. Earlier, they had lodged a stir on the issue on Friday which had led to a scuffle between students and security personnel at the university.The student leaders have urged everyone not to pay semester fee till August 31. “Students should not pay the semester fee till a final decision is taken by the university,” said Chetan Chaudhary, former president of PU students’ council.In a joint release, the student organisations said postponing of fee submission is a deceptive step against the actual demand of the students and all student organisations are determined to continue the protest till the semester fee is waived off.RECOMMENDATION FOR GENUINE CASESMeanwhile, the syndicate panel has also recommended the vice-chancellor to constitute a committee under PU’s Dean Students Welfare (DSW) to look into the genuine cases of students who cannot pay fee amid the pandemic. Students who are not able to pay fee, can write to the university. “A policy is being framed to help the students who are not in a position to pay fee due to the pandemic,” said Dean University Instructions R K Singla.MATTER MAY BE TABLED IN SYNDICATEThe protesting students said the authorities have assured them that fee waiver issue will be discussed in the next syndicate meeting of the university. DSW S K Tomar said, “I have forwarded the representation given by the students, regarding their demand, to the vice-chancellor. It may be taken up in the syndicate meeting for discussion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/semester-fee-row-now-online-classes-at-panjab-university-to-begin-on-september-1/story-4fsrqs2yz9aYOeBYpkE9XI.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police bring in gangster Navi Buttar for questioning||Ludhiana police on Monday brought in gangster Navdeep Singh alias Navi Buttar alias John Buttar for questioning on production warrant in an attempt to murder case lodged against him at Hathur police station on January 13.Based on information provided by Buttar, police recovered a 12-bore rifle from a non-operational brick-kiln at Mehdiana-Lakha road.The accused had buried the rifle in the brick-kiln after wrapping it in a polythene bag, police said. Another case was registered against Buttar for possessing illegal weapon.ASI Raj Dheem said that the accused was wanted in an attempt to murder case. After he could not be arrested, the court declared him proclaimed offender. Meanwhile, Buttar was arrested following an encounter in Kharar.Police said the gangster revealed he was going to Mohali when he saw the cops on the road and buried the rifle.The ASI added that they expect more important information from the accused during questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-police-bring-in-gangster-navi-buttar-for-questioning/story-MxWgzQLtwKqiXGIxVYnZ0M.html
10-08-2020||City||Woman consumes poison after land taken away in Ladhowal||Protesting against the acquisition of their land by the horticulture department, a 26-year-old woman reportedly consumed in Majare Kalan village of Ladhowal, officials said on Monday.On Friday, a team of officials from the horticulture department and police had reached the village to acquire 26 acres of land allegedly encroached upon by Lakhwinder Singh on which he had planted paddy, poplar and guava trees.Lakhwinder said that the team also poured chemicals in his field to destroy the crops. Witnessing this, his sister Simarjit Kaur had consumed the same chemical, in a fit of rage. She was taken to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) where she died.Singh alleged that to hush up the matter the police had forcibly cremated the body claiming the victim was tested positive for Covid-19 posthumously.He alleged that the matter was still sub-judice, but the horticulture department and the police came to take possession of the land without serving any notice.“We were planning to stage a protest carrying the body on the streets, but the police forcefully cremated the body to hush up the matter,” he added.However, inspector Nishan Singh, SHO at Ladhowal police station denied allegations of cremating the body forcefully. He said that the woman was cremated in the presence of her family members. “Health workers were wearing PPE kits because the body was kept in the mortuary where bodies of Covid-19 positive victims were also kept,” he said.Lakhwinder Singh said that he will file a writ petition in the court to seek justice.Dinesh Kumar, deputy director horticulture, Ludhiana, said that 76 acres of land at Ablowal and Majara Kalan villages belonged to the department. The families had encroached the land for the past many years.He said that the department has freed the land from encroachers. He added that he was not aware that the matter was sub-judice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-consumes-poison-after-land-taken-away-in-ladhowal/story-orBqIZFkUivja0SaaUPuxM.html
10-08-2020||City||GADVASU gets Covid testing lab, targets 100 samples a day||The newly established Covid Testing Laboratory at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana was inaugurated by medical education and research minister OP Soni and food, civil supplies and consumers affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Monday.GADVASU had started operations last week after getting a nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research with the capacity of 100 tests per day.Describing this as an important development, vice-chancellor Dr Inderjeet Singh and director of research-cum-nodal officer of the lab, Dr JPS Gill said with the functioning of this lab, they will be able to ramp up testing capacity. OP Soni said, “With the opening of this lab at GADVASU along with three other labs including two in SAS Nagar, Mohali and one in Jalandhar, we will be able to increase the testing capacity to 4,000 tests per day.”Bharat Bhushan Ashu said, “It is good news for Ludhiana as now we will be able to enhance the testing capacity and get speedy results.”Special secretary, animal husbandry, Manpreet Singh Chhatwal said, “Under ‘One Health’ concept veterinary professionals are widening their sphere of expertise by serving humans too. V-C of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, Dr Raj Bahadur and deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appreciated the functioning of the lab.An exhibition was also organised during the event wherein all the facilities, products, publications and technologies developed by GADVASU were showcased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gadvasu-gets-covid-testing-lab-targets-100-samples-a-day/story-uOJaSFIhd6hyLSi02NetSM.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two drug addicts held, cops claim 4 snatching, theft cases solved||Two persons, said to be drug addicts, were arrested for snatching a gold chain from a 72-year-old woman in Sector 15 on July 27, police said on Monday. The accused have been identified as Gurdarshan Singh alias Jashan, 23, of Bheora village in Ropar and Jagmeet, 25, of Rasidpur village in Chamkaur Sahib. With their arrest, police claimed to have solved four cases of snatching and theft. Gurdarshan is wanted in a snatching case registered in Phillaur, Punjab, while Jagmeet is wanted in seven cases including theft, snatching, robbery in Punjab and Nalagarh. “Both the accused are drug addicts,” said Rajiv Kumar, station house officer at Sector 11 police station. CCTV footage provided initial clueOn July 27, two miscreants snatched a gold chain from a 72-year-old woman in Sector 15. The victim, Shakuntla Sharma, was returning home from the market when an unknown pedestrian snatched her chain. The police were informed, who visited the spot. A case under Sections 379A and 356 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 11 police station.The CCTV footage provided the initial clue of the accused. Police arrested Gurdarshan who was roaming in Sector 15 market to attempt another snatching. It was on his disclosure, the police arrested his accomplice Jagmeet and recovered a motorcycle (bearing Punjab registration number) from their possession. Their accomplice is still at large. Accused involved in post office theftDuring the investigation, it came to light that the accused had stolen ₹15,000 from Sector 11 post office. The accused broke into the post office at Sector 11 on the intervening night of May 20/21and stole ₹15,000 in cash. On April 22, ₹10,000 was stolen from a house in Sector 15 when its owner Meena Devi was sleeping. On November 25, 2019, the accused had snatched wallet containing ₹1,200 from a student in Sector 15 market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-drug-addicts-held-cops-claim-4-snatching-theft-cases-solved/story-4xY8XRWVA9akEg1j9CubxM.html
10-08-2020||City||Delimitation of wards for civic body polls begins; opposition objects to process||Chandigarh The Punjab local bodies department has started the exercise of delimitation of wards in at least 50 civic bodies, including seven municipal corporations. Amid the covid-19 pandemic, the state government was reluctant to hold the polls. Finally, October was chosen as there was no alternative, with the law dictating that the civic body polls be held within six months of the expiry of the term of the elected body. The opposition parties, particularly the SAD-BJP alliance, have objected to the delimitation process. “I have got to know that the state local bodies department has disturbed limits of all wards without a justified reason, as neither the population has increased nor the civic body has expanded limits. We are waiting the final draft, on the basis of which, we may take legal recourse,” said Kulwant Singh, a former mayor of Mohali. Sources in the department added that polls might be pushed back, with delimitation work of 20 civic bodies still pending. Of 167 civic bodies, 129 are scheduled to go for polls, the list of which has nine municipal corporations: Mohali, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Moga and Phagwara. The other three are Abohar, Kapurthala and Batala, which recently has been elevated to corporation level from municipal councils. There are total 13 municipal corporations in the state and elections in four: Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Ludhiana are not scheduled as their general Houses have not completed the five-year tenure. Balwant Rai, former Bathinda mayor, who represented the SAD-BJP, objected to delimitation alleging that the ruling party has favoured its own party men. “We are ready. It is just a matter of time when we would complete delimitation,” said local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, clarifying that the outer boundaries of the civic bodies cannot be altered, but boundaries of the wards are changed as population imbalance is reported after five years. HOW DELIMITATION IS DONE? Any resident or the elected representative of a ward can report population imbalance and seek delimitation. The proposal received by the local bodies department is referred to a delimitation board of the particular civic body. This board comprises sub-divisional magistrate, executive officer, commissioner – the executive head of the civic body, deputy director and director of the department along with two private members from the ward. Then, a week is given for objections. After clearing objections, the matter is referred to the secretary of the department for final nod. Finally, notification is done to seal boundaries and population of the ward. The department decides the ward numbers. Of these, some are reserved for females and SC contenders. In 2017, after assuming power, the Congress government had announced giving 50% reservation to women. To ensure this, all even wards in all civic bodies have been allotted to them. CENSUS OF INDIA POSTPONES FREEZE ORDERS The Census of India that functions under the Union ministry of home affairs, which had earlier asked the states to freeze the boundaries of wards, constituencies etc by Dec 31, 2019, owing to the covid-19 pandemic lockdown has postponed the freeze orders to December 31, 2020, via a communication dated July 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delimitation-of-wards-for-civic-body-polls-begins-opposition-objects-to-process/story-quQjh1mdZE7FQdf70mPgWM.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid care centres established at two more pvt hospitals in Ludhiana||Amid rising concerns over shortage of beds for Covid patients in Ludhiana district, two private hospitals started Covid care centres on their premises on Monday. This includes a 25-bed centre at Verma Super Speciality Hospital near DMC hospital and 10-bed centre at Arora Neuro Centre on Mall Road.Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma and police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal visited both hospitals on Monday and lauded the hospital management for assisting the district administration in the battle against the virus.The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Ludhiana, has already started the 25-bed IMA Ludhiana Covid Care Centre at the Lord Mahavira Homeopathic Medical College and Hospital, Hambran Road.DC Sharma assured residents there is no shortage of beds for Covid patients in the district. He said people should not panic and check the status of vacant beds through the mobile app, HBMS Punjab, or on official web links, “https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district/” or “www.hbmspunjab.in”. He said data of all private hospitals providing Covid treatment has been added on the mobile app along with web links.He also urged the managements of other private hospitals to come forward and set up Covid care centres on their premises.Earlier, Aam Aadmi Party had targeted the administration and state government over shortage of beds for Covid patients in the city, after reports surfaced regarding death of patients allegedly due to shortage of beds. In the first week of August, the administration had conducted a meeting with the management of different hospitals to encourage them to start Covid care facility at their respective hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-care-centres-established-at-two-more-pvt-hospitals-in-ludhiana/story-yubGqyLctR8Zn2QBSYdTBJ.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Jagraon police strengthen PCR motorcycle squad, traffic wing||Jagraon police have strengthened the police control room (PCR) motorcycle squad and traffic wing to tighten the noose on those violating parking and road-safety rules. They have received eight more PCR motorcycles for patrolling and 10 tyre clumps to take action against wrongly-parked vehicles. Police have also received a speed gun and will initiate action against overspeeding.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic and operations) Sukhpal Singh Randhawa said traffic violations were increasing in the city area of Jagraon. People park their vehicles at undesignated spots on roads, leading to traffic snarls, he said.“We were receiving several complaints, following which we procured 10 more tyre clumps. Police issued 23 challans for wrong parking on Monday,” the DSP said.“The traffic wing of Jagraon police had six police personnel, but now, we have 15. Similarly, we had only four PCR motorcycles, who worked in two shifts. Now we have 12,” he added.He said they will initiate special drives against overspeeding vehicles within a couple of the days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-jagraon-police-strengthen-pcr-motorcycle-squad-traffic-wing/story-8RKy8sUvejvUIjXvrOS7MP.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Online counselling begins at SCD Govt College||The online counselling process for undergraduate courses at Satish Chander Dhawan (SCD) Government College started on Monday. On Day 1, the counselling for bachelor of computer application was conducted and 35 of 40 seats were filled. As many as 657 candidates had applied.The cut off went as high as 108.67% in the open category through which 23 students were admitted and 102.67% in SC category. Many students were left disappointed as they did not get admission despite scoring as high as 94% in Class 12. Committees formed by the principal checked the documents submitted by students and after giving approval, a message was sent to students to submit the fee.To maintain transparency, digital boards installed in smart classrooms were utilised and details of students was shown on the screen according to rank. Committee members checked all documents submitted by students, including detailed mark sheet, character certificate and reservation certificate. Then, a final approval was given for admission. Students turn up at gateDespite the counselling being held online, many students turned up at the college gate to attend. But, they were not allowed to enter.A student, Sumit Kumar, said, “Unaware of the online counselling, I reached the college at 9am, but was not allowed to enter. I scored 93% in Class 12 and was sure that I will get admission in the government college, but the cut off was too high.” College principal Dharam Singh Sandhu, said, “Students who have received the message from the college will get 48 hours to submit the fee online. The counselling for BCom will be held online on Tuesday.”GCG TO START COUNSELLING ON TUESDAYThe final rank list of all undergraduate courses will be updated at the Government College for Girls (GCG) website and counselling will begin on Tuesday. At Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, the counselling process for BBA was conducted on Monday. As many as 20 of 80 seats were filled. Committee members of Arya College also conducted the counselling process for BBA I and 20 seats in the general category were filled. The college offers 40 seats and the rest of the seats will be filled with the reserved category students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-online-counselling-begins-at-scd-govt-college/story-AvEqBKNdVDMFSX9qeuV3sM.html
10-08-2020||City||Cheema pays surprise visit to covid ward at Faridkot medical college||Faridkot Leader of opposition (LoP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Harpal Singh Cheema on Monday paid a surprise visit to covid-19 wards at the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot. His visit came after complaints of negligence in treatment. Cheema, accompanied by Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan, donned a personal protective equipment (PPE) kit as they stepped into the covid ward. They both also spoke to patients to know their well-being. “During my visit, I found that the arrangements at the Faridkot medical college and its covid wards are not up to the mark. There was no cleanliness and even the covid wards dirty,” he told the media. He claimed that only interns and nurses were performing their duties in the medical college, while senior doctors did not even go inside the wards to check covid patients. People are also purchasing medicine from outside at higher rates, the hospital store does not have theses. “I have visited Patiala and Amritsar government medical colleges and other government hospitals across the state over the past month. Even as cases are increasing every day, unfortunately, the state is not prepared at all to control the spike. The Congress government has failed to provide proper treatment to patients now, what will happen when cases will further increase,” he added. He also sought a vigilance probe into the death of an Abohar professor Parvinder Kamboj due to medical negligence of covid staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cheema-pays-surprise-visit-to-covid-ward-at-faridkot-medical-college/story-Wg4KeDWHftQHk9vJFwNASK.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Country needs innovators to promote self dependence in defence sector: Former IAF chief Dhanoa||Former Indian Air Force chief BS Dhanoa on Monday said the country needs innovators in all spheres to promote self dependence in the defence sector.Air Chief Marshal Dhanoa (retd) was addressing a national webinar on ‘Valour of Indian Air Force as a motivator for the young generation in times of Covid-19’, organised by the department of psychology, Panjab University.“The government’s decision to ban import of 101 defence items is good for the domestic industry and will make them compete and excel,” he said.He added that information dominance and self-sustainability are of utmost importance to deal with threats to national security.Dhanoa, who as the IAF chief presided over Balakot air strikes in Pakistan, said the motivation of armed personnel even in peacetime should be an example for citizens, particularly young generations, to tide over pandemic-induced adversities. The need of the hour is to bring about behavioural change to courageously face the new normal, he added.PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said the young generation has always looked up to armed forces as a motivational symbol of sacrifice and bravery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/country-needs-innovators-to-promote-self-dependence-in-defence-sector-bs-dhanoa/story-669PdzsXzDlSjb0teRNO8I.html
10-08-2020||City||Farmers protest outsidehouses of MPs/MLAs against agri-ordinances||Sangrur/Patiala/Bathinda Farmers in their thousands, under the banner of 10 Kisan Unions, protested outside the residence of around a 100 leaders including MLAs, Punjab cabinet ministers and Member Parliament (MPs) across the state on Monday. The farmers are demanding the repeal of three ordinances for farming issued by the central government and the withdrawal of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The hiked rates of petrol and diesel and the fear of Minimum Support Price (MSP) system not being implemented are other concerns.The All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) had given the protest call, held to mark the start of the ‘Quit India Movement’ on August 8, 1942. Reminiscent of the movement, farmers chanted the slogan of ‘Corporates Leave Farming’.In Patiala, farmers protested outside the residence of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and MP Preneet Kaur. In Sangrur, they held protests opposite the residence of school education minister Vijay Inder Singla, Sunam MLA Aman Arora and MP Bhagwant Mann.Protests were also held outside the residence of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar and union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal in Bathinda. They met SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal at Badal village and urged him to raise their voice in Parliament.Darshan Pal, state convener of AIKSCC, said, “We have asked MLAs and MPs that if they will not raise our voice in state assemblies and Parliament to withdraw three ordinances, Electricity Act, 2020, and give us relief from hiked prices of petrol and diesel, they will have to face protests in villages and towns. Crop prices must be paid to us as per the recommendation of the Swaminathan Commission report.” He added that have given a 9-point charter of demands. TWO FACTIONS PROTEST IN BATHINDA Two factions of farmer associations protested against the state and the Centre at different places in Bathinda on Monday. Physical distancing and covering of faces in public places in view of the pandemic outbreak was violated at both venues. Under the banner of All-India Kisan Sangarsh Talmel Committee, about 10 farmer right associations threatened to launch a protest against the finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Aam Party legislator from Bathinda (rural) Rupinder Kaur Ruby. In the other protest, Left-leaning farm associations protested near the Children Park. BKU (Ekta-Sidhupur) leader Resham Singh said the three central ordinances would pave the way to end the Minimum Support Price (MSP) in a phased manner. Farmers handed over a memorandum to the political adviser to chief minister Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon. WILL NEVER LET ANYBODY STOP MSP AND FREE POWER: SUKHBIR Chandigarh SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday said that he was ready to make ‘any personal or political sacrifice’ in the fight to safeguard and promote the cause of the peasantry in Punjab. “Be it the issue of any threat, present or future, to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime, with assured marketing of farmers’ crop or to the free power facility for the farmers that the Parkash Singh Badal-led SAD-BJP government introduced in the state, I and my party will never allow the current dispensation to be disturbed nor allow anyone to rob the peasantry,” Sukhbir told a delegation of All India (Kul Hind) Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee at his residence in Badal village. On the alleged confusion on the intricacies of the ordinances, Sukhbir said, “I have already conveyed to the Centre that neither the MSP regime with assured marketing, nor the free power facility in Punjab can be allowed to be tinkered with under any pretext.” The former deputy CM assured the farmers that if the MSP or free power regime was stopped, or even diluted, he would personally lead protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protest-outsidehouses-of-mps-mlas-against-agri-ordinances/story-YBWDBoBqrRYiWGjCt5kWlK.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||80 fresh virus cases in Chandigarh; total count 1,595||Chandigarh reported 80 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, pushing the infection tally to 1,595 in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana. The fresh patients included a four-year-old boy, according to a medical bulletin. So far, 25 people have died from the infection in the union territory. The fresh cases were detected in Sectors 5, 20, 32, 40, 41, 44, 45, 47, 48, Mani Majra, Burail and Khuda Lahora. A total of 100 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 1,004, the bulletin said. So far, 17,928 samples have been taken for testing. Results of 84 samples are awaited, it said, adding that the number of active cases stands at 565.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/80-fresh-virus-cases-in-chandigarh-total-count-1-595/story-kvB3M38sQ30Q0V6mpG2ptL.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Computer teachers posted at border areas to be treated as covid warriors||The Punjab government told the Punjab and Haryana high court that computer faculties of PICTUS, who are deployed on inter-state borders of Punjab are entitled to compensation as announced to covid warriors.Government responded to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate HC Arora, seeking directions to treat computer faculties of PICTUS, deployed on border areas at par with government employees discharging duties as frontline warriors, and granting compensation under the ex-gratia policy of Punjab government, in case of death in harness.In case of death of a covid warrior while on duty as frontline workers, dependent family is entitled to ex-gratia payment of Rs 50 lakh.In response to the PIL, the government said that these teachers will be given benefit of ex-gratia policy. However, since PICTUS does not have its own resources, it has sought approval from the finance department for adopting ex-gratia policy.A proposal has also been sent by the PICTUS to the health and family welfare department, to give approval to extend facility of free medical treatment to regular employees/computer faculties also in case they require such medical treatment during deployment as frontline workers.These employees have to collect and maintain records of all persons entering Punjab from other states. In view of this, the HC has disposed of the PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/computer-teachers-posted-at-border-areas-to-be-treated-as-covid-warriors/story-kTpUxRkiExcauBokKibxkK.html
10-08-2020||City||Cop dies of Covid-19, second virus death in Ludhiana police department||An assistant sub-inspector in Ludhiana Police who was infected with the novel coronavirus died on Monday.ASI Jaspal Singh was admitted to PGIMER, Chandigarh, on August 7 after his condition deteriorated. He is the second loss of the Ludhiana police department after ACP Anil Kumar Kohli died of the virus.Public dealing at the office of commissioner of police has been suspended for three days after 30 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. According to CP Rakesh Agrawal, the entire building will be sanitised for the next three days. The police chief asked people to visit his office only in case of an emergency.ASI Jaspal Singh was deputed at Police Lines. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on July 26. As of now, 221 police personnel deputed in Ludhiana police commissionerate have tested positive for Covid-19 and of them 163 are still undergoing treatment.The police chief said that SHOs of five police stations – including Division Number 3, Division Number 4, Division Number 6, Ladhowal and Dugri have also tested positive. The public is advised not to visit the police stations for the next three days unless there is an emergency.Residents can email their complaints at cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in or dial 112.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-dies-of-covid-19-second-virus-death-in-ludhiana-police-department/story-KWchWu4dMMOOATnYiL73VL.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||No sympathy can be shown to drug peddlers: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court said that persons accused of peddling drugs need to be dealt with firmly and no sympathy can be shown to them lest that should prove to be counter-productive and result in increased drug trafficking.Dismissing a bail plea of an accused from Amritsar, the HC bench of justice HS Madaan observed that drug trafficking in the region is rising at an alarming rate, which has ruined lives of young men and women. “Drug peddlers, for a small monetary consideration, make youth use drugs for a small time excitement. The peddlers have destroyed the social fabric of our society and led youth to the wrongful path,” it observed, denying bail to the accused.Accused Munish Kumar had sought bail. He was re-arrested in October 2018, after report forensic science report stated that recovery made from him was an intoxicant. He is accused of peddling drugs, a case was reported in September 2015 under Islamabad police station in district, and he was arrested.Kumar was found in possession of 105gm intoxicating powder. Police had opposed bail stating that he was peddling drugs and is himself an addict. A challan has been filed against him and trial is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-sympathy-can-be-shown-to-drug-peddlers-hc/story-kxy3c79GsTs57OxSO60aEI.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s urban planning dept gets dedicated website||To provide a single online source for all information related to development in the city, a dedicated website of the UT urban planning department was launched here on Monday.The website urbanplanning.chd.gov.in, developed by SPIC, has all information regarding the planning and designing of various projects, which are either ongoing, in the planning stage or have already been completed. For transparency and visibility of government schemes, important notified policies and reports of the Chandigarh Master Plan-2031, city’s heritage and information on various city-level infrastructure proposals have also been uploaded on the website.The portal provides consolidated information required for online building plan approval, including architectural controls, updated site verified zoning plans and layout plans, under distinct heads for clarity and ease of use.The latest building bylaws applicable to various types of land use (as compiled under Chandigarh Building Bylaws (Urban) 2017) will also be available on the website.The site also provides a list of private architects empanelled in Chandigarh Administration under the “self-certification scheme”.Links to other important websites of planning and architecture of Chandigarh such as Capitol Complex, Le Corbusier Foundation, UNESCO World Heritage etc., have also been provided. Mandatory information under RTI Citizens Charter and a separate link for feedback/ grievances has also been incorporated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-urban-planning-dept-get-dedicated-website/story-kbuaLXgbUU9jn5fGzZH2aN.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Graft case: Court dismisses suspended SHO’s plea for CCTV footage||The special CBI court has dismissed the application of suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur, seeking closed circuit television (CCTV) footage of the Manimjara police station.Kaur had filed the application praying that the investigating officer concerned be directed to preserve the CCTV footage of June 30 from 10am to 4pm and further provide it to her, as she will require it during the trial. The CBI, in its reply, stated that the DVR of Manimajra police station does not contain the recording from 10am to 4pm of June 30.KP Singh, public prosecutor for the investigating agency, pleaded that the application be dismissed.The court observed: “The reply shows that the CBI team had reached the Manimanjra police station on June 30 at 1:15am for seizure of the DVR. In order to protect the DVR from any sort of tampering, it was powered off at 3:57am (as per DVR time) and all connected cables were removed by the CBI.”The court observed that the reply mentions that the DVR does not have CCTV footage from 10am to 4pm as it was powered off after 3:57am. It was added that the said DVR is preserved and will be provided to the accused at the appropriate time. Following this, the court dismissed the application.‘Kaur threatened to commit suicide’In another application, wherein Kaur had sought interim bail to attend her son’s wedding, the court has adjourned the case till August 11.She had filed a petition on August 6, seeking interim bail from August 13 to 15 for participating in and performing necessary rituals and ceremonies for her son’s wedding in Chandigarh.Investigating officer Kuldeep Singh of the CBI, in his reply stated, “If the accused Jaswinder Kaur is granted interim bail at this stage, there is every likelihood that she may influence important witnesses. Furthermore, from the past conduct of accused Jaswinder Kaur, CBI has apprehension that in case she is granted interim bail, she may flee from the country.”They further mentioned: “During CBI custody, the conduct of accused Jaswinder Kaur was non-coperative and she continuously threatened the IO and other CBI officials that she would commit suicide during custody period or after coming out on bail and that CBI officials would be responsible for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/graft-case-court-dismisses-suspended-sho-s-plea-for-cctv-footage/story-Q3PBvpIxWYabEMUKjmFHhP.html
10-08-2020||City||Stranded in Pak due to lockdown, 83 Indians return home||Eighty-three Indians, who were stranded in Pakistan due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, returned to India via the Attari-Wagah border on Monday.The passengers who returned are from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Most of those who are from J&K are students who were studying in Pakistan’s educational institutions, while others had gone to the neighbouring country to meet their relatives or pay obeisance at religious places.All passengers were medically examined during their entry to the Indian territory at the integrated checkpost in Attari. “The Union ministry of health’s guidelines to contain coronavirus were followed while receiving the passengers,” said a senior Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) official.He said that they had information that 118 Indians will come, but only 83 returned. “Now movement of passengers has been closed. Remaining passengers will come in the coming days,” he said. Amritsar-2 SDM Shivraj Singh Ball said those who had come from Pakistan will be quarantined in their respective states.Earlier, India had allowed movement of 500 Pakistani nationals, who were stranded in India, to their home country. Similarly, over 700 Indians have already returned from Pakistan so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stranded-in-pak-due-to-lockdown-83-indians-return-home/story-uOUMDECyAKCxPgeHuBPYUP.html
10-08-2020||Other||Punjab hooch tragedy: SAD postpones protest outside Sonia Gandhi’s residence||Former Punjab Minister Dr Daljit S Cheema on Sunday said that Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has postponed its protest in front of the residence of Sonia Gandhi in the national capital on August 11.“The SAD has postponed its protest in front of the residence of Sonia Gandhi in Delhi on August 11. This has been done due to security concerns because of the Independence Day celebrations. Fresh dates will be announced later on,” tweeted Cheema.On Saturday, SAD President Sukhbir Singh Badal had said that he will sit on a dharna outside Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s residence in New Delhi on August 11 to protest against “the party’s involvement in production and pedalling of spurious liquor that killed more than 100 people in Punjab.”The SAD chief said he will demand the resignation of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh over the incident and will push for a statement on the issue from top central leaders of the Congress party.On Friday, the Punjab Chief Minister had said that perpetrators of the hooch tragedy would not be spared at any cost and properties of those responsible would be confiscated.Singh, who visited Tarn Taran to share his sympathies with the bereaved families hailing from the district, said that perpetrators of the heinous crime would not be spared at any cost and severest of severe action would be taken against them.According to an official release, the Chief Minister also enhanced compensation to the families of victims of hooch tragedy from existing Rs 2 lakhs to Rs 5 lakhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/punjab/punjab-hooch-tragedy-sad-postpones-protest-outside-sonia-gandhi-s-residence/story-2Ek1lYgJDr81YVlIHOcluK.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||‘Slowly and steadily, Delhi defeating Corona’: Kejriwal tweets after Delhi’s Covid-19 recovery rate crosses 90 per cent mark||Delhi on Monday recorded 707 fresh coronavirus cases, pushing the tally past the 1.46 lakh mark. The death toll in the national capital from the disease mounted to 4,131 after 20 fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.As per the latest statistics, Delhi’s virus recovery rate has crossed 90 per cent mark, as out of total 1,46,134 cases recorded so far, 1,31,657 people have recovered, discharged or migrated.  Delhi's Corona recovery rate crosses 90% mark. pic.twitter.com/4PAjYyugYCSharing city’s positive trend, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said, “Over 90% of Corona patients in Delhi have now recovered. Only 7% cases are active now. Slowly and steadily, the people of Delhi are defeating Corona. Over 90% of Corona patients in Delhi have now recovered. Only 7% cases are active now. Slowly and steadily, the people of Delhi are defeating Corona. #DelhiModel pic.twitter.com/fNiTdfxI19While the number of infections recorded on Monday are comparatively lower than city’s tally in the last few days, a gradual decline in testing was also recorded, which indicates lesser people were tested by the state authorities. The number of tests conducted on Monday stood at 12,323 - 3,311 through RTPCR, CBNAAT and TrueNat and 9,012 rapid antigen tests. Delhi has total 10,346 active cases, out of which 5,637 cases are being treated in home isolation. On Sunday, Delhi daily cases count was 1,300 and 13 deaths were reported. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3947, till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/slowly-and-steadily-delhi-defeating-corona-kejriwal-tweets-after-delhi-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-crosses-90-per-cent-mark/story-uc6fGpHYSp7iNlsdR9WZON.html
10-08-2020||Other||Centre has given in-principle approval for NIV Centre in Punjab: CMO||The central government has given in-principle approval for setting up a National Institute of Virology (NIV) Centre for the north zone in Punjab, a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said on Monday.Currently, the NIV in Pune is the only institution in the country capable of providing well-coordinated medical and public health responses during emergencies. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who had made a proposal to the central government in regard to the NIV Centre some weeks back in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, welcomed the approval. The NIV Centre would prove to be a milestone to boost research in the field of virology and make India future ready to predict and detect viruses at the earliest so that necessary preventive steps can be taken, he said. Singh said that this centre would also go a long way in addressing the requirements of the northern region, including states of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Union Territories of Chandigarh and Jammu and Kashmir. The spokesperson said that the Centre’s letter of in-principle approval had been received by the Punjab Chief Secretary from the Secretary to the government of India’s Department of Health Research and Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Prof Balram Bhargava. He has requested the state government to identify about 25 acres of land on long lease so as to enable the ICMR to set up this prestigious centre at the earliest. Singh had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 10 requesting him to direct the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to set up the proposed centre, which would focus on addressing regional, national and global needs in virology, diagnostic, research and therapeutic evaluations to cope with the Covid-19 pandemic. Approximately Rs 400 crore would be required for the centre with BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Lab) facility and an additional Rs 150 crore would be needed for the BSL-4 facility excluding the land, which would be provided by the government of Punjab. The chief minister hoped that this centre would be instrumental in providing diagnostic support, undertake research in basic virology and build capacity in the field of virology to promote universal health coverage. Singh also pointed out that the NIV Centre will help develop rapid and affordable quality diagnostic assays for viral diseases, besides introducing teaching courses for M.Sc Medical Virology and DM, Virology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/punjab/centre-has-given-in-principle-approval-for-niv-centre-in-punjab-cmo/story-SoZggie7B1fHwNzw2Smt0I.html
10-08-2020||Other||Harsimrat Kaur Badal wants dedicated Kisan trains for ‘kinnow’ growers||Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Monday urged Railways Minister Piyush Goyal to start two dedicated ‘Kisan’ trains from Abohar to Bangalore and Kolkata for the benefit of ‘kinnow’ growers of Punjab, Rajasthan and Haryana. The Union Food Processing Industries minister said Kisan trains with refrigerated bogies should run during the harvest season between December and March for ‘kinnows’, a type of fruit. Harsimrat, in a letter to Railways minister, said the cluster of ‘kinnow’ cultivation, which included adjoining areas from the states of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan, is spread over one lakh hectares. She said the Abohar town in Punjab functions as the focal market for aggregation of ‘kinnows’ and handles twenty-five lakh metric tonnes of produce every year. She said Kisan trains originating from Abohar can take ‘kinnows’ to the southern and eastern states where there is a big market for the fruit. She said the biggest market for the fruit is in Bangalore and Kolkata even as a significant quantity is exported to Bangladesh. She said due to the highly perishable nature of the fruit, only 35 to 40 per cent of the produce presently reaches the end consumers. “The rest gets wasted due to high temperatures during the road transport over long distances leading to the loss to farmers,” she said. She said the problem gets even more acute during the peak harvesting months of February and March as the temperature starts rising in the southern and eastern states. The Union minister sought to assure the Railways minister saying that she has been made to understand by farmers and traders of the area that Kisan trains would be utilized to full capacity and would be a viable venture for the ministry of railways as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/punjab/harsimrat-kaur-badal-wants-dedicated-kisan-trains-for-kinnow-growers/story-ekoqYYtIHgqleViRpJtWvK.html
10-08-2020||City||Kerala air mishap: Families should get adequate compensation||As the families that lost their dear ones in the Kerala air mishap on Friday slowly come to terms with the reality, Air India Express, whose Dubai-Kozhikode flight overshot the table-top runway and fell into a deep gorge 35 feet below, has announced interim relief and assured all crash victims that the airline would pay compensation in accordance with the applicable law.The applicable law is the Carriage by Air Act and hopefully, the probe into the mishap as well as the final settlement of the claims of the passengers and their families will be completed expeditiously. Out of 190 passengers on board, 18, including the pilot and the co-pilot died in the crash, while 149 are being treated for various injuries. Twenty-three have been discharged from the hospital. While determining the compensation, two crucial decisions of the Supreme Court will come into play. Both cases have their origin in the almost identical air mishap at the Mangalore’s table-top runway 10 years ago, resulting in 158 deaths and both pertain to enhancement of compensation paid under the law . While in one case, the apex court, in its order delivered on March 3 this year, has laid down the principles that govern the calculation of compensation (Triveni Kodkany Vs Air India, Civil Appeal No 2914 of 2019) in the other, involving the interpretation of certain rules in the third schedule of the Act, the Apex Court’s verdict is awaited ( S.Abdul Salam Vs National Aviation Company of India Ltd , SLP ( C ) No 009895-009898/2013). An early decision by the Apex Court in this case will go a long way in bringing clarity into a crucial issue pertaining to quantum of damages paid by airlines.Following the Mangalore air crash, Air India paid advance amounts as required under the law and subsequently, started paying compensation on the basis of the claims made, through negotiated settlement. The airline had paid Abdul Salam, who lost his 24-year old son in the air crash, Rs 20 lakh as advance and offered as ‘full and final’ settlement, a total of Rs 35 lakh on the basis of various parameters, including monthly salary of Rs 25,000 drawn by him in Dubai.Salam, in his writ petition before the Kerala High Court, argued that as per the third schedule of the Carriage by Air Act, the minimum compensation payable by an airline in case of death of a passenger was 1 lakh Special Drawing Rights , irrespective of his/her age, income and such factors otherwise relevant in determining compensation in a tort. The single judge bench of the court , in a detailed judgment, upheld this interpretation, thereby extending the benefit of the verdict to other claimants as well. .However, a division bench of the Kerala High Court, before which Air India appealed, set aside this order and said neither Rule 21(1) of the Third Schedule to the Act nor any other provisions of the Act or Rules provided for payment of any minimum compensation for death or injury and compensation was based on the actual damages proved by claimants. Salam’s special leave petition filed against this order is pending before the Supreme Court. In Triveni Kodkany Vs Air India (Civil Apeal NO 2914 of 2019), the wife and two children of Mahendra Kodkany , who died in the Mangalore air crash, challenged the quantum of compensation paid by the airline -- Rs 4.7 crore. While substantially enhancing the compensation, the apex court said while calculating the earning of a victim, the entire ‘cost to company’ or the total salary package, including all allowances, should be taken into consideration, without any deduction. This pronouncement would go a long way in improving the compensation package in air accidents.Drawing on some of its earlier judgments, the Apex Court also brought clarity into the deductions made on account of personal living expenses, besides the additions in calculating future prospects. The detailed order will be helpful to the victims of the Kozhikode air crash when they file claims for compensation before the airline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kerala-air-mishap-families-should-get-adequate-compensation/story-nrtHRpDuVYeOdyy1tk0mdJ.html
10-08-2020||Kolkata||Fire breaks out in central Kolkata||A fire broke out on the third floor of a multi-storey building on 18 Brabourne Road in central Kolkata on Monday afternoon. No reports of any death or injury has been reported so far. At least 20 fire tenders have been pressed into action after the fire brigade was alerted around 5:30 pm. The fire,till the evening, was yet to be brought under control. Fire brigade officials have started dousing the flames by pouring water from adjacent buildings. The flames could be seen on the second and third floor and smoke was billowing out of the windows. Senior fire officials have been rushed to the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/fire-breaks-out-in-central-kolkata/story-Iv1VZcXX7FRo0Ktm6o688J.html
10-08-2020||City||Third jumbo Covid facility plan in Pune put on hold||PUNE: The administration has decided to put on hold the setting of the third planned jumbo Covid hospital in the city. The facility was to come up at All India Shri Shivaji Memorial Society (AISSMS) ground. Suhas Diwase, commissioner, Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) and incharge of erecting the jumbo facilities in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, confirmed the decision. Diwase said, “The work of two jumbo facilities at College of Engineering Pune (COEP) and Magar Stadium (Pimpri) is already in progress. PMRDA has kept the tendering process ready for the third facility at AISSMS ground, but the work would be executed only if needed.” Diwase said, “Each facility had 800 beds, including 600 oxygenated and 200 ICU beds. Hence, the city will have an additional 1,200 oxygenated and 400 ICU beds in the next few days. With private hospitals releasing more beds for Covid treatment, it was decided to keep the setting up of third facility on hold.” With residents complaining of bed shortage amidst rising cases of Covid-19, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar told officials to erect jumbo hospitals for Pune like Mumbai and Delhi. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also instructed the administration to start the jumbo hospitals by mid-August. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao identified three locations for jumbo hospitals. The work on two facilities is in progress and it would be functional by August 20, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/third-jumbo-covid-facility-plan-in-pune-put-on-hold/story-ywCvnXtJfybRQuVTkuOHEM.html
10-08-2020||City||Inquiry ordered into land deals made during previous Cong regime||Shimla The Himachal Pradesh government has ordered an inquiry into alleged benami (proxy) land deals during the previous Congress regime, suspecting that these agreements were done in violation of Land Tenancy Act, 1972. The government will inquire into whether the deals violated section 118 of the 1972 law, which bars all non-agriculturist Himachalis, including bona fide Himachalis, from purchasing land in the state without the government’s permission. State jal shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur after getting additional portfolio of the revenue department, has directed deputy commissioners in all 12 districts to collect details on land deals made during the Congress regime. Thakur has also ordered the DCs to gather details on the change of the land use, made during the Congress regime, particularly the estates in Palampur and Dharamshala. The Congress government during its regime from 2015-2019 had granted 468 permissions for different purposes that included industries, hotels, tourism projects, power projects and for other business purposes in Kangra, Una Sirmaur and Solan districts. Over 200 permissions were granted to set up tourism projects in all districts of the state. The BJP, itself, since assuming power had granted 204 permissions in 2019 for extension of land use and other purposes under Section 118 of the act. In 2012, before the assembly election, Congress had launched a ‘Himachal for Sale’ campaign against Prem Kumar Dhumal-led BJP government. This was after the BJP regime (2011) tried to find a way out to allow the sale of tea gardens and change their land use. In 2015 and 2016, the Congress also placed the matter before the cabinet twice, but there was no consensus among ministers. Previously, former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal had set up a commission comprising a retired high court judge, DP Sood, to inquire into such deals. The panel was asked to probe ‘benami’ deals that took place between 2003 and 2011 and look into violations of provisions and administrative procedures regarding issuance of “essentially certificates” since the HP Apartments & Property Regulation Act, 2005, came into force. On assuming power, the Congress dumped this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inquiry-ordered-into-land-deals-made-during-previous-cong-regime/story-AxLhTaNXSchFoRufZrOWiL.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Coach held for attempting to extort ₹10 lakh from trader in Fatehabad||A 35-year-old man was arrested for attempting to extort ₹10 lakh from a pesticide trader in Fatehabad’s Bhuna, police said on Monday.The accused, Karan Singh, a resident of Bhuna, had allegedly sent a threatening letter and a cartridge to the victim, Rakesh Singla, on June 28 and demanded ₹10 lakh from him. Singh, who is a coach at private sports academy, was arrested on Sunday and sent to a one-day police remand. In the letter, Singh threatened to shoot the victim’s son dead: “If you are willing to give me the ransom, install a green flag on the top of your house. Don’t try to be over smart, otherwise you will face the same consequences as suffered by the stone trader”, the accused had written.A police spokesperson said Singh had confessed to the crime. Singh said he needed the money to buy gold ornaments for his wife. The wrestling coach had got married in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coach-held-for-attempting-to-extort-10-lakh-from-trader-in-fatehabad/story-jbUwahFJsJ8JUGvtaAkDzM.html
10-08-2020||City||Covid-19 has shooters struggling with lack of practice, ammunition||Patiala The covid-19 pandemic has hit sportspersons the most, with regular fitness regime and basic training out of the question. Motivation is also low due to the closure of training and exercise facilities, especially for shooters. Uncertainty and stress are constant companions, with international shooters struggling to piece together a decent session of practice. Gyms and shooting ranges have opened, but players do not want to take the risk of infection.Asees Chhina, 21, an international skeet shooter, who has won international medals, told HT, “Training has been affected due to covid-19. We are looking forward to see a normal sports environment.” Gauri Sheoran, 22, who won gold at the 2019 South Asian Games and other international medals, said, “Most shooters don’t have a shooting range at home. My main event is 25m sports pistol and I have shooting range of only 10m at home.”Amrinder Singh Cheema, 40, who has represented India in Skeet shooting, said, “We are facing difficulties in getting ammunition for practice. It’s hard to remain motivated as no event is scheduled in the near future.” Gurbir Singh Sandhu, president, Punjab Rifle Shooting Association, said, “Shooters need to do mental exercises at home to remain motivated. We have advised them to do light practice at their home or at nearby shooting ranges.”Punjab sports minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi, said, “We are aware of these issues. We have been asking the Centre to give us permission to start practice sessions for shooters in a staggered manner. This has not been allowed. Practice is necessary for shooters to get back into form.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-has-shooters-struggling-with-lack-of-practice-ammunition/story-E9cr3x680bRO8kgIkeQWHM.html
10-08-2020||Kolkata||India’s deepest Metro vent shaft completed||The country’s deepest underground rail ventilation shaft equal to a 15 storey building and an important part of the city’s East-West Metro line was completed on Monday, officials said.The ventilation shaft, which is 43.5m deep, was completed jointly by Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC) and Afcons, a private engineering company.Such shafts are not only used to provide ventilation to the tunnels, but also for evacuation during an emergency.The evacuation shaft is located on Strand Road near Hooghly river, a statement said.“The Metro shaft has been constructed adopting innovative engineering techniques and methodology to navigate geological challenges and overcome any impact on Kolkatas circular railway track along the Hooghly, Afcons project manager Satya Narayan Kunwar aid.The shaft is located very close to the river and abutting with the circular railway which makes its deep excavation very challenging, it said.The circular railway line runs parallel to the river in stretches.The 16.6 km-long rapid transit project will connect the twin cities of Kolkata and Howrah. PTI PNT KK KK KK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/india-s-deepest-metro-vent-shaft-completed/story-wVipC8vyi8GSP007vadgVO.html
10-08-2020||Patna||‘Gandagi Mukt Bharat’ campaign: Bihar Govt starts awareness drive||A day after ‘Gandagi Mukt Bharat’ campaign was launched by the Centre, Bihar Government on Sunday started an awareness campaign to inform the people of the state on the importance of cleanliness.Issuing a notification the state government asked officials to start an awareness campaign to discourage open defecation and inform the public on the importance of social distancing, swearing masks among others.“Cleanliness drives should be organised across the state on the lines of the Centre’s the ‘Gandagi Mukt Bharat’ campaign. People should be made aware of open defecation. They should also be made aware of the proper use of water, the importance of wearing mask, keeping two feet distance for social distancing, among others,” it said.Asking the authorities to take steps to control the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, it added, “ Apart from these, proper sanitization should be done to control Covid-19 cases, bleaching powder should be spread, along with fogging.”On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched ‘Gandagi Mukt Bharat’, a week-long campaign for swachhata (cleanliness) in the run-up to Independence Day.Under this initiative, there will be special cleanliness drives in urban and rural areas of the country, till August 15.“Imagine what would have happened had pandemic like coronavirus broken out before 2014. Could we have imposed lockdown when over 60 per cent population was forced for open defecation? Swachhagraha has empowered us in the fight against Covid-19. This is a journey that will continuously go on. We have to move to ODF+ from ODF now. We have to devise ways of converting dirt into gold,” the PM had said during the launch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/gandagi-mukt-bharat-campaign-bihar-govt-starts-awareness-drive/story-mGzu3GLlinBna0dNt3hmUL.html
10-08-2020||Bangalore||Loss in Karnataka due to floods estimated to be Rs 3,500-4,000 cr: Minister||According to preliminary estimates, loss due to torrential rains and floods in several parts of Karnataka so far is to the tune of Rs 3,500-4,000 crore and the state government will seek immediate relief from the Centre, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said on Monday.In the absence of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who is undergoing treatment for Covid, Ashoka along with Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai is attending the video conference chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the flood situation in several parts of the country. “...according to estimates by our officials the loss may be to the tune of Rs 3,500 to 4,000 crore so far, this is not final...crops have been damaged in about 80,000 acre so far, we have got all the information from the officials, we will place it before the Prime Minister,” Ashoka said.Speaking to reporters ahead of the meeting with the Prime Minister, he said, this is only an estimate so far, there may be more floods and damages, we will seek an ad hoc amount so that it will be helpful in taking immediate measures and provide adequate relief.“We will also seek relief for the total loss that has happened, based on how much the Centre gives we will see what needs to be done...in the coming days a proper survey will be done and a report will be sent (to the Centre),” he said.Several parts of Malnad, coastal and interior Karnataka has been ravaged by torrential rains causing floods and landslides, affecting lives and properties.Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said information will be given to the Prime Minister regarding the flood situation in various districts.“We will make the Prime Minister aware of the situation and try to get more relief,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/loss-in-karnataka-due-to-floods-estimated-to-be-rs-3-500-4-000-cr-minister/story-UdJBdt6OIllZWJ79sB0CGK.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Heavy rain leaves Punjab’s Jalandhar in deep waters||Jalandhar: Heavy rain on Monday morning brought relief from the hot and humid conditions but left Jalandhar in deep waters with waterlogged roads and potholed stretches becoming a nightmare for commuters. The municipal corporation’s ill-preparedness for the monsoon was for all to see as sewer pipelines blocked with plastic waste and the lack of storm water drainage led to flooding on most roads and low-lying areas of the city. The worst-hit areas were 120 Feet Road, Sodal Road, Preet Nagar Road, Ladowali Road, Basti Adda Road, Football Chowk, District Administrative Complex, Domoria Bridge, Basti Sheikh, Basti Bawa Khel, New Railway Road and Phagwara Gate. The main highway was also water-logged, leading to traffic jams. “Water took hours to recede and made it impossible for pedestrians to walk. Motorists waited in long traffic jams to reach their destinations,” said Pawan Luthra, a resident from Basti Sheikh. Due to the rain, roads in town have developed potholes, adding to the woes of commuters who failed to locate them in flooded stretches. Jalandhar was included in the smart city list in September 2016, but the MC has covered only 8% of the area with storm water drainage. The existing sewage pipes can’t drain the heavy flow of water. Jalandhar mayor Jagdish Raja said that work to clean pipes and the sewerage system is on. “Road repair will begin after the monsoon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rain-leaves-punjab-s-jalandhar-in-deep-waters/story-NAAO0H9buTI44J6e8CjIKN.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh CM to launch mass contact programme on lines of PM’s Mann Ki Baat||Dharamshala: Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur will be launching a mass contact programme on the lines of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s monthly broadcast, Mann Ki Baat, to interact with people of the state on social media, radio and television. The programme will be broadcast once a month and the state government has sought suggestions from people on an attractive name for it. The launch date will be announced soon. People can share suggestions for the title of the programme on MyGov Himachal portal. The best entry will get a cash prize of ₹5,000. The last date for submission of entries is August 15. The programme will be broadcast by MyGov Himachal portal and the Himachal Pradesh information and public relations department. A government spokesperson said that the chief minister wants to stay in touch with people of the state through digital means to address the problems faced by them during the coronavirus pandemic. “Considering the importance of technology nowadays and to increase public participation in governance, the chief minister is considering to start the programme,” he said. People can share their views on events besides inspirational works and provide feedback on state government schemes. “The common man can convey his views directly to the chief minister. It will certainly help in redressing grievances,” the spokesperson said. Mann Ki Baat is a radio programme hosted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in which he addresses the people of the nation on All India Radio, DD National and DD News.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-cm-to-launch-mass-contact-programme-on-lines-of-pm-s-mann-ki-baat/story-rzcNjcgtioYUU24gf1WpGO.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s ISKCON temple to celebrate Janmashtami on August 12, entry for limited invitees||As a precautionary measure in view of the coronavirus outbreak, the ISKCON temple in the national capital will not allow the devotees (common people) on the day of Janmashtami, which will be observed on August 12. Vrajendra Nandan Das, vice president of ISKCON, New Delhi told ANI, “This year the grandeur has been lessened due to Covid-19. The entry will be purely based on limited invitation. We request all the devotees to stay with us virtually on this auspicious day.”Following coronavirus pandemic necessities, thermal scanning will be conducted at the entrance of the temple as well as hand sanitisers will be available. The invites will have to pass through sanitizer tunnel before entering the main temple.Although earlier the authorities used to open five gates for the visitors on Janmashtami, this time invitees will enter from gate number 4. Moreover, the temple will miss the spectacular flower decoration on the occasion.Vrajendra Nandan Das said, “We used to get flowers from abroad to decorate the temple mainly because they stay fresh for long, however, this time we are getting flowers mostly from local markets and few other states.”The temple authorities have decided not to serve food inside the premises rather they will provide packed food to the devotees. Preparations underway at the ISKCON Temple in Delhi ahead of Krishna Janmashtami on August 11. ISKCON temple in Delhi will observe Janmashtami on August 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-iskcon-temple-to-celebrate-janmashtami-on-august-12-entry-for-limited-invitees/story-PL5qvWXVVH0JuVccbqcz6K.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi gears up for Independence Day celebrations, police tighten security checks||Delhi Police on Monday checked vehicles of commuters as security has been tightened in the national capital ahead of the Independence Day.The police teams were seen checking vehicles at India Gate and Connaught Place. Security forces are conducting vehicular check in all the parts of Delhi-NCR. On Sunday, the Indian Armed Forces (Tri-Service) Band gave a musical performance at North Block during the ongoing celebration of the 74th Independence Day.The 74th Independence Day celebration will be marked by musical performances by the bands from the Army, Navy and Indian Air Force, as per the defence ministry. “These performances are intended as gestures of gratitude and appreciation of the nation towards the Corona warriors who have been steadfastly fighting to stop the spread of the Coronavirus in the country even at the risk of their lives,” said the ministry of defence in a press release.Military and Police Bands will also perform in Imphal, Bhopal and Jhansi on August 12. The final performance of the series will be held on August 13 in Lucknow, Faizabad, Shilong, Madurai and Champaran, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-gears-up-for-independence-day-celebrations-police-tighten-security-checks/story-t2faJ22DEYDEn2lR7tlorN.html
10-08-2020||Lucknow||‘Let’s wait and watch’: UP CM’s office on Waqf offer to invite||The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board says it would like to invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath to lay the foundation stone for a hospital, school, library and other public facilities it plans to build on a five-acre plot the government has allocated to the Muslim community for an alternative mosque in lieu of the Babri masjid in Ayodhya.HT reached out to the Prime Minister’s office and the PMO’s spokesperson, but received no response. An Uttar Pradesh government spokesperson said: “It is not the time to respond to it. It would be inappropriate on our part.” An advisor to the chief minister said: “It would be inappropriate to comment on something that’s only an idea. Currently, there are divisions in the Muslim community and stakeholders over the utilisation of the land. Let’s wait and watch.”The mosque complex, to replace the Babri majid that was demolished on December 6, 1992 by Hindu activists, is due to come up in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur village. The Waqf Board has formed a trust called the Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation to oversee the construction of the mosque.SM Shoeb, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Sunni Waqf Board, said: “We would like to invite the PM and the UP CM to lay the foundation of establishments of public utilities like the community kitchen, hospital, museum, library, etc. The list of invitees would be finalised in the board meeting after a discussion with the other members. It would be a matter of pride for the board if PM joins us for the inaugural programme.”The CEO said there was no provision for any groundbreaking ceremony for a mosque in Islam. Such a ceremony can only be held for the planned public facilities, the Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation said.“In all schools of thought, no ulema (cleric) has confirmed a provision for any ritual and groundbreaking ceremony for a mosque. Hence, there is no point in organising any such event or inviting anyone for such an event (for the mosque),” said Athar Hussain, spokesperson for the foundation.Adityanath, in an interview to a TV channel on August 5, the day the bhoomi pujan for the Ram temple took place, said: “I am not a party to it (mosque) in any manner. So neither will anyone invite me nor will I go. I know I am not going to get any such invitation. If I get any such invitation, then secularism of many people will be in danger. So I better work silently and send benefits of the government schemes to all without any discrimination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/let-s-wait-and-watch-up-cm-s-office-on-waqf-offer-to-invite/story-mQrkmcBiEyVLMZO3b1e5EL.html
10-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot questions shifting of BJP MLAs to Gujarat||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot questioned on Sunday the herding of BJP MLAs and shifting of some of them to Gujarat, saying that the opposition party was ridden with factionalism. The BJP has shifted at least 17 of its Rajasthan lawmakers to Gujarat since Friday. “They (BJP) have been exposed. We are in government and kept our MLAs together because of horse-trading attempts. But what are they (BJP) worried about? They are herding their MLAs at three-four places. A huge divide among them can be seen,” Gehlot said. “BJP leaders were making tall claims but today they are exposed as they have hired a charter plane to send their MLAs (to Gujarat). Such practices aren’t good for democracy.” Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said, “I think Gehlot should first take care of his house... It started with him taking oath as CM and the other (referring to Pilot) as the deputy CM. The state saw differences among them... he should handle his home affairs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-questions-shifting-of-bjp-mlas-to-gujarat/story-uiwRtaiQB7yOoIHJKNA4NL.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||A housekeeper’s book plans||He is in his early 50s and wishes to write a book. He has already started preliminary work. “It will be a book on housekeeping ethics and style,” says Ashu Prashar, an assistant manager, soft services, at a city mall where he administers the housekeeping staff.For 10 years, Mr Prashar has been making the excruciatingly long commute from his home in east Delhi’s IP Extension to Gurugram’s South Point Mall on Golf Course Road. It takes him about two hours one way and “just before the (coronavirus-triggered) lockdown began, I started to write ideas for my book on the mobile phone while travelling to office.”A father of two, Mr Prashar was formerly working in the insurance industry as an adviser, “which I didn’t enjoy at all.” His long years as a housekeeping manager introduced him to a “workforce” comprised of people whose lives and hardships he wasn’t intimately familiar with—migrants from other states who were obliged to move to big cities like Delhi and Gurugram to envisage a different future. “Over the years, I have come across people who have remained houseboys, cleaning the floor or rest rooms or staircases all their working lives.” This makes the manager uneasy. Ideally, he wants the folks starting as “houseboys” to move up in life, to graduate to supervisors and eventually—why not—to his own designation. “So I’m hoping to write a book that may help the young staffers to grow professionally.”It was during his commute in the metro that Mr Prashar laid the foundation of his book-in-progress. He started by putting his own spin on the word ‘house keeping’; he got that ready in two weeks of shuttling between IP Extension and Golf Course Road. The author feels no hesitation in sharing it publicly:H is for honest O for observer U for unique S for supportive E for efficientK for knowledgeable E for energetic E ‘encouragable’ P for punctual I for innovative N for neatly G for gentleIndeed, Mr Prashar is already sharing this “formula” with his mostly young staff of men and women. Since a great number of them, he says, are from backgrounds where basic education is tough to access, the gentleman himself give them lessons in maths, English and Hindi—“most of our folks have arrived newly from West Bengal and don’t know the North Indian languages that well.”Almost all of his recent housekeeping staff left for their villages during the lockdown and the team that newly assembled following the mall’s reopening on July 1st comprises of fresh arrivals. “A lot many live nearby, in Chakarpur and Sector 56 areas... they arrive in the city with only their spouses, leaving the children behind, with their families, back home.” Both “Mr and their Mrs” pick up work, with the “Mrs usually becoming household cooks in apartments,” informs the manager. In his book, Mr Prashar confides, he will also lay out tips on the new ways of housekeeping “because that old way of jharoo-pocha is over and things are now more mechanised.”Since his days — like for most people who have to shuttle daily between Delhi and Gurugram — are so hectic, he has decided to write a major portion of the book during the course of his working day. “I’ll carry a pen and notepad in my pocket, and as soon as a line or an idea strikes my mind I will immediately jot it down.”Mr Prashar gives himself a couple of years to finish this project. “After which I will try to get it published both in Hindi and English.”He now formally poses for a portrait with a part of his team, who probably will learn the tips of the future book in real time, and even before the author pens them down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-housekeeper-s-book-plans/story-MTvIzFEyecJkfwz6UtCCLP.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||Heavy spells of rain likely in Delhi today||Parts of Delhi recorded light rain and thunder on Sunday afternoon. The Regional Meteorological Centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said rain is likely to increase on Monday and Tuesday, and the city can expect a few intense spells.Delhi, as on Sunday, had a monsoon deficiency of 33% since June 1. But this number is likely to fall by Monday evening. The monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is passing over Delhi and a low-pressure area has developed over Bay of Bengal, together creating favourable conditions for moderate to heavy rain in northwest India.“The monsoon trough is passing along Ferozepur, Delhi and Fursatganj towards the Bay of Bengal. During the next two days, southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal will reach Haryana, Delhi-NCR (National Capital Region) and west UP in lower levels. There can be a few intense rain spells too,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. Parts of Uttarakhand have already recorded extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) since Saturday evening.A low-pressure area is lying over northwest Bay of Bengal off north Odisha-Gangetic West Bengal coasts. A trough is also running from southeast Rajasthan to cyclonic circulation associated with low pressure over northwest Bay of Bengal off north Odisha-Gangetic West Bengal coasts at 3.1 km above mean sea level. The monsoon trough is active and its western end lies north of its normal position and eastern end is south of its normal position, IMD said in its Sunday bulletin.Under its influence, heavy to extremely rain is likely to continue over Kerala and Mahe, coastal and south interior Karnataka on Monday; heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Odisha , Chhattisgarh, Vidharbha, Telangana, coastal Andhra Pradesh and east Madhya Pradesh. Rainfall activity over northwest India is likely to increase from Sunday onwards with heavy to very heavy rain likely over Western Himalayan region and adjoining northern plains till August 12.Moderate to severe thunderstorm with lightning is likely over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, east Rajasthan, Bihar and Jharkhand, with lightning and gusty wind (of speeds between 30-40kmph) in some areas of west Rajasthan during the next 24 hours.“The low-pressure area is over north Odisha coast. We are not expecting extremely heavy rains in Konkan and Gujarat like last time. But we have issued a heavy to very heavy rain warning for northwest India, particularly for Uttarakhand, south Haryana and west UP. There may be extremely heavy rains in Kerala, coastal and south interior Karnataka for another day,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/heavy-spells-of-rain-likely-in-delhi-today/story-mcLdqDXh3f88OMiubiPT9O.html
10-08-2020||Ranchi||6 people die while cleaning septic tank in Deoghar district in Jharkhand||Six people died on Sunday after inhaling poisonous gas in a septic tank in Jharkhand’s Deoghar district, a senior police officer said.Two labourers - Govind Manjhi (53) and Leelu Murmu (24) -- got into the septic tank to clean it in the morning in Devipur village of the district, officials said.When they failed to return, house owner Rajesh Barnwal’s two brothers - Brajesh (54) and Mithilesh (43) -- entered the tank to check on the labourers, the officials said. When all four of them failed to respond, one by one Manjhi’s two sons, both in their 20s, went in, they said. “Local villagers broke open the tank and found all six lying unconscious. They were taken to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared them ‘brought dead’. All of them died after inhaling toxic fumes inside the tank,” Deoghar deputy commissioner, Kamleshwar Prasad Singh said.The circle officer (CO) of Devipur, Sunil Kumar said, “They were immediately rushed to Sadar hospital where they were declared brought dead”. Singh added the autopsy of the bodies was being conducted. “After the postmortem, actual reason of the death could be ascertained,” he said. (With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/6-people-die-while-cleaning-septic-tank-in-deoghar-district-in-jharkhand/story-4JxrAvxz4wTYn0QbXmNn1O.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana excise officials admit to shortfall in liquor stocks before SET||Seven deputy excise and taxation commissioners (DETCs) from various Haryana districts had admitted to substantial variation in the liquor stocked by the contractors during the lockdown period. The admissions were made by the excise officials on the basis of their checking on April 30 and also by teams constituted by deputy commissioners. The information was shared by the DETCs during a May 29 interaction with the special enquiry team (SET) formed by the state government for inquiring into the instances of pilferage of liquor from warehouses. The SET report said that, however, when the DETCs were asked to furnish data to this effect in their written submissions, none except DETC (E), Fatehabad, VK Shastri did so. “Except DETC (E), Fatehabad, all the DETCs reported that wholesale godowns of Indian made foreign liquor and country liquor were inspected by the deputy commissioners and the report was directly submitted to the state government,” reads the SET report. Shastri, however, sent a written submission on June 6 stating that huge shortages were observed on physical inspection of liquor stocks. Stating that there was unauthorised removal of liquor deliberately from an IMFL and a country liquor wholesale godown of Shree Vinayak Associates, Fatehabad, and a country liquor wholesale godown of Discovery Sales, Fatehabad, Shastri wrote that it appears that the licensees had taken away and disposed of the liquor stock in a clandestine manner without the knowledge of the excise department. “It’s a cognisable and non-bailable offence punishable with both imprisonment and fine. The licensees have thus committed not only a criminal act but also an act punishable under Punjab Excise Act,” the Fatehabad excise official wrote. After going through the liquor shortfall data, the SET in its report said that this is a huge shortage during a brief period. “It is also learnt that huge shortages have been reported by other districts as well. But the information was not being provided by the excise and taxation department for reasons best known to it. It is evident that there was huge unauthorised movement of liquor during the lockdown,’’ the inquiry report said. While the SET report had blamed excise and taxation commissioner for only giving verbal instructions to order the closure of liquor vends during the lockdown, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala defended the move to “successfully close down” liquor vends during lockdown without issuing written instructions. The department in its response to SET though admitted that 29 permits authorising contractors to procure IMFL and country liquor supplies from wholesale godowns and 90 passes for transporting liquor were issued online by the officials in several districts during the lockdown. Dushyant, however, said it happened because the software was designed to be operational till March 31 and could not have been interfered for security reasons by officials. “No vehicle left any distillery premise on basis of these passes. We have sought explanation of officials responsible for issuing of these passes,” Dushyant said. Liquor deficit found at Fatehabad godowns: 1. Vinayak Associates (country liquor godown): 9,503 cases 2. Discovery Sales (country liquor godown): 10,505 cases 3. Vinayak Associates (IMFL godown): 456 cases of beer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-excise-officials-admit-to-shortfall-in-liquor-stocks-before-set/story-zDqQG3JGkNZsvLZfIforyL.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||Seven booked for duping bank of ₹1.18 crore||Borivli police registered a complaint against seven people for allegedly submitting fake documents and fraudulently obtaining vehicle loans to the tune of ₹1.18 crore from Canara Bank.Akshata Walanju, 53, manager of Canara Bank’s Borivli (West) branch, lodged a complaint against seven employees of a car dealership firm. The accused named in the complaint are Raghunath Rane, Ganesh Ubhare, Rahil Khan, Avidh Gharat, Z Madraswala, Shahi Alam and Vishal Tiwari.Walanju, in her statement, said that Rane, an agent of the car dealership firm, approached her in December 2018 saying his company wants to sell a Mitsubishi Pajero to a customer named Avidh Gharat and wanted the bank to sanction a ₹30-lakh car loan for the same.After the bank’s circle office gave a go-ahead, Walanju verified the documents and processed the loan file, following which ₹29.60 lakh was transferred to the bank account of the car dealership firm. However, Rane failed to submit the registration number of the vehicle to the bank. On being asked about the same, he told the bank the buyer was waiting for the desired registration number which was leading to the delay.Later, Rane and Ganesh Ubhare, CEO of the firm, approached the bank to apply for vehicles loans for three more customers, namely Z Madraswala, Shahi Alam and Vishal Tiwari.After due verification of their documents, loans of ₹29.34 lakh, ₹29.55 lakh and ₹29.55 lakh were sanctioned for the three customers and the amounts were transferred to the firm.All four customers paid monthly installations for first three months but later defaulted in payment while the car dealer firm failed to deposit vehicle documents to the bank, the FIR states.Upon re-verification of the credentials on the documents submitted by the customers, some discrepancies were found and some turned out to be fakes. The bank then checked transaction details and found that the accused diverted the funds from the company’s account to their personal accounts and used it for other purposes, said an officer from Borivli police station.When the bank got in touch with the customers and the car dealership, the complainant was told the customers cancelled the deal as they didn’t like the cars. They also assured her that they would sell the vehicles and repay the bank.However, after the accused failed to repay the four loans to the tune of ₹1.18crore, the complainant approached the police.The police have booked the accused under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of document purported to be a valuable security) and 471 (using forged document as genuine) of the Indian Penal Code. No arrest has been made as of yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seven-booked-for-duping-bank-of-1-18-crore/story-ge3ojctlvdicqJluijRaVJ.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||Malad man arrested for making obscene calls to corporate firms||Andheri police on Saturday arrested a 38-year-old driver for allegedly abusing women over phone calls. The accused used to call on landlines of renowned companies and would use obscene language if a woman received the call. A case of stalking was registered at Andheri police station after which police laid a honey trap to arrest him.Vijay Belge, senior inspector, said, “We have arrested the accused and are investigating the case.”On March 12, police received a complaint from a 32-year-old woman stating that a person was calling on the office landline number and using obscene language. Following the complaint, a case was registered against an unknown person under sections 354A (sexual harassment), 354D (Stalking) and 509 (word, gestures or act to insult modesty of a woman) of the Indian Panel Code.As part of the investigation, police sought caller details from the telephone network provider and learnt that the accused was using someone else’s SIM card, which he had probably stolen. Three different SIM cards were used in the crime.“As he was not reachable, we laid a honey trap. We took help from a woman and asked her to call him and insist to meet at Bandra Bandstand. While he refused to meet the first two times, he showed up for the third meeting at Andheri MIDC, from where he was nabbed,” said sub-inspector Digambar Pagare.The arrested accused, Henry Micheal Nader, 38, is a resident of Malad and a driver by profession. During questioning, Nader revealed that he got the numbers from Google. According to Nader’s call detail record (CDR), he had called more than 350 companies, of which more than 100 calls were answered by women. Nader, however, refused to disclose the reason behind his actions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/malad-man-arrested-for-making-obscene-calls-to-corporate-firms/story-abdhCCEpW5cqxpFJjcmcqO.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||Shivaji statue row: Lead agitation in Belgaum, Raut dares Fadnavis||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut took a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the opposition party in Maharashtra, on the silence over the removal of Shivaji’s statue in Mangutti village of Karnataka’s Belgaum district. Raut said the “conspiracy” by the BJP government in Karnataka to remove the statue in the night is “condemnable”.The Sena leader challenged the Leader of opposition in Maharashtra and former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis to lead an agitation in Belgaum and promised support from the Shiv Sena. “The manner in which the Karnataka police removed the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj is condemnable. Nobody from Maharashtra’s opposition party is ready to talk about it. Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid respects to Chhatrapati Shivaji during the foundation laying ceremony of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The same party’s government in Karnataka removed the statue in the night by switching off the lights,” he told reporters in Mumbai.He further said, “Maharashtra government should take serious note of this incident. Without indulging in politics, the opposition party in the state should be taken in confidence. If needed, we are ready to go to Belgaum and agitate under the leadership of the opposition leader. Ask him, if he is ready.” Belgaum district of Karnataka, which has a sizable Marathi-speaking population, has been the subject of a protracted boundary dispute between the two states.On Saturday, Maharashtra minister and Sena leader Eknath Shinde demanded that the Karnataka government reinstate the statue of Shivaji Maharaj which was allegedly removed by the authorities in Belgaum district.In a letter to Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa, Shinde, who is the coordinator minister for border areas along Karnataka, claimed that a life-size statue of the warrior king was removed at Mangutti village by the police and district authorities. The statue had been installed with the permission of the gram panchayat, but the administration removed it deliberately, claimed the minister and demanded action against the officials involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shivaji-statue-row-lead-agitation-in-belgaum-raut-dares-fadnavis/story-4ObJbCjHMT39G8ya5eUTsO.html
10-08-2020||City||Amid Covid, Ganpati mandals to tone down the celebrations||For more than hundred years, Ganeshotsav celebrations at Thane’s oldest pandal, Lokmanya Ali Ganeshosav Mandal in Charai, had one of the biggest traditional processions to install the Ganpati idol. The mandal, started by freedom fighter Lokmanya Tilak in 1919, is currently in its 101st year and had hoped for a similar celebration, but the members have decided to tone down the festivities in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state and Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) have released a safety protocol and guidelines for the 10-day festival, to be followed by the mandals.Like Lokmanya Ali, most mandals in Thane have decided to keep the celebrations to a bare minimum, some are even taking to technology to live stream aarti and other events online in a bid to avoid crowding and maintain social distancing norms. Dipesh Joglekar, secretary of Lokmanya Ali Ganeshotsav Mandal, said, “We put efforts to continue the traditional celebrations every year, for which we get contribution from around 300 residents in the vicinity. The highlight of our celebration is the colourful procession to welcome the idol. However, this year keeping in mind social distancing norms, we shall keep it to the bare minimum. Only a few members will install the idol while the priest will perform daily rituals. We will not allow many people inside. On the last day, we shall immerse the idol.” Shivgarjana Mitra Mandal in Uthalsar has used the Ganeshotsav funds for Covid-19 relief work; they distributed food, masks and other essentials to the less privileged. This year, mandal members have decided to conduct only basic rituals without much decorations or processions. Sudhir Kadu, a mandal member, said, “During lockdown, our volunteers came together and helped those in need. We do not have much fund left to conduct grand celebrations. Moreover, we are keen on observing social distancing norms. We intend to collect money from the volunteers and ensure basic rituals and daily pooja of the idol is done.” Last year, the mandal used more than 30,000 crayons, 15,000 sketch pens and 10,000 colour pencils as a part of pandal decoration. Pramod Sawant, member of Shreerang Sahaniwas Ganeshotsav Mandal, said, “This is our 50th year and we are trying to make use of technology and will provide online darshan or conduct interactions online for devotees. It is still in the planning stage.” Meanwhile, Jai Bhavani Mitra Mandal in Gokul Nagar has cancelled all cultural celebrations. “As we have been celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi since the past 34 years, we will install the idol in Jari Mari temple in the vicinity, sans pandal or decorations. Only daily pooja will take place. We will put up awareness posters about need to wear masks and ensure social distancing, at the spot where we set up the pandal every year,” said Aadesh Sonawane, member of Jai Bhavani Mitra Mandal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-covid-ganpati-mandals-to-tone-down-the-celebrations/story-6vdKxZlt5avzYOOWz6LIWO.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||Maha reports record 390 Covid-19 deaths in a day||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 390 Covid-19 deaths, highest in a day, taking its death toll to 17,757, health department data stated. However, from the deaths reported on Sunday, 260 fatalities were from the previous 48 hours, 76 were from the previous week and the remaining 56 deaths were from a week before. Maharashtra also recorded its second-highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 12,248 new infections, taking the state’s tally to 515,332. The highest one-day spike of 12,822 cases was recorded on Saturday.According to official data, 78,070 samples were tested, of which 12,248 samples were positive, translating to a positivity rate of 15.68%. The overall positivity rate of the state improved marginally and stood at 18.91%. The state also recorded 13,348 discharged patients on Sunday, taking the tally of recovered people to 351,710. The recovery rate of the state stood at 68.25%.A day after the state crossed the grim landmark of 500,000 cases, state health minister Rajesh Tope declined to comment if the state had reached the community transmission stage. “So far, 60 to 70 per cent of the cases that are reported are from high-risk contracts and from quarantine facilities. It is not the case that people who randomly get tested are positive.Therefore, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and WHO only should respond to the issue of community transmission after careful study. We have been transparent in the data; they have all the data with them,” he told reporters in Satara.The rising number of deaths is a concern for the state government and the health department, officials said. The district authorities have been directed to emphasise on the reduction in the Case Fatality Rate (CFR), which stood at 3.45%, against the national rate of 2.04%.Maharashtra, which has the highest number of fatalities due to the coronavirus disease in the country, stands second to Gujarat in terms of the CFR. However, the gap between the two states is narrowing. As per the data of state Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) released on July 28, the CFR of the state was 3.62%, while Gujarat’s mortality rate is 4.13%, which is a difference of 0.51%. Gujarat’s mortality rate has dropped faster in comparison to Maharashtra. During the period, Maharashtra saw a drop of 0.17%, while Gujarat saw 0.37%.Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, admitted that though the CFR is decreasing gradually, the absolute number of deaths reported is high. “The absolute number of deaths that are reported daily is high, but the focus of the entire administration is on reducing the fatalities. We have modified out standard operating procedures with experience in these months,” Awate said.The Central government too, in a review meeting held last week, expressed concern over the high number of Covid-19 deaths and has listed 10 districts that need to do more to tackle the cases and fatalities. The 10 districts include Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Sangli and Nagpur. Spread in rural parts of the state where the health infrastructure is weak has made it difficult for the authorities to control the fatality rate.Tope, who was in Satara to review the Covid-19 situation in Kolhapur and Satara, said, “The number of cases [reported] daily are going up, but the recoveries are over 3.50 lakh with a rate of 68%. Our focus is to keep the deaths lower. Early detection is important. For instance, in Satara and Kolhapur, the deaths are seen between one to five days after hospitalisation. We are working to bring it down.”Kolhapur and Satara districts have seen a surge in cases last month, while the CFR is also on the higher side at 2.45 and 3.02%. Kolhapur has 5,320 active cases, while Satara has 2,024 active cases. Satara district added 257 new cases, while Kolhapur city and district added 137 and 307 new cases on Sunday.“These districts have a high positivity rate of around 35%. The public representatives from the district have said that the cases increase with people coming in from hotspot areas into the district and now it has spread. But this is the nature of this virus. There is a need for more tracing and testing. House-to-house surveillance will be started and people with co-morbidities will be set aside,” he told reporters in Satara after the review meeting.He added that the district administration is also looking to set up a jumbo facility to augment bed capacity. A new testing laboratory will be set up in Satara district to reduce the turnaround time as currently, the samples went to Pune, the minister said.Meanwhile, Pune city topped the state with the highest number of cases on Sunday with 1433 new infections, taking city’s tally to 70,933. Mumbai reported 1,066 new infections, taking city’s tally to 123,382. Pune recorded 58 fatalities while Mumbai reported 48, taking their tallies to 1802 and 6799, respectively.Pune district reported 517 new cases, and Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 1,066 cases. Another hotspot in the state, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), excluding Mumbai, reported 2,183 new cases. The region contributed 17.82% of the total caseload reported on Sunday. The MMR, in June and July, contributed around 40% of the state’s daily caseload.Nashik city reported 807 new cases, while Nagpur city reported 488 new cases. The state’s second capital is nearing 6000 Covid-19 cases. Beed, Osmanabad, and Latur districts reported 235, 161 and 297 new infections, while Aurangabad district added 280 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-reports-record-390-covid-19-deaths-in-a-day/story-a1vxWhrDODgHDTGA2WJCuL.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||2 missing Gorai fishermen’s bodies wash up at Dahanu||Five days after a fishing vessel from Gorai capsized, the partially decomposed bodies of two its fishermen were found off the Dahanu coast on Sunday morning. The fishermen allegedly drowned after their boat ‘Lucky Star’ carrying 13 people, capsized around 10 nautical miles off the Gorai coast on August 4.Another fishing boat ‘God King’ had rushed to their help and was able to rescue 11 fishermen. The two others were missing, said senior inspector Sanjeev Narkar of Gorai police station.The deceased have been identified as Mangesh Kadam, 24, and Satish Jagtap, 25, both residents of Gorai.Soon after the incident, the Indian Coast Guard and the Navy were informed, and a search and rescue operation was launched for two days. However, due to rough weather and strong winds, the missing fishermen were not found. On Sunday morning, a Dahanu resident spotted a body lying on the shore. He informed another resident Manoj Raut and the police. Another body was spotted on the seashore in Gholvad, said Narkar.Local police alerted Gorai police station, suspecting that the bodies were of the two missing fishermen. The missing fishermen’s families were informed and they identified the fishermen based on their clothes as the bodies were partially discomposed, said Josef Kolaso, vice-chairman of Gorai Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-missing-gorai-fishermen-s-bodies-wash-up-at-dahanu/story-0ynjV0upr2vLiuV322taFI.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||IndiGo’s Delhi-Shirdi flight makes priority landing at Mumbai||An IndiGo A320Neo aircraft, flying to Shirdi from Delhi, made priority landing at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Sunday around 7pm owing to hydraulic failure. It had to be towed from the runway to the bay. However, the status of the passengers was not clear till the time of going to press. “An IndiGo A320, operating a Delhi- Shirdi (6E-2019) flight, received a caution message on one of the hydraulic systems. So as a precaution, the pilot diverted to Mumbai. The aircraft is currently at Mumbai and shall be back in operation after necessary inspections,” an IndiGo spokesperson said. Airport sources said that the pilot requested Mumbai air traffic control (ATC) to provide towing assistance on landing. “The flight with 64 passengers on board landed safely at 7pm, around an hour after it took off from Delhi. The runway was vacated after the narrow body aircraft was towed away to the allotted bay. All the operations however remained unaffected,” said an airport official. The airport at Shirdi is not equipped with night landing facility, owing to which flight operations do not take place after sunset. IndiGo has been facing snags with the A320Neo aircraft since 2017, following which Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) in December 2019 directed that the two airlines replace them with modified versions by May 31 this year. The deadline was extended to August after supply chains and production lines were hit owing to the ongoing pandemic. On July 29, IndiGo’s chief operating officer Wolfgang Prock-Schaeur informed analysts that the airline will finish replacing its last batch of 14 A320Neo engines by August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/indigo-s-delhi-shirdi-flight-makes-priority-landing-at-mumbai/story-iT0dsq8TGtt1tacL6bIuYJ.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||After Kerala plane crash, experts stress need for pre-monsoon training||As investigations into the Air India Express plane crash at Karipur airport in Kozhikode began on Saturday, aviation experts have raised questions on the status and implementation of annual refresher, called Approach and Landing Accident Reduction (ALAR), that pilots irrespective of seniority have to mandatorily undergo before the onset of monsoon every year. ALAR, a theoretical exercise, is part of the syllabus, designed with a set of approach and landing briefing notes with an aim to help reduce the frequency and severity of approach and landing incidents and accidents. ALAR refresher is deemed to be important during monsoon on account of low visibility, wet runways and engine performance which play a critical role during landing. Also read: All we know is that the touchdown was late, says DGCA chiefMohan Ranganathan, aviation safety expert specialising on wet runways, said airlines complete the mandatory annual training for pilots only on paper. “Many pilots skip the mandatory monsoon training, and it has just become an on-paper training for airlines, especially Air India. Hence, the approach-and-landing accidents training is not attended by various pilots. And DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) has just been turning a blind eye to the non-compliance,” said Ranganathan, a former instructor pilot of Boeing 737. A senior Air India pilot, who is not authorised to talk to the media, said, “The airline has been completing the training in a haphazard manner. DGCA is aware of it. For instance, a pilot who last completed his set of trainings in September is made to undergo ALAR refresher a year later in September, and not before the monsoons which defeats the purpose of the ALAR training.” Air India officials did not respond to calls or texts. Also read: Civilians rushed to save lives after plane crash, honoured with special gesture“An overhaul of the whole system is needed instead of a reactive change. It’s a systemic issue with bureaucrats at the helm of technical organisations such as DGCA. After the accident, the most they will do is add a test to the ALAR programme which doesn’t serve the purpose,” said a pilot from one of the leading airlines. Another pilot, requesting anonymity, said the training is conducted to not only fly during monsoons but also to deal with worldwide airports and their extreme weather conditions like snowfall. Also read: Ex-air marshal, who probed Mangaluru accident, lists reasons for Kozhikode crashHowever, a former DGCA official said, “ALAR is part of the syllabus, which is in their training manual, and not specific training. There is a checklist that they have to tick off once pilots complete the refresher. So if they have tick-marked, we assume they have completed it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-crash-experts-stress-need-for-pre-monsoon-training/story-MyQB33wXefnPsblX6knvNN.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||Sero survey in Mumbai: ‘6% residents in slums who had Covid-19 antibodies diabetic’||Six per cent of slum residents, who were detected with Covid-19 antibodies during the first serological survey last month had a pre-medical history of diabetes. In non-slum areas, 9% of the respondents who were found having antibodies during the tests, had diabetes, researchers from Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) said. Doctors from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) health department claim that 20% of Mumbai’s population, mostly from the affluent sections of the society, has diabetes. The state Covid-19 task force said that as per the city’s total diabetic population, the number of residents detected with the antibodies and are diabetic is quite less.As people suffering from diabetes are among the groups that are more vulnerable to the infection, the researchers, through questionnaires, conducted a research to determine the medical history of the residents who were carriers of the antibodies.Around 4,218 slum residents were tested during the survey, of whom 2,387 had the prevalence of antibodies. According to TIFR researchers, 144 residents who were detected with antibodies, had a medical history of diabetes. In non-slum areas, the researchers found that 30 residents of the 358 who tested positive in the antibody test, were diabetic. However, the survey’s principal investigator Ullas S Kolthur and researcher Sandeep Juneja from TIFR, said they believe that the prevalence of the lifestyle disease could be more in non-slum areas, as many residents may not have given the right information. “Many may have provided incorrect information about their medical history as they may have feared that they would be quarantined or it could be due to other concerns rising out of lack of proper knowledge. There is a need for further studies to establish proper facts,” said Juneja.The sero survey was conducted in M-West (Tilak Nagar and Chembur), F-North (Matunga, Sion and Wadala) and R-North wards (Dahisar and Mandapeshwar) to detect the presence of immunoglobulin-G (IgG) antibody, produced by the body’s immune system on being exposed to a virus. A sero survey helps in identifying individuals who were previously infected with the virus but have later recovered. Although the estimated target was 10,000 blood samples, the only 6,936 samples were collected owing to the lack of cooperation from residents in non-slum areas. The civic body has also conducted the antibody test on 1,000 health workers, and is awaited the results.Diabetologist Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a part of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said almost 50% of patients who died of Covid-19 in Mumbai had a medical history of diabetes. “For an observation, the researchers have recorded the medical history of the participants. This can’t be considered as a parameter to base any theory,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sero-survey-in-mumbai-6-residents-in-slums-who-had-covid-19-antibodies-diabetic/story-QKOonYj0v3iegNaolih5RO.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||₹1,000-crore heroin seized at Nhava Sheva||In the biggest ever seizure of narcotic drugs in Maharashtra in recent years, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Mumbai in a joint operation with the customs department busted a major international drug cartel and seized 191 kilogram (kg) heroin, estimated to be worth around ₹1,000 crore, from Nhava Sheva port in Navi Mumbai on Sunday, sources in DRI told HT. Two people have been arrested so far.The consignment had arrived from Afghanistan and the declared cargo was of Mulethi, a traditional herb which is extensively used in several traditional ayurvedic formulations to treat respiratory problems, obesity, skin infection, liver disorders, gastric problem, hormonal regulation, etc.Packets of heroin were concealed inside the pipes in the cargo, sources part of the operation said. The seized heroin is of high quality with a market value of around ₹5 crore for each kg. Mulethi is in demand in India, especially in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, as it is used in making immunity boosting ayurvedic medicines. “There is possibility that the cartel was using this opportunity to smuggle in heroin through cargo of Mulethi. The cartel may have links with narcotic rackets in Afghanistan,” DRI sources said.Following specific information about the consignment, DRI and customs department jointly launched the operation to bust the racket. The two arrested accused are linked to the paperwork for facilitating smooth movement of the cargo. The owner of the company which had ordered the cargo is also under scanner.The two accused have been booked under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. An official said sections of the Customs Act would also be added in the case later. The accused will be produced in the court on Monday.Further investigation would be carried out by the Mumbai DRI officials.“More accused may be arrested soon and investigation will be carried out with all angles including narco-terrorism angle. Further details cannot be shared at this time as the operation is going on,” said a DRI official requesting anonymity. In July 2019, the special cell of Delhi Police had seized 130kg heroin from Nhava Sheva port and that consignment, too, had links with drug cartels in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-000-crore-heroin-seized-at-nhava-sheva/story-6JC4UyhFzVnOk1ApM8n2jM.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||In former Covid-19 hot spots of Mumbai, over 40% residents have antibodies, revealed data from private lab||Of the 8,376 samples collected across the city between July 3 and August 7 by a private lab, 2,420 or 28.89% were detected with Covid-19 antibodies.A high ratio of the antibodies was developed among citizens from Govandi (57%), Dharavi (54%), Worli (42%), Chembur Extension (48%) and Mazagaon (40%) – all of which were earlier the city’s Covid-19 hotspotsThe prevalence of Covid-19 antibodies was relatively lower in certain areas of suburbs and south Mumbai, varying between 20-40%, data from Thyrocare Technologies Limited revealed. According to data, the antibody presence was above 30% in areas within Bandra-Kurla Complex (30%), Ghatkopar West (34.59%), Mulund East (38%), Tilak Nagar (36%), Charkop (31%), Kandivli East (37%), Jogeshwari West (36%), Vikhroli (33%) and Kurla (32%). In central and south Mumbai, 38% of Sewri residents and 37% of residents from Colaba had Covid-19 antibodies, while 30% of Prabhadevi residents had antibodies. Dr A Velumani, founder and managing director of Thyrocare, said, “The virus is active in a small number of population at every geographical area regardless of the presence or absence of antibodies. The spread of the virus, however, becomes slow when the antibodies are present in around 25% of the population and the virus becomes ineffective or less effective when 50% or more citizens develop antibodies. For instance, in the case of Dharavi, our results say that over 50% of the residents who were tested, developed the antibodies, and this could be one reason for the lower number of cases which are being reported now from Dharavi as compared to what was being reported earlier.”According to Velumani, the government can give more relaxations to areas where more than 25% of the population develops antibodies.“If a body develops antibodies, it is considered to be a good sign, and based on the data on the presence of antibodies, the government can also take decisions on imposing the lockdown or easing it. I guess people develop more immunity if they are exposed more. Also, having antibodies does not mean one should not take precautions. Wherever more than 25% population has developed immunity or antibodies, I feel the government can give more relaxations. We may not open schools and colleges, but industries and services can be opened up to boost economy,” Velumani said. Commenting on the findings, Daksha Shah, deputy health officer of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) public health department, said, “I can’t comment on the findings of a private laboratory as I am not aware of the methodology it used for the tests. However, generally if a particular area has a higher number of individuals who have developed antibodies, then the spread of the virus may slow down. We have seen the same trend in the city with our findings. The slum areas are now witnessing fewer cases, as they are more individuals developing antibodies as compared to residents from non-slum areas. Currently, the maximum number of cases is from non-slum areas. Hence, when the non-slum areas start having higher presence of antibodies, the pattern of spread may change.”Earlier, the BMC also tested more than 6,900 people in its sero surveillance, in which 57% residents from slums were detected with antibodies, while 16% of residents from non-slum areas were found with the antibodies. Private health consultant, Siddarth Paliwal, said, “Our track record of conducting sero surveillance test has been poor. The BMC has conducted tests on less than 10,000 samples. We should aim to cover around 1% of the total population of the city to understand the spread of the virus. If the BMC cannot test that many people, it should tie up with private labs for the purpose.”Meanwhile on Sunday, Mumbai recorded 1,066 cases and 48 deaths, taking the city’s total case count to 123,382 and death toll to 6,799 (5.51 fatality rate). The total number of patients discharged after recovery stands at 96,586, and the city recorded a recovery rate of 78.2%. Currently, total active cases stand at 19,700. Dharavi, a former hot spot which is showing drastic improvement, recorded only five cases on Sunday, after which its total case count stands at 2,617, of which 2,271 have recovered. On Saturday, Mumbai conducted 7,561 tests. The total tests undertaken in the city surged to 5.99 lakh with an overall positivity rate of 20.4%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-former-covid-19-hot-spots-of-mumbai-over-40-residents-have-antibodies-revealed-data-from-private-lab/story-ODVhbJaF2rDo5LkcbRQl3N.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||MMRDA plans green corridor along MTHL||In what can be called a much-needed intervention for the city, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has planned a green corridor along the Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link (MTHL), connecting Mumbai to Navi Mumbai.The “urban ecological corridor” would consist of urban forests, wetlands, mangroves, walking and bicycling trails, amusement and activity zones, eateries, cafes and children’s play areas among other attractions. It will also act as a connector to the Karnala Bird Sanctuary in Navi Mumbai. More than 75,000 trees are expected to be planted for the project.Known to be the brainchild of MMRDA metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev, the ecological corridor will stretch for 5.5 kilometre (km) on both sides of MTHL landside portion at Chirle in Navi Mumbai. The 22-km sea bridge, of which 16.5km is on sea, stretches from Sewri in Mumbai to Chirle in Navi Mumbai.Amid the raging debate over developing infrastructure at the cost of the environment, MMRDA said the ecological corridor will prove to be a “pioneering project in the field of highway ecology to achieve MMRDA’s objective of developing sensitive urban infrastructure”.Rajeev said, “Apart from increasing green cover significantly, the project will boost the liveability index, reduce pollution in the vicinity and also eliminate barrier effects.” He added that the project will be implemented in coordination with the state forest department.The project is modelled based on eco-motorway in France, Miami Metro-rail, Richmond Bridge in Virginia and Shenzhen-Huizhou Expressway in China which boast of thick green cover along the corridor.On the drawing boards since the 1980s, MMRDA started construction for MTHL in 2018, but the ₹17,843-crore project is hit by delays owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to officials, the project will face a six-month delay owing to shortage in manpower and machinery. MTHL was estimated to be operational by September 2022. However, as of June 2020, only 27% of the overall work has been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrda-plans-green-corridor-along-mthl/story-ix6tV3CSE5XLkvvEk5V11O.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||Not Maharashtra case, but one in Patna transferred to CBI: State||Claiming that the case filed in Bihar in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death was transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Maharashtra government maintained that the Bandra police’s probe into the accidental death report (ADR) was going on. The state will oppose the transfer plea in the Supreme Court during its hearing on Tuesday. Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in Bandra on June 14. A month later, his father, KK Singh, in his complaint, alleged there were some unexplained transfers from his son’s bank account, involving actor Rhea Chakraborty and others. The Patna Police then filed an FIR in the case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is looking into the money laundering angle. The state government has, in its affidavit in the top court, contested the jurisdiction of the Patna Police in the case and pointed at the haste in which CBI registered an FIR in the case in Patna. “The Central government told the top court that it has transferred the case to the central agency, but the court has not given its nod. We have contested the registration of the FIR and its investigation by the Patna Police has been contested by us. Both the acts are bad in the law and against federal structure as well as the Ministry of Home Affairs’ circular issued in 2013,” an official from the home department said. Home minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday said the SC was yet to decide on the transfer of the case and they were awaiting the top court’s decision. The state government’s contention is that as per section 177 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), every offence has to be probed by the police in whose jurisdiction it has been committed. It has also said that the offences registered by Patna Police on the complaint of Singh have taken place in Mumbai. It has also stated the FIR registered at Patna should be transferred to Mumbai and the decision on the transfer should not be taken without the consent of Maharashtra government, as per provisions in section 3 of the Delhi Special Police Establishments Act. The affidavit submitted in the Apex court, through its standing counsel Sachin Patil on Saturday, also stated the act of filing an FIR was politically motivated and revelation of the details to the media by the investigating officers visiting Mumbai jeopardised the investigation by the Mumbai Police. The home department officials, however, are sceptical about the delay by Mumbai Police in filing an FIR in the case. “The Mumbai Police should have either converted the ADR into FIR or closed the case if it did not get any significant proof on the allegations. They did not act swiftly even after the demand for CBI probe was raised first. The act of stamping Patna DCP Vinay Tiwari [who had come to the city and was forced to home quarantine] is likely to go against us as it is seen as hindrance in their probe. Also, the precedent verdicts on transfer of probe to the CBI are contradictory,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-maharashtra-case-but-one-in-patna-transferred-to-cbi-state/story-k4ejB0cyR15Vq7wsEf7VnN.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai exceeds average annual rainfall with 50 more monsoon days to go||The city on Sunday surpassed its annual average rainfall of 2,514mm, despite little rain over the weekend. Mumbai received 2,526mm rain from June 1 to August 9, with 50 more days for the season to end on September 30.Last year, the city had crossed its annual mean tally on August 25 and received 3,670.2 mm rain over four months. In 2018, Mumbai had not crossed the annual average rainfall mark, with 2,239.6mm rain from June to September. In 2017, the city had recorded 2,946.3mm rain in the entire season.On Sunday, between 8.30 am and 8.30 pm, no rain was recorded either in the suburbs or south Mumbai. However, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 18.4 mm rain over 24 hours (8.30am Saturday to 8.30am Sunday) while Colaba, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 6.2mm of rain.The weather bureau has issued a yellow alert (heavy rain across isolated areas) for Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday for Mumbai and Thane. “Weather models have indicated active monsoon conditions over the west coast from August 10-11 onward, with weather factors contributing to enhanced rain activity. Mumbai and surrounding areas are also likely to witness an increase in rain intensity from Tuesday onwards, through the week,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Independent experts said the city is expected to witness more frequent light to moderate showers in the coming week. “However, there won’t be any severe weather threat until August 14, beyond which there might be some rain enhancement,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom.This year, the monsoon onset was declared on June 14. However, it was followed by scattered showers through the month, leading to 395mm of rain for June against its average of 493.1mm, making it the lowest monthly rainfall in five years. However, a contrast in rain activity was witnessed in July, with the month ending with 1,502.7mm rain — it’s highest monthly record since readings began being collated by the weather bureau.Subsequently, the city and suburbs had both surpassed their seasonal rainfall target on August 5. In the first seven days of August, Mumbai received more rain than it generally receives in the entire month. August rain tally stands at 628.4mm, against mean rainfall of 585.2mm.IMD classifies 15.6-64.4mm as moderate, 64.5-115.5mm rain as heavy, 115.6-204.4 mm as very heavy, and over 204.5 mm as extremely heavy rain for 24 hours. Through the season, Mumbai (Santacruz observatory) witnessed seven ‘very heavy’ rain days so far (five in July and two in August) with maximum rain recorded between August 3 and 4 at 268.6mm, followed by July 4 and 5 at 200.8mm. Additionally, five ‘heavy’ rain days were recorded, with three in July and two in August.IMD director-general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said, “Mumbai’s performance in July was due to factors like the active offshore trough, embedded vortex [localised circulation], and a mid-tropospheric cyclonic system over Gujarat region. However, enhanced rain activity in August was led by the low-pressure system over the Bay of Bengal region and associated weather systems over south Gujarat and the Arabian Sea, which led to intense showers helping the city break rain records.”Meanwhile, the highest 24-hour rain for weather stations in the Mumbai region was recorded in Colaba between August 5 and 6 at 332mm — the second-highest all-time monsoon rain for the region. This helped south Mumbai cross its annual average rain (2,184.1mm) last week. Rain tally for south Mumbai so far stands at 2,447.2 mm.Light to moderate rain has been predicted for Monday, and heavy rain across isolated areas is expected from Tuesday onward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-exceeds-average-annual-rainfall-with-50-more-monsoon-days-to-go/story-0suaIFalW1pvYc13Rxi3VN.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||Handing over Sushant Singh’s death probe to CBI a conspiracy against state: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut slammed the Centre for handing over the death case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), and claimed that the move is a “conspiracy against Maharashtra” and an attack on the state’s autonomy. The decision is taken for political gains, as a part of the pressure tactics to save somebody, because the Mumbai Police accessed some “sensational information” related to the case, the senior party leader claimed.Raut, who is the executive editor of party mouthpiece Saamana, wrote in his weekly column Rokhthok, that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) politicised the case by linking a state minister with it. Pointing out at the “misuse of the central agencies” such as the CBI, the Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament said that the Centre’s intervention in the case is an “insult” to the Mumbai Police. He added that though the CBI is a central agency, it has been proven time and again that it is not independent and impartial. “Many state governments banned the CBI. People in West Bengal took to the streets against the agency when it tried to intervene in the Saradha chit fund case,” the Shiv Sena leader stated in his column.Raut claimed that when Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah were also opposed to the transfer of the Godhra riots probe to the CBI when they were the chief minister and the Gujarat home minister, respectively.“Even PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah were of the same opinion about the CBI when they were active in Gujarat politics. They opposed the transfer of Godhra riots and the subsequent killings [in Gujarat in 2002]. What is wrong if the [state] expresses the same apprehension over the transfer of the Sushant Singh Rajput death case to the central agency,” he questioned.Raut also accused the BJP of defaming the state government, headed by Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, with the help of a section of media. “A section of media has support from the Opposition party, which wants to destabilise the government. One channel has been using derogatory and threatening language for chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. This has anguished many people, including Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar,” he said.He also criticised the media for being “insensitive” over the Disha Salian death case. Salian was Rajput’s manager and reportedly died of suicide six days before the latter’s death and a section of the media has tried to draw links in the two deaths.“The Opposition has been linking state minister Aaditya Thackeray with the case only because he shares cordial relations with some of the Bollywood actors. More disturbing is the Opposition’s stand as they have stood firm in support of the Bihar Police. The Opposition and some news channels have been insensitive and inhuman about Disha Salian and her family members, who have been going through tremendous trauma,” Raut said. Raut said that Aaditya Thackeray shares cordial relations with actor Dino Morea who had hosted a party at his residence before Rajput’s death, but linking it with the case was wrong. He also raised questions over the delay in the investigation by the Mumbai Police and said that it needs to be probed if the case was used to “terrorise” Bollywood. “Sensing the high-profile character of the case, they [the police] should have ensured briefing of the case to the media every day. By inviting Bollywood stars to record statements, the police gave room to gossips,” the column read.Later on Sunday, Raut told reporters that the state has “information” which will be revealed at an “appropriate time.” “It appears that the screenplay of the entire Sushant episode was pre-determined. We have firm information that to save somebody from being exposed in the case and to put pressure on the police, the conspiracy is being hatched. We will reveal the information at an appropriate time,” he said. “The Thackeray government is trying to save one person and it is sinking in the quicksand of lies, every day. I only want to say that if they do not respect the Supreme Court order [to hand over the probe to CBI], then it is not going to take time to suspend the entire state government,’’ said BJP MLA and leader Atul Bhatkhalkar. Bhatkhalkar had sent a letter to chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday asking him to suspend the two police officers investigating the case. He also demanded that the city police chief Param Bir Singh be sent on mandatory leave for negligence in the case. The BJP has been consistently demanding a CBI probe in the Rajput case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/handing-over-sushant-singh-s-death-probe-to-cbi-a-conspiracy-against-state-sanjay-raut/story-gusqQ4kwTy1Io5424538DJ.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||3 kidnap, rape 15-year-old in moving car, held||Mankhurd police on Saturday arrested three people for allegedly kidnapping and sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl in a moving car on July 29. According to the police, the girl was walking on the Ghatkopar-Mankhurd link road around 11am, when a silver-coloured car intercepted her and the occupants inside it pulled her inside and drove off. In her statement, the survivor told the police that though she attempted to get out of the car, the accused overpowered her and kept driving. When they reached somewhere between Chembur and Wadala, the accused touched her inappropriately and threatened her with dire consequences if she opposed their act. They then gang raped her in the moving car and dropped her near the Eastern Express Highway. Before letting her go, they threatened to kill her if she disclosed the incident to anyone. Senior police inspector Prakash Chougule, from Mankhurd police station, said, “The survivor went home and shared the incident with her aunt, after which they approached us to file a complaint. We then registered a first information report and conducted the investigations. The survivor and accused are not known to each other. Based on technical intelligence, the three accused were arrested from Mankhurd. Two of the accused are aged 25, while the third one is 24 years old. The police charged the trio under sections 376 (punishment for rape), 376 (D) (gang rape), 376 (3) (commits rape on a woman under sixteen years of age), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354 (A) (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment), 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault), 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-kidnap-rape-15-year-old-in-moving-car-held/story-A8TyElxjKNguXOfMXWhC5J.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s lake level up to 50% but water cuts remain||reWith a good amount of rainfall in Mumbai and its surrounding catchment areas in the past week, the useful water content in the seven lakes supplying water to the city rose to 50.53% on Sunday. However, the level is lower than that of 2019 and 2018, when at this time, the total lake levels were at 91.48% and 85.08%, respectively.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) already levied a 20% water cut since August 5. In a statement released a week ago, BMC said it is imposing the water cut in order to ensure that there is enough water supply until July 31, 2021. BMC had appealed to citizens to use water wisely, and avoid its wastage. It had earlier decided to impose water cuts from August 1, but it was postponed owing to festivals during the first three days of the month.In 2014, BMC had imposed a water cut of 25% followed by 20% in 2015-2016. Later, in 2018, the civic body had imposed a 10% water cut followed by no water cut in 2019 owing to good rainfall in catchment areas.A BMC official from the hydraulics department said, “Two lakes – Tulsi and Vehar – have overflowed but both contribute to only 3-4% of the city’s annual requirement. Hence, filling the other five lakes is equally important. The remaining five lakes including Tansa, Bhatsa, Modak Sagar, Upper Vaitarna and Middle Vaitarna are half full, and we are hopeful that in the coming days the rainfall is sufficient in the catchment areas.Of the total required rainfall for the year, 15% is expected in June, 35% in July and August, followed by 15% in September. The civic body manages to supply 3,750 million liters of water daily against the city’s demand for 4,200 million liters.According to data shared by the BMC, the seven lakes supplying water to the city have 7.31 lakh million litres or 50.53% as recorded on Friday against the full capacity which is around 14.47 lakh million litres. The Bhatsa dam, which caters to 55% of the city’s total water requirement, stood at 52% of the total capacity compared to 88.25% at this time in 2019. The lake level has gone up from 34% to 50% in the last 20 days owing to heavy rainfall in the city and surrounding areas.Meanwhile, the seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems — the Vaitarna system supplies to the western suburbs and the island city, and the Bhatsa system supplies to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai and neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-lake-level-up-to-50-but-water-cuts-remain/story-cWh0d4euc4lnDnxnXqCxxH.html
10-08-2020||Mumbai||‘Captain Sathe: Air India’s all-rounder pilot’||While wing commander Deepak Sathe’s mortal remains were brought to the city on Sunday, his colleagues from Air India recalled their “all-rounder pilot” who died in the plane crash in Kozhikode on Friday. The mortal remains were taken to the morgue of Bhabha Hospital in Kurla, as the funeral will be held on Tuesday, after Sathe’s elder son who works in Seattle reaches Mumbai. The Air India Express plane with 190 on board from Dubai overshot Karipur’s table top runway and dropped about 35ft into a gorge, killing at least 19. As Captain Sathe’s wife, his younger son, sister and brother-in-law reached the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) around 3pm with the mortal remains, at least 100 pilots, cabin crew, management and other members of both the airlines – Air India and Air India Express – gathered at gate 5, Air India’s triangular plot as a mark of respect. The family had flown down from Mumbai to Kozhikode after hearing of the mishap. “We are not able to sleep since Friday night,” said an AI pilot, requesting anonymity. “I consider myself to be privileged that I got to work with Captain Sathe, who was extremely good with his decision-making.” “All of us have been disturbed after the accident. Anyone of us could have been in the cockpit. We hope to know what went wrong,” said an Air India Express pilot. Another senior Air India pilot said, “Captain Sathe and I have been together since NDA days and he had always given his best in his work. He was the person with great precision.” Members close to the family said that the elder son has left San Francisco on Sunday and is expected to land in Delhi by 4pm on Monday. He will then take a connecting flight to Mumbai and is expected to be home by Monday night. “The time of the funeral will be decided once he reaches Mumbai,” said one of the airline employees close to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/captain-sathe-air-india-s-all-rounder-pilot/story-ndMhuxr45ayYyzUXkbYQ8I.html
10-08-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad police arrest history-sheeter for killing Delhi Jal Board employee||The Faridabad Police on Saturday arrested a man in his early thirties for allegedly killing an employee of the Delhi Jal Board on June 20. The police said the suspect is a history-sheeter involved in around 20 cases— including those of murder, attempt to murder, theft, and house trespassing—in Faridabad, Delhi, and Ballabhgarh.The police identified the suspect as Amit Kumar, who is from Ballaghgarh.On June 20, Amit shot dead one Harish Kumar, a resident of Adarsh Nagar in Ballabhgarh, who used to work with the Delhi Jal Board, said the police. They added that a week before the murder, Harsh had objected to Amit—who lived in the neighbourhood—playing loud music in the colony. According to the police, Amit felt insulted somehow by the objection and waited for an opportunity to take “revenge” from Harish and shot him a week later.The victim was rushed to the hospital but died during treatment, the police said, adding that Amit was on the run since the incident.A case under sections 302 (murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the arms act was registered at Adarsh Nagar police station against Amit.Assistant commissioner of police (crime against women), Faridabad, Dharna Yadav, said in the past eight years Amit has been involved in various crimes and has been to jail on several occasions. “On Saturday, a policed teams received a tip that the suspect was seen loitering near the railway tracks in Subhash Nagar in Ballabhgarh. We immediately formed teams and sent them to the spot to nab him,” she said.Faridabad commissioner of police, OP Singh, said the police team had asked him to surrender and even fired a shot in the air as a warning when he shot fire at them. The suspect, however, tried to flee from the spot and while running, he fell down and was nabbed by the police.The police recovered a country-made pistol and two live cartridges from the suspect’s possession of the suspect. He was taken on a two-day police remand after being produced before the duty magistrate on Sunday, said the police.“We have started a drive to get hold of all the proclaimed offenders, bail jumpers, and most-wanted criminals. Amit was one of them, and the teams were tracking his movement and his family members, and when we received a lead, we were able to arrest him,” he said.Singh said in the last one month, the Faridabad Police have arrested 49 proclaimed offenders, 56 bail jumpers, and 28 cases of burglaries were solved while 53 vehicle theft cases were traced.“Our aim is to provide a safe city to the residents so that they do not feel scared venturing out even late at night. We have intensified the day and night patrolling in all the areas and have asked people to install CCTV cameras in residential areas to keep a check on any illegal activity,” the commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-history-sheeter-arrested-for-killing-delhi-jal-board-s-employee/story-OrLgObOYNZyXJKoVPGF5ZP.html
10-08-2020||City||Lok Adalat held online||New Delhi: In a first of its kind in the country, the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) on Saturday organized the e-lok Adalat to facilitate mediation between the parties, who are willing to get their matters settled amicably, in all the District Courts Complexes of Delhi. In this e-Lok Adalat, cases pertaining to Motor Accident and Claims Tribunal (MACT) disputes, Civil recovery matters, cases of Electricity Act were taken up and settled, by providing technical support from SAMA – an Online Dispute Resolution (ODR) platform recognized by Department of Justice for resolving disputes through video conferencing.In the e-Lok Adalat, an online link would be sent by SAMA to the concerned parties and a judge would preside over the mediation process. Following the settlement, an OTP would be sent to them and on confirmation, the dispute would be settled.In Saturday’s e-Lok Adalat, 77 Benches were constituted wherein total 5838 cases were disposed of pertaining to various categories in which settlement amount was approx Rs 46.28 crores. Out of these, 612 cases of MACT were settled and the settlement amount was Rs 36.69 crores.In one of the cases, Additional Sessions Judge Sumedh Sethi also ordered a compensation of Rs 1 crore under the MACT.Additionally, 4183 cases of cheque bounce dispute were also settled during Saturday’s session.Following the success of the first ever e-lok Adalat, an accomplishment ceremony was conducted over video conferencing which was attended by Supreme Court Chief Justice NV Ramanna, Justice DN Patel, Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court and Justice Hima Kohli, chairperson of the DSLSA.Kanwaljeet Arora, Secretary, DSLSA, said that after event, another e-Lok Adalat with respect to only MACT and traffic challans would be set up considering the high rate of pendency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lok-adalat-held-online/story-6HtKmag2TJDKwAPJkYkm2L.html
10-08-2020||Gurugram||30 held for partying near Ggm-Faridabad Road||Thirty people were arrested on Sunday for partying close to the Gurugram-Faridabad and violating the ban on such activities during the Covid-19 crisis, said police.The police said they had received a tip that some people were partying in an area designated for off-road adventure sport. They were drinking liquor and playing loud music, police added.Police recovered three cases of beer and a case of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) from the spot, stored in their cars. Most of those arrested were residents of Delhi.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that they were cracking down on the illegal gatherings in public places and open spaces designated for parties across the city.“Out of the 30 arrested, 22 were men and eight were women. They were partying at the open space in ‘Off Road Adventure Zone’, which is illegal now. They had no permission to do so and did not have a liquor license from the excise and taxation department, which is a violation of the excise act,” he said. “We caught the offenders red-handed. Seeing police they tried to break the beer bottles and tried to flee but were caught.”The party was allegedly organised by a person named Harsh Gosai, a resident of Sector 46 who was also at the party, he said. When the police team asked him to produce permissions for the party, he failed to do so, following which he was also arrested.Off Road Adventure Zone is spread across four acres in the backdrop of the Aravallis on the Faridabad road. This place is known for enthusiasts to get their 4x4 machines out to test and have fun. There are 25 obstacles including a dirt track, extreme angle climbs and declines, slush pits, rock crawls, water wading with slush tracks, camel humps and much more have been designed for newcomers and veterans alike.But since the lockdown, the place had been shut, said police.An FIR was registered and the owner of Off Road Adventure Zone for allowing the party, said police, but is yet to be arrested. HT could not reach representatives of Off Road Adventure Zone for comment. All were booked under the disasters management act, and sections of the Indian Penal Code.Police said they had been receiving complaints that people were partying in Aravalis and in farm houses illegally, and have deployed teams to keep a close eye on such activities.Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said that they have identified more than 20 such places and strict action will be taken against those found violating the rules and regulations. “Partying is not allowed in the city yet and the pub and bars are yet not opened. Only the liquor shops are allowed to open with their original timings of 8 am to 12 am. The suspects were found inside the premises partying in full swing without any fear of contracting the coronavirus disease and violating social distancing norms.,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/30-held-for-partying-near-ggm-faridabad-road/story-O5WuCMvJGRW3wbMhsksnZL.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||Facebook, Delhi, Mumbai cops join hands to save man from taking his life||A coordinated effort between an Ireland-based official of a social networking site, Facebook, and officers of Delhi and Mumbai police on Saturday helped saving the life of a man in Mumbai who was allegedly contemplating to take his own life.The man, a resident of east Delhi, had gone to Mumbai after having an argument with his wife a fortnight ago. He started working as a cook in a hotel and living in a rented home in Bhayandar area, a suburb of Mumbai, said the officers in Delhi Police. The incident started around 7.51pm on Saturday, when deputy commissioner of police (cyber crime unit, CyPAD) Anyesh Roy got a call from Ireland. The operation lasted for around five hours and it involved as many as 50 officers from various units, including cyber crime cells of the Delhi and Mumbai Police. It all started at 7.51 pm on Saturday, “The caller, a Facebook official, informed me that their systems have identified activity that could be deemed alarming on a Facebook account belonging to a Delhi resident. She sent the details of the account on my official email. The details were that a woman’s Facebook account and had a mobile number registered with it,” said DCP Roy. Roy and his team immediately got cracking and traced the address attached to the phone number provided. The information was passed to DCP (east) Jasmeet Singh, who immediately sent the SHO of Madhu Vihar to the said address.“Our team was relieved when they found that the owner of the phone number, a woman, was completely fine and oblivious of the hue and cry that her Facebook account had caused,” said DCP Singh. But panic soon returned after the woman, on further enquiry, told the police that her Facebook account was being used by her husband, who had left for Mumbai a fortnight ago following an argument they had. She gave the police his contact number but was unaware of his residential address and the hotel in Mumbai where he was working as a cook.DCP Roy next got in touch with his counterpart in Mumbai -- Bal Singh Rajput and Dr. Rashmi Karandikar, DCP (Cyber, Mumbai). A team was formed to trace the man’s location, “Through technical assistance, our team members managed to get the man’s alternate phone number and his location was traced to Bhayandar area. I spoke to the man, who was in psychological distress and crying, and counselled him, even as a local police team rushed to the address. Around 1 am, the local police found the man safe,” said DCP Karandikar, when contacted on phone. “I am happy that we could save the man’s life. We are thankful to Facebook, its official in Ireland who alerted us on time about the man’s suicidal tendency and to the Delhi Police official, who in turn informed us about it. The operation was tough because we had limited information. The end result was heartening,” she added. A spokesperson for Facebook said, “We want Facebook to be a platform where everyone feels safe and empowered to communicate. Our Community Standards include policies on self injury or suicide. We have built these policies and enforcement approach with help from experts in suicide prevention and safety. When there’s risk of imminent harm, we work with emergency responders who can help. We also provide people who have expressed suicidal thoughts, or are worried for friends with such tendencies, with support options and resources.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/facebook-delhi-mumbai-cops-join-hands-to-save-man-from-taking-his-life/story-QStCmsoXD8EMtlYHvPTodJ.html
10-08-2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases rise in Uttarakhand, recovery rate plunges by 17 per cent||With a continuous rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Uttarakhand, the recovery rate in the state plunged by 17 per cent in the past one month, data released by government showed. In one month from July to August (till August 7), the state has witnessed a 17 per cent drop in recovery rate. On July 7, the recovery rate in the state was 81 per cent while it has come down to 63.42 per cent now. The recovery rate in the state is 4 per cent lesser than the national average. The three hilly districts of Rudraprayag, Almora and Tehri have recorded highest recovery rates in the state, while Udham Singh Nagar and Pithoragarh have recorded the lowest recovery rate. Anoop Nautiyal, from NGO Social Development for Communities Foundation, who has been analysing the Covid-19 data in the state said that hills are performing better in terms of recovery in the state, as opposed to the plains. “Recovery rates have dropped by 17 per cent during the last one month. On July 7 the recovery rate in the state was 81 per cent compared to 64 per cent on August 7. In general, hill districts have much higher recovery rates than plain districts in the state. However, the recovery rates in Haridwar have improved to 59 per cent from the lows of 33 per cent around two weeks ago on July 23,” said Nautiyal. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday during a review meeting on Covid-19 epidemic situation in the state with district magistrates and health department, released guidelines for home isolation of Covid-19 patients in Uttarakhand. “Home-isolation should be arranged as per the advice of doctors, following all the norms, however, priority should be given to treatment in hospitals and Covid-19 care centres instead of home-isolation,” said the chief minister. He added that testing of samples should be increased even more. The state has so far tested over 2.05 lakh samples while 9,200 results are awaited. “The surveillance system needs to be strengthened further in the state. Elderly, children and people with co-morbidities should leave their houses only when it is very necessary. Every effort should be made to improve the Covid-19 recovery rate and reduce the death rate in the state,” said Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/covid-19-cases-rise-in-uttarakhand-recovery-rate-plunges-by-17-per-cent/story-AQDRc4yqHpGjcl0eGCB39M.html
10-08-2020||City||Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah to remain closed till September 5||New Delhi: Hazrat Nizamuddin dargah, which is closed for the visitors since March in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, will re-open only after September 5, members of the shrine committee said.Altamash Nizami, member, Dargah management committee, said, “To ensure the safety of the visitors and pilgrims, the dargah will remain closed for the public till September 5. Besides, after the Markaz incident, we do not want another controversy in the area.”Nizami said the dargah management will follow the standard operating procedure issued by the central government while reopening the shrine for the followers of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya. “We have already installed automatic sanitiser machines at all the entry and exit points of dargah. We are also arranging thermal scanners to be used whenever the dargah will reopen. We will also assign volunteers to ensure social distancing norms,” he said.The dargah committee had earlier decided not to organise the annual Urs — the death anniversary of the 14th-century Sufi saint — this year in view of the pandemic. The Urs was scheduled between June 9 and 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hazrat-nizamuddin-dargah-to-remain-closed-till-september-5/story-OpfLvzNhDZHrqhoDREpSvM.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||Two wanted men arrested for ‘terrorising’ Najafgarh businesses||Police on Sunday said they arrested two men allegedly involved in several serious cases, including murder, attempt to murder, extortion and smuggling of illegal firearms, in the national capital region (NCR). Three pistols and 10 cartridges were recovered from them, they said.One of them, identified as 36-year-old Rishi Raj alias Lambu, had been extorting jewellers and property dealers in areas of southwest Delhi such as Najafgarh and Bindapur and would demand protection money, said senior police officers.“His associates, on his direction, would fire at shops and make extortion demands. His gang had committed three back-to-back firing and extortion attempts at two prominent jewellery showrooms in Najafgarh and a property dealer’s office in Bindapur on June 23. Two persons involved in the firing incidents were later arrested after a brief shootout on July 1,” said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse.DCP Alphonse said that Raj was wanted in a case registered under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). “A reward of ₹1 lakh was announced on Raj’s arrest,” said the DCP, adding that the other arrested man, 10-year-old Love Kumar Tomar was wanted by the Uttar Pradesh Police in a murder case and was previously involved in eight crimes.In December last year, the DCP said, Tomar’s friend Nishu was allegedly murdered by his step-mother and her brother over some dispute at their village in Uttar Pradesh’s Baraut . Tomar decided to take revenge and, within a fortnight, he and his associates went to the village and opened fire at the duo, killing the woman and injuring her brother.“While his associates were arrested by the UP Police, Tomar had been evading his arrest since then. He is a close associate of Raj and supplies illegal firearms and ammunition to him,” DCP Alphonse said.Officials said that Raj and Tomar were arrested on Saturday morning after they received a tip. Raj’s interrogation, an officer said, revealed that he was first arrested in 2004 in a theft case.In 2019 while lodged in Bhondsi jail, Raj came in contact with gangster Naresh Shetty and they planned to extort jewellers and property dealers in Najafgarh and adjoining areas. After Raj came out of jail early this year, Shetty arranged his key associates for him and execute the extortions.“The associates of Shetty and Raj fired at the showrooms to terrorise the owners. They used to throw paper slips containing names of the gang leaders and demanded ₹1 core or ₹50 lakh as protection money,” said an officer from the team that arrested Raj and Tomar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-wanted-men-arrested-for-terrorising-najafgarh-businesses/story-2PKclu9PphXUQA1ub6OdRK.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||Man rapes 16-yr-old girl in Delhi’s Netaji Subhash Place, arrested after three days on run||A 16-year-old girl was raped and attacked by a man known to her in northwest Delhi’s Netaji Subhash Place on Wednesday, a day after another 12-year-old had been sexually violated and brutally attacked in Paschim Vihar.The condition of the Paschim Vihar rape victim is stated to be critical as she undergoes treatment in AIIMS.In the Netaji Subhash Place case, police said they had arrested a 24-year-old suspect from northwest Delhi after three days of search. The man, police claimed, had taken the victim to a private hospital after the crime, got her admitted there and fled. The girl’s condition is out of danger, the police said on Sunday.Investigators said the suspect is a driver by profession and lives in the same neighbourhood where the girl lives with her parents. He had befriended the girl through a social networking site. The girl in her statement has told the police that she knew him for the past one month, said a police officer, quoting the girl’s statement.On Wednesday morning, the officer said, the suspect contacted the girl on her cellphone and told her that he wanted to meet, but she refused. Around 2pm, he came to her home and managed to convince her to come to his house on he pretext of discussing something with her.“At his home, he pushed her and raped her. When the girl sustained injuries and started bleeding, he panicked and took her to a private hospital, where the girl informed her mother on phone. He fled, even as the girl’s mother reached the hospital,” the officer, quoting her statement, said. The girl’s mother later informed her husband and they shifted their daughter to a government hospital, where she underwent a surgery.Police statistics show that 636 cases of rape were registered in Delhi till June 30 this year. Though, this figure is 338 cases less than what was reported during the same period last year, it is still alarming in a city that is infamous as the rape capital of India. Likewise, at least 813 molestation cases were lodged till June 30 this year, compared to 1,460 such cases in the corresponding period in 2019.On Tuesday, a 12-year-old girl was sexually assaulted inside her home before being stabbed multiple times with a pair of scissors by a 33-year-old man. The man, identified as Krishan alias Kakka, after being arrested, told the police that he entered her house with the motive to rob. The girl has already undergone a surgery and is expecting another surgery in AIIMS, where she has remained on ventilator support for nearly four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-rapes-16-yr-old-girl-arrested-after-three-days-on-run/story-q9MOwaoKJ7MXKdL4I83E4K.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi Fire Service hires 500 personnel on contract||For the first time, Delhi Fire Service (DFS) is hiring private firefighters on contract to make up for the lack of manpower. On Monday, 500 professionals from a private firm, trained in firefighting and carrying out rescue operations, will join the DFS, top officials said.Senior officers from the department said all the 500 personnel are trained and match the DFS’s standards of training in firefighting. The 500 were selected through a stringent process, they said.Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Service, said a firefighter should be able to bravely, and at the same time efficiently react to a situation when lives are at stake. “Even though these new cadets have been hired after a detailed process to check their proficiency in firefighting, they will be under continuous supervision of senior officers,” Garg said.Garg said this is the first time that DFS is hiring private firefighters. “It is a temporary arrangement. Despite recruiting around 600 men last year, we were still short of 706 firefighters. With these 500 men, we will be able to fill more than 80% of our vacancies.The process of recruitment is also underway. Because it is a long process, these contractual employees will fill in till the time the government’s recruitment is completed,” he said.“These men will play role of support staff for us. While our regular firefighters have a 24-hour shift, the contractual staff will have only eight-hour shift. We will provide them with all the safety gear, uniforms and other equipment when they’re at work. They will also assist our staff in maintenance of equipment and conducting awareness programmes,” Garg said.He said the contractual firefighters have been taken from the private firm, Digitek, via GEM (government e-market place) - a central government owned e-portal where common user goods and services can be procured. The DFS will pay the Digitek which will pay salary to its staff, he added.Former chief of Delhi Fire Service, AK Sharma, who led the department for six years between 2010 and 2016, said it is a good way to fill in for pending vacancies. “Since these professionals are already trained the training part is also done away with which saves DFS’s time and resources. DFS requires skilled professionals which have not been provided for long time. If the manpower requirement is being met using other avenues there’s no harm in this,” Sharma said.Officials at the Digitek did not respond to repeated calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-fire-service-hires-500-personnel-on-contract/story-cG0EtT3mVBaKCpxTio1iHJ.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||In revamped Delhi unit, AAP to have more workers on the ground||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday appointed new communication in charge in all seven Lok Sabha segments in the city, along with presidents and coordinators in 14 districts demarcated by the party and observers in all 70 assembly segments.The AAP had announced a comprehensive revamp of the party unit in Delhi with focus on the municipal elections which are due in 2022.“The restructuring of the party’s organisational structure is being done in the light of the municipal elections in 2022. Volunteers and party workers have been shortlisted on the basis of their performance in the 2020 assembly polls and covid management,” said Gopal Rai, the party’s Delhi convener and employment minister in the Delhi government.While the AAP has won three consecutive terms in Delhi government, it has failed to unseat the Bharatiya Janata Party in the three municipal corporations.Rai said the revamp exercise is being done in three phases. In the first phase, the party appointed presidents and coordinators in all 14 political districts, communication in charge in all seven Lok Sabha segments and observers in 70 assembly segments in the city.“In the second and third phases, more office bearers would be appointed in the 70 assembly segments and 272 wards in the city,” said Rai, adding that the primary agenda would be local civic issues, anti-corruption and the quality of primary education in schools under the municipal corporations.On Sunday, Rai announced names of those appointed under the first phase of the exercise.The Lok Sabha segment communications in charge and the district presidents would report directly to the top leadership of the party, of which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is the national convener. Assembly segment observers would report to the communications in-charge of the Lok Sabha segment concerned – each seven of them have 10 assembly segments under them. The district coordinators are primarily entrusted with being a helping hand to the presidents, senior AAP functionaries explained.As communication in charge in Lok Sabha segment, the party appointed Neeraj Kaushik (north-east), RR Pathania (north-west), Ranjit Singh (East), Vinod Kumar Piplani (New Delhi), Dipankar Pandey (South), Anil Malik (West) and Sandeep Lohan (Chandni Chowk).The appointed district presidents Narender Kumar (Karawal Nagar), Shahnawaz (Babarpur), Raj Shokeen (Badli), Dhanmender Kumar (Rohini), Munish Kaushik (Patparganj), Dr Sanjit Acharya (Shahdara), Dr Yuvraj Bharadwaj (Karol Bagh), Ramesh Jhankar (New Delhi), Rita Dagar Godara (Mehrauli), Dharmraj Bharti (Sangam Vihar), Alok Singh (Tilak Nagar), Surender Lakhda (Najafgarh), Sanjay Garg (Adarsh Nagar) and Zakir Khan (Chandni Chowk).Praveen Rai, political analyst with the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), said: “Avoiding confrontational politics with the top BJP leadership over the past few years, has already yielded dividends for the AAP. So the fight in the next municipal elections is likely to be tough. But, one must also note, the BJP has a very strong grassroots presence. For the AAP, the best thing now would be to ensure that the grassroots workers in the assembly, district and ward levels go door-to-door highlighting how their development agenda can help resolve civic issues under the municipal corporation’s domain and stress on the work which the AAP government in Delhi has done in Covid management. That can give them an edge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-revamped-delhi-unit-aap-to-have-more-workers-on-the-ground/story-2zEsx7IBq7RaX4EnfrxJrI.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police promise promotion to junior cops for tracing missing children||The Delhi Police have announced quick promotions to constables and head constables who will find missing children in a bid to incentivise and encourage efforts at reversing the trend of disappearance of kids in the national Capital. According to a report by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) released last year, 17 children go missing every day in Delhi and at least two of them remain untraced. As per police statistics, at least 22,567 children went missing in 2019 from across the city, of whom police traced 12,996(57.58%).To remedy the situation, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava on Friday issued an order, saying any constable or head constable who finds at least 50 missing children aged below 14 (of whom at least 15 children younger must be eight-years-old) in a year would be eligible for an out-of-turn promotion. HT has seen the order.  On Sunday, Shrivastava also tweeted about it. “In the last two months only, 724 children aged below 18 years, have gone missing. Of these 537 have been rescued. Those police officers who rescue 50 missing children in 12 months will be given out of turn promotions. It will help in preventing such crimes,” the commissioner tweeted in Hindi.Usually, constables are eligible for promotion after five years in service, that too only if they clear a test. If the person does not take the test, it takes around 10 years to become a head constable.A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said that two months ago, Shrivastava told the force that finding missing children must be a top priority at all police stations. During the weekly law and order meetings, all district police chiefs are asked about the untraced kids and the recovery rate of missing children in their area. “Of 724 children who went missing in June and July this year, we have traced 537. This recovery rate [over 74%] is far higher than the average. It will only increase after this initiative. The annual recovery rate is always around 50℅ every year,” the officer said. The police chief in his order also said those who recover at least 15 missing children below 14 years (of whom five children are less than eight-years-old) in a year, they would be considered for the Asadharan Karya Puraskar (AKP). Officials said the emphasis is on children below 8 because though more children -- especially those in their teens are reported missing -- the young ones(below 8) fall prey to trafficking gangs. In many cases police have found that those between 15-18 often leave homes on their own and refuse to return when traced by the police. The AKP is a medal awarded to city police personnel that also carries a cash reward of Rs 20,000. It is awarded to those who go beyond their line of duty by risking their lives or cracking complex cases.Many police officials said the initiative is intended to be a morale booster, because it takes several years for a constables or head constable to be promoted. Retired Delhi police officer Amod Kanth, who also runs Prayas — an NGO for children, said, “This initiative can get remarkable results because investigating missing children can help in recovering most. There is an award system among the police to track proclaimed offenders (fugitives), which has yielded remarkable results. This shows that a similar system will help in tracking children.”Proclaimed offenders are those declared fugitives by a court. In some cases, they carry a reward for their arrest. Sanjay Gupta, director, Chetna, an NGO that works for children’ welfare, said such incentives were welcome and would likely lead to an improvement in the number of missing children rescued from across the country. “If officials are encouraged, then we are sure to have a better rescue chances in missing cases. However, when being evaluated, all aspects of a police personnel’s work on the case should be considered. The case does not end at rescue, the police is also responsible for taking such cases to its fruitful end. An official should be judged on their overall performance in such a case; from filing the case report to sensitivity in handling the rescued children and busting the culprits,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-promise-promotion-to-junior-cops-for-tracing-missing-children/story-YStzkDQwTSdvjVOCWpX2hM.html
10-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi University kicks off online exams amid digital divide concerns||From arranging power backup to borrowing mobile devices, from moving to relatives or friends’ houses to planning a visit to neighbourhood cyber cafes, students of Delhi University (DU) are taking several measures to appear for the online open-book exams (OBE), which will begin Monday as a one-time measure in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite opposition from students and teachers, the University will conduct the exams between August 10 and August 31 for 240,000 final year students, including those enrolled with the School of Open Learning (SoL) and Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB). The University on Friday got the green signal from the Delhi high court to conduct the online tests. Amal K Simon, a final-year student of Ramjas College, said he and his friends are stuck in parts of rain-hit districts in Kerala and have tried to make arrangements to ensure their exams are not hindered. “Many of us have arranged power banks for mobile phones, because we face regular power cuts due to the rain. Many of my friends have moved to their relatives or friends’ houses in the city for better internet connectivity. I will go to my friend’s house on Monday morning because they have power backup and Wi-Fi,” he said.  Upon the HC’s directions, the University will give students four hours to complete the examination. Students will, within this time, have to download question papers, complete the test and scan and upload the answer scripts. Students with disabilities will get two additional hours to complete the exam instead of one. However, many students remain concerned over the feasibility of the exams. Mohit (who goes by a single name), 21, a final-year BA (prog) student at SoL, said the poor internet connectivity at his Sangam Vihar home does not allow him to even upload and email answer scripts. “I do not have a laptop at home, so I will either go to a cyber cafe or borrow my neighbour’s laptop,” he said. Hitesh Sharma, 20, a final-year student of BA (Hons) in Political Science at Rajdhani College, said he is stuck at his house in Jammu’s Kathua district. “We only get 2G connectivity here. It takes us so long to even download pictures on WhatsApp. How will I download the question paper and upload the answer scripts from here? My parents have not allowed me to go to the common service centre (CSC) due to the prevailing situation,” he said. CSCs are facilities created under the ministry of electronics and information technology for users to access government services online. Despite several attempts, DU dean of examination Vinay Gupta did not respond for comment. A member of the University’s examination department, who asked not to be named, said, “The university is prepared for the smooth conduct of the online examinations. We have appointed nodal officers in all colleges who will assist students. Students can approach them for help throughout the exam. The colleges and departments also have their separate email IDs, on which students can directly send PDFs of their answer scripts. Additionally, in case students are unable to reach these officials, the university has also issued a centralised email ID to help them out.” The official added that the OBE is “purely optional”. “It’s an opportunity for students to complete their course at the earliest. Students who can’t take the exams now will get an opportunity later to appear in the usual pen-and-paper exam.” Several colleges in the university also said they expect some students to make use of their information and communications technology (ICT) facilities during the exams. Pratyush Vatsala, principal, Lakshmibai College, said, “Some staff members will be in college from tomorrow to help students via email or over calls. We have also set up an OBE control room to assist students. We have received some requests from students for the college’s ICT facility to upload their question papers.” The University had asked the college principals to get applications from students who need ICT infrastructure for the exams. The students can inform the colleges beforehand and visit the campus to use their facilities. Some students, however, said they will still be left out. Deepak Gupta, 23, a visually impaired student pursuing and MA in English from St Stephen’s College said he could not arrange for a scribe. “I am stuck at home [in Bihar’s Rohtas district] due to the lockdown. The University administration had said they can only arrange scribes for students in Delhi. I could not find anyone to help me write an exam here. I have already cleared the PhD entrance test for IIT Delhi. I am scared of losing this opportunity due to the delay in getting my masters degree,” he said. DU faculty members too expressed apprehensions about the process. Pankaj Garg, an associate professor at Rajdhani College, said, “Students have faced a lot of problems in downloading question papers and uploading the answer scripts during the mock tests. Even though the university said it will conduct another round of exams for students who will not be able to attend now, their results will get delayed, which might affect many opportunities for them.” DU teachers association (DUTA) member Abha Dev Habib said, “Not even half of the students could register online during the mock tests and the university is still going ahead and conducting the exams. We just hope our students do not get demoralised if they aren’t able to write the exams now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-kicks-off-online-exams-amid-digital-divide-concerns/story-oed8ljy4FSvha3TMZD9x7I.html
10-08-2020||City||Cycling in Delhi rides high in Covid-19 era, but safety still a concern||Vipin Bhati (25), who works with a private firm in Delhi, is part of a cycling group and loves to ride long distances. Over the years, he has learnt how to negotiate high-speed traffic on roads, but many in his group find it difficult. “Negotiating high-speed traffic, especially at intersections, is difficult. While more people are cycling now, road safety is a concern,” he said. Delhi’s streets have seen a surge in cycle-use since lockdown norms were relaxed in mid-May, and increase that has brought provisions for cyclists’ safety under the scanner. Transport experts and cycling enthusiasts said measures should be taken to ensure the safety of cyclists and turn the “craze” into a “culture”. Shreya Gadepalli, who leads the South Asia Programme of Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP), said, “Cities should create a safe infrastructure for cyclists, especially in the aftermath of Covid-19.” A survey conducted by her team in May 2020 shows a 50-65% increase in cycling after the lockdown, especially for work trips. In response to strong citizen interest in cycling, the Union housing and urban affairs ministry in July this year launched the India Cycles4Change Challenge in association with the ITDP India Programme. While the Delhi government and other government agencies have planned projects to provide safe infrastructure to pedestrians and cyclists or NMTs on city roads, experts push for quick-fix measures to capture the trend. Pop-up bike lanes, traffic calming measures etc can be used to transform the roads and streets into safe zones for cyclists. World over cities such as Berlin, Milan, London, Rome and Paris have created pop-up bike lanes during Covid pandemic either by painting the lane or just by putting bollards along the length of the roads. Amit Bhatt, director transport, WRI India, “Dedicated lanes for cyclists along arterial roads should be developed. These pop-up bike lanes can be easily created like it. We, too, have been creating these dedicated pathways for years during monsoon for Kanwariyas. All we have to do is make it a permanent feature on our roads.” But government agencies currently have no plans for such immediate solutions. “As of now, we don’t have any plan to provide such solutions. We are working on redesigning seven arterial roads where adequate infrastructure will be created for pedestrians and cyclists,” said a senior official with the government’s Public Works Department. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently announced that the government will redesign 500 km of 100-foot-wide roads on the lines of those in European cities. The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) had started its ‘Smart Cycle’ sharing project in December 2018 with 500 bikes and 50 stations, and officials said demand has been returning to normal levels in the past two-and-a-half-months. “We were renting around 350 bikes (trips) daily during weekdays before the lockdown was imposed. Now, around 250 bikes are rented a day, which is almost 75% of our demand before the lockdown,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity. Similarly, in Vasant Kunj C4, several residents use the electric bikes by Yulu, which has set up around 70 zones around Metro stations and residential neighbourhoods. Aashish Sharmaa, joint secretary of Vasant Villas RWA in Vasant Kunj, said, “These are easy to use. Earlier, we used to take our cars to the local market. But now we can use this. It is an environment-friendly way of commuting.” Currently, there is around 100km of cycling infrastructure in the city, developed by various government agencies. But most of it lies in a state of neglect. The 10-12km stretch between Chhattarpur and Delhi-Gurugram border, for instance, has become mostly unusable due to waste strewn about and unrepaired effects of wear and tear. Vedpal, Aya Nagar councillor and a cycling enthusiast, said apart from the local villagers, there is a large number of people belonging to economically weaker sections who work in the service industry as guards, housekeeping, etc in the commercial establishments situated in the area or neighbouring Gurugram. “But people have to cycle on the main road and risk their lives. If this track is maintained well, it can benefit so many people,” Vedpal said. When contacted, a senior PWD official said, “We will get it checked and get the repair work done wherever it is required.” A Delhi government spokesperson said, “We want to develop the infrastructure for cycling in a planned manner. We have recently awarded work for redesigning 60km of roads where cycling infrastructure will be developed similar to what you have in European cities. Similar infrastructure will be developed on 500kms of road length in the next few years. There are 3-4 stretches where work to create NMT lanes is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cycling-in-delhi-rides-high-in-covid-era-but-safety-still-a-concern/story-ZyYEyYNu1aBTJnlBplHSHN.html
10-08-2020||Pune||DY Patil Dental college asks fourth-year students to appear in-person for final exams||In an order that came as a surprise to students, the management at the D Y Patil dental college in Pimpri have asked 83 fourth year students to return back to campus and appear for the final year exams later this month. The college has scheduled exams beginning from August 24 and have asked students to be quarantined before appearing for them. The students were asked to arrive in Pune on Sunday, August 9 to and be quarantined for 14 days. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageStudents have also been asked to conduct a Covid test before leaving their respective state. However, the students have opposed this decision and demanded online exams. On the other hand the Shiv Sena’s youth wing – Yuva Sena has filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court about the final year exams issue and the verdict is expected to be out today. The students have requested the college authorities to wait until the court’s order. The students have written a letter to the state government which is signed digitally by 63 students out of the 83 final year students. The letter says, “Pune has become an epicentre of the pandemic in India. Going to such a place makes us highly susceptible to the virus. We all have to take precautions and nothing is 100 per cent safe, but the college has not told our parents of alternatives and management strategies they have in case someone gets infected. Can the college handle 100 people in isolation? Interns there have been asked to leave due to the rising number of cases. Why is it different for us? Mess, accommodation, transportation are a few of the many things to be dealt with. Even if we are as careful as possible, our parents aren’t ready to leave us due to understandable reasons.” Students studying in the college come from across the country, one of the protesting student who hails from Delhi and does not wish to be named said, “Since we have got the notification about the final year exam from the college all of us have raised our various concerns before several government authorities and demanded for online exams. We are watching the news daily about the Covid condition in Pune it is very risky to travel to Pune right now. Even my parents are not allowing me to travel and so I have stayed back in Delhi.” Dr D Gopalakrishnan, dean of DY Patil dental college and hospital said, “We are also concerned about students’ safety and for that, a special Covid task force is made in our college as per WHO guidelines. Accordingly, all the exams are being held in our college and students have been asked to do a Covid test before joining back on campus. The decision to conduct exams is for the best interest of the students and for the last two months we are working on safety measures inside the college campus. Students have been given an option; those who do not want to appear for exams now can give it six months later.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dy-patil-dental-college-asks-fourth-year-students-to-appear-in-person-for-final-exams/story-ZMVShY29m5vA5kqFqPitqN.html
10-08-2020||Pune||Water stock in Pune’s four dams 65.05%; Khadakwasla at 94.08%||With light rain in the city and the catchment areas – the Khadakwasla dam is only 5.92 per cent away from completing 100 per cent storage. The Khadakwasla dam now has water storage of 94.08 per cent.There has been a good amount of rain in the last 10 days that have helped increase the water storage in all four dams that provide drinking water to Pune. The overall water storage percentage stands at 65.05 with Panshet at 65.92 per cent, Warasgaon at 55.16 per cent and Temghar at 45.05 per cent respectively. “For the next few days, light rain will continue in the city and catchment areas while isolated heavy rains are expected in the ghat region until August 15,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head India Meteorological Department, Pune. On Sunday, Panshet, Warasgaon received 17mm rain while Khadakwasla and Temghar received 4mm and 40 mm rain respectively. “The intensity of rain has reduced in the last few days that’s why Khadakwasla is taking time to complete its 100 per cent water stock,” added Kashyapi. The city registered very less rain as Shivajinagar received 1mm rain, Lohegaon received 4mm while Pashan received 3mm rain until 5: 30pm on Sunday. The maximum temperature on Sunday was 28.1 degree Celsius while the minimum temperature was 22.2 degree Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/water-stock-in-four-dams-65-05-khadakwasla-at-94-08/story-V4ibkAThlNxjKOCESNwvXL.html
10-08-2020||Pune||Sahakarnagar, Vadgaonsheri, Bibwewadi, Karvenagar emerge as new hotspots||Now in its fifth month of fighting the pandemic, the Covid map of the city is changing. Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar, Ahmednagar road-Vadgaonsheri, Bibwewadi Yerawada-Kalas Dhanori and Warje-Karvenagar are the areas with the current maximum number of active Covid-19 cases. All these areas were earlier orange zones and now are being turned into red zones. The new emerging hotspots are not concentrated in the centre of the city, but are spread across the Pune metropolitan region (PMR). Two wards in the city currently have a 1,000 active cases and three have at least 900. Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar has 3,306 progressive positives as of July 28 with 1,309 active cases. Ahmednagar road-Wadgaonsheri has 2,602 progressive positives and 1,102 active cases. Bibwewadi has 3,162 progressive positives and 958 active cases. Yerwada-Kalas Dhanori reported 3,233 progressive positives and 931 active cases; and Warje-Karvenagar has 2,971 progressive positives and 907 active cases. However, in terms of cumulative progressive positives, the maximum numbers are from Kasba-Vishrambaug wada, which reported 4,567 positives; Dhole Patil road with 3,798 positives and Hadapsar-Mundhwa at 4,025. The number of active cases in these wards has been going down with currently, the number being at between 500 and 600 cases. Saurabh Rao, divisional commissioner, said, “Almost all the wards are now throwing up more cases. It is not like earlier when cases were coming from only one particular ward. The localities from where these cases are arising are also changing, as not only slums, but posh areas are also reporting cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sahakarnagar-vadgaonsheri-bibwewadi-karvenagar-emerge-as-new-hotspots/story-cqSmJa1LKeA1taMi2Ih4iK.html
10-08-2020||Noida||Noida: Contractor falls to death from third floor in Sector 68A||A 24-year-old material contractor fell to his death from the third floor of an under-construction portion of a building in Sector 68A on Saturday night.The deceased was identified as Chetan Sharma, who was from Bulandshahr and worked as a construction material contractor. According to police officers, he was working on the scaffolding on the third floor of a private company’s manufacturing unit, a portion of which was being rebuilt, when he slipped and fell on the ground sustaining several injuries.“We were informed about the incident around 10pm on Saturday, but by then the construction workers at the site had already taken him to the district hospital where he was declared brought dead. His body was handed over his family following an autopsy,” said Amit Kumar Singh, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.“He was just removing a part of the scaffolding when he fell. Most of us had wrapped our work by then, but when he fell we rushed him to the hospital. His injuries were, however, severe and he didn’t make it,” said Raj Kumar, a construction worker.The SHO said the victim did not have any protective harness on him at the time of the incident.On Sunday evening, Sharma’s family members had gathered outside the site of the incident demanding compensation for the contractor’s death from the private company.“The victim’s family had gathered there for a while with the dead body demanding monetary compensation. The company owners agreed to pay the family Rs 5.8 lakh after which they left the site and took his body back to Bulandshahr. It was all worked out peacefully,” said the SHO.The police said that so far, no complaint has been filed in the matter, but a case will be registered if the family approached them with a complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-contractor-falls-to-death-from-3rd-floor-in-sector-68a/story-sCAnggeZTistZRWTrONNsK.html
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab governor’s principal secretary, 4 other Raj Bhawan staffers test positive for Covid-19||JM Balamurugan, principal secretary to Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore, and four other staffers of Raj Bhawan have tested positive for Covid-19. A two-day exercise of rapid antigen testing was carried out at Raj Bhawan, in which 336 people including Badnore, officers, security personnel and staff members were screened for Covid-19. Besides Balamurugan, four other staffers were found to be positive, though asymptomatic, said the official spokesperson. The remaining people, including the governor, tested negative.“All precautions including sanitisation of the entire Raj Bhawan and safeguarding the official premises have been taken as per the health advisories, protocol and doctors’ advice,” said the release. War room meetings likely via videoAmid this development, the Chandigarh administration is likely to discontinue daily war room review meetings that are chaired by Badnore, who is also the UT administrator, at Raj Bhawan. The principal secretary is a regular attendee besides the UT adviser, home secretary and director general of police. Other municipal, administrative and health officials participate via video conferencing. “In the wake of positive cases in Raj Bhawan, the administration is considering to discontinue physical meetings. Only meetings through video conference will take place. The final call will be taken by the administrator,” said a senior UT official. The meeting on Independence Day preparations, scheduled for Monday, is also likely to take place through video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-governor-s-principal-secretary-4-other-raj-bhawan-staffers-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-UQAcbHvg9D3Slc7nmwpOPP.html
10-08-2020||Pune||Pune district still awaits new collector, five days after Ram’s transfer order||The state government has not taken a call on the appointment of a new district collector for Pune, which is one of the worst-affected by Covid-19 pandemic, even five days after the transfer order of outgoing district collector Naval Kishore Ram came in. The Centre on August 4 issued transfer orders for Ram to join the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) as deputy secretary, leaving his post vacant. While Ram has stopped coming to office after deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar felicitated him on Friday, the administration is awaiting a new collector. Ram, a 2008-batch IAS officer, was appointed the district collector in April 2018. According to senior officials in the Maharashtra government, the announcement of the new collector is likely to be made in two days. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said that the appointment of the new collector will be made this week. “The deputy chief minister is well aware of the situation and he has clearly said that by Monday or Tuesday, the new collector will be appointed in Pune,” said Rao, who has also served as Pune district collector for over three years.Among those being considered for the post are Dr Rajesh Deshmukh, managing director at Haffkine and Yogesh Mhase, chief executive officer of Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada). Mhase was recently transferred to Mhada from the Maharashtra State Co-operative Marketing Federation Limited where he was the managing director. Other names being considered for the post are Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC); Suhas Diwase, Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) commissioner and G Shreekant, district collector of Latur. For the new district collector in Pune, one of the biggest challenges will be to rein in the rising Covid cases in the rural areas, which has started witnessing a spike in positives, especially after the lockdown was lifted. As of August 9, Pune’s rural areas recorded 8,183 positive cases and 209 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-still-awaits-new-collector-five-days-after-ram-s-transfer-order/story-X9QLREQT7gJFoScxnTL0IJ.html
10-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s Sancheti hospital gifts artificial limb to three-legged cow||In one-of-a-kind case, a three-legged cow from Chaufula, a village near Pune was gifted an artificial leg by the city-based Sancheti Hospital. The operation was conducted by a team of doctors at Sancheti hospital on August 2. The weak-looking abandoned cow was rescued by a shelter home for animals in Chaufula. The villagers then approached the prosthetic and orthotics department which makes artificial limbs for humans. The hospital operated on the animal and even offered free of cost treatment. Salil Jain, head of prosthetics and orthotics department at Sancheti Hospital where the operation took place, said, “We took measurements for the leg around two weeks back. My team studied the anatomy of the cow and then prepared the design for the leg. Designing for heavy animals is more difficult. The cow is able to stand and is walking slowly now. But it will take at least a month’s time for her to get adjusted with the artificial leg. Also, we are monitoring her movements and progress with the new leg.”Amar Jagtap, a farmer from a nearby village, who approached the hospital, said, “I often visit the shelter home for animals in Chaufula village. When I saw the cow she was very weak and she was having difficulty in walking too. After seeing her unfortunate situation, I thought of approaching the hospital. Other villagers also supported me. Now, we are examining the cow daily. We are informing about her daily movements to the hospital staff. I want to see her fit and walking with her four legs.”When asked about how difficult it is to perform the procedure on animals, Jain said, “Performing it on the animal is like doing it on a child. The animals cannot talk to you. You have to observe the animal for hours to see whether the animal has accepted the artificial limb or not and what kind of difficulties it is facing while walking. There is a need for more research in the field of prosthetics for animals. With such cases, we would be able to do more research and we can then perform them on more such needy animals in the future.”Parag Sancheti, chairman, Sancheti Institute of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation said, “The prosthetics are quite common on humans, they are very rarely performed on animals. Prosthetics for heavy animals is an uncommon thing and challenging task. Many trials and errors are needed for performing it on the animal. Around two years back, we had done it on a donkey with three legs. When we got success with the donkey, this year we voluntarily did it to help a cow. We wish to help more animals with similar issues.” Meanwhile, many animal rights activists have commended the hospital’s voluntary act. The activists mentioned that more and more research should be done to make prosthetics for animals. Manilal Valliyate, CEO PETA India, an animal rights organisation said, “We commend the hospital to extend the care for animals too. Prosthetic legs are tricky for large, heavy animals. Care must be taken to ensure it can suitably balance weight, however, this cow clearly has many well-wishers and so it appears that care will be extended to ensure her comfort. More such initiatives are needed in the country to ensure care for animals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sancheti-hospital-gifts-artificial-limb-to-three-legged-cow/story-ZyEkXS49WPciBV5EXsdmPK.html
10-08-2020||Pune||City’s fatality rate up from 1.67% in mid-July to 2.08 % on August 8||Pune city’s case fatality rate has gone up from 1.67 per cent in mid-July to 2.08 per cent as of August 8, according to the Pune Municipal Corporation data.The city has reported 484.3 deaths per million due to Covid-19. Pune, with a population of 31.3 lakh according to the 2011 census, has reported total 1,516 deaths till Saturday, as per the data.The city’s overall case fatality rate is now 2.3 per cent, while the district’s case fatality rate is 2.28% and the state’s average is 3.4%.Saurabh Rao, divisional commissioner, said, “The city’s case fatality rate is rising, but we hope that the number of cases will stabilise by August 25. However, the real worry is the rural parts of Pune where the case fatality rate is rising and the health infrastructure is poor, especially critical health care.”Rao also pointed out that the two jumbo facilities coming up at College of Engineering Pune (COEP) and Annasaheb Magar ground, will each ease the burden on existing health infrastructure.To bring down the number of deaths the PMC has even started an app, iHealWell. The app is dedicated to critical patients and shows real-time updates about the patients’ line of treatment which is later informed to the patients’ relatives by the PMC.The civic body also hopes that this will bring in more transparency to the billing system and the relatives will know the exact line of treatment and medications given to patients, which can be crossed checked during payment.After complaints from hospitals that this is an added pressure, additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal informed, “It is just for critical patients so if one hospital has five ICU beds then they need to fill in the information for only those five patients which need to be updated every eight hours. One entry takes just 30 seconds, I have personally tried it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-s-fatality-rate-up-from-1-67-in-mid-july-to-2-08-on-august-8/story-KTPygZ3pEf6sHdcPyE3j8N.html
10-08-2020||Pune||Liquor bottles, tobacco packets found at Nicmar quarantine centre||Liquor bottles and tobacco packets have been found by the civic authorities at the National Institute of Construction Management and Research (Nicmar) Covid-19 quarantine facility in Baner. According to officials, the sanitation staff at the centre had been providing these items to the admitted patients at higher rates. Sandeep Kadam, PMC’s assistant municipal commissioner and Baner-Balewadi ward officer, said, “It is an unfortunate incident. It was found that liquor bottles and tobacco packets were supplied to admitted patients inside the Nicmar quarantine centre. According to primary inquiry, the cleaning staff hired from a contractor and ambulance drivers were involved in it. Earlier too, such incidents were reported, however, only a warning was given to them. Now, we are going to take strict action against the people involved in this.” Dr Prakash Rokade, medical officer at Aundh Civil Hospital, said, “It is illegal to bring or sell such kind of things at the quarantine centre where all positive patients are staying. When a positive person consumes alcohol or tobacco it is definitely harms their health and if it affects his/her body adversely, then the medical condition of the patient will worsen.”Currently, several educational institutes and other private places like hostels, wedding halls and other residential houses have been taken over by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to serve as quarantine centres. At least 30,000 positive persons have been admitted to these quarantine centres or sent to home isolation, till date. This is the third time such incident reported from the centre, however, this time the security guards alerted the authorities. A security guard found liquor bottles and tobacco packets inside the two-wheeler of a sanitation worker during check on Saturday. Earlier, mineral water bottles, eggs and hot water had been sold at these centres illegally to the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/liquor-bottles-tobacco-packets-found-at-nicmar-quarantine-centre/story-v9WTO6yEQaEyowOzTmRRuK.html
