11-08-2020||City||Don’t hike fare, terminate bus service contract instead: Mamta Ashu||With the contractor of the city bus service failing to clear the pending dues and operating on the prescribed routes, the municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and councillor Mamta Ashu have directed the civic body officials to follow up the case in court and terminate the contract with the company.Sabharwal and Ashu conducted a meeting with concerned officials of the Ludhiana city bus service limited on Tuesday and slammed the authorities for seeking advice from the state transport department for increasing the fare of the city bus as demanded by the company.Mamta Ashu said, “The civic body had served a termination notice to the contractor last year as he failed to clear the dues running in crores. The contractor moved the court and a stay was ordered in the case. While the case is sub-judice, the MC officials rather than following up the case properly so that the contract could be terminated, are seeking advice from the transport department for increasing the fare as demanded by the contractor.”“Strict directions have been issued that nothing should be done to increase the fare and the court case should be followed properly to terminate the contract with the company. The buses are not being run on prescribed routes and are gathering dust at the depot. The contractor is also not clearing the dues then how can the MC increase the fare?,” questioned Ashu.The contractor has been demanding a revision in the fare for a long time and the matter was also put in front of the court during the ongoing case. Presently, the city bus service is being run only on the Clock-tower to Sahnewal route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-hike-fare-terminate-bus-service-contract-instead-mamta-ashu/story-vdm6gctsUOwt7rQYpJdHSM.html
11-08-2020||City||Ludhiana road rage: Woman suffers injuries after two groups open fire||Two groups of youngsters allegedly opened fire during a case of road rage in Golden Vihar of Rahon Road on Tuesday evening. During the incident, a woman suffered an injury as a bullet splinter hit her.The injured woman was identified as Anisha, 37. She was having lunch at her house. Her son Naseeb, 18, called on the police.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, East) Davinder Chaudhary said that the clash erupted after a car hit three persons riding triple on a scooter on Rahon Road.The scooter riders gave chase to the car and even indulged in a scuffle with six youths travelling in the car.According to the onlookers, both groups opened fire at each other, however, the police are still verifying this information as only one bullet shell has been recovered from the spot so far.The ACP added that during this incident, the woman who was sitting inside her house sustained a minor injury on her foot after a splinter hit her.The police have registered a case under sections of 307 (attempt to murder), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act against Kaka, Deepak Bangala, Prince, Rahul, Gurditta and their rivals Babbu, Badal and Bunty, all residents of Rahon Road. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-road-rage-woman-suffers-injuries-after-two-groups-open-fire/story-oT8EIN3hr94LG48AnS8T4J.html
11-08-2020||City||Samajwadi Party members protest against bad roads, burn effigy in Ludhiana||The members of the Samajwadi Party on Tuesday staged a protest against the state government and the municipal corporation (MC) over their failure in constructing three main roads leading to Giaspura area.The protesters burned an effigy and said that the roads, including PSPCL office road, Oswal road and a road at the backside of Avon Cycles, were in a pathetic condition for years, even after several inauguration ceremonies had been organised to commence construction work. Deep potholes lead to accidents every day and water-logging during the rainy season added to the woes of the commuters, they said.District general secretary of Samajwadi Party, RK Yadav, said, “The roads leading to Giaspura have been in a bad shape for a long time now. Large number of residents move on these roads on a regular basis including the factory labourers, who live in the Giaspira area. Several complaints have been given in the past as accidents also take place due to potholes and water logging. But the authorities are not paying heed to the problem.“Whenever the issue is raised, the civic body deputes two-three labourers at the site, but the roads remain the same. A complaint has also been forwarded to the chief minister’s office, also marked to the secretary of the local bodies department. We demand that the roads be constructed at the earliest for bringing relief to commuters and residents of the area,” said Yadav.Despite several attempts to reach him, the MC superintending engineer (bridges and roads department), Rahul Gagneja, was not available for comments.Councillor Jaspal Singh said, “Sewer lines are being installed at the PSPCL office road and the construction is underway. The contract of the Oswal road was awarded but work has not commenced yet due to which the company has been blacklisted, and work has been issued to another contractor. It will begin in a week or so. Further directions have already been issued to repair the road behind Avon Cycles and tenders are being floated for recarpeting it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/samajwadi-party-members-protest-against-bad-roads-burn-effigies-in-ludhiana/story-eCCS4Br5DziGeqxVdhSvJO.html
11-08-2020||City||Man dials 100, threatens to harm PM Modi||Noida: On alert ahead of Independence Day, the Noida Police on Monday arrested a 33-year-old man after he allegedly called up the emergency helpline number 100 and threatened to harm Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The suspect, Harbhajan Singh, lived in a rented accommodation in Noida Sector 66 and hails from Haryana. Ankur Aggarwal, additional deputy commissioner of police, Central Noida, said,“He had also threatened to create ruckus in the city. The Phase-3 police station swung into action and put his mobile on surveillance. In the evening he was traced and arrested from Mamura.” Police said that the suspect appeared to be a drug addict. Upon questioning he is learnt to have said that he used to work at a call centre till he lost his job a few months ago. “He also had a failed relationship and he was depressed,” said police. He was sent for a medical examination and reports revealed he was under influence of alcohol. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-dials-100-threatens-to-harm-pm-modi/story-KYFVsxsIgS4ZSumSLeeaON.html
11-08-2020||City||Punjab govt issues letter of intent to Plaksha University in Mohali||The Punjab government on Tuesday issued the letter of intent for setting up Plaksha University at Sector 101 in Mohali. Higher education secretary Rahul Bhandari said Reimagining Higher Education Foundation, New Delhi, and Manav Rachna International Institute, Haryana, are opening the university jointly. He said the government has issued the letter to the sponsoring body under Punjab Private Universities Policy 2010. Higher education minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said the university will start the 2021-22 academic session at Alfa IT City in Mohali, as its management has already started construction over 50.12 acre land allotted by the government. The minister said the establishment of this university would open up avenues of employment for thousands of people besides imparting world-class education to the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-issues-letter-of-intent-to-plaksha-university-in-mohali/story-fvP2lhgtPfM7wc6X4JQNWI.html
11-08-2020||City||Navi Mumbai chief warns hospitals not to overcharge Covid patients||Following several complaints of overcharging, inflated bills and denial of treatment by private hospitals and those run by charitable trusts, Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar has issued a special directive to them to strictly follow the instructions and guidelines given in the Maharashtra government order of May 21.Giving details of the order, Bangar said, “Every Covid hospital in the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) jurisdiction will have to be registered under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. All hospitals have to immediately start rapid antigen tests. If required, NMMC will supply the kits for the same. The hospitals will not be charged for it. In all hospitals, 80% of beds will be controlled by NMMC. The charges for the beds will be as per the specified government order. The availability of beds should be prominently displayed by the hospitals in the lobby of their main entrance.”The civic chief added that the real-time bed occupancy data of the hospitals will have to be updated on the NMMC dashboard. Bangar also warned that patients should not be denied admission to the hospital. “If the patient’s oxygen saturation is less than 95%, he should not be denied admission, even if there is no bed. Till the time a bed is made available elsewhere, the patients should be stabilised at the triage department and later shifted in an oxygen-equipped ambulance to another hospital. In case of the death of a patient, the hospital cannot stop the handover of the body to the family for non-payment of hospital bills,” Bangar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-chief-warns-hospitals-not-to-overcharge-covid-patients/story-jzGhvEvmOcMaiFOJUPVabN.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||BJP spokesperson, MC’s PA, pathologist among 212 test positive in Ludhiana||BJP’s chief spokesperson Anil Sareen, municipal commissioner’s personal assistant Deepak Goyal and civil hospital pathologist Dr Bindu were among the 212 people who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the district to 5,524. Among those who tested positive were six healthcare workers, seven police personnel, three pregnant women and three domestic travellers. The deputy commissioner said there were 1,653 active patients in the district at present. Around 647 patients belong to other districts and states. BJP chief spokesperson Anil Sareen confirmed on Twitter that he and his family had contracted the infection. He is home quarantined. Earlier, former district president Ravinder Arora, general secretary of district unit Sunil Modgil and treasurer Gurdev Sharma Debi had also tested positive for Covid- 19. As many as nine patients succumbed to the disease, all of whom, are residents of Ludhiana. The district’s death toll has touched 187. The virus has claimed 99 lives in 11 days. The victims are a 60-year-old man of Jassian, a 62-year-old woman of Haibowal, a 74-year-old man of Basant Avenue, a 87-year-old man of Tibba Road, a 78-year-old man of Shivala Road, a 66-year-old man of Purana Bazar, a 67-year- old woman of Gholati, an 83-year-old woman of Chandigarh Road and 58- year- old man of Sawekpur. MC OFFICIALS JITTERY Panic gripped the municipal corporation (MC) employees after the personal assistant (PA) MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal’s personal assistant Deepak Goyal tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday evening. As many as 16 MC employees, including a joint commissioner, superintendent, sub-divisional officer and sweepers, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus till date. While two sweepers - Vikram (Zone D) and Neeta (Zone C) - have succumbed to the disease, four including joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh and other sweepers have recovered. Goyal’s wife and two children have also tested positive. One of the employees, who did not wish to be named, said the employees had been demanding that the MC close its offices for the public. But the senior officials are not paying heed to the problem, due to which the number of cases are rising. Three MC councillors, including Rakesh Prashar, Manpreet Grewal and Sukhdev Sheera have also tested positive for the virus in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-spokesperson-mc-s-pa-pathologist-among-212-test-positive-in-ludhiana/story-aAGgs43SJQvy9PoZxP7BiI.html
11-08-2020||City||State’s first plasma bank suffers low turnout of donors||Noida: With few donors, the state’s only plasma bank in Noida could manage only three units of plasma since it was opened on July 25, even though there is high demand. The plasma bank was set up at the Rotary Club’s blood bank has a storage capacity of 10,000 units of 200 ml each. However, with recovered patients -- Gautam Budh Nagar currently has over 5,000-- hesitant to return to the hospital and donate their plasma, the blood bank is struggling to fill its quota. “Currently we have two units of plasma in the stock. Around 20 donors, who recovered from Covid-19 had turned up to donate, however, only three qualified due to health or age-related limitations. The donors contacted so far were reached through our personal sources,” said Ravi Chopra, managing trustee, Rotary club blood bank. The convalescent plasma therapy involves injecting antibodies from a person who recovered from Covid-19 into one who required critical care. Although experimental, the therapy has shown promise in helping people fight off the infection. The bank was set up to provide easier access to plasma after many patients and their families reported that they could not find matching plasma. A person can walk in with a proper prescription from a Covid-19 hospital and acquire plasma for treatment of their family members. A unit is priced at ₹10,500 for general patients, while it is free for pregnant women and below poverty line card holdersAt present, there are 169 patients admitted in two different L-3 (critical care) hosptials, of which around 15-20 are in the ICU.“We are getting all possible help from the administration, and we are working on acquiring the list of potential donors so that we can call them and motivate them to donate their plasma. We can also arrange pickup and drop facility for them,” said Chopra. According to the rotary club officials, there is a need to motivate potential donors. “Many patients who recover are hesitant in donating the plasma. They give different reasons or make excuses. There is a need to raise awareness that it’s completely safe to donate,” said Trilok Sharma, founder trustee, Rotary Noida blood bank. “There’s already an awareness program going on since past two months at GIMS and Child PGI under which recovered patients are motivated to donate plasma. We will soon start reaching out more potential donors to donate at Plasma bansk as well,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-s-first-plasma-bank-suffers-low-turnout-of-donors/story-AJwdqwbBhnRJPwTTfuOX6J.html
11-08-2020||City||Illegal arms suppliers’ arrest leads to discovery of gang operated from Baghpat jail||The Ghaziabad Police on Monday discovered a gang being operated by an inmate of the Baghpat Jail when they arrested two person from Tronica City area of Loni with illegal arms.Ghaziabad Police said they arrested Mohammad Amir and Mohammad Arif and recovered 12 illegal arms, including pistols and country made weapons, from their possession. “Upon questioning the two said they supplied arms to people in different districts of the national capital region upon the instructions from one Sarfaraz (single name) who is presently in Baghpat jail. We informed the Baghpat police and a team also went to the prison and recovered a mobile phone from Sarfaraz,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). Over 100 calls were exchanged between Sarfaraz and the two suspects over two-and-a-half months, said police officers privy to the investigation. Sarfaraz, a resident of Muzaffarnagar, was in jail since October, 2019 in connection with a murder case registered at Doghat police station. He also has cases of robbery, murder and Arms Act against him at different police stations in Baghpat and Meerut, said police. The Baghpat police has now registered an FIR against him under the provision of the Prisons Act. It states that a mobile phone was recovered from the toilet of barrack number 5 in the jail where the suspect is presently lodged. “We are investigating role of the suspect and also trying to find out from where the mobile got inside. A detailed investigation is underway,” said Dilip Singh, circle officer (Khekda – Baghpat). Prison officials from the Baghpat and Meerut division could not be reached for comment. Anand Kumar, director general (prisons), could not be reached as well. “The two suspects arrested by Ghaziabad police said that they supplied the arms for ₹15,000-50,000,” Jadaun, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-arms-suppliers-arrest-leads-to-discovery-of-gang-operated-from-baghpat-jail/story-EjJkVrT7ROojEIraaB7dyK.html
11-08-2020||City||Mohali MC unfazed as stray cattle rule roads||The roads of Mohali have become a safe haven for stray and domestic cattle these days as the civic body has not conducted any drive to remove the animals since March this year, given the pandemic.These animals, mostly seen on main roads, lead to traffic chaos and even road accidents. The commuters said the MC officials were not taking the issue seriously and there was no political interference either as the MC House had been dissolved in April this year.Every evening, one can see herds near the municipal corporation office in Sector 68. The other affected areas are Phase 11, Industrial Area Phase 9, Airport Road, Sector 76 to 80, Sector 82, and Phase 9. Meanwhile, at least five people have lost their lives in accidents involving stray cattle in the past one year.In the last five years, at every House meeting the issue of stray cattle is raised and the officials resolve to make Mohali a ‘cattle-free’ city, but the ground reality is different. In the last one year, not even a single effective drive has taken place. There are an estimated 2,000 stray cattle in the town and officials have been able to catch only 200 animals in one year. This, when every year the civic body collects ₹50 lakh cow cess.Former deputy mayor Manjit Singh Sethi said, “In August 2018, the civic body had even increased the fine from ₹5,000 to ₹20,000, but again in September last year, the fine was slashed to ₹5,000. The MC had even decided that apart from the fine, the owner will have to pay ₹500 per day per animal for its fodder, but not a single owner has been penalised. And no wonder, since the MC has just one truck and a staff of three to deal with the menace.”Sham Lal, chief sanitary inspector and in-charge of stray cattle catching drive, said the drive could not be conducted due to Covid-19, and they were short on staff, too.In March this year for the first time, the MC roped in a Rajasthan-based private firm to catch stray cattle and even signed an agreement with them, but the work has not begun. Even though MC officials have been claiming that they have lodged cases against cattle owners for leaving their animals on the streets, no record is available with the civic body.MC has one gaushala in Industrial Area, Phase 1, with a capacity of 700 animals and it is full at the moment. Four years ago, there was a proposal to make a new cattle pound, but nothing was done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-mc-unfazed-as-stray-cattle-rule-roads/story-6mtWuBCumneEeAOhASDHxM.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Covid curve bends downward?||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has steadily dipped since July, an indication that the city’s coronavirus curve could be “bending downward”, according to health experts. Active cases are calculated by deducting the number of recovered patients and fatalities from the total Covid-19 infections in Mumbai. As of Tuesday, there are 18,887 active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, and 99,147 patients have recovered with the city’s recovery rate at 79.17%. The number of active cases stood at 29,175 on July 1. By mid-July, they had dropped to between 22,000 and 25,000, with 24,307 active infections reported on July 16 and 22,888 on July 15. The tally further dipped to 20,731 on August 1. The recovery rate in the city, during the same period, has risen from 56% on July 1 to 70% on July 15 to 76% on August 1. “Definitely the curve of the infection has bent. All private and public sector hospitals being involved in Covid care has made a huge impact. We are past the peak, and we can see a trend where a decline [of daily cases] is happening. Initially, it [cases curve] was stable, now it’s bending down. We can hope that in the next two to three weeks it will further dip. This is despite the open testing policy and the city being partly unlocked,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, senior doctor and a member of the task force formed by the Maharashtra government in April to control Covid-19 fatalities in the state. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) Covid-19 dashboard, as of Monday, the city had 19,718 active Covid-19 cases. Of these, 66% of patients were asymptomatic, 29% of patients had symptoms, and 5% were critical. Fewer active cases in Mumbai have also resulted in availability of beds for serious and critical patients, said Brinelle D’Souza, co-convener of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, Mumbai. “Policymakers were earlier worried how Mumbai’s medical infrastructure would handle a sudden surge in cases, as was predicted in the beginning. The city now is equipped to handle a rise in cases, and fewer Covid-19 cases will ensure more beds will be easily available,” D’Souza said.As of Monday, 51% of the total 20,162 beds available to treat Covid-19 patients, in hospitals and jumbo facilities across the city, were unoccupied. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of health department in BMC, said, “The trends show that BMC’s interventions are working.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-curve-bends-downward/story-YHFva3ZfbnCk2cChocOJIL.html
11-08-2020||City||Greater Noida authority expedites work on Ganga water project||The Greater Noida authority said it has expedited work on the Ganga water project and expects the civil work on the project—which has missed several deadlines— by September.The authority has expedited the work so that it can start supplying water from the Ganga river to Greater Noida residents this year, officials said.“We have fixed September end, 2020 as the date for completion of civil work on the Ganga water project. The authority wants to finish the work at the earliest so that the residents can start getting better quality drinking water as soon as possible,” Deep Chandar, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority, said.In the absence of water supply from Ganga, all the residential, commercial, and industrial sectors in the city depend on the groundwater that is salty, the officials said. The authority aims to will supply 210 million litre daily (MLD) Ganga water under this ambitious project. As of now, its 10 lakh population depends on groundwater for all their water requirement.“When we decided to buy a flat in Greater Noida we thought we will get good quality drinking water. The authority used to advertise that they will deliver drinking water from Ganga river, but now we have to depend on the groundwater which is salty and does not taste good at all. We hope that this year the authority will fulfill its promise and start supply Ganga water,” said Vivek Raman, president, Greater Noida entrepreneur association.The authority said it is about to finish work on 17.9km long pipeline needed to bring Ganga water from the Masuri-Dehra Ganga Canal to the water treatment plant in the city that is under construction in Palla village of Greater Noida.The ₹291.77 crore Ganga water project was started in 2010 and was scheduled to be completed by 2013 but has missed several deadlines since then. In April 2016, the authority had set March 2018 as the revised deadline for the project, but work again got delayed. The authority is now sure that it will be able to supply Ganga water to residents this year as there are no more hurdles that could delay the project. Farmers, whose land was coming up in the way of the project have already agreed to give their land to the authority, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-authority-expedites-work-on-ganga-water-project/story-SudJXh6P1IS1GphYA3QO0K.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||More than 700 have been administered plasma therapy for Covid-19 in Delhi||More than 700 Covid-19 patients in the national capital have been administered convalescent plasma therapy plasma therapy one-and-a-half months since the country’s first plasma bank was set up at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Science at Vasant Kunj. Two other dedicated Covid-19 hospitals — Lok Nayak and Guru Teg Bahadur — that had set up banks will now also provide convalescent plasma to those admitted in other hospitals, starting Wednesday. Either the patients or the hospital will have to provide a replacement donor or an undertaking of providing one at the earliest. Convalescent plasma therapy uses the blood component plasma that has virus-fighting antibodies from a patient who has recovered from Covid-19 to a person still fighting the infection to aid their immune system. According to data provided by the Delhi government, 710 units of convalescent plasma have been issued to patients from other hospitals so far — 388 to patients over the age of 60 and 322 to patient below that age. The youngest to have received plasma from the government bank was 18-years-old and the oldest was 94-years-old. The gender-wise breakup of the data shows that among the recipients 522 were males and 188 female. Several studies have shown that men are at a higher risk of dying of Covid-19 because of higher levels of ACE-2 receptors that the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes the disease, uses to enter cells. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said plasma therapy plays an important role in reducing the death rate among Covid-19 patients until a vaccine is available. He said it has shown encouraging results in recovery of critically ill patients and should be looked at as an effective treatment for Covid-19. An interim analysis of the clinical outcomes of 30 Covid-19 patients at the All India Institute of Medical Science found that the number of deaths remained the same among those who received convalescent plasma and those who didn’t. A large study of 20,000 patients spearheaded by the Mayo clinic in the United States found the therapy to be safe, it did not establish efficacy of the therapy. A study from China in April showed that there was improvement in clinical parameters such as oxygen saturation in patient who received the therapy, but the scientists noted that larger studies were needed to prove the effectiveness of the therapy. “However, none of the studies so far have shown mortality benefit of this therapy, or any other therapy for that matter. However, we have seen that it reduces the severity and the recovery time for the infection,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/more-than-700-have-been-administered-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19-in-delhi/story-QnyXABzPbDFEFqHzi9he1M.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||LIP stages protest outside police commissioner’s office, burns effigy of MP Bittu in Ludhiana||Accusing that the police commissioner (CP) was working on the directions of Congress member of parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu, the members of the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) held a protest outside CP office on Tuesday, seeking addition of appropriate sections of the IPC to the FIR registered against Congress leaders for allegedly attacking the LIP leaders outside the MP’s house on August 8.Heavy police were deployed outside the CP office, which is anyway closed till August 13. An effigy of MP Bittu was also burned.Lambasting the police department for supporting Congress, LIP president and MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains announced that they will protest outside the house of CM Captain Amarinder Singh and interim chief of Congress, Sonia Gandhi, if appropriate action was not taken.“A video of the entire incident went viral and it is clear that Congressman attacked LIP workers led by in-charge of Gill constituency, Gagandeep Singh (Sunny) Kainth, and tossed their turbans, while they went to protest outside the house of the MP seeking installation of ventilators at the civil hospital. But the police have not added the sections of hurting religious sentiments even when the turbans of LIP leaders were tossed. Even derogatory remarks were passed on the caste of LIP leader Sunny Kainth. Rather the police registered a cross FIR against the LIP leaders,” said Bains.Bains also alleged that the SHO of division number 8, Jarnail Singh, worked in cahoots with Congress. The SHO had refuted the allegations.MP REFUTES ALLEGATIONSMeanwhile, MP Bittu refuted the allegations and instead alleged that the LIP workers had conspired to attack Congressmen. “I was not in the city that day and did not even know that LIP was coming for a protest. In a video that went viral, an LIP worker could be seen with a kirpan in his hands. The police had to take action as per law.”The police had registered a cross FIR after Congressmen allegedly attacked the LIP leaders outside the house of MP Bittu on August 8 and both the parties entered into a brawl. The FIRs have been lodged under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (likely to spread the infection), 323 ( voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code. Former district president of Youth Congress, Rajiv Raja, Congress supporter Abbas Raja among others have been booked on the complaint of Kainth. Sunny Kainth and others have been booked on the complaint of Congress supporter Tarwinder Singh. The LIP had announced that the party will protest outside CP office if sections were not added in the FIR against Congress leaders till Tuesday. Despite attempts to reach CP Rakesh Agrawal and ADCP Sameer Verma, they were not available for comments.SHO, division number 5, Richa Rani said, “An FIR has been registered against MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains, MLA Balwinder Singh Bains, Gagandeep Singh ‘Sunny’ Kainth among others under Section 188, 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) of the IPC and Section 57 (penalty for contravention of any order regarding requisitioning) of the Disaster Management Act.”SOCIAL DISTANCING NORMS WENT FOR A TOSSSocial distancing went for a toss as hundreds of protesters gathered outside the CP office on Tuesday. Even Bains was not wearing a mask.CONGRESS ALSO SEEKS FIR FOR HURTING RELIGIOUS SENTIMENTSMeanwhile, the members of Youth Congress have also sought addition of Section 295A for hurting religious sentiments in the FIR registered against LIP leaders on the complaint of Congress worker Talwinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lip-stages-protest-outside-police-commissioner-s-office-burns-effigy-of-mp-bittu-in-ludhiana/story-szhJHsIkrzg4PaDNj6na5J.html
11-08-2020||City||Gautam Budh Nagar took 11 days to reach from 5,000 to 6,000 Covid-19 cases||NOIDA The Gautam Budh Nagar district, which had reported its first Covid-19 case on March 8, took 155 days since then to reach 6,000-mark on August 10, according to an analysis of the state government data. While the first 1,000 positive cases came after 99 days, the district took 11 days for the tally to progress from 5,000 to 6,000. However, it took only 10 days for the number of positive cases to rise from 3,000 to 4,000 in the district . According to the government data, no death of Covid-19 patient has been reported in GB Nagar district after August 1. As a result, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the district has been reduced to 0.71%, which is much better than state CFR of 1.67%. With 5,041 cured patients, GB Nagar stands second in terms of discharged patients after Lucknow’s 6,904. However, in terms of fatality rate and active cases, it is much better positioned than Lucknow. While the fatality rate of GB Nagar (43 deaths till August 10) is 0.71%, Lucknow (149 deaths) has a fatality rate of 1.11%. Similarly, while GB Nagar has 632 active cases, Lucknow has 6,337 such cases. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the fatality rate has gone down drastically. “The data indicates that our recovery rate has been increasing day by day. Since August 1, no fresh death due to Covid-19 has been reported in the district. Not only that, GB Nagar has the lowest mortality rate among the districts of the state, which have reported over 3,000 positive cases so far,” he said. Suhas also said that several measures are being taken to increase the surveillance and minimize the fatality rate. “Due to continuous effort of our doctors and paramedics, over 84% of the total positive cases have been cured. Plasma therapy has been used successfully by GIMS, and recently a private plasma bank has been set up in Noida, which will also provide free plasma to poor patients,” he said. The DM further said that since July, GB Nagar’s testing rate has been one of the highest in the national capital region. “We are testing more than 3,000 samples per day, which translates to 1,500 per million a day. Previously, when the infection rate had gone up, we had reached positivity rate of up to 15% or more. But, now due to extensive containment, testing and isolation, it has reduced significantly to around 5%,” he said. Meanwhile, the GB Nagar health department has closed down all general and private quarantine wards in the district. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that since the results of rapid antigen kits come in a few minutes, the patients are either sent to different Covid-dedicated hospitals or their homes. “Earlier, we use to keep all the persons, who had come in contact with the infected people, in seven days’ mandatory quarantine in these wards. But now, after testing negative through rapid antigen tests, we send them back to their homes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gautam-budh-nagar-took-11-days-to-reach-from-5-000-to-6-000-covid-19-cases/story-yEhJQi7mLWyFKJIU58ED4N.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Masked men steal 2 cars, motorcycle at gunpoint in Ropar, Kurali, abandon them later||Officials of three police stations at Kurali and Rupnagar were left baffled over a mysterious case in which two masked gunmen stole a sedan, a sports utility vehicle (SUV) and a motorcycle on Monday in the Kurali and Ropar areas and abandoned them later.Sources who did not wish to be identified said two gunmen, one wearing a mask and the other with a cloth covering his face, stole the bike first and then the other two cars within a span of 50 minutes before disappearing, leaving the police groping in the dark 24 hours later.The sequence of events pieced together reveal that the men first stopped a Splendor Pro motorcycle (PB 65-P-6908) driven by Nadeem Ahmed near his village Lakhnaur at around 2 pm. They then threatened him with a gun, pushed him and fled with the vehicle.Minutes later, they left the bike and carjacked a Dzire (HR 99-ABY-8303) near a liquor vend at Charheri village on the Kurali-Ropar bypass road from Pardeep Kumar, a resident of Phase-7 here, and drove towards Ropar. The, while approaching the Bheora village bridge, they snatched a Toyota Fortuner from Ramandeep Singh, a resident of Ghandoli village, at around 2.50 pm. After driving towards the village roads to avoid the toll plaza on the highway and reaching Bindrakh road near a river, they abandoned the SUV and fled from the spot. Officials at the Sadar and City police stations in Kurali and the Sadar police station in Rupnagar later recovered the vehicles and registered three separate cases under Sections 392, 411, 382, 34 of the Indian Penal Code and 25, 27-54-59 of the Arms Act. Police teams of both the districts were scrutinising CCTV camera footage at various spots to trace the miscreants.Call dumps of the crime spots have also been lifted, but no leads have been found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/masked-men-steal-2-cars-motorcycle-at-gunpoint-in-ropar-kurali-abandon-them-later/story-qETNE1vVV3giommyfOz7ZP.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh I-Day celebrations to be low key, without parade, children’s programme||Chandigarh: With no march past, cultural programmes by school children or an ‘at home’ gathering at UT administrator VPS Badnore’s residence, Independence Day celebrations will be low-key this year because of the spurt in Covid-19 cases in the city.Only 50 people will be part of the function, it has been learnt.According to home ministry guidelines, no children or senior citizens will be allowed to attend the events. Consequently, the tradition of cultural programmes by schoolchildren will be discontinued. Also, instead of inviting freedom fighters to the Parade Ground, UT officials will go to their homes to present them shawls.Ceremonies to be observed are unfurling of the National Flag, guard of honour, singing of the National Anthem, and speech by Badnore, said a senior UT official.The administration, which had earlier decided to honour Covid-19 warriors at the official event, has now changed plans even though names of such people had been sought from heads of departments (HODs).Only five to six persons will be handed over certificates of appreciation while the rest will be given medals and certificates by their HoDs at their offices.Preventive measures such as social distancing will be strictly followed during the ceremonies where large congregations will not be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-i-day-celebrations-to-be-low-key-without-parade-children-s-programme/story-s3iOxuEOwZizBSCnzD9gPJ.html
11-08-2020||City||Six of nine quarantine centres vacant, but administration against shutting them||Out of nine government quarantine centres in Ghaziabad, six have no patients under their care, HT has found. Officials of the six centres, however, said that none of the facilities will be shut down but will be in a state of readiness in case the number of cases spike in the future.. All the nine government quarantine facilities are for close contacts of Covid-19 patients who are required to be kept separate and tested after their contact with a positive case. According to official figures, a total of 1,417 people have been to the quarantine facilities since March. Of these, at least 1348 were discharged till August 10, while 69 continue to remain admitted. “Nowadays, we are admitting close contacts of positive patients to quarantine facility in order to get them tested. Such people are kept in the quarantine facility for about 2 to 3 days and discharged once their test reports are received. If they test positive, they are sent to an appropriate Covid facility, else they are allowed to go home,” said an officer from the health department. “Majority of those in the quarantine facilities are getting tested through RT-PCR test for better confirmation of their health status. The number of people in these government quarantine facilities have gone down ever since home isolation was allowed,” the officer. Earlier in May, the UP government had issued directions and allowed 14 days of home quarantine for close contacts of Covid-19 positive patients if they fulfil certain conditions. The order said that those having bigger houses that had more than one toilet may be allowed to remain in home quarantine, provided they follow norms and also give an undertaking. According to official figures, 69 people continue to remain admitted at three centres located at Govindpuram, Lal Kuan and Delhi-Meerut Road. “The numbers of those admitted to facility quarantine has come down sharply. Still, we will not be shutting down the empty centres as a need for them may arise in future. If we close the centres, it takes time and resources to make them operational once again. So, we have decided that the operation will be suspended but not fully shutdown,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Like the facility quarantine centres, the L1 hospitals are also seeing a decline in number of patients after home isolation was allowed by the government on July 20. According to official figures till morning of August 11, the district had 966 beds at L1 hospitals and allied Covid care facilities. Of these, 898 beds were vacant. Home isolation is meant for asymptomatic patients who were earlier required to remain in L1 Covid hospitals. After home isolation was allowed by the government, at least 445 patients applied for the same, of which the requests of 421 patients had been approved till August 10. Of these, 261 were discharged while 153 are still under home isolation. Of the total patients under home isolation, 23 were also referred to different Covid facilities after their health condition deteriorated. “Once the patients under home isolation recover after 10 days, they are marked as discharged. .The decline in number of patients under government’s facility quarantine centres came after the revised guidelines for home quarantine arrived in mid of May,” the officer quoted above, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-of-nine-quarantine-centres-vacant-but-administration-against-shutting-them/story-OS4r6N1dL3UAmTIhJq7v1L.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Eight new virus deaths in Delhi, fewest in nearly three months||Delhi on Tuesday recorded eight deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the lowest single-day fatalities for the city in nearly three months. This is the first time since May 19 that daily deaths have dropped to single digits.So far, 147,391 people in Delhi have been infected with Sars-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — and 4,139 people have died. This puts Delhi’s case fatality rate (CFR) – the proportion of deaths among those diagnosed with the infection – at 2.81%. To be sure, this is much higher than the national average of 1.99%.“Today there were 8 deaths due to corona in Delhi. After many days fewer than 10 deaths have happened. We have taken several steps to reduce the number of deaths due to corona. Our effort is to have no deaths. For us every life is precious,” said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a tweet.The highest single-day deaths in Delhi were lodged on June 16 when 437 fatalities were added to the daily bulletin. However, 344 of these deaths had occurred in the past and were being reconciled after being vetted by a three-member death audit committee.The Delhi government had started reconciling the data on the deaths due to Covid-19 being reported from the city May 12 onwards after news reports highlighted that the cumulative number of deaths in the daily bulletin were much lower than deaths reported from hospitals treating Covid-19 patients.Meanwhile, the Capital has one of the highest testing rates in the country. As of Tuesday night, over 1.2 million samples have been tested in the city, placing the testing per million at 64,412. In comparison, the national average is 19,643.Delhi is also the only region in the country that has seemingly managed to turn a corner in the battle against the pandemic in the country. While cases at the national level have a doubling rate of 24.2 days, this number for Delhi is significantly better — 84.4 days. City hospitals started reported a surge in Covid-19 cases (and subsequently deaths) during the second half of June. Since then, the Delhi government has significantly scaled up the city’s intensive care facilities by creating more ICU beds in its hospitals – Lok Nayak, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality and Guru Teg Bahadur hospital.“The number of deaths due to Covid-19 has gone down because we now know that early admission in the intensive care unit and providing oxygen therapy helps,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital – Delhi’s biggest Covid-19 treatment facility. In June — after the centre stepped in to manage the crisis in Delhi – Union home minister Amit Shah had said almost half the deaths in the hospitals were happening within 48 to 72 hours of admission, meaning that patients were reaching hospital later than needed. This, experts had said, was due to a phenomenon called ‘silent hypoxia’, or ‘happy hypoxia’, where patients do not have breathlessness or other symptoms despite having low oxygen saturation.Provisions were also made to give pulse oximeters to those under home isolation to prevent deaths that were happening because of late admissions. On June 13, the Indian Council of Medical Research also allowed the use of several therapies – including Delhi government’s flagship plasma therapy – for experimental use in Covid-19 patients outside of clinical trials. Hospitals have reported use of steroids, plasma therapy and drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab have helped in reducing Covid-19 mortality. The government opened the country’s first plasma bank at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Disease (ILBS), Vasant Kunj on July 2 to aid patients in getting blood-type matched convalescent plasma. In July end, to further reduce mortality, the Delhi government also set up four panels to inspect 10 hospitals that were reporting higher number of deaths and suggest remedies. Equipping Covid-19 wards with more high-flow nasal oxygen systems, scaling up plasma therapy administration in earlier stages of treatment, early transfer of severe patients to intensive care units (ICUs), and preparing for a ICU bed augmentation strategy for a potential second wave of the pandemic were some of the steps suggested by the committee reduce deaths.“Over the last few months, we have learnt to better manage Covid-19 patients. We now know that the patients tend to do better when put on high flow oxygen therapy rather than on a ventilator. Earlier, when the condition of the patients deteriorated they were put on ventilators and the outcomes were worse. We also know that early intervention helps. Be it plasma therapy or other drugs, these are being given to patients early on to prevent a high viral load that throws the immune system off track causing a cytokine storm (a condition where a hyper active immune system attacks the body itself) that leads to multi-organ failure and death,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor of pulmonology at Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/eight-new-virus-deaths-in-delhi-fewest-in-nearly-three-months/story-wJSwM402oCXmKwGl4HwOfJ.html
11-08-2020||City||Gzb reaches 6,000 Covid-19 cases||Ghaziabad The district, which has witnessed a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases since June 1, crossed the 6,000-mark on Tuesday. According to the figures of the state control room, every subsequent lot of 1,000 positive cases in the district has come in a span of seven to 12 days. Health department officials said that the district is yet to see a declining trend. Ghaziabad reported a total of 6,007 positive cases till Tuesday, with 65 deaths, as per the daily health bulletin released by the state government. Now, the district has 1,014 active cases while 4,928 patients have been discharged at the rate of 82.16%. The first case was reported on March 5 in the district, while the tally of first 1,000 cases reached on June 23 in a span of 110 days. However, it took just 49 days for the tally to rise from 1,000 to 6,000 cases. “There has been a spike since June when the activities opened up under Unlock 1. According to the figures, every lot of 1,000 cases since June is coming in at a fast pace and in a span of 7-12 days. Still, we don’t see any declining trend,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named. “The relief is, however, in terms of asymptomatic patients who account for about 70-75% of total cases in Ghaziabad. The overall Covid-19 cases in the country are also on the rise,” the officer added. Till May 31, the district had only 305 positive cases while the tally shot up to 1,615 till June 30 and further up to 4,937 till July 31. After the first 1,000 cases were reached in span of 110 days, the next 1000 cases (total 2000 cases) arrived in 11 days while the next 1000 (total of 3000 cases) came in another seven days. From figure of overall 3000 cases the next 1000 cases (total 4000 cases) came in nine days while next 1000 (total of 5000 cases) came in next 12 days. The figure of next 1000 cases (total of 6000 cases) was reached in another 10 days.District administration officials said that they are working on the early detection of symptomatic cases. “The cases are increasing at a constant rate. Our primary target is to continue with the present rate of testing and make sure that symptomatic patients and those having co-morbid conditions are detected early and placed under treatment,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “Despite rise in the cases, we have worked hard to considerably reduce the fatality rate after a major surge in June. We will also be observing the trend in Delhi as major part of our population goes to Delhi and other NCR areas for work. Our trans-Hindon localities got affected by the cross-border infection.The current rate of testing (2,500 to 3,000 a day) will continue, and we would like to increase it further to about 4,000 tests per day,” he added. According to the official figures, the district till August 10 collected a total of 138,311 samples (since March), out of which test results were received for 134,690. The total sampling/testing includes 78,686 tests conducted since June 26 with the help of rapid antigen kits. Of the 78,686 tests conducted by the rapid kits, only 1,971 turned positive with a positivity rate of 2.5%. “The testing should continue at the current pace in order to find more positive cases. The idea is that the maximum positive cases should be found out and treated. The trend is still not on decline, but it is a good sign that fatality rate has dropped considerably after June,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). According to the official records, age group 21-40 years is among the most affected with 47.29% share while the second most affected group is those aged 41-60 years and having share of 31.57% of total cases till August 10. The figures reveal that age group 0-10 years is least affected with 4.06% share, while 11-20 years group is second least affected with 7.49%. Those aged over 60 years have share of 9.59% in overall cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-reaches-6-000-covid-19-cases/story-Ruaws96AQqqwV3NHQnRFAL.html
11-08-2020||City||Missing Ludhiana teen’s body recovered from Sidhwan canal||Missing for two days, an 18-year-old body was recovered from Sidhwan Canal near Barewal on Tuesday evening. The police fished out the body and sent it to the civil hospital for post-mortem examination.The victim has been identified as Sahil Kumar of Dr Ambedkar Nagar.The deceased father, Sonu, told police that his son had left the house on Sunday morning following a spat and did not return. His mobile phone was also switched off. They lodged a missing report at the Model Town police station.He added that on Tuesday, the police informed him about the body of a teen recovered from the canal and called him for identification. The corpse turned out to be his son’s, he said.The police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC based on Sonu’s statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-ludhiana-teen-s-body-recovered-from-sidhwan-canal/story-kJCF0mStRDahqDyCASSfaP.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Business as usual in micro- containment zone in Ludhiana||Though the health department claims that strict measures are being taken to curtail thoroughfare in micro-containment zones, it was business as usual at Sham Singh Road. Maid servants and fruit sellers were spotted going from house-to-house, not giving two hoots to the barricades installed outside the street. The police were conspicuous by their absence and as such many residents could be seen venturing out of their homes in the containment zone. The street was declared a micro-containment zone after six members of one family tested positive for Covid-19. The cherry on the cake were the Janmashtami celebrations taking place at the Bhuri Wala temple, which is located only a few metres away from Sham Singh Road. Some of the devotees ignorant of the micro-containment zone were also seen walking on the street. Upon being notified of the violations, additional deputy commissioner of police Sameer Verma said that he will send a police party to the area. NO SAMPLES COLLECTED, SAYS RESIDENTAn elderly resident living near the colony said no samples had been collected in the area. “Only Asha workers came to the area. They jotted down the numbers and other details of the residents and left after pasting a sticker outside the house where six members had tested positive for the infection,” she said. Despite repeated attempts, both civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga and district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh did not respond to calls. As per the protocol, only essential and medical services are provided in micro-containment zones. The health department conducts intensive house-to-house checking, surveillance, contact tracing and sampling in the area. The primary focus is the high-risk population, including the elderly, children and pregnant women. House-to-house surveillance and contact tracing continues for 14 days. If no more than one case is found positive in a week then restrictions are lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/business-as-usual-in-micro-containment-zone-in-ludhiana/story-AF1dJ6LxKPtNOvzzVKgtjN.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Cong to bring pvt member’s bill to help sacked PTIs: Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday said the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) will bring a private member’s bill during the next assembly session to facilitate the reinstatement of 1,983 physical training instructors (PTIs) whose selections were set aside by the Punjab and Haryana high court and upheld by the Supreme Court. The selections were done by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) during the Congress rule. On being asked why the Congress felt the need to push for reinstatement of PTIs, the former chief minister during a press briefing said that courts had set aside the selection on technical grounds. “Also, the Haryana government did not contest the case well in the Supreme Court,” he added. Regarding the registration of an FIR in the matter by the vigilance bureau, the leader of opposition in the Haryana assembly said it was done only to satisfy the appointed PTIs. But an FIR will not bring any benefit to them, he said. A single bench of the high court had on September 11, 2012, set aside the 2010 selections of PTIs on account of changes made in the selection process. The decision was upheld by an HC division bench and later by the Supreme Court on April 8, 2020. An apex court bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan and Justice Navin Sinha had said that HSSC’s decision of June 30, 2008, to cancel the written examination, the July 11, 2008 decision to call candidates eight times the number of vacancies on minimum percentage of marks for interviews and the decision of July 31, 2008, to call all eligible candidates for interviews were arbitrary decisions. Decisions were taken without any reason to change the selection criterion published in 2006 which have the effect of downgrading the merit in the selection, the court said. Liquor scam needs probe by House committee, CBIHooda attacked the BJP-JJP government on ‘liquor and registry scams’. “The government is trying to put the blame of the entire liquor scam on the officials. However, our demand is that influential persons who perpetrated the scams should be exposed. Thus, it is necessary that an inquiry committee should be constituted, either under a sitting judge of the high court or the CBI should probe the matter or a committee of Haryana assembly having MLAs from all parties inquire into these issues,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-to-bring-pvt-member-s-bill-to-help-sacked-ptis-hooda/story-QZox7YCN0ioNvPvea0UmQM.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Light showers likely today, more in store this week||After 0.2mm showers were witnessed in the city on Tuesday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light rain on Wednesday, but its intensity is likely to increase from Thursday onwards and moderate rain up to 50mm is expected.IMD officials said, “While rain is likely in other parts of the region on Wednesday, more showers can be expected from Thursday onwards and are likely to continue till Friday. There is possibility of thunderstorms with strong winds over 45 km/h in this duration.”As per the IMD, there has been total 458.8mm downpour in the season till now against a normal of 543.8 mm, a 16% deficit. Maximum temperature of the city went up from 33.3°C on Monday to 34.5°C on Tuesday. Minimum temperature dropped from 27.5°C on Monday to 27°C on Tuesday.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 32°C and 33°C, while the minimum temperature will range from 26°C to 27°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-light-showers-likely-today-more-in-store-this-week/story-EvJTi5DW1zEYumNdD2mKYN.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||PIL in HC seeks policy for differently-abled students during Unlock phase||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the state government to file a response to a public interest litigation (PIL) that sought relief for specially-abled school and college students during Unlock phase 2. The directions were issued after the PIL pointed out that while the government introduced online teaching for regular students, no steps were taken for special students.The PIL claimed that 7% of the state’s population consists of differently-abled people, of which 3% are special students. However, the state has failed to make a decision or frame a policy for the educational needs of such students, and hence, the court should direct the state in this regard.A division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice SP Tavade, while hearing the PIL filed by NGO Anamprem through advocate Uday Warunjikar, was informed that while the government had framed a policy for learning for normal students, it had failed to consider special students in the policy.Warunjikar submitted that as no policy was framed for specially-abled students, those belonging to marginalised and rural families were being deprived of learning.Warunjikar further submitted that while the state government permitted online lectures during Unlock phase 1 and 2, and came up with other directions for schools and colleges, there was nothing planned for those who use sign language.“A large number of hearing-impaired students having benchmark (at least 40%) disability are beyond the scheme, and therefore, interference of this court is necessary,” the plea read.Warunjikar further submitted that the state government should be directed to implement the provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act, which makes it mandatory for all educational institutions to provide inclusive education and specially-abled free infrastructure on their campuses for students with benchmark disabilities.Warunjikar suggested that as Doordarshan (DD) or other government channels had widespread coverage and were free of charge, they should be utilised by the state while imparting education to children with those with benchmark disabilities. He added that it was a well-known fact that a large number of persons with disabilities were staying in hostels given their problem of commuting or travelling.“The special schools also have hostel facilities, and in view of the same, the respondent [state] ought to have considered the special schools and their requirements, by issuing Unlock phase 1 and phase 2 directions,” said Warunjikar.The state government lawyer sought time to take instructions and respond to the plea. Granting the same, the bench directed the government to file an affidavit in reply within seven days and posted further hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pil-in-hc-seeks-policy-for-differently-abled-students-during-unlock-phase/story-rdhxbfjI5fwnB6Y0cgcinK.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC’s public information officer fined for failing to provide details sought under RTI Act||The state information commission has imposed a fine of ₹10,000 on the municipal corporation’s (MC’s) public information officer (PIO) deputed at Zone A for failing to provide information sought under the RTI Act. In his complaint, activist Rohit Sabharwal said he had sought information regarding action taken on his complaint dated June 5, 2019 regarding the alleged corrupt practices of the Zone A building inspector Rahul Pal in August, 2019. The complaint was marked to the principal secretary of the local bodies department. Sabharwal had sought a vigilance inquiry as the building inspector was accused of allowing illegal construction in the areas under his jurisdiction at the time. Sabharwal said he had received no information about the action taken. The commission observed that the PIO had not replied to the show-cause notice issued nor was he present for the hearing. In the order, dated August 5, the state information commissioner Lt Gen Ajae Kumar Sharma (retd) observed it was the fifth consecutive hearing but the PIO had failed to supply the information. A penalty of ₹10,000 was imposed on the PIO, which will be deducted from his salary and submitted with the state treasury. The PIO has been directed to supply the information, reply to the show-cause notice and provide documentary proof regarding submission of the penalty. He has also been directed to remain present during the next hearing scheduled for September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-s-public-information-officer-fined-for-failing-to-provide-details-sought-under-rti-act/story-83pujeAzG7riJPMzz9Q6RJ.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant SinghRajput’s sister records her statement before ED||The late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Mitu Singh recorded her statement before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday, as part of an investigation into allegations of misappropriation of Rajput’s funds. Singh is the first member of Rajput’s family to be questioned by ED. Singh, a Goregaon resident, was among those present at Rajput’s residence in Bandra, when Mumbai Police conducted a panchnama on June 14 after Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment. Later, Singh accompanied the police to a property Rajput owned in Lonavla. However, Mumbai Police said Singh has subsequently avoided appearing before the investigators probing the actor’s death, despite being called five times. On Tuesday, Singh appeared before ED at around 1.15pm. After nearly nine hours of questioning, Singh left ED office at around 10.30pm. At the time of going to print, Rajput’s friend and flatmate Siddharth Pithani was still at ED office. Earlier in the day, Rajput’s former manager and Chakraborty’s present manager Shruti Modi had appeared before ED and left the office in the afternoon. Sources at ED said Singh may be able to throw some light on Rajput’s financial activities and the extent of actor Rhea Chakraborty’s involvement in his finances. According to a first information report (FIR) filed by Bihar Police, Rajput’s father KK Singh has accused Chakraborty of abetting Rajput’s suicide and siphoning his money. KK Singh has alleged Chakraborty appropriated ₹15 crore from Rajput’s accounts. Chakraborty has denied the allegations. On July 31, ED had filed a case on the basis of Bihar Police’s FIR which named Chakraborty as an accused. Chakraborty approached Supreme Court (SC), requesting the case be transferred to Mumbai. SC has reserved a verdict on her plea and asked all parties to file brief written submissions by August 13, when the plea will be heard next. Alongside ED, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), has also launched a probe on the Bihar government’s request. Chakraborty, her brother Showik, four other family members and other persons have been named as accused by CBI. ED’s investigation is probing a possible mismatch between Chakraborty’s income and expenditures. Sources said questions were raised about a flat she owns in Khar. Chakraborty told investigators that the property is valued at ₹84 lakh and to purchase it, she took a home loan of ₹60 lakh. Chakraborty has maintained she is innocent and she has denied using Rajput’s money for any of her investments, officials said. Showik was a director in two companies owned by Rajput and has been questioned multiple times by ED for his involvement in the money laundering case. On August 8, Showik was grilled for 18 hours by ED and left the ED’s office at 6.30am on August 9. He appeared before ED again on Monday. Yesterday, Chakraborty, Showik and their father appeared before ED and were questioned for over nine hours. This was the second time Chakraborty had been questioned by the agency. Sources in ED said she had responded to most of their questions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singhrajput-s-sister-records-her-statement-before-ed/story-uWOpMsMcPbHBTGZv4jcD6I.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Online counselling: All 140 BCom seats at Ludhiana’s SCD Govt College filled in four hours||On the second day of online counselling at Satish Chander Dhawan (SCD) Government College all bachelor of commerce (BCom) seats were filled in the span of four hours on Tuesday. As many as 1,584 candidates had applied for the 140 BCom seats. The cutoff for the general category was 110.89% and 71 students were enrolled under the category. The cutoff for the backward classes category was 108.7% and 10 candidates were admitted under the category. The rest of the seats were filled with other reserved categories such as teachers’ daughters, wards of defence persons, riot victims, wards of freedom fighters, physically-handicapped persons and the sports quota. Professor Ashwani Bhalla, a committee member, said, “We started the online counselling process at 9am and by 1pm all 140 seats were filled. The documents were checked online and upon granting final approval, a message was sent asking students to deposit their fee.”BCom is one of the highly sought-after courses. Many meritorious students who scored around 94% also failed to secure admission. Online counselling for bachelor of arts (BA) and bachelor of business administration (BBA) students will be conducted by committee members on Thursday. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and rising number of cases, government colleges have been conducting counselling online. Students have been asked to deposit their fee within two days to secure their spot. Earlier, government colleges would invite students for the counselling process rank wise and committees formed by principals would check their documents.RUSH OUTSIDE GCGA large number of students turned up outside the main gate of Government College for Girls (GCG) between 9am to 3pm but students were not allowed to enter the premises. At Government College for Girls, 122 BCom seats were filled on the first day of counselling. The committee members checked the documents of all students online and sent an approval message asking them to deposit the fee.As many as 1,514 students applied online against the 140 seats. In the general category, 72 candidates were admitted and the cut off went up to 111.78% and in the SC category 25 students got admission and the cut off was 105.11%. In backward class, six students have been admitted with a cut off 109.37%. A few cases are pending. The admission process will be completed before August 22. Counselling for BBA and bachelor of science (BSC, medical) students will be conducted on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-counselling-all-140-bcom-seats-at-ludhiana-s-scd-govt-college-filled-in-four-hours/story-mU1y3EKK1kZ01AJGfD15FJ.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||PIL seeks Covid preparedness at Ratnagiri during Ganesh festival||Concerned with the lack of health workers and adequate medical staff to screen and treat the large number of people who will be travelling to the Konkan for the upcoming Ganeshotsav, public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in the Bombay high court seeking to appoint staff to the approved posts in Ratnagiri district that are lying vacant.The PIL has claimed that as there is an imminent threat of the spread of Covid-19 outbreak during the festive season. The authorities should be asked to fill up the nearly 200 vacant posts of medical officers and staff on an urgent basis, as the existing staff was incapable of coping with the Covid situation in Ratnagiri. The state has been directed to file its response and the matter is posted for hearing after two weeks.A division bench of justice A A Sayed and justice S P Tavade while hearing public interest litigation filed by Khalil Hasanmiya Wasta, a fisherman from Ratnagiri was informed by advocate Rakesh Bhatkar that as the Ganesh Utsav was starting later this month, lakhs of residents from the districts working or employed in Mumbai and Pune were expected to return. Bhatkar submitted that data received from the district health authorities showed that it was not equipped to deal with Covid-19 in the event of such a large number of people arriving in the district.The PIL states, “It is pertinent to note that at present the immediate threat posed is due to the upcoming festivals like Ganesh Utsav, where large numbers of people are expected to travel in Konkan Region from the rest of Maharashtra. Under these circumstances, it is incumbent upon the state to get itself ready for any medical exigencies which may arise due to the upcoming festival seasons.”Bhatkar further stated that nearly 16 out of 19 sanctioned posts of medical officers in Government hospitals were vacant and only 34 out of 181 posts of other medical staff had been filled across government-run rural hospitals in the Ratnagiri District. He added that the problem was not only restricted to Ratnagiri but government hospitals across Maharashtra were facing issues of lack of medical staff, which are required to be addressed.Wasta had earlier filed another PIL wherein he had sought setting up of a dedicated Covid testing laboratory in Ratnagiri as there was none and test samples had to be sent to Sangli. The bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta had taken cognizance of the submissions in the PIL and widened the scope of the petition to cover the entire state. The PIL was disposed of after the state assured the court that it had made arrangements for testing as per the ICMR guidelines across the state and had also set up a dedicated lab in Ratnagiri.After the government lawyer sought time to respond to the plea, the bench granted the same and posted further hearing after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pil-seeks-covid-preparedness-at-ratnagiri-during-ganesh-festival/story-acOhKSBG2jQaX9snooBeQP.html
11-08-2020||City||2 brothers killed as car rams into truck in Jind||Two brothers were killed after the car they were travelling in hit a stray bull and collided with a truck coming from the opposite side in Jind on Monday night, police said.The deceased have been identified as Nitin Chabra, 29 and his brother Ayush, 22, of Jind’s Ved Nagar. Nitin used to work in a company in Bengaluru while Ayush studied in Delhi.Investigating officer Vinod kumar of Sadar police station said the accident took place on Monday night when the brothers were returning home from Uchana.“Their car hit a stray bull and the driver lost control over the vehicle, which rammed into a truck coming from the opposite direction,” he added.The victims’ bodies were handed over to their family members after autopsy.The police have registered a case under sections 279 (rash driving ) and 304-A ( causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the car driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-brothers-killed-as-car-rams-into-truck-in-jind/story-awbcwhH2pgxKmVOFeetVuI.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bio-diversity park developed along Buddha Nullah in Ludhiana||Working on the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the municipal corporation (MC) has developed a biodiversity park on the banks of the Buddha nullah on Tajpur road. Similar parks are also being developed at Balloke sewer treatment plant (STP) and on Hambran road near the office of the sub-registrar.As per the MC officials, 10 different varieties of trees have been planted at the site including medicinal plants, flowering and fruit trees. Around 300 saplings have been planted while a hundred more will be planted on Wednesday. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal inspected the park at Tajpur road on Tuesday, while the MC staff was carrying out the plantation drive. MC junior engineer, horticulture wing, Kirpal Singh, said, “The park has been developed on 2,600 yards on the banks of Buddha nullah near central jail. The plantation has been done in a planned manner and saplings of 10 varieties of trees have been planted. A similar park is also being developed at Balloke STP and the work will be done by Wednesday.”“The MC is also working to develop a biodiversity park on Hambran road near the office of the sub-registrar. The MC is working to remove the garbage that was dumped at the site over the years and a park will be developed there as well,” said Singh, adding, more such parks will be established in the coming days after identifying spots.Earlier, the NGT had ordered the MC to work towards beautification of the nullah and develop biodiversity parks. These sites were identified by the previous MC chief Kanwalpret Kaur Brar. The NGT and the special task force constituted for cleaning the nullah had also directed the MC to remove the encroachments alongside nullah for taking up plantation drives. A project to demarcate the nullah area is being taken up by MC, the irrigation department and the revenue department for identifying encroachments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bio-diversity-park-developed-along-buddha-nullah-in-ludhiana/story-MRcPbXv4zGQ4OiFp2GopWI.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Independent MLA, a minister in state cabinet, joins Sena||Maharashtra water conservation minister Shankarrao Gadakh on Tuesday joined the Shiv Sena, the party he had backed after the state Assembly polls in 2019 as an independent MLA from Ahmednagar district. Chief Minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray inducted Gadakh in the party fold at ‘Matoshree’, the Thackeray family residence. Gadakh was elected as an independent MLA from Nevasa constituency in Ahmednagar. Gadakh tweeted on Tuesday: “The Shiv Sena knows the pulse of the hard-working farmer, the poor and needy. I am joining the Shiv Sena as our ideology matches and I have full faith in the leadership of honourable chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.”With this development, Sena’s effective strength has increased to 57 legislators in the 288-member Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. Besides that, Gadakh’s entry into the Sena is expected to boost the party’s prospects in Ahmednagar district where there was a vacuum created after the death of party deputy leader Anil Rathod last week. Gadakh, who hails from one of the influential families of sugar barons, is expected to lead the party in the district. Sena’s coalition partners the Congress party and the Nationalist Congress Party, and opponents Bharatiya Janata Party have a strong presence in Ahmednagar district.Sena secretary and Thackeray’s personal assistant Milind Narvekar was instrumental in bringing Gadakh, who was the founder and president of Krantikari Shetkari Party (KSP), to back the Sena last year. Narvekar is also said to have played a key role in getting Gadakh into the party fold.Congress has a strong presence in politically sensitive Ahmednagar in the form of its state president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat. BJP is represented by Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil and his MP son Sujay while NCP has legislator Sangram Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/independent-mla-a-minister-in-state-cabinet-joins-sena/story-4vsBz0XQDff1BCfWXrXoSO.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||HC restrains Punjab from notifying delimitation of Zirakpur MC wards||Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday restrained the Punjab government from carrying out the final notification of wards of Zirakpur municipal council (MC) under the delimitation exercise launched in July.The order was passed by high court bench of justice Jaswant Singh and justice Ashok Kumar Verma, acting on the plea of one Kulwinder Singh, a former president of the council. A detailed order from the court is awaited.It was argued that the Census Commissioner of India in September 2019 had asked Punjab to submit proposals of change of existing boundaries of districts and municipalities etc with December 2019 as deadline, beyond which, it had stated, the administrative boundaries shall stand frozen. In November 2019, Punjab local government department issued a notification stating that with effect from January 1 to March 31, 2020, the boundaries would stand frozen. However, in July 2020, the department in violation of its November notification constituted a board and asked it to give recommendations on delimitation of boundaries of the Zirakpur MC.The court was told that the board has been set up in violation of norms as the state can nominate only one member, but in the case in hand, two members were nominated. Population is to be determined on the basis of the previous census, which had been conducted in 2011, after which the delimitation exercise took place in 2014. But even as fresh census data is yet to come, the government has initiated the process of ward delimitation, the HC was apprised.The petitioner had accused the government of embarking on the exercise to seek ‘political advantage’ and demanded that the July 28 report submitted by the delimitation board be stayed. The petitioner has also demanded that the notification with which the exercise was initiated should be quashed. The court has sought a response from the state and Centre by August 27.BIG WIN FOR DEMOCRACY: NK SHARMAReacting to the development, former chief parliamentary secretary NK Sharma said that the Congress government was trying to change the boundaries of wards for the forthcoming municipal elections in Punjab as per the dictates of its legislators and party leaders. “It was taking advantage of restrictions imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic to change ward boundaries. The high court’s decision is a big victory for democracy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-restrains-punjab-from-notifying-delimitation-of-zirakpur-mc-wards/story-eSesE73nkl7SG6L9ZgIDEM.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Meharchand Market to soon be redeveloped with ‘uniform look’||Delhi’s iconic Meharchand Market in Lodhi Colony -- once home to designer boutiques, restaurants and jewellery shops, and often touted as the next Khan Market -- will get a new lease of life as the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday cleared a proposal to redevelop the popular shopping hub that has been nearly lying shut since the 2018 sealing drive. The market -- originally set up to settle refugees from Pakistan after Partition and named after Mehr Chand Khanna, who was Union minister of rehabilitation in the 1950s -- will be redeveloped according to the Master Plan of Delhi 2021, with shops getting a floor area ratio (FAR ) of 350 compared to the present FAR of 150. Around 80% of shops of the market were shut during the 2018 sealing drive, one of the biggest in Delhi, for violation of building norms.According to SDMC officials, the existing shops will be demolished and reconstructed by the traders themselves in accordance with sanctioned standard building plans. A senior official of SDMC’s town planning department said the market will have a uniform look similar to Connaught Place with elements such as a public corridor, uniform billboards, etc. The corporation is also likely to make it a pedestrian-only market. “It will be the traders’ responsibility to redevelop their shops as per a ‘standard plan’ prepared by the corporation’s architecture department. The plan provides norms for construction of the outer façade, display windows, columns, advertising boards, billboard, etc. This will provide a uniform look to the market. The front façade of all shops in the redeveloped market would be the same. The shops will follow a definite colour code pattern as suggested by the ‘standard plan’,” the official said requesting anonymity.Raj Dutt Gahlot, chairman standing committee, said all the existing structures will be demolished and newly constructed. No time-frame has been set for the work to begin.“Under the approved scheme, 90% ground coverage with 350 FAR has been accepted. The market may be declared as a pedestrian shopping street due to non-availability of parking facilities in the premises,” Gahlot said.The market saw a major transformation in the last decade, becoming a popular destination for designer boutiques, restaurants, jewellery shops, salons and cafes. But in January 2018, as many as 135 out of 152 shops were sealed by the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee for violating building norms and constructing beyond the permitted FAR of 150.According to traders, in 1948, refugees from West Pakistan were given temporary wooden shops in the market. Later in 1963, they were allotted permanent concrete shops. Municipal officials said these were single-storeyed shops with a verandah but over a period of time, many traders added extra floors.Officials said local shopping complexes (LSCs) in Delhi such as Defence Colony, Green Park and Hauz Khas got some relief on June 21, 2018, when the Central government notified changes in MPD-2021 but confusion remained over Meharchand Market.According to another official of SDMC’s town planning department, in November 2019, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) clarified that the MPD-2021 amendments can be applied to Meharchand Market, and so a FAR of 350 (as opposed to 150) can be provided to the shop owners.“The decision to redevelop the market was taken after discussing the plan with traders. Before starting redevelopment work, they will have to deposit a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh with the monitoring committee for the illegal structures and raze them. We will start passing building plans for the market and traders will have to approach the SDMC’s building department to approve their building maps. Apart from collecting conversion charges, SDMC will get Rs 10 crore from the owners for approving the layout plan,” the official said.The official quoted above said the development charges, augmentation fees and other charges will be recovered from plot owners by the engineering department.Ashok Sakhuja, president of the Meharchand Market Traders Association, said it was a “welcome move” and would benefit traders a lot.“Our market is almost dead since January 2018. We are ready to do anything to revive our market. With such a move, our shops will be de-sealed and we will be able to reconstruct them as per the standard plan. The market will be pedestrian-friendly and wear a uniform look,” he said.Indrajeet Singh, who owns a tent house in the market, said traders survived the sealing as some had alternative businesses and others relied on savings. “At present our priority to bring back the market to life again so that our business can pick up. We will see if any problem arises out of the no-parking move,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/meharchand-market-to-soon-be-redeveloped-with-uniform-look/story-mwynJKt6LExPe40kPz88NO.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi traffic police release advisory for I-Day, rehearsal||The Delhi traffic police on Tuesday released a detailed plan for road closures and traffic diversions for Independence Day on August 15 and its rehearsals on August 13. In a statement released on Tuesday, Delhi traffic police said that on both days, vehicular movement will be restricted for the general public between 4 am and 10 am on the following roads: Netaji Subhash Marg from Delhi Gate to Chatta Rail, Lothian Road from GPO Delhi to Chatta Rail, SP Mukherjee Marg from HC Sen Marg to Yamuna Bazar Chowk, Chandni Chowk Road from Fountain Chowk to Red Fort, Nishad Raj Marg from Ring Road to Netaji Subhash Marg, Esplanade Road and its Link Road to Netaji Subhash Marg and Ring Road from Rajghat to Kashmere Gate ISBT. “On these roads, only vehicles with authorised stickers will be allowed,” the traffic police said. Commuters have also been advised to avoid C- Hexagon (India Gate), Copernicus Marg, Mandi House, Sikandra Road, A-Point on Tilak Marg, Mathura Road, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, Subhash Marg, Jawahar Lal Nehru Marg and Ring Road between Nizamuddin Bridge and ISBT bridge and the outer ring road from IP Flyover through Shalimgarh Bypass to ISBT. Commuters travelling from south Delhi towards the north could either use Aurobindo Marg via Panchkuian Road and Rani Jhansi Road to reach their destinations or travel through Connaught Place, Minto Road via Naya Bazar and use Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Marg. To travel from east Delhi towards west Delhi, commuters can use the Delhi-Noida Direct Flyway and take the National Highway-9, Vikas Marg, Shahdara Bridge and the get on the Wazirabad Bridge, which will remain open to reaching the Ring Road. An alternate route could also be via Vikas Marg, through Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg, Bhavbhuti Marg and reaching Rani Jhansi Road and Boulevard Road. “Goods vehicles will not be allowed between Nizamuddin Bridge and Wazirabad Bridge and interstate buses will not be allowed between Maharana Pratap ISBT and Sarai Kale Khan from Thursday midnight to 11 am. We will be conducting a thorough checking throughout the city on these days,” the traffic police statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-police-release-advisory-for-i-day-rehearsal/story-UXCz5a4HxKw7kdf8ISTDrI.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||FIR against 100 Asha workers for Jantar Mantar protest||The Delhi Police on Tuesday filed a case against more than 100 Asha workers as well as members of Central Trade Unions for holding a protest at Jantar Mantar on Sunday in contravention of the Unlock 3 guidelines in effect to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha) have been crucial in the fight against the disease, and a majority of them in the city have been on strike since July 21, demanding better wages.They were booked for holding protests without permission and “violating social distancing norms” at the protest. The FIR was registered at the Parliament Street police station under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act and Section 51B of the Disaster Management Act, said deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal.Singhal, who is also a spokesperson for the city police, said more than 100 Asha workers and members of Central Trade Unions had gathered at Jantar Mantar to protest on Sunday noon. He said the police went to the protest spot and informed them no such protest or gathering was allowed in the city, as per the Unlock 3.0 guidelines.The protesters, however, claimed they had got permits from authorities concerned. “When the protesters were asked to produce the permission letter they failed to do it. They were convinced, and they left Jantar Mantar after around half an hour, assuring they would submit the letter on Monday. However, nobody turned up on Monday, after which the FIR was registered,” Singhal added.The protest at Jantar Mantar was organised by the All India United Traders Union Centre (AIUTUC) against privatisation in all government sectors and scheme workers such as Ashas being denied salary and position of a regular worker. Delhi ASHA Workers’ Association (DAWA) had participated in the strike. DAWA has been demanding that the monthly salary for an Asha worker in Delhi be hiked to ₹10,000 from ₹4,000 currently.Kavita Yadav, Delhi coordinator for Asha workers, All India United Traders Union Centre (AIUTUC), said, “We have not been informed by the Delhi Police about any FIR registered against us, and are trying to find out details. If the police have registered a FIR, it is extremely unfortunate and we condemn it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-against-100-asha-workers-for-jantar-mantar-protest/story-q2obOCJAwddgNEt0QeM7lL.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||CISF readies for Metro reopening, no word on when services will resume||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has started preparations for the resumption of Metro services in Delhi-NCR, although there is no official word yet on when services will restart.According to CISF officials, they have been asked to make sure services can be resumed at short notice. Delhi Metro services have remained suspended since March 22, when the Janta curfew was observed. While other modes of public transport have been allowed, with restrictions, as part of the gradual easing of lockdown norms, the Metro, which catered to nearly 2.4 million passengers daily pre-pandemic, has remained suspended.According to a senior CISF official, who asked not to be named, the force has been directed to be prepared to resume services. An official from the ministry of home affairs, which is in charge of guidelines for unlocking services and economic activities across India, however, said there has been no date set yet by the government for the resumption of Metro services. “ CISF is prepared with all security arrangements whenever it opens,” another official, who didn’t wish to be named, said.When contacted, housing and urban affairs (HUA) minister Hardeep Singh Puri declined comment on the matter. Last week, Puri told the Economic Times in an interview that a call on this could be taken in two weeks. He added that he resumption would be staggered. The CISF official said the force has been directed to ensure that metal detectors and other equipment such as X-ray scanners are kept at the ready.“Because the force was stationed in different locations to maintain distancing norms during the pandemic, it has been directed that the personnel may now be mobilised and positioned at Metro stations as per the requirement. We also have directions to ensure that there are enough face shields, gloves and other protective equipment as need be to enforce social distancing and safe frisking of passengers,” the second official said. CISF used to have 12,500 personnel at 254 Metro stations across Delhi. Apart from securing the stations, CISF personnel also frisk the passengers and patrol areas near stations . The second official said Delhi Metro is already on high alert, along with other significant government installations and buildings in the capital, on account of Independence Day (August 15).In April, HT reported that CISF was preparing new standard operating procedures (SOPs) for Delhi Metro, to be implemented once services resume.Officials said once in effect, the new SOPs will include use of the Aarogya Setu contact tracing app . CISF is also considering providing personal protective equipment (PPE) to personnel deployed in areas with heavy public movement . Food stalls and other commercial outlets within stations will have additional access controls in place and CISF personnel will be directed to follow certain safety measures.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has finalised the protocols for passenger movement at its stations and trains. These include cashless transactions at ticketing counters, designated spots for passengers to stand and wait for trains, use of face masks and Aarogya Setu mobile app, and alternate seat on trains being left vacant.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said: “ DMRC shall be prepared to commence operations whenever directed by the government. All necessary guidelines are in place to combat the spread of Covid-19 and all efforts shall be made to make travel safe for our valued commuters.”Community medicine expert Dr Jugal Kishore of Safdarjung hospital said, “It is about time the government started Metro services, as people are facing a lot of inconvenience while commuting. As per the last sero survey, which was conducted during the peak of the infection, 23% of the population had developed antibodies. The positivity rate has gone down now. So it is safe to open public transport and ensure people follow all the precautions such as the use of sanitisers and masks and social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cisf-readies-for-metro-reopening-no-word-on-when-services-will-resume/story-8t2jBABpJiQdxGtm5GSPUN.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Another night robbery bid at unmanned ATM in Manimajra||Three masked men made an unsuccessful attempt to loot an unguarded ATM in Manimajra on Monday night.The police said they were informed about the robbery bid on Tuesday morning and have registered a case in this regard.As per the CCTV footage, three masked youths walked into an AXIS Bank ATM booth in Subash Nagar area of Manimajra at 11.59pm on Monday and initially tried to withdraw some amount. Then one of them walked out and stood guard while the other two accused tried to break open the kiosk. Failing to do so, the two came out of the booth and sent the third accused inside, who then damaged the ATM screen and CCTV installed there. The trio fled around 12.18am.On the complaint of Kikar Singh, who is entrusted with the maintenance of ATMs, police registered a case under sections 380, 511 and 427 of the IPC at the IT Park police station.GUARDS REPLACED BY ALARM SYSTEMSThis is the fourth such attempt to loot an unguarded ATM since May 31. Despite Chandigarh administration and police repeatedly asking the banks to deploy security guards outside ATMs, no such step has been taken. Instead of guards, the banks have installed centralised security alarms. “The investigations into previous ATM thefts or attempts have shown that guards are mostly posted at the ATMs on bank branch premises, but not at the offsite ATMs,” said a senior Chandigarh police officer, adding that the security arrangements are outsourced to private agencies and thus the banks have little say on the shift timings of the guards.“We have taken up the matter with the banks and asked them to ensure that ATMs have guards,” said UT police spokesperson DSP Charanjit Singh.PREVIOUS CASES YET TO BE CRACKEDOn June 18, masked burglars managed to steal ₹7.64 lakh from an ATM of Union Bank of India in Kishangarh. While on the intervening night of June 24-25, an attempt was made to break open an SBI ATM at Sector 44 market. The miscreants had sprayed paint on a CCTV camera installed inside the booth and also cut the alarm wire. As per the police, both ATMs were unmanned. The police are yet to make any breakthrough in these cases.ATM THEFT SPREEJuly 20: Two men break into a PNB ATM at Gharuan village in KhararJune 18: Masked man flee with ₹7.6 lakh from a Union Bank of India ATM at Kishangarh in ChandigarhJune 10: Miscreants flee with ATM containing ₹16 lakh uprooted from a PNB kiosk at Dappar near LalruMay 31: Four people make unsuccessful bid to loot an ATM at Kishangarh in Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/another-night-robbery-bid-at-unmanned-atm-in-manimajra/story-qeXDSdsJb1tlwbQSELka7I.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||2 PU senators for appeal against HC decision on ex-governing body member||Two senators and syndicate members of Panjab University (PU) have written to chancellor and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, asking for an appeal against the Punjab and Haryana high court decision in the case of an ex-senator’s registration as a graduate constituency member being cancelled by PU.The court quashed PU’s 2019 decision to revoke the registration of former senator Munish Verma as a graduate constituency member, which allows ex-students to elect and contest polls for the university’s apex governing body.PU senators Rabindra Nath Sharma and Jarnail Singh, who are also the members of the syndicate, have urged Naidu to file the appeal in view of the allegations made against Verma.“This is a matter of dignity for the PU senate and chancellor of the university. There was no dissent in the syndicate and senate over the decision taken against the former senator,” Sharma said.The court had questioned the quorum of the meeting in which the decision was taken, adding that according to the PU Act, a person’s name could be struck off the register of the registered graduates with the concurrence of not less than two third members of the senate. Out of 91 members only 38 members were present when the decision was taken.In a letter to Verma last year, PU had written that his registration for the graduate constituency had been revoked thus barring him from contesting the senate polls.Verma’s registration was cancelled after he was indicted in a case of wrongful hiring of three persons as centre and assistant superintendents in the 2014 annual examination to MR Government College Fazilka, Punjab. PU’s registrar Karamjeet Singh was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/request-for-plea-against-hc-decision-on-pu-ex-senator/story-uwyewklF6o2OsdnQBFaWlK.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||SDMC gets Rs 43 crore from Centre for dust-control and waste processing measures||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has received Rs 42.77 crore from the Centre under the Urban Development Fund (UDF) for the current financial year to combat air pollution by introducing dust-control measures and to augment its waste-processing facilities. A proposal to use the money for the purpose was approved by the corporation’s Standing Committee on Tuesday and will be presented in the House for a final approval. Civic officials said the corporation had approached the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs earlier this year for a grant under UDF for the work. Dust is a major contributor to air pollution in Delhi. The Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Control and Prevention) Authority (EPCA) had been asking the civic bodies to take measures to check road dust. Standing Committee chairman Rajdutt Gahlot said the funds will be utilised to strengthen and resurface damaged roads, develop decentralised compost plants and promote the use of recycled water by installing decentralised sewage treatment plants (STPs), among others. “Internal roads will be strengthened using this fund at 12 locations, including Malviya Nagar, Panchsheel Park, Hauz Khas, Green Park Main and Extension, C R Park, Dwarka (pocket-1) and Mahavir Enclave, among others, at an estimated cost of Rs 20 crore,” Gahlot said. Gahlot said Rs 7 crore has been allocated to develop 15 waste treatment plants and lay pipelines at various locations. Besides, Rs 3.7 crore have been sanctioned for procuring five electric road sweeping machines and Rs 12 crore for installing drum composters to treat solid waste at the ward level. The approved proposal said the projects must be completed within 12 months.“The corporation has been taking various measures to combat air pollution such as making the city green and clean, including makeover of spaces under flyovers, creating vertical gardens, mechanical sweeping and sprinkling of water on roads. “To augment these projects, the civic body had approached the union ministry for funds. A comprehensive proposal and a detailed report with an estimate of Rs 86.59 crore was sent to the ministry. After a scrutiny of projects, a grant for Rs 42.77 crore was approved. We will have to bear 20% from our own resources,” said Gahlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdmc-gets-rs-43-cr-from-centre-for-dust-control-and-waste-processing-measures/story-4BpxgnEErzCWJC6D5nV6eI.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Website crashes during day 2 of DU’s online open-book exams||Final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students of Delhi University continued to face a harrowing time on Tuesday—the second day of online open-book exams (OBE) at Delhi University—as the website briefly crashed in the afternoon while students were trying to upload their answer scripts.Throughout the day, students took to social media to complain about the glitches and reached out to their teachers for help.Karuna Sawal, a final-year BCom (Hons) student, said she allotted herself 45 minutes of the total time just to upload her answer sheets. “While uploading my answers, the website crashed. I tried to attach my answer scripts on e-mail but even that has a limit of 25MB. It was traumatising to struggle through this and the worst thing is it does not end here. It might happen again,” she said, adding that she has three more exams to take.The OBE exams, to be held as a one-time measure in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, will continue till August 31 for around 240,000 students of the varsity—including those enrolled in non-collegiate courses of School of Open Learning (SOL) and Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB). On Monday, the first day of exams, students had complained of technical glitches.While 35,000 students appeared for the exams on Monday, as per data provided by university officials, 32,000 students appeared for their exams on Tuesday. Teachers said that several students received the wrong question papers on e-mail and had to approach their colleges for the correct ones.Pankaj Garg, a former academic council member who teaches at Rajdhani College, was among those teachers. “Students have been extremely stressed. Since uploading answers on the portal is becoming difficult, they e-mail their answer scripts to university officials and college’s nodal officers. It raises concerns of duplicity if they send their answer scripts everywhere. Some students even send e-mails to colleges after the deadline due to all the confusion. So, there remains a question over whether the varsity will accept answer scripts from colleges after the deadline,” he said. Garg has also written to vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi asking him to look into the issues. Despite calls and messages, Tyagi did not comment on the matter on Tuesday.DU Teachers’ Association member Abha Dev Habib also raised questions over the rule of asking students to mention their name in the e-mail while sending their answer scripts. “Students fear victimisation. They are nervous about sharing their experiences in the public domain as they may face discrimination,” she said.DU Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said, “If the portal is not working, they can e-mail us the answer scripts. The website is not the only option. Yes, we are facing issues of duplicity but we are working on finding a solution to deal with it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/website-crashes-during-day-2-of-du-s-online-open-book-exams/story-ENhlsNpiQOwh0xRsvHRJgJ.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Illegal call centre busted for duping loan seekers||An illegal call centre running from outer Delhi’s Ranhola and cheating people in the name of providing loans from a leading financial services company has been busted by Delhi Police’s cyber cell unit (CyPAD). Seven people, including a sales promoter associated with a telecom service providing company, were arrested for cheating more than 500 loan aspirants to the tune of Rs 2.5 crore in the last two years, officials said.Deputy commissioner of police (CyPAD) Anyesh Roy said the arrested sales promoter, Pawan Mittal, is not an employee of the company but a third-party promoter. Mittal used to activate SIM cards by illegally using documents and photographs of foreigners who had submitted them to get new numbers during their stay in India. The illegally activated SIM cards were used for contacting loan seekers with an intent to dupe them and avoid getting caught by law enforcement agencies, Roy said.“As the SIM cards were activated using foreigners’ documents and photographs, it became difficult to identify and nab the fraudsters,” the DCP said.Police said the call centre was busted following an investigation into a complaint filed by one Pawan Kumar, who was cheated of nearly Rs 2.19 lakh in name of providing a personal loan of Rs 10 lakh.Kumar was trying to get a personal loan online when he came across a phone number that claimed to be associated with a leading financial services company. “Kumar called on that number and was assured a loan at a lucrative interest rate. He was tricked into paying around R2.19 lakh as processing fee and other charges. To win his confidence, he was sent an email from an ID that looked similar to the company’s official email ID,” said the officer.The loan-seeker knew he was duped when he did not receive the money and the number on which he contacted the loan provider was deactivated. A cheating case was registered on his complaint.During the probe, DCP Roy said, the investigating team established the money trail and through technical surveillance traced the call centre to Rahnola.“We first arrested Mittal who had activated the number used to call the complainant. His interrogation led to the arrest of the leader, Mohammad Irfan Saifi, who earlier worked as a telecaller at an insurance company,” he said.The other arrested persons are Vishal Tiwari, Vidhata, Amit Kumar, Gyan Singh and Rishabh Mohammad. Saifi told police that they cheated 20-25 people every month through the call centre he had established two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-call-centre-busted-for-duping-loan-seekers/story-S4NuiZyKT83QewwgjV1aaL.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt released Rs 98 crore for MCD teachers’ salaries, high court told||The Delhi government has informed the Delhi High Court that it has released Rs 98.35 crore to North Delhi Municipal Corporation for paying salaries to 9,000 teachers, engaged by the civic body, for the months of July and August.The Delhi government has also said it has permitted the municipal corporation to utilise the unspent balance of Rs 1,807.10 lakh from the previous year for the purpose of paying salaries of teachers.The information was given to a bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad while hearing a suo motu PIL initiated by the high court for the disbursement of unpaid salaries of teachers employed in schools run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.The high court had initiated the PIL in June after the Akhil Dilli Prathmik Shikshak Sangh sought directions to pay teacher salaries which were due since March, when the nationwide lockdown came into force.As Rs 98.35 crore has been released by the Delhi government in favour of north corporation under the scheme of primary education, the civic body shall ensure that salaries dues from May onwards is cleared at the earliest, the bench said.“Besides the grant-in-aid received from the Delhi Government, the north civic body shall also chip in by making funds available for paying the salaries of teachers teaching in schools being run by it,” it added and directed the civic authority to file a fresh status report within two weeks.The court listed the matter for further hearing on September 1.The North Delhi Municipal Corporation had blamed the Delhi government for not releasing grant-In-aid to the civic body due to which it is unable to pay the salaries of its employees.The Delhi government had said that the grant-In-aid payable by it to the north corporation for payment of salaries to its teachers was Rs 147 crore for the first quarter, April to June, and it has been released in three monthly tranches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dehi-govt-released-rs-98-crore-for-mcd-teachers-salaries-high-court-told/story-0prPFYjFRbS673wyL6CPyJ.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn asks PGIMER, GMCH-32 to create more ICUs for Covid patients||With the surge in Covid-19 cases, the UT administration has asked the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 to set up more intensive care units (ICUs) for critically ill Covid patients.As the number of patients in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals is increasing, pressure is building up for setting up more ICUs at identified sites at PGIMER and GMCH-32.Occupancy in PGIMER’s Covid hospital is 78% with 155 of 200 beds taken up and 31 patients in the ICU. A majority of the patients are from Punjab (60) followed by Chandigarh (53), Haryana (13) and Himachal Pradesh (12), even cases from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. “Existing ventilators in the Covid-19 hospital have been exhausted and a few ventilators shifted from other areas for the Covid-19 patients. We have severely (ill) patients from across the region and few mild cases who are employees of the institute,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER. Similarly, in the Sector 48 hospital, out of 100 beds, around 50 are occupied and four patients are on ventilators, which leaves 11 out of 15 ventilators free for use. UT health secretary Arun Gupta said they had asked the hospitals to prepare more ICUs in the hospital. “Intensive care is required for those who are severely ill, so we have asked PGIMER and GMCH-32 to prepare more ICU beds.” Gupta said there were enough facilities for asymptomatic and mild cases.Out of 628 patients, around 150 are in home isolation and the remaining in Covid care centres. As of now, two Covid care centres established at Sood Dharamshala and the Sector 47 Ayurvedic College are almost at full capacity and hostels at Panjab University are being readied for patients.The city hospitals in total have around 250 ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/admin-asks-pgimer-gmch-32-to-create-more-icus-for-covid-patients/story-Cqiy8UyKRI3fAFI0P5pfRI.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||CBI court: Suspended SHO to attend son’s wedding in police custody||The special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has partly allowed interim bail to suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur, who is accused in a bribery case, so she can attend her son’s wedding in police custody on August 14.The court has directed her to attend the wedding ceremony from 9am till 4pm in police custody, and if required, she would be handcuffed.Special CBI judge Sushil Kumar Garg ordered, “In the interest of justice, Burail model jail superintendent is directed to make necessary arrangements to take the accused in police custody to her son’s wedding ceremony from 9 am to 4 pm on August 14 at her expenses, and thereafter bring her back to the jail in safe custody.”“The police authorities will be at liberty to handcuff the accused if deemed necessary and the circumstances so required for the jail superintendent is also directed to take all the precautionary measures for Covid-19 before taking the applicant to the event and reverting back to judicial lockup,” the order added.The suspended SHO had filed a petition on August 6, seeking interim bail from August 13 to 15 for participating in and performing necessary rituals and ceremonies for her son’s wedding in Chandigarh.“The petitioner being the mother has to participate in the marriage function, perform necessary ceremonies and rituals as per custom and also meet and greet the guests who will come at the function,” stated her application.Kaur has said in her plea that she will neither visit the Manimajra police station nor will she directly or indirectly meet or communicate with persons or witnesses connected with the present case. Her movement will be restricted to her residence and the hotel, which is the wedding venue.On Tuesday, her judicial custody has also been extended further for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbi-court-suspended-sho-to-attend-son-s-wedding-in-police-custody/story-0NE3cIR0HH6EDl7PbjkHzN.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||CPI workers booked in Ludhiana for violating Covid-19 safety norms||Workers of the Communist Party of India (CPI) were booked on Monday for staging protests, violating social distancing norms and not wearing masks amid the Covid-19 outbreak on Monday.In an FIR lodged against ‘unidentified protestors’, police, however, named the political organisation.According to head constable Gurdeep Singh, around 70 to 80 CPI workers gathered to protest at Punjabi Bhawan on Monday. They did not observe social distancing norms.A case under sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against unidentified members of the political organisation. They will be named when they are identified by police through pictures and videos of the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cpi-workers-booked-for-violating-covid-19-safety-norms/story-OksMzXsDGlGdg5VPdSaZ7I.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police recover 8kg heroin from member of interstate gang||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they had recovered eight kilograms of heroin from a 41-year-old suspected member of an interstate drug syndicate operating from the Maoist-affected areas of Chatra, Khunti, Palamu, and Saraikela in Jharkhand. The syndicate is involved in illegal opium cultivation, heroin-making and smuggling the contraband into Delhi-NCR and Uttar Pradesh,said officials of the special cell that arrested the drug supplier, Santosh Kumar Sinha, and recovered the consignment. Police have estimated that the total value of the seized eight kg heroin is around Rs 32 crore in the international market, pegging it at about Rs 4 crore per kg. However, the price of heroin in the international market varies between Rs 40 lakh and Rs 80 lakh per kg depending on its quality and location, according to various global watchdogs, including agencies linked with United Nations. Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said that the special cell team, while working on active interstate gangs dealing in narcotic drugs, received information that due to the Maoist stronghold and obscure terrain, the forested areas of Chatra, Khunti, Palamu, and Saraikela in Jharkhand have emerged as a major hub of illegal opium cultivation. “Several villagers in these areas are involved in the illegal business of opium/poppy cultivation for easy money. To do so, farmers are supposed to pay a certain amount to the Maoists. People involved in drug supply procure crude heroin from the villagers, process it into pure heroin and smuggle the contraband into Delhi and UP,” said DCP Yadav. The special cell received inputs about one such syndicate and surveilled the activities and movements of its members. On Monday, the team received information that one of the gang’s members would be in Delhi to deliver a consignment of heroin to a drug dealer in Inderpuri. “Accordingly, they laid a trap and the supplier, Santosh Kumar Sinha, was caught with eight kg heroin from Rohini area around 11pm Monday. His interrogation revealed that to avoid law enforcement agencies, he changed his mode of transport and cellphone numbers during each trip. The gang members usually travel in private vehicles and trucks,” added the DCP. The police are interrogating Sinha to establish his connection with Maoists in Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-recover-8kg-heroin-from-member-of-interstate-gang/story-ofp1WJ276inv55S13feGSM.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Consumers fined Rs 40 lakh, 20 power theft cases detected in PSPCL raids in Ludhiana||About 20 kundi (illegal) connections were snapped on Tuesday in raids by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials on the Dairy Complex in Haibowal as part of a drive to check power theft.Consumers were fined Rs 40 lakh for electricity theft and misuse of metersWorking under the directions of A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL and under the observation of DPS Grewal, director distribution, 36 teams (16 distribution executive engineers or XENs, 16 sub divisional officers; four officials of the enforcement wing) and four others participated in the raids.About 1,227 connections were checked during the day and consumers fined Rs 40 lakh for power theft and misuse of electricity meters. Twenty cases of power theft were detected.According to Grewal, as the teams checked the meters, display screens of 44 machines were found to be out of order or were tampered with. About 73 old meters which were not working were replaced on the spot and sent to labs for testing.Commenting on the matter, Venu Prasad said PSPCL will continue to conduct such raids to check power theft and ensure that citizens did not suffer because of such unscrupulous practices.He also appealed to consumers to help PSPCL in this drive and register complaints with the helpline number 1912. “If the line is busy, consumers can SMS 1912 and your complaint will get automatically registered . You will receive a reply from the office,” Prasad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/consumers-fined-rs-40-lakh-20-power-theft-cases-detected-in-pspcl-raids-in-ludhiana/story-Ogamcz0bJkvBirRNRscxJJ.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC grants bail to man accused of rioting and arson||The Delhi High Court on August 4 granted bail to a man who was allegedly involved in a case of rioting and arson during the north-east Delhi riots in February. The copy of the court’s order was uploaded on Monday. Two other persons were granted bail by a city court on Monday. The court said that they were in not involved in rioting.In the High Court, justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani granted relief to Mohd Anwar after he furnished a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with two sureties of like amount. He also directed Anwar to not leave the city without the permission of the trial court . The HC, in its order, noted that the investigation was complete and the charge sheet had already been filed on July 1. It said that another person involved the same case, Firoz Khan had already been granted bail by the High Court on May 29.Anwar was arrested on April 3. Meanwhile on Monday, additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav of the Karkardooma court also granted bail to Sunny Chaudhary and Abhishek Thakur for robbing constable Parmesh Kumar of the Delhi Police near PTS Wazirabad at Khajuri Pusta Road on February 24 around 9pm. The incident was reported during the riots. The court, while granting bail to the duo, said that the complainant, constable Parmesh Kumar, had identified only one person named Chand and identification of the accused men by different police personnel is “hardly of any consequence to the prosecution”.It also said that there is no electronic evidence on record against the accused men and the investigation in the matter is complete.According to the prosecution, Chaudhary and Thakur were identified by constables Vipin Tomar and Rahul respectively. While opposing the bail application, the special public prosecutor had told the court that the accused should not be released as they are involved in more cases and the investigation is pending.The accused men’s counsel had contended that the only evidence against them was their identification by the constables; however, it is not legally sustainable. He had also contended that the investigation in the matter is complete and nothing has been recovered from them. Communal clashes in parts of north-east Delhi in February had claimed 53 lives and left over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-grants-bail-to-man-accused-of-rioting-and-arson/story-e4opuKVg2xcNMVttD7Do6N.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Lawyer’s house burgled of ₹90,000 cash, gold jewellery in Chandigarh’s Sector 44||Unidentified miscreants broke into a lawyer’s house here and decamped with ₹90,000 cash, gold and silver jewellery among other valuables when the family members were away, police said.Mukesh Kumar Bhatnagar (45) of Sector 44, who is a practising lawyer in Punjab and Haryana high court, told the police that he and his family had gone to his father’s place in Sector 47 on the night of August 8 and when they returned the next morning, they found the house broken into.Bhatnagar said the accused robbed silver and gold jewellery worth lakhs of rupees, besides other valuables and ₹90,000 cash.Based on his complaint, the police registered a case under sections 380 and 457 of the IPC at the Sector 34 police station.ANOTHER THEFT IN SECTOR 8 HOUSEA woman residing in Sector 8 has reported theft in her house. She stated in her police complaint that the accused broken into her house from a window on July 28 and stole her diamond and gold ornaments. The Sector 3 police have registered a case under sections 380 and 457 of the IPC in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lawyer-s-house-burgled-of-90-000-cash-gold-jewellery-in-chandigarh-s-sector-44/story-crFxgpzkWvfpkONvW2UxAP.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Trader body holds protest in CP, wants gyms and hotels in capital reopened||Members of the Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI) – a collective of trade and industrial bodies – on Tuesday staged a protest in Connaught Place and several other commercial areas, demanding that hotels, weekly markets and gymnasiums be allowed to open in the capital as part of the Centre’s unlock plan to remove lockdown restrictions in a gradual manner.Hotels, weekly markets and gymnasiums have been closed in Delhi since March 25 as part of the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain Covid-19. The AAP-led Delhi government is in favour of opening them while lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal is against them being opened saying the Covid situation in the capital is still fragile.“Hotels, weekly markets and gyms collectively provide livelihood to around 2.5 million people. While several other states have allowed them to function under the guidelines issued by the central government, these remain shut in Delhi. It is difficult to understand why. We demand that the L-G reconsiders the decision to allow hotels, weekly markets and gyms to function,” said Brijesh Goyal, president of CTI.Chirag Sethi, vice-president of Delhi gym association, said, “Delhi has around 5,500 registered gymnasiums and most of them will be forced to shut if restrictions are not lifted at the earliest. Closing down would mean more job losses.”Delhi has around 2,500 hotels and lodges and weekly markets of different scales operate in around 2,700 locations across the city, said a statement issued by the CTI.“Weekly markets in the city alone engage more than 400,000 people in different roles – from traders to small-time transporters and labourers. Most of them are poor and have faced really difficult times because of the lockdown. It is high time to revive economic activities that help them,” said Sanjay Sachdeva, a Delhi-based trader association leader and member of the CTI.The L-G’s office did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/trader-body-holds-protest-in-cp-wants-gyms-and-hotels-in-capital-reopened/story-6Ed4ubgfACk8iUS6wF19MI.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Man held for bid to rape 10-year-old girl||A 25-year- old man was arrested on Tuesday for attempting to rape a 10-year-old girl in Rishi Nagar after luring her to a secluded spot near Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) with the promise to pick guavas.Vicky Kumar of Z-block of Rishi Nagar and the girl’s neighbour fled from the spot after she raised an alarm when he started molesting her. An FIR was lodged on the complaint of the victim’s mother, who said she and her husband were at work when her son, who was alone at home with his sister, called and asked her to come home.Once back, the mother saw the girl weeping and on questioning her was told about Kumar’s rape attempt. Inspector Paramdeep Singh, station house officer at the PAU police station, said an FIR had been lodged against Kumar under sections 376, 511 of IPC and sections 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.Kumar, a married man, was arrested while attempting to flee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-held-for-bid-to-rape-10-year-old-girl/story-YJKl4pBUUc0odIyOYvJspL.html
11-08-2020||City||4-storey building collapse in Amritsar brings scores of unsafe structures in focus||Even though no casualty was reported after a 50-year-old four-storey building collapsed in Cheel Mandi area in Amritsar on Monday night, the incident has drawn focus on scores of unsafe buildings in the city. With the arrival of monsoon in Punjab and authorities not taking lesson from the deaths caused by building collapses in the past, many unsafe structures are awaiting tragedy.At around 11pm on Monday, a four-storied residential building collapsed and eight people had a narrow escape. On hearing the noise, the neighbours came out and helped clear the debris. As per police, owner of the house was running an embroidery factory in the building’s fourth floor. Due to strong vibrations caused by operation of the machines, the building collapsed.However, locals are blaming officials of the Amritsar municipal corporation for allowing the owner to construct a fourth floor on the building which was at that time 40-year-old.This is not the first time when an old building has collapsed in the recent times. On July 12, a couple had died after the roof of their house on Dhapai Road collapsed due to high-velocity winds and rain. Another couple and their six-month-old twins had died when the roof of their house had collapsed following a hailstorm and heavy rain at Moole Chak village on March 6.MC commissioner Komal Mittal said, “Before onset of monsoon every year, we conduct a survey for unsafe buildings. As per the survey conducted in 2020, 122 buildings in Amritsar were declared unsafe. MC had demolished one of these buildings, which was in a dilapidated state. Owners of remaining buildings were given official notices to either vacate the structures or repair the faults. I have deployed special teams to conduct a drive to recheck status of these buildings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-storey-building-collapse-in-amritsar-brings-scores-of-unsafe-structures-in-focus/story-1ODNSBO4ao9gevLWwwJPYK.html
11-08-2020||City||Plasma bank opens at Faridkot medical college, only two donors show up||The plasma bank at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, was made operational on Tuesday. Punjab cabinet minister OP Soni inaugurated the plasma bank through video conferencing.However, only two recovered patients, including a doctor, came forward to donate plasma for transfusion of immunoglobulin antibodies for covid treatment. Under convalescent plasma therapy, antibody-rich blood plasma of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 is preserved for transfusion into critical patients.In June, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had allowed Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) in Amritsar, Faridkot and Patiala to treat covid patients with plasma therapy.Eight covid patients who recovered are ready for transfusion. However, most of them are doctors or health workers. Common people who have recovered from the virus are reluctant to donate plasma fearing side effects.GGSMCH principal Dr Deepak Bhatti said, “Seven to eight persons have given consent to donate plasma, and two have already done so. Many doctors who had contracted the virus have recovered and will donate plasma after completing 28 days standard time period. We are motivating common people as well to donate plasma, but they are a little reluctant.”“Plasma therapy is completely safe and takes just 45-60 minutes. The newly setup plasma bank is equipped with two plasma therapy machines,” he added.Baba Farid University of Health Sciences V-C Dr Raj Bahadur said, “Amid pandemic, people were finding it difficult to get plasma and the situation is getting chaotic. But we hope that the situation will improve with inauguration of this plasma bank in Faridkot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plasma-bank-opens-at-faridkot-medical-college-only-two-donors-show-up/story-7LADbI3B2ZTgZkFenFIE6K.html
11-08-2020||Kolkata||Fire breaks out in multi-storeyed building in Kolkata||A fire broke out at a multi- storeyed building in the southern part of the city’s Rabindra Sadan area on Tuesday evening, fire department officials said.There was no report of any injury in the fire, the official said.Four fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the fire which broke out at around 5.25 pm.The fire broke out on the seventh floor of the building on AJC Bose Road housing several offices and shops, he said.The entire building was evacuated and the blaze was brought under control after a 40-minute-long fight by the firefighters, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/fire-breaks-out-in-multi-storeyed-building-in-kolkata/story-YtbPONOmOizdvCHhxk4DVN.html
11-08-2020||Patna||Bihar flood situation worsens; 75 lakh in 16 districts affected||The flood situation in Bihar worsened on Tuesday with the water entering fresh areas affecting over 62,000 more people in 16 districts, taking the number of flood victims to more than 75 lakh, a bulletin by the state Disaster Management Department bulletin said.The number of affected panchayats increased to 1,260 from Monday’s 1,240 though that of the flood-hit districts remained at 16.Also read: PM Modi reviews situation in six flood-affected statesThere was no fresh report of deaths in flood-related incidents in the state and the figure stood at 24.Darbhanga district reported the highest casualties of 10, followed by six in Muzaffarpur, four in West Champaran and two each in Saran and Siwan, the bulletin said.The bulletin said that 20 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and 13 of the SDRF have evacuated 5,36,371 people from inundated areas so far.Besides, 12,479 people have taken shelter in seven relief camps and nearly 9.29 lakh people were fed at 1,204 community kitchens in the affected districts, it said.Several rivers such as the Baghmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamlabalan and the Khiroi are flowing above the danger level.The Ganga is flowing above the danger mark at Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur district. However, its water level came down at several places including Patna, Water Resources Department’s bulletin said.All embankments under the department are safe, it said. The Met office at Patna has forecast light rain in the catchment areas of all rivers flowing in the state on Wednesday.The 16-flood affected districts are Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, West Champaran, East Champaran, Khagaria, Saran, Samastipur, Siwan, Madhubani, Madhepura and Saharsa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-flood-situation-worsens-75-lakh-in-16-districts-affected/story-s9nv37faiJzE1b3KFFlgbN.html
11-08-2020||City||Sangli, Satara and Solapur may get jumbo Covid facilities||Pune: Considering the surge in number of Covid cases in Sangli, Satara and Solapur, the government may set up jumbo facilities at these districts, according to Pune divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao. Rao on Tuesday said that a proposal to set up jumbo facilities at the three places was submitted to the state government on Tuesday and a panel will soon take a decision. “Jumbo facilities are needed at these districts because of the reported rise in cases,” said Rao during an interaction with reporters. As per the state health department, Satara has 2,832 active cases with 180 deaths, Solapur 3,494 cases with 562 deaths and Sangli 3,070 cases with 144 deaths as on August 10. State health minister Rajesh Tope during a review visit to Karad town of Satara district on Sunday said that the administration has been asked to increase contact tracing and testing. “The technical and medical teams have already conducted surveys and a cost estimation committee has submitted its report. As the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) is handling the process for jumbo facilities in Pune, we might think to appoint the same organisation as the coordinating and executing agency for these three districts as well,” said Rao. Covid status in Pune divisionFive districts fall under Pune division. District/ active Covid patients/ total deaths Pune/25,145/2,510 Satara/2,832/180 Solapur/3,494/562 Sangli/3,070/144 Kolhapur/5934/290 (Figures till August 10, 9 pm) 83 notices issued for overcharging; administration to audit bills above Rs 1.5 lakh HT Correspondent puneletters@htlive.com Pune The administration has served 83 notices following complaints from patients about overcharging by private hospitals. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said that 28 auditors and eight deputy collectors have been appointed to address complaints of overcharging. “The administration has issued 83 notices for overcharging of Covid-19 patients in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. We have got the reply in 11 cases and scrutiny is underway. In most cases, hospitals have forwarded their explanations and we are assessing their replies,” said Rao, adding that the administration has decided to carry out audit of every bill above Rs 1.5 lakh. “Under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, the bill amount of patient staying in hospital for 10 days has been fixed at Rs 1.5 lakh. So, we have decided to scrutinise bills above the prescribed limit from auditing teams comprising medical experts,” said Rao. Many patients had expressed grievance on social media about the excessive bill charged by various hospitals. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “At least 52 hospitals in Pune Municipal Corporation are treating Covid-19 patients. We have issued notices to seven hospitals and instructed them to fully convert their centre into a Covid hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sangli-satara-and-solapur-may-get-jumbo-covid-facilities/story-KWJUPHPSwiLSmAaclFtktN.html
11-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 death toll rises to 189 with 11 more fatalities||Eleven more people succumbed to Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Monday, pushing the death toll to 189, a state government bulletin said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA total of 531 fresh cases raised the tally in the state to 18,786, it said.Jharkhand now has 8,849 active coronavirus cases, while 9,748 people have recovered from the disease, the bulletin said.The mortality rate is one per cent and the recovery rate 51.88 per cent, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-189-with-11-more-fatalities/story-4bfJDwz6MX0xuZ3obSJIbJ.html
11-08-2020||Pune||PMC to distribute 150 metric tonnes of ammonium bicarbonate to dissolve PoP Ganesh idols at home||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday approved the purchase of 150 metric tonnes of ammonium bicarbonate for an eco-friendly Ganesh immersion process at home.PMC will be distributing ammonium bicarbonate free of cost to the citizens. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane, said, “PMC has been using ammonium bicarbonate since many years to dissolve Ganesh idols. This process will help residents celebrate an eco-friendly Ganeshotsav at home since there are no artificial ponds this year.”“At least six lakh Ganesh idols are brought home during Ganeshotsav every year and of those, at least five lakh are made from PoP. This will help in the eco-friendly immersion of these idols. Now, we are also witnessing many organisations promoting clay idols, which is better for the environment,” said PMC solid waste management head Dnyaneshwar Molak.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2015 instructed the Pune Municipal Corporation to avoid river pollution caused due to idol immersion. With the help of National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), the civic body found that plaster of Paris idols could be immersed in ammonium bicarbonate and pollution could be avoided.The idols have to placed inside a bucket full of water for 48 hours. Then, the ammonium bicarbonate (2kg packet) is put in the water. After 48 hours, the calcium carbonate settles down and a milky white solution forms at the top. This solution can be used for gardening, said PMC officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-distribute-150-metric-tonnes-of-ammonium-bicarbonate-to-dissolve-pop-ganesh-idols-at-home/story-KAUPH5EfBN2yJpLUOHZaMO.html
11-08-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee seeks more ventilators from PM Modi to fight Covid-19||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday to send more ventilators and oxygen supply apparatus needed to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients. Banerjee also urged the Prime Minister, during a video conference, to ensure that the Union government issues guidelines on Covid-19 vaccines to fight the pandemic. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), three Indian vaccines are in different phases of clinical testing at present. Also read: ‘Reign of fear across the country’: Mamata Banerjee attacks BJP, Centre“We request the Central government to provide us more high flow nasal cannulas and ventilators,” Banerjee, was quoted in a media statement issued by the state government The video conference was convened by Modi for chief ministers of 10 states, including West Bengal, to discuss the situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic in the country. By Tuesday evening, the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 crossed one lakh and stood at 1,01,390 . he state has around 1,140 patients admitted in various hospitals, whose conditions were stated to be critical. The chief minister once again raised the issue of dues, which the centre reportedly owes the state, while highlighting the achievements made by the state administration including setting up of a Covid warrior club, Covid patient management system. “The state is still to receive Rs 4,135 crore towards GST compensation and overall outstanding dues of Rs 53,000 crore from the central government,” Banerjee said The West Bengal government had in April come under flak from the two inter-ministerial central teams for the death audit committee and the high fatality rate of Covid-19 patients in the state. The state had later stopped the death audits. During the meeting she said: “At the start we had emphasized on death audits but now it is vindicated that comorbidity is an important element in Covid deaths. Eighty-nine per cent of Covid deaths in our state were due to comorbidities like diabetes, cancer and hypertension.” Till August 10, 2,100 patients have died in West Bengal with Kolkata recording the maximum deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-seeks-more-ventilators-from-pm-modi-to-fight-covid-19/story-OcoYtN4OmljNV9I7vsOQiK.html
11-08-2020||Jaipur||Sachin Pilot back in Jaipur, says there shouldn’t be any vendetta politics||Congress leader Sachin Pilot here on Tuesday said he has not demanded any post from the party and there should not be any vendetta politics as he returned to Jaipur nearly a month after his revolt against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. On Monday, a meeting between Sachin Pilot and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had signalled an “amicable resolution” of nearly a month-long Rajasthan political crisis ahead of the crucial assembly session beginning August 14. The Congress leader told reporters that he did not make any statement against the party and had gone to discuss issues with the Congress high command in Delhi. I have not demanded any post from the party, he added. Pilot, however, said he was shocked at statements made against him. “I am sad, shocked and hurt due to the kind of words used against me,” Pilot said. He said there should not be any space for “personal ill-feelings” in politics and there should not be any vendetta politics. A large number of his supporters gathered outside his residence to welcome him as he drove down to Jaipur from New Delhi in his car. PTI AG RDK RDK RDK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/sachin-pilot-back-in-jaipur-says-there-shouldn-t-be-any-vendetta-politics/story-IJT2sVJ7OEWx1diQLvpyfM.html
11-08-2020||City||Sugar factories likely to set up Covid care centres in rural Maharashtra||PUNE: Sugar factories are likely to erect Covid care centres in rural Maharashtra after an appeal by the state government. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar told co-operative minister Balasaheb Patil to urge sugar factories to erect the centres wherever necessary. Sugar commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said that an official appeal will be send to sugar factories soon. Gaikwad said, “Factories near urban areas could set up to the centres mainly for asymptomatic patients. It would not be mandatory, but owners are expected to erect it voluntarily.” Gaikwad said, “The Vighnahar co-operative factory helped us to erect a Covid care centre at Ozar in Pune district. We expect owners of other factories to follow the example.” Pawar, while instructing Patil, said, “Many factories have godowns with tin roofs that are lying vacant. It is very easy to erect the centres at these places.” A sugar commissioner official, on condition of anonymity, said that mainly sugar factories located in Solapur are expected to set up Covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sugar-factories-likely-to-set-up-covid-care-centres-in-rural-maharashtra/story-09KsTySTDZ4c8NjTaifWvK.html
11-08-2020||Pune||BJP state chief questions utility of jumbo facility in Pune||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state unit chief and Kothrud legislator Chandrakant Patil has sought the utility of Covid jumbo facility in Pune when cases have stabilised and patients are opting for home quarantine. Patil, who met Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Monday, said that the civic chief was urged to reassess the need to spend Rs 300 crore on jumbo facilities in the city. He said that the number of infected in Pune is showing a downward trend and the facilities may remain underutilised with many opting for home isolation. Patil cited the example of Mumbai, where, according to him, the jumbo facilities are underutilised. According to Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, the two facilities will offer respite to existing health infrastructure in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. “The existing health infrastructure of private hospitals in under tremendous stress and once the two facilities are operational, the hospitals will get some relief,” said Rao on Tuesday during a press conference. Of the two facilities, one is coming up at College of Engineering, Pune at Shivajinagar while the other is at Annasaheb Magar college in Pimpri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-state-chief-questions-utility-of-jumbo-facility-in-pune/story-AP6FV0gXANYAutEdi7RXTN.html
11-08-2020||Ranchi||Two arrested with 17kg opium, 1,860kg poppy husk||Ranchi police have arrested two accused and seized 17 kgs of opium and 1,860 kgs of poppy husk with a market value of Rs 35 lakh from their possession which they were smuggling to Rajasthan, Superintendent of Police Naushan Alam said on Tuesday.According to the police, the accused have been identified as Narpat Kumar Mangaram, 25, and Chunaram, 30, both residents of Rajasthan’s Barmer. They had procured these contraband items from various areas of Jharkhand.The arrest was made on Monday after police acted upon a tip-off.“Acting on secret information, a special investigation team conducted a vehicle checking drive on NH-33 on Monday. On suspicion, the team checked an 18-wheel truck and found 17 packets of opium of 1 kg each and 93 gunny sacks of poppy husk weighing 1,860 kg. The police also seized a cash amount of Rs 30,460 from their possession,” the Superintendent of Police said.When the driver and another man could not present valid documents for carrying the substances, they were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/two-arrested-with-17kg-opium-1-860kg-poppy-husk/story-sV9IlF1cZK8XeelOxFWsmL.html
11-08-2020||Lucknow||State industry has progressed from survival to revival: Satish Mahana||Soon after coming to power in March 2017, the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh began showcasing the state as an investment destination and focused on industrial development, which is expected to play a big a part in chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s one trillion dollar economy goal.The state hosted the UP Investors Summit 2018, two ground-breaking ceremonies and the biggest ever Defence Expo. Howerver, Covid-19 hit the industrial and other sectors. HT spoke to industrial development minister Satish Mahana about how his department engaged in governance during the pandemic.How did you face the challenge?The impact of Covid-19 on industry in UP began weeks before the lockdown. The pandemic had already hit many countries, including Europe and the US, before us. Flights and cargo services were disrupted. Industry started feeling the heat before other sectors. But once the lockdown was declared in India, labourers were affected first. Then, industry came to a grinding halt. Our first major decision was to allow 11 crucial continuous process industries (CPI) in the state to function. We were quick to follow Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s lockdown-2 mantra ‘Jaan Bhi, Jahan Bhi (we have to save lives and the economy at the same time)’. After April 16, we began opening industries. We initiated amendments to make a shift from ‘survival’ to ‘revival’.What did you do for the survival stage?In the first stage, we began hand-holding the industries to get them to reopen with Covid safety protocols. We asked industry to pay full or partial salaries to employees. At the same time, employees were persuaded to begin working even on curtailed salaries as the factories were in distress. This is how the industries began functioning. Now, the situation has drastically changed. They are in a revival stage.How is industry performing now?In February, the industrial sector consumed (through industrial feeder) 8,630 mega-units of power per day. By May 22, the industrial sector power consumption reached 7,246 mega-units per day. This was 84% of February’s consumption. And now we have surpassed the February consumption. This is a clear indicator that we have entered the progress stage. Also, construction work on expressways is going on rapidly.What steps did the government take for industry to overcome Covid-19 impact? What concessions were offered?In Noida and Greater Noida, the construction sector, too, is under the industry department. We gave the builders six months’ extension for project completion. We gave a moratorium to industry on loan repayments. There were power related exemptions and concessions too. We also reviewed our 2017 industrial policy. For instance, earlier a minimum of 150 acres land had to be bought for establishment of a private industrial park. In view of Covid, we reduced this to 30 acres. We have offered concessions for logistics and warehousing ventures also. Our government has improved the ease of doing business by introducing various IT driven modules. Did the state get new investment during Covid-19? What about the MoUs of investment summits?We never stopped tracking MoUs signed at the summits. We began removing hurdles. On the ease of doing business index, Uttar Pradesh has been consistently outperforming (others) for the last four years and got ‘Achiever’ State status in 2017-18. What about attracting investors who want to shift from China? We are working on it with financial institutions. We have established helpdesks for different countries which could be potential investors in Uttar Pradesh. We expect that some would begin the shifting process once the Covid crisis ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/state-industry-has-progressed-from-survival-to-revival-satish-mahana/story-EDrTi6AOqdhQ5VKIgO1d3I.html
11-08-2020||City||2 arrested for stealing pickup trucks||The Rabale police have arrested two men for stealing pick-up trucks during lockdown from Navi Mumbai. Two other accused are absconding. According to police, one of the two accused arrested was out on a parole, due to the pandemic. Chandra Pujari, 42, and Rakesh Pawar, 25, were arrested recently and following their interrogation, police recovered four pick-up trucks valued at ₹11 lakh from their possession. Pujari had gotten out of Nashik jail around the time of coronavirus lockdown while one of the absconding accomplices is among the many undertrials released during the lockdown on parole to ease burden in jails. The group had been active in Navi Mumbai since the start of April, shortly after the lockdown was imposed at the end of March. Pujari and another accused would identify the vehicles with no anti-theft sensors and steal them at night using a master-key. Pawar would then drive the vehicle to hide it at a safehouse, until it is meant to be sold. “The men used a master-key to steal the pick-up trucks. We have recovered four vehicles which were stolen from our jurisdiction, Rabale MIDC, Koparkhairane and Taloja areas. They have been remanded in judicial custody,” said Yogesh Gawde, senior inspector, Rabale police station. Pujari has cases against him in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Gujarat. Pujari and Pawar are residents of Thane, said police. “The accused mostly sold vehicles outside the city limits after changing the chassis number and the engine number of the vehicle. If the vehicle was not worth selling, they would break it down to salvage the scrap parts for sale,” said Pravin Phadtare, assistant inspector, Rabale police station. The police caught the two by checking the CCTV footage of some of the thefts and other technical details. The accused have been booked for theft. Officials are on the lookout for two other accused, including a Dhule based agent. The agent allegedly helped the accused with scrapping the vehicles or with documents of a scrapped vehicle, using which the stolen vehicles were sold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-arrested-for-stealing-pickup-trucks/story-q6VlTdT8ZLPV2c8UrUwKRN.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||‘Every human is valuable to us’: CM tweets after Delhi records 8 Covid-19 deaths, lowest in 2 months||Taking to Twitter to share lowest deaths in Delhi in two months due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said ‘every human is valuable to us’ and the effort is to ensure not a single person succumbs to the infection.“Today there are only 8 deaths from Corona in Delhi. Today, less than 10 deaths occurred after several days. We have taken several steps to reduce deaths from Corona. Our effort is that there should not be a single death. Every human is valuable to us,” the chief minister said. आज दिल्ली में कोरोना से केवल 8 मौतें हुईं। कई दिनों के बाद आज 10 से भी कम मौतें हुईं। कोरोना से होने वाली मौतों को कम करने के लिए हमने कई कदम उठाए हैं। हमारी कोशिश है कि एक भी मौत नहीं होनी चाहिए। हमारे लिए हर इंसान क़ीमती है। pic.twitter.com/AdGNIH0uhhDelhi on Tuesday recorded 1,257 fresh coronavirus cases and eight deaths, in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin issued.Also read | In its fight against coronavirus, Capital has turned a corner: CM KejriwalThis is the first time in over two months that the daily number of deaths has dropped below 10, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin. The reduction in deaths recorded comes a day after Delhi had unlocked the milestone of a recovery rate over 90 per cent mark. The chief minister, in an interview to Hindustan Times, had said that Delhi had turned a corner in its fight against coronavirus. Responding to whether Delhi’s improved statistics go on to show crossing of peak in coronavirus cases, Kejriwal had said, “Yes, in a sense we can say that we have overcome the difficult situation that we saw in the month of June. But, we must be prepared if this reoccurs. In 1918, the Spanish Flu had seen three peaks and the second peak was much worse than the first one.”With fresh cases on Tuesday, Delhi’s cumulative case tally climbed to 1,47,391 cases, out of which 1,32,384 people have recovered, been discharged or have migrated. There are 10,868 active cases, of which 5,523 are under home isolation. The death toll due to the disease is 4,139, according to the latest Delhi health department bulletin.Also read | Pulse oximeters, plasma bank to ramped-up testing: How Delhi fights back Covid-19As of Tuesday, 5,356 RTPCR, CBNAAT and TrueNat tests and 14,084 rapid-antigen tests were conducted. Delhi has tested 64,412 people per million, and a total of 12,23,845 tests have been conducted till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/every-human-is-valuable-to-us-kejriwal-tweets-after-delhi-records-8-deaths-lowest-in-two-months/story-IvIfSOR71QNfviKqVJdGvK.html
11-08-2020||City||Covid-19 forces a low-key Manimahesh pilgrimage in Chamba district||The Annual Manimahesh Yatra began on Tuesday in the Bharmour subdivision of Chamba district amid the Covid-19 pandemic, with rituals performed by a handful of pilgrims.The pilgrimage could be a low-key affair this year due to Covid-19 as only 24 pilgrims including priests, took the holy dip in the lake on the occasion of Janmashtmi, the birth of Lord Krishna.Bharmaour Additional District Magistrate (ADM) Prithi Paul Singh said that only a small number of pilgrims are allowed to visit the lake this year due to the pandemic. They include pilgrims from Bhadrwah and local devotees of Lord Shiva who perform the rituals of the yatra.Singh said the Manimahesh Trust had decided to allow only three people from one batch to undertake the yatra to the lake.He said that no medical camps or shops have been set up en route the lake, however, volunteers from the Mountaineering Institute and police personnel will remain on standby for rescue operations.The yatra will conclude on August 25, on the occasion of Radhaashtmi, the birthday of Lord Krishna’s consort Radha.Every year, lakhs of pilgrims trek to the oval-shaped lake, located at a height of 13,500ft above the sea level, to catch a glimpse of Mount Kailash, believed to be the abode of Lord Shiva, and offer prayers.The uphill journey starts from Hadsar, a small hamlet, which is about 12km from Bharmour town that serves as a base camp of the annual pilgrimage.Lord Shiva is the presiding deity of this Yatra. A rock formation in the shape of a Shivling on Kailash is considered to be the manifestation of Lord Shiva. The snowfield at the base of the mountain is called Shiva’s Chaugan.Mount Kailash is considered invincible. No one has so far been able to scale this peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-forces-a-low-key-manimahesh-pilgrimage-in-chamba-district/story-Ar2szhLsN7IJtAON8Y9esN.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 8 deaths due to Covid-19, lowest in over 2 months||The national capital recorded 1,257 fresh coronavirus cases, and eight deaths, the lowest in over two months, in the last 24 hours, authorities said on Tuesday. This is the first time in over two months that the daily number of deaths has dropped below 10, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin.  On August 5, Delhi had recorded 11 Covid-19 deaths, indicating a significant improvement in the situation in the city.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The city has so far recorded a total of 1,47,391 cases, of which 1,32,384 people have recovered, been discharged or have migrated.  There are 10,868 active cases, of which 5,523 are under home isolation.  The death toll due to the disease is 4,139, according to the latest Delhi health department bulletin. As many as 5,356 RTPCR, CBNAAT and TrueNat tests and 14,084 rapid-antigen tests were conducted. A total of 12,23,845 tests have been conducted till date -- 64,412 tests per million population, it said. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by less than one per cent everyday. The recovery rate has increased to more than 90 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-8-deaths-due-to-covid-19-lowest-in-over-2-months/story-8pxfFHstnNAuZwq266VvDJ.html
11-08-2020||City||Don’t shift Covid-19 patients from Sirmaur, Solan to DDU, Shimla: HC to HP govt||The Himachal Pradesh high court on Tuesday directed the state government not to shift Covid-19 patients from Sirmaur and Solan districts to Deen Dayal Upadhyaya (DDU) Hospital, Shimla, unless the hospitals in these districts run out of capacity to attend virus infected patients.A division bench comprising chief justice L Narayana Swamy and justice Anoop Chitkara passed these orders on a petition filed by Inderjit Singh, challenging the July 16 order of the state government designating DDU Zonal Hospital, Shimla, as the Dedicated Covid Care Hospital for Solan and Sirmaur in addition to Shimla and Kinnaur districts.The petitioner has alleged that in a meeting held on May 15, overall analysis of equipments and staff was done and it itself reflected the shortcomings of the hospital to be fully equipped and handle the situation as per the guidelines of Union ministry of health and family welfare. As per the petition, the analysis reflected that the ICU itself needs basic infrastructure. There is gap of 11 anaesthetists/medical specialists, 62 staff nurses and four radiographers. Besides, one remote control monitoring system is needed to be installed to decrease exposure of staff. 12 pulse oxymeter, one defribrillator, electric suction machines— one for ICU and four for the Covid ward, oxygen manifold, 10 oxygen regulator, one video laryngoscope, 12 syringe infusion pumps, scrub station, portable X-ray and alpha bed mattresses are also required. The petitioner prayed that in such a situation when the DDU is not fully equipped, it would be detrimental to public interest to transfer the patients from Solan and Sirmaur.During the course of hearing, on August 7, it was pointed out by the director health services that there are twenty four ventilators and given the infrastructure, one anesthetist can cater to six ventilators only. However, on Tuesday, it was stated that there are now two anesthetists working to cater to the ventilators.The high court observed that even if two anesthetists are available, 12 ventilators still don’t have anesthetists. Hence, when the infrastructure at DDU itself is incomplete, it does not permit the state to order shifting of patients from Sirmaur and Solan, unless those hospitals have run out of infrastructure.The next hearing in the case is on August 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-shift-covid-19-patients-from-sirmaur-solan-to-ddu-shimla-hc-to-hp-govt/story-KEhKh1V6xcnbMLWKQcRoDI.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Cambridge IGCSE, AS, A level results for June series out||Cambridge International on Tuesday announced the results of its June 2020 exam series in India for IGCSE (Class 10) and International AS and A (Class 11 and 12, respectively) level qualifications. This year, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, Cambridge International had cancelled its June 2020 exams. They engaged with education authorities, governments and schools around the world to develop a robust process for awarding students with assessed grades. The marks awarding process combined teacher insights – predicted grades and rank orders - with a rigorous standardisation process, keeping teacher judgments consistent, across different schools. Very few city schools conducted the exams in June this year. At Jamnabai Narsee School in Vile Parle, a 100% result was recorded. A total of 59 students had taken the exam and the school topper Veer Bathwal got 94%. Mahesh Srivastava, the regional director, South Asia at Cambridge Assessment International Education, said, “2020 has been a transformational year and has had a huge impact on teaching and learning across the world. With school closures, Cambridge learners were not able to take their June exams and therefore we developed a rigorous process for awarding assessed grades. Throughout the process, we worked closely with schools and aimed to create a level playing field and ensure that our grades are fair.”In India, this year the most popular Cambridge IGCSE subjects were English, physics and chemistry and the most popular Cambridge International AS and A level subjects were mathematics, economics and physics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cambridge-igcse-as-a-level-results-for-june-series-out/story-eC013Ye8cbRdd6ZYmLovTN.html
11-08-2020||City||62% of parents not in favour of reopening schools||As the number of Covid-19 infections continues to spike across the state, parents of school-going children continue to be unsure about physical classes until a vaccine is developed. This was revealed in a report made on the basis of online parent-teacher meetings conducted from August 4 to August 7 throughout the state.More than seven lakh parents, as well as guardians, interacted with at least 48,000 teachers of government schools during these meetings, of which more than four lakh parents have suggested not to reopen schools.Parents have argued that this is not the right time to reopen schools and demanded that online classes should continue till situation is under control. However, around 38% of parents/guardians have suggested reopening schools with less strength taking all precautionary measures. Apart from this, parents have suggested restarting Classes 10th and 12th. Ajay Thakur, whose son studies in a government school in Shimla said, “Although we know that education is very important but considering the ongoing situation it is very risky to restart regular classes in schools. Children can get easily infected therefore it is better to continue with online classes for a few more months.”State Project Director, Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan Ashish Kohli said that online parent-teacher meetings were conducted to take parents’ feedback regarding the reopening of schools. Such meetings will also be conducted in the future.Schools in Himachal Pradesh continue to remain closed for the last five months in order to prevent the spread of coronavirus after which online classes were started so that students could study at home and their studies do not get affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/62-of-parents-not-in-favour-of-reopening-schools/story-U5w0F9qTyP7uMU3cQA6rhK.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||GST superintendent loses ₹1.91 lakh to KYC fraud||A superintendent with the Central Goods and Services Tax (GST) department in Mumbai was duped of ₹1.91 lakh by a fraudster posing as a bank employee on Sunday. The fraudster asked him to update the Know-Your-Customer (KYC) procedure. The complainant, Srikumar Prasad, 50, was asked to download a ‘quick support’ application on his phone and to fill his bank credit/debit card details. He then lost ₹1.91 lakh in seven transactions.Prasad, a resident of Antop Hill area received a message from an unknown number around 9:30am on Sunday stating that his bank KYC is pending. “While explaining the entire KYC process the fraudster asked Prasad to download an application, ‘Quick support’ and to fill his credit and debit card details in it. Prasad then shared the one time password with the accused and later ₹1.91 lakh were debited from his account,” added police.After three to four transactions Prasad received a call from his bank alerting him about the fraud. But, by then he had lost ₹1.91 lakh, said a police officer. He then approached the Antop Hill police station and a case was registered under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal code and IT Act for cheating. “We have been continuously appealing to the citizens to never share their confidential banking details with anyone who claims to be a bank employee. The KYC update is not permitted on the phone and even bank employees are not permitted to ask any personal details related to a bank account”, said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gst-superintendent-loses-1-91-lakh-to-kyc-fraud/story-ERWJcioyHib4AKQONetSYL.html
11-08-2020||City||HP govt offered 24,527 teleconsultations on e-Sanjeevani portal during covid-19 pandemic||Himachal Pradesh has ranked third across the country for registering the highest number of consultations on e-Sanjeevani portal after Tamil Nadu with 32,035 consultations and Andhra Pradesh with 28,960 consultations as the state has facilitated 24,527 consultations through e-Sanjeevani and e-Sanjeevani OPD portals. A spokesperson of the state government on Tuesday said that Himachal Pradesh had responded swiftly and put in place telemedicine services in March in the larger public interest. The e-Sanjeevani portal started on March 31 in the state. This portal is meant to connect the most peripheral health institutions i.e. health sub-centres and primary health centres with specialists and super-specialists in medical colleges of the state.He said that the government has notified 1,022 facilities comprising 504 health sub-centres and 518 PHCs to be upgraded as health and wellness centres for providing Comprehensive Primary Health Care (CPHC) which is the key determinant in achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC) under Aayushman Bharat. For providing teleconsultation services, the health and wellness centres were equipped with 867 desktops along with speakers and webcams to provide teleconsultation and another 199 desktops are in the process of being supplied. As of now, there are 303 active health sub-centres which are connected with PHC Ner Chowk Mandi College who are availing the service of teleconsultation. Currently, over 446 PHCs of the state are working both as a hub for community health officers, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-offered-24-527-teleconsultations-on-e-sanjeevani-portal-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-gZXzQ8PxDEU98lRRZY64oM.html
11-08-2020||City||Himachal Congress accuses state govt of protecting land mafias||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Tuesday accused the state government of protecting land mafia. He asked chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to clarify the situation and order a high-level investigation into the matter.In a statement issued here, Rathore said under the influence of state government land of poor people is being sold at cheaper rates to outsiders on the pretext of lease. He said it is clear by the manner land is purchased by outsiders at the state’s tourist places on the pretext of leasing. “A big mafia is active in the state which is looting innocent people,” he added.Rathore alleged that land mafia, liquor mafia, mining mafia and transfer mafia are very active in the state and innocent people are being robbed. He said the Congress will not tolerate any kind of tampering with Section 118 of Himachal Pradesh Tenancy and Land Reforms Act 1972. “The land should not be sold to outsiders at any cost neither should outsiders be permitted to purchase land as per Section 118,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-congress-accuses-state-govt-of-protecting-land-mafias/story-kZL5vLZXgJk1NjapMwIUlI.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Mobile recovered from gangster in Kapurthala jail||A mobile phone was recovered from a gangster lodged in Kapurthala Modern Jail on Tuesday. Jail authorities recovered a smartphone, sim card, battery and charger from gangster Rajinder Singh alias Mintu, during a surprise inspection of the cells. Authorities also seized five abandoned phones and batteries.A case has been registered against Mintu and some unidentified inmates under Sections 52A of the Prisons Act at the Kotwali Police Station on the recommendation of jail deputy superintendent of police (DSP) .Police have started an investigation to trace contacts with whom the gangster was in contact with outside the jail.Though jail premises have been sealed and no visitors have been allowed since the lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, the smuggling of mobile phones into Kapurthala Modern Jail remains unabated, exposing the lax security in the prison. This is the third time that a banned item has been recovered from inmates in the last two months. On June 26, a mobile and sim card were recovered from Sukhjinder Singh alias Billa Tolenangal of Amritsar and two mobile phones with sim cards and batteries were recovered from three other inmates on June 23 and June 6.This year, an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) was caught smuggling 50g charas into the jail. In the 13 cases where drugs were recovered from Kapurthala jail last year, the involvement of jail officials was established in five.Around 120 mobile phones along with sim cards had been recovered from jails this year during surprise inspections.As per Kotwali police station records around 170 mobile phones were seized in 2018 and over 200 mobile batteries, sim cards and chargers were recovered from prisoners in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mobile-recovered-from-gangster-in-kapurthala-jail/story-h6ESDH1LdbQGfMY9Md2UUM.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Work halts at Ludhiana Vet Varsity’s surgery-radiology dept after Covid-19 scare||Services in the surgery and radiology department at the Veterinary Hospital of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) were suspended on Tuesday till further orders after a common relative of two attendants tested positive for Covid-19. Sharing details, Dr Parkash Singh Brar, dean, College of Veterinary Science, said facilities such as X-ray, ultrasound and surgeries on small and large animals had been suspended. “A common relative of our two attendants in the department (tested) Covid-19 positive so we are (being) careful to break the chain of virus transmission,” he said. As authorities and staff at the Veterinary Hospital had to deal with a large number of persons daily, “so precautionary measures are imperative for the welfare of the community,” Brar added. Samples of the attendants were being tested at the Civil Hospital. Harpreet Singh, the institute’s public relations officer, said five persons, including three teachers, an attendant managing animals and another one dealing with X-rays had been asked to isolate. Other departments of the hospital would remain open, he added. GADVASU’s veterinary hospital is one of the biggest treatment centres in the area catering to injured or sick pets, cows, buffaloes and even wild animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/work-halts-at-ludhiana-vet-varsity-s-surgery-radiology-dept-after-covid-19-scare/story-O21ugNc2RAEP32R9AuMCMN.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||78-year-old woman dies of Covid-19 in Mandi, coronavirus toll rises to 16 in HP||Dharamshala: A 78-year-old woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, succumbed to the infection at Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk in Mandi, on Tuesday, taking the coronavirus toll in Himachal Pradesh to 16. The woman belonged to the Sandhol area of Dharampur sub division and had a travel history to Panchkula in Haryana, medical superintendent Dr Jeevanand Chauhan said. Himachal Pradesh has recorded four Covid-19 deaths in four days. A 74-year-old man from Hamirpur died of the contagion at the medical college in Nerchowk on Saturday. He was suffering from renal failure and blood deficiency and was undergoing treatment in Chandigarh. He returned on July 26 and was shifted to the medical college on July 28 after his condition deteriorated. Two people died on Monday. One of the patients with co-morbidities was a 70-year-old man from Mandi. Another 49-year-old man from Solan succumbed to coronavirus infection at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla. Till date, five deaths have occurred in Mandi, four in Hamirpur, three each in Kangra and Shimla districts and one in Sirmour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/78-year-old-woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-mandi-coronavirus-toll-rises-to-16-in-hp/story-ZIfhqNLNdLvjtntVByAV0M.html
11-08-2020||Pune||Shiroli double murder case: Three arrested, six still at large||The Rajgurunagar police have arrested three persons in connection with the murder of two youths in Harantekdi, Khed. A youth was murdered in Pimpri last month and investigation into that case led the Rajgurunagar police to the culprits. The arrested have been identified as Bablu alias Abhishek Uttam Bhalerao (19), Rishikesh Rajendra Wadekar, (22), and Nikhil Ashok Shinde (20), all residents of Shiroli in Khed. However, six more accused that are residents of Pimpri-Chinchwad are still at large. According to Khed sub-divisional officer Gajanan Tonpe, the two youth identified as Niranjan Ashok Gurav (20) and Bajrang Dayanandrao Jadhav (22) were found hacked to death under mysterious circumstances on August 7. One of the accused kept DW 302 as status on his mobile phone which led the police to them.API Rahul Lad of Khed police station , the investigation officer in the case said, “ The main accused’s brother was murdered in Chikhali two months ago and Bhalerao is the cousin of the main accused. Bhalerao had provided the tip of the arrival of the youths in the area after which they were hacked to death. We had no clue about the case and one accused Wadekar had kept his mobile status as DW 302, and that led us to the assailants. The arrested accused have been remanded to seven days police custody, ” he said.The two youths were hacked with sharp weapons in Shiroli on Friday. “We had information that Bhalerao’s cousins were involved in the murder and it was Bhalerao who tipped them about the arrival of two youths in Khed after which they along with other associates committed the murder. We are looking for the absconding suspects in the case,” Tonpe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/shiroli-double-murder-case-three-arrested-six-still-at-large/story-0BBojo4N6xCpapvFPovTqM.html
11-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s Covid discharge count crosses 50k mark||PUNE The city on Monday reported 779 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 24 deaths, according to the state health department. This takes the progressive positive cases in the city to 71,712.However, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in its daily report recorded 761 fresh positive cases taking the progressive positive count to 66,727. While 31 more deaths were reported taking the virus-related death toll in the city to 1,571. Also, 11 more deaths were reported outside PMC jurisdiction, from Pune rural and outside the district.The number of patients in critical care is increased to 738. Also, 1,499 persons were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the discharged count at 50,113.According to the information given by the PMC health department, of the 31 deaths reported on Monday, the youngest deceased patient was a 29-year-old male from Guruwar peth area. He was admitted to Sassoon General Hospital and suffered from hepatic encephalopathy and chronic liver disease. While the oldest deceased patient was an 87-year-old male from Warje who was admitted to KEM Hospital and died due to pneumonia and Covid-19 infection.Virus cases (figures till 7.30 pm on August 10)PMCNew cases: 761, total cases 66,727New deaths: 31, total deaths: 1,571New discharges 1,499, total discharges 50,113Critical patients 738, admit but stable 14,305||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-covid-discharge-count-crosses-50k-mark/story-RO0zjhMS4z352LmgTmnu6I.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Youth Akali Dal leader gunned down in Punjab’s Samrala sub division||Ludhiana: Car-borne assailants gunned down Ravinder Singh Sonu, 38, the Samrala rural unit president of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD), at Seh village in Ludhiana district on Tuesday afternoon. Police said Ravinder Singh was taking part in a tree plantation drive at a gurdwara in the village when four men stepped out of a Maruti Suzuki Swift car and fired at least 10 bullets at him from close range and fled. Eyewitnesses said that four of the six car occupants calmly walked up to Ravinder and before anybody at the spot could react, they pulled out their weapons and opened fire, killing him on the spot. The motive of the attack is yet to be ascertained. Ravinder Singh is the younger son of Seh village sarpanch Ranjit Kaur, who is a Shiromani Akali Dal loyalist. Ravinder’s elder brother Gurpreet Singh, alias Gura Seh, was hacked to death 17 months ago following a dispute over torn posters of a rival Congress group. Villagers gathered at the spot and did not allow the police to take the body initially. It was only after senior police officials from Khanna rushed to the village and pacified the residents did they relent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-akali-dal-leader-gunned-down-in-punjab-s-samrala-sub-division/story-3tg0C3KWlVtODfCMuD3QAJ.html
11-08-2020||Noida||Rain lashes parts of Uttar Pradesh, more likely on Wednesday||Very heavy rainfall occurred at isolated places in western Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, while some locations in the eastern part of the state received heavy showers, the MeT department said.According to the meteorological department, light to moderate rainfall and thunderstorm, accompanied with lightening, also occurred at some places in the state.Rain or thundershower is very likely at most places in the state from Wednesday to Friday, the MeT department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/rain-lashes-parts-of-uttar-pradesh-more-likely-on-wednesday/story-euQY9N9rUs0x3RZiK6mUJP.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi violence: HC grants bail to accused in case of rioting and arson||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to an accused who was allegedly involved in the case of rioting and arson during the north east Delhi violence in Februrary this year.Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani granted the relief to Mohd Anwar on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with two sureties of the like amount from blood-relatives.The high court directed him not to leave the National Capital Region (NCR) without permission of the trial court and shall ordinarily reside in his place of residence as per prison records.“Another aspect which deserves attention is the effect that pre-trial detention has on an accused, especially on his right to brief and consult his lawyers and to prepare his defence, in order to afford to the accused a real and not merely chimerical right to fair trial, as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution,” the judge said.The high court said till the time cognisance is taken on the charge sheet and the accused is summoned by the trial court, he shall present himself on every alternate Saturday before the investigating officer of the case.He shall not contact or visit or offer any inducement, threat or promise to the first informant or complainant or any of the prosecution witnesses and shall not tamper with evidence or indulge in any act that would prejudice the proceedings in the pending matter.According to the plea, he was taken into custody on April 3 in connection with another FIR lodged at Dayalpur police station in north east Delhi for alleged offences of rioting and mischief by fire or explosive substance with an intent to destroy a house under the IPC. Subsequently, he was arrested in this case. Besides this case, he is also accused in four other FIRs lodged by the Dayalpur police in relation to the Delhi riots in February this year. He was granted bail in two of the four cases.As per the complainant, the incident took place on February 14, when a mob was engaged in rioting and destruction of property in certain areas of north-east Delhi.During the rioting, the shop of one Mohd Shanawaz in Shiv Vihar area was burnt down and he filed a complaint with the police on March 4, around 10 days after the incident.As per the nominal roll placed by the authorities before the court, Anwar’s jail conduct was satisfactory in the last three months.The high court, in its order, noted that the investigation in the present FIR is complete and the charge sheet has already been filed on July 1.It noted that co-accused Firoz Khan has already been granted by the high court on May 29.The prosecution alleged that Anwar was one of the persons involved in arson and rioting, for which he was arrested and has been kept in judicial custody ever since.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-violence-hc-grants-bail-to-accused-in-case-of-rioting-and-arson/story-8F7TMR20t0erMpzZTmNUAI.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Man escapes Covid-19 facility, found dead on road||Hours after he escaped from a Covid-19 centre in Amalner in Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district on August 10, a 32-year-old man was found dead on road, police said on Tuesday.The patient, a resident of Wawade village in the north Maharashtra district, located over 400 kms from here, was admitted in the facility in Amalner tehsil on Monday morning, an official said.He said doctors and hospital staff realised that the man had gone missing on Monday as there was a heavy rush at the facility on Sunday when he had tested positive for coronavirus.His body was found in front of the Amalner municipal council building on Monday evening, the official said.“About 40 patients were being treated at the hospital while its actual capacity is of 20 beds,” he said, adding that the hospital head filed a police complaint about the missing patient.A local BJP leader alleged that it was not an isolated incident in Amalner.A Covid-19 patient had run away from Amalner rural healthcare centre and later killed in a road accident, the leader claimed and demanded deployment of more number of police personnel at the facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-escapes-covid-19-facility-found-dead-on-road/story-4dJ43zMY24dXaWfHLac2wJ.html
11-08-2020||Jaipur||3 independent MLAs meet Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Three independent MLAs Om Prakash Hudla, Suresh Tank and Khushveer Singh met Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot at his residence in Jaipur on Tuesday.Also read: Rajasthan truce sealed, Ashok Gehlot talks ‘peace, brotherhood’ in partyMeanwhile, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot reiterated that his government will complete its full term and Congress party will win the next Assembly elections as well.The development comes as the Rajasthan Assembly session is scheduled to begin from August 14.In the 200 members assembly, Congress has 107 MLAs. BJP has 72 MLAs. There are 3 Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) MLAs. There are 2 BTP, 2 CPI(M) and 1 RLD legislators also in the House. There are 13 independent MLAs in Rajasthan Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/three-independent-mlas-meet-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-iqMpvag2yYbJI8NQ7NxCvL.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||As Covid cases surge in Punjab, CM seeks liberal financial package from PM||Chandigarh: Amid a surge in Covid cases and 50% revenue decline for the first quarter of this fiscal in Punjab, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release a liberal financial package for states to fill the collection gap caused by the pandemic besides flexibility on Covid-related terms of expenditure in SDRF. During a video-conference meet of the Prime Minister with chief ministers of some states to review the Covid situation, Captain Amarinder Singh said the current cap of 35% in the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) for Covid-related expenditure, according to home ministry guidelines, is not sufficient to meet the present requirement. Citing the state’s rising number of Covid cases, which have gone up to 24,891 with 604 deaths, the chief minister urged the Prime Minister to review the UGC decision on mandatory exams for exit classes to be held by September 30. “Punjab may not be in a position to conduct exams in September as it may be facing its peak at that time,” he said, suggesting promoting students on past performance and internal assessment, with the option to take exams later for those wanting to improve their performance. He sought the Centre’s assistance for online school education, especially for students of Classes 10 and 12 from needy families. “More money is needed for creating infrastructure to support online education,” he added. NEED TO SCALE UP TESTING Though Punjab is conducting 23,000 tests per million for Covid (higher than the national average), and planned to increase RT-PCR tests from 12,000 to 20,000 in the next 15 days, it needs to scale up the testing capacity further, the chief minister said. He requested the Prime Minister to direct the central government institutions in Chandigarh and Punjab to increase testing capacity. Expressing concern over the state’s mortality rate of 2.4%, Captain Amarinder Singh said though it was lower than the all-India deaths per million and 91% of the fatality cases were with co-morbidity, it was still higher than neighbouring Haryana. Patients were coming to hospitals late and 86% deaths were occurring in tertiary hospitals. BOOSTER FOR INFRASTRUCTURE The chief minister thanked the Centre for accepting Punjab’s proposal to set up a National Institute of Virology for the north zone and said the state government will soon give 25 acres for the institute to the ICMR for the purpose. He requested immediate operationalisation of Covid testing and treatment at AIIMS, Bathinda, where OPDs are functional, and said this will be useful for the people of southern Punjab. Noting that PGI, Chandigarh, is a premier tertiary care facility for Punjab, he also sought increase in the bed capacity at the hospital and strengthening of the existing PGI satellite centre at Sangrur, especially for Covid treatment. He urged the Centre to start work on the newly sanctioned PGI satellite centre in Ferozepur. While of the three sanctioned medical colleges, the one at Mohali will start classes this year but more such institutions are needed, Capt Amarinder Singh said, requesting for new colleges in the aspirational districts of Gurdaspur, Sangrur and Moga. LUDHIANA, JALANDHAR AND PATIALA HAVE MOST CASES On the Covid situation in the state, he said it had seen cases go up from 500 to 1,000 in two weeks, with the positivity rate of the last five days at 8.73%. The majority of cases were coming from Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala, though cases were increasing in all districts. The number of micro-containment zones are being increased in the three high-incidence districts. To augment its fight against Covid, the state has opened plasma banks in Patiala and Amritsar, with another set to open soon in Faridkot. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan also participated in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-covid-cases-surge-in-punjab-cm-seeks-liberal-financial-package-from-pm/story-Vqdr4nTQhKQ6V3oiHTL65O.html
11-08-2020||Lucknow||Bulandshahr topper dies in road accident, cops deny she was harassed||A bright teenager from Uttar Pradesh going to meet her relatives before returning to the United States for her studies died in a road accident in Bulandshahr after she was allegedly harassed by two men, according to her family.Sudeeksha Bhati’s death provoked outrage and demands for punishment to the two men who allegedly harassed her. Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati called her death “extremely sad, embarrassing and very condemnable”.But as the case appeared to take a political turn, Bulandshahr’s district magistrate and police chief rushed to contradict the girl’s uncle Manoj Bhati who had claimed she had been harassed by two men. The uncle had also insisted that he was riding the two-wheeler.Sudeeksha Bhati, a tea seller’s daughter, was a district topper in Bulandshahr in 2018. She had scored 98% in her Class 12 examination in 2018 and was awarded a scholarship to study at Babson College, Wellesley, Massachusetts. She was scheduled to return on August 20 and wanted to catch up with her relatives.The officials said Sudeeksha was riding pillion with her young brother - “a minor” - when his motorcycle crashed into another bike that had abruptly stopped ahead of them “due to traffic”. Sudeeksha was on her way from Dadri in Gautam Buddh Nagar to Bulandshahr 40 km away, district magistrate Ravindra Kumar said.The police also tweeted an excerpt from his younger brother’s video statement, which the police said, did not make any reference to the alleged harassment.“But we will investigate the harassment charge and are trying to get in touch with Sudeeksha’s family,” Kumar said, adding that he wasn’t sure why her uncle had claimed that he was accompanying the girl.Her uncle Manoj Bhati earlier told reporters that the two men started “performing stunts near them” and would overtake them, then let them pass. At one point, the men stopped their bike just in front of their two-wheeler. Manoj Bhati said he applied the brakes but nevertheless, lost control.Sudeeksha sustained injuries and died later.Bulandshahr officials said they had sent a team to Dadri to meet Sudeeksha’s family since their phone numbers were not reachable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bulandshahr-topper-dies-in-road-accident-cops-deny-she-was-harassed/story-svAfftCTqfW8MAJEs87gAK.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt makes training plan for employees to enhance efficiency||The Haryana government has made a plan to train its employees to enhance their efficiency and make them familiar with the latest techniques in the next two years, according to an official statement here.For the training, Haryana Institute of Public Administration (HIPA) will be the apex training institute. An audio-video wing along with the studio will be set up in HIPA for imparting the training.Keshni Anand Arora, Haryana Chief Secretary said a web-portal will be prepared in the training cell, which will include information related to monitoring, reporting, feedback and analysis of the training programmes. To ensure a fruitful training, resource person will also be called and the training will be imparted through online and offline modes.“Chief Secretary has instructed all the heads of departments to draw a plan regarding the training to be given to the employees and to appoint nodal officers for the training. In addition, the departments have also been asked to identify ‘Master Trainers’ for providing in-house training,” the statement said.Arora further instructed all universities to coordinate with HIPA so that their institutes can facilitate training. She asserted that in-service and retired officers should also be included for training officers and employees.She added that the training branch of the Chief Secretary’s Office will act as the nodal department and will issue guidelines to all departments/training institutes regarding preparations of training manuals, annual training plans and perspective plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-makes-training-plan-for-employees-to-enhance-efficiency/story-1adjkH2G69k5OfQXp5Yf9I.html
11-08-2020||Noida||Noida man dials 100, threatens to harm PM Modi; arrested||Noida police on Monday arrested a 33-year-old man after he called up the emergency number ‘100’ and threatened to harm Prime Minister Narendra Modi, officials said.The accused has been identified as Harbhajan Singh, who lives in Sector 66 and hails from Haryana, they said, adding the man appears to be a “drug addict”.“Harbhajan had called up 100 number and threatened to harm the prime minister. The local Phase-3 police station swung into action and traced the man, who was then arrested from Mamura,” Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Central Noida, Ankur Aggarwal said.“The accused is being questioned. Prima facie, he appears to be a drug addict. He has been sent for medical examination to ascertain other details,” Aggarwal said.Police said further proceedings were being carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-man-dials-100-threatens-to-harm-pm-modi-arrested/story-GiEc4yKpKxLceGti4VDf8O.html
11-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand HRD minister applies for admission to Class 11||Jharkhand human resource development (HRD) minister Jagarnath Mahto applied for admission to Class 11 at Devi Mahto Inter College, Nawadih, a government affiliated inter college, in Bokaro district on Monday.Fifty three-year-old Mahto is resuming his education after almost 25 years. He had passed matriculation (Class 10) examinations in 1995.The minister has been facing criticism, not only from the common people but also from a section of elected members, for his educational qualification ever since he was elevated to the post of the HRD minister of Jharkhand.“Constant criticism inspired me to restart my pending education. Ever since I was made the education minister of Jharkhand, a section of people has been critical of my educational qualification. Therefore, I decided to begin my studies again,” the minister said.A legislator from Dumri assembly constituency in Giridih district, Mahto said, “I will now carry on my education while continuing my work in the education department.”The minister will pursue Arts stream. Talking about his subjects, he said, “I am a politician. So, the subject of political science will be there for sure. I will choose rest of the subjects soon.”When asked how will he strike a balance between the ministry work and regular classes, “Let me get the admission first. I have just applied for admission on Monday. Thereafter, I will think about striking a balance,” he said.The minister said he had wished to pursue higher education and he was going to fulfil it. When asked if he also wishes to graduate in the future, he replied, “My first target is to clear the intermediate examinations. Then, I will think about graduation,” he said.Mahto is not the only minister in Jharkhand who has a qualification of matriculation. Four more ministers in the state Cabinet- Banna Gupta, health minister, Champai Soren, transport minister, Joba Manjhi, social welfare minister and Satyanand Bhokta, labour minister- have declared their education qualification to be Class 10 pass in their affidavits for the 2019 Jharkhand Assembly polls, according to a report by Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR).Of the 11 ministers in the current JMM+Congress-led government, eight ministers, including chief minister Hemant Soren, have declared their educational qualification to be between eighth and 12th pass, while three have declared being graduates and above, according to the ADR.As per the ADR report, out of 81 legislators elected to the Jharkhand Assembly in past elections, 30 MLAs have declared their qualification between eighth and 12th pass, while 49 legislators have claimed of being graduates and above.One MLA has declared himself to be literate, while one legislator is a diploma holder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-hrd-minister-applies-for-admission-to-class-11/story-AtIK5zQqIFxtkB1od8gagJ.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||14 test positive in Chamba’s Dharog locality, taking Himachal’s Covid-19 count to 3,477||Dharamshala: Dharog in Chamba town has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot with 80 positive cases reported from the locality since the first patient was detected on August 3. The 80 include 14 new cases reported on Tuesday morning. Chamba chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Rajesh Guleri said, “The 14 fresh cases have been reported from pending samples of August 7. They are primary contacts of people who tested positive for the virus earlier.” “All patients from Dharog have been shifted to Covid treatment facilities and the total number of positive cases has gone up to 230 in Chamba district of which 143 are active cases,” Dr Guleri said. The first patient from Dharog locality was reported on August 3 when a person with no travel history tested positive. A social gathering in the locality is turning out to be a ‘superspreader’ event. 1,229 ACTIVE CASES IN STATE With this, Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 count has risen to 3,477 since the outbreak. At present, 1,229 are active cases and 2,205 patients have recovered so far. On Monday night, 11 people had tested positive in Sirmaur district. Three of them are from Surla. They are primary contacts of a Covid patient. Four cases were reported from Nahan, including three employees of a Kala Amb-based pharmaceutical company. Two people tested positive in Paonta Sahib and one each in Sataun and Banaur. Solan is the worst-hit district with 853 cases followed by Kangra with 533 cases. Sirmaur is third in the list with 434 cases. Hamirpur has 369 cases, Una 278, Mandi 270, Chamba 230, Shimla 207, Bilaspur 148, Kullu 101, Kinnaur 48, and Lahaul-Spiti four. FOREST MINISTER QUARANTINES SELF Himachal Pradesh’s forest minister Rakesh Pathania and his family members have home quarantined themselves after the minister’s personal assistant tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Their samples will be sent for testing within next three days. The minister had undergone a test for Covid-19 on Friday after state power minister Sukhram Chaudhary tested positive. Pathania and Chaudhary along with Rajinder Garg were inducted into the state cabinet on July 30 and were in direct contact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-test-positive-in-chamba-s-dharog-locality-taking-himachal-s-covid-19-count-to-3-477/story-Bwhh6ufWq4G23trsXx03IN.html
11-08-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka govt issues revised guidelines for home isolation of Covid-19 patients||Covid-19 patients under home isolation will stand discharged after 10 days of symptom onset or date of sampling, and no fever for three days, as per the revised guidelines for home care issued by the government of Karnataka.Thereafter, the patient shall be advised to isolate at home and self-monitor their health for further 7 days, it said adding there is no need for testing after the isolation period is over.The state government in a circular on Monday said, in view of evolving situation of Covid-19 in the state and recent revision of guidelines from Government of lndia, the revised guidelines for home isolation of Covid-19 cases are issued.According to the guidelines, only those who are asymptomatic or mild symptomatic shall be allowed to be in home care.Health team from district health authority or authorised private institution or agency shall visit the house and assess the suitability of house for home isolation and also do medical triage of the person, it said, alternatively, telephonic medical triage shall be done through an empanelled agency.Dedicated tele-monitoring link shall be established for daily follow-up of the person during the entire period of home isolation or home care, it added.Noting that the person shall be clinically assigned as asymptomatic or mild case through telephonic triage or by the health staff, medical officer, the guideline said, such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and for quarantining the family contacts.A caregiver should be available to provide care on a 24 X 7 basis, and a regular communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a pre-requisite for the entire duration of home isolation, it added.Elderly patients aged more than 60 years and those with co-morbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung, liver, kidney disease etc shall be allowed home isolation only after proper clinical evaluation.It further said home isolation shall not be applicable for pregnant women 2 weeks before the expected date of delivery (EDD), however it shall be allowed for lactating mothers after clinical evaluation by a medical officer or family doctor.On the management of waste for those under home isolation, it said the used facemasks, gloves, toiletries or swabs contaminated with blood or body fluids of Covid-19 patients, including used syringes, if any generated should be treated as biomedical waste and collected in separate yellow bag.These yellow bags should be handed over to authorized waste collectors or deposited at designated deposition centres.Masks and gloves used by caregivers and other family members shall be kept in a paper bag for a minimum of 72 hours prior to its disposal as general waste after cutting the same to prevent reuse, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-issues-revised-guidelines-for-home-isolation-of-covid-19-patients/story-VouW3s8uETWQ0moHgtmfpO.html
11-08-2020||Patna||Video of headmaster taking money from students in Champaran goes viral||A video clip of a high school’s headmaster accepting money from students has gone viral on social media, in Bagaha subdivision of West Champaran district.Authorities said they were verifying the authenticity of the video and that action would be taken against the accused only after the charges against him were found true.However, when contacted, headmaster Nagendra Dwivedi admitted accepting money while giving away the certificates.“I had helped a few students with money in filling the forms for examination. Some of them returned the amount they had borrowed from me, when they came to collect their certificate,” said Dwivedi.In the video, a man is seen accepting money from the students before handing them certificates.“Our guruji (teacher) was forcing us to grease his palms before giving us the certificates, citing reason that he had to work for us on his off day,” said a student, refusing to be identified.When contacted, district education officer (DEO) Binod Kumar Vimal said, “We are looking into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/video-of-headmaster-taking-money-from-students-goes-viral/story-ygbZR07m3hurHQV1jOo9JN.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Deer Park’s graveyard||It has been raining on and off for the past few days, and the graves have gone mossy. The stoney ground is green and slippery, too. But this evening, the sky has suddenly cleared up and the setting sun has immersed half of these dozen graves into a funnel of golden glow. The remaining half is sheltered within a cocoon of damp darkness.It might be one of the capital’s most beautiful cemeteries, and it is also very little known. You will rarely locate it in guidebooks though it is easily accessible, tucked within Deer Park in south Delhi.The graveyard is sandwiched between a Lodhi-era dome called Bagh-I-Alam and a ruined wall-mosque from the same period, circa 15th century. In fact, the graves almost seem to be a part of the mosque. They are within a few steps of the mosque’s Mecca-facing mihrab (niche), making one wonder just where the devotees of the old times would find a space to gather and offer prayers. Perhaps the graves came up long after the mosque fell into disuse. The graveyard too has fallen out of use.Today, this place feels like an abandoned courtyard that happens to be littered with forgotten tombs.A fallen tree is covering a part of the mosque, its densely leaved branches reaching over to a few graves. A black dog is sleeping beside a gravestone, half smothered by tree leaves and wild overgrown grass. Sometimes rustling sounds are suddenly emerging from within this impenetrable greens. Can there be snakes?The fear, the anticipation of unseen life has cloaked the space with thrill and suspense, and also with a sense of remoteness, as if you had strayed far from the assured bustle of city life (though Safdarjung Enclave is just a 10-minute walk).You can spend hours examining each of these graves. They are exquisitely beautiful in their dilapidation. Nobody knows whose resting places they are, but in a way they evoke more feeling than ordinary graves. The stones on the graves lie cracked, the patterns of designs on them have faded at places, and the calligraphies are disjointed. On one grave, the inscriptions, possibly in Persian or perhaps Arabic, are missing in many parts—making the writing appear like a secret code that could be cracked only by those in the know. Indeed, the slow irregular damage borne by the centuries of exposure to the elements has made the graves look like the heavily annotated pages of a much-thumbed poetry book.It’s almost sunset now and the evening walkers—elderly men in knickers and face masks—are walking past without a glance. Their casual neglect intensifies the cemetery’s isolation.And yet the graveyard is actually crowded—it is teeming with makodas, large black ants, purposefully buzzing about the tombstones, covering the floor in great number of rows as if it were a bustling metropolis of their own.The park closes after sunset and one does wonder what it would feel like to experience this secretive forgotten graveyard at midnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/deer-park-s-graveyard/story-HbJ9B5idsoBWCRmKBItj7M.html
11-08-2020||City||Maharashtra FDA warns against high doses of Vitamin C||The Food and Drug Administration is acting against firms that are selling high doses of Vitamin C tablets. “Some companies are making 1,000mg tablets while permissions are giving only to manufacture 500mg tablets. High intake of Vitamin C can harm the health of citizens, and therefore we are taking action against such companies.We have taken action against one company in Bhiwandi for manufacturing 1,000mg of Vitamin C tablets and seized tablets worth Rs56 lakh. People are following the advice of their friends and families and are buying the tablets without prescription,” joint commissioner of FDA Sunil Bhardwaj said. Since the onset of the pandemic, Vitamin C intake has been recommended by doctors as one of the measures to boost immunity, leading to a rise in the demand of Vitamin C tablets. As the demands surged, the production for the tablets has also increased. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has set the Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) value for popular vitamins such as Vitamin C at 40mg per day. However, FDA said that some companies were manufacturing 1000-mg tablets and buyers were consuming it without knowing the intake percentage. Dr Afreen Soudagar, CEO of Kalsekar Covid Hospital in Mumbra, said, “Generally, we prescribe a 90-mg Vitamin C tablet for women, and 100mg for men for daily intake. I think anything above more than 500mg is not needed. Also consuming 1,000mg tablet every day is good. But it also differs from person to person.”According to Dr Aditya Sadawarte, a practicing doctor from Thane, said, 100mg tablet is enough for one day. “Vitamin C tablets are water soluble and so they are not harmful, but a 1,000mg tablet is not necessary and its also a high dosage. People can buy any good branded companies tablets under 100mg every day. We recommend 500mg tablets to patient recovering from surgery,” he said.After the FDA started taking action against the black marketing of drugs used in Covid-19 treatment, they have also been checking if companies making Vitamin C tablets are selling them at a higher price or beyond permissible limits. “We have found Vitamin C tablets with duplicate labels of date and content from a store in Bhiwandi and are investigating the case,” said Bharadwaj.Increase in production of sanitsers, masks and PPE kits: FDAFDA officials said that before the Covid-19 outbreak, there were 94 companies who had the authority to produce sanitisers, but now 111, including ayurvedic and homeopathic firms have been given permission to manufacture sanitisers. The production of masks, too, has witnessed a surge in Maharashtra. According to the FDA, there are 89.84 lakh masks produced. There were only four PPE kit producers in Maharashtra in March but now Maharashtra has 19 producers and 102 distributors of PPE kits in the market. FDA officials claim they conduct surprise checks in every company to determine the quality of the kits. “After the pandemic broke out, we faced many challenges. We first checked if food items, milk, vegetables and grocery are adequately available. After the demand for masks and sanitisers grew, many began manufacturing it without permission and also hoarded them. We took action against them to ensure that enough sanitisers and masks are available in the market. Now, as more companies are manufacturing these two items, we would be able to create enough stocks lasting upto next year. So we request citizens to not fall for any rumors and start panic buying,” said Bharadwaj.Jaideep Jaiswar, a member of the Thane Medical Association, said,” Since the pandemic broke out, distributors and medical shop owners are also alert and have been informing authorities if they find anything suspicious. They are also maintaining their records properly. After reports of remdesivir injection being sold at high prices came to light, the FDA started taking action against the violators. If we get any information about any such malpractices, we inform the FDA on its helpline.”Within a span of two months, FDA teams have conducted 24,042 checks at several firms. FDA has acted against 83 firms all over Maharashtra for manufacturing or selling poor quality sanitisers, and seized Rs2.59-crore worth of assets and sanitisers worth Rs38.54 lakh. More than 50 cases have been registered against distributors, who overcharged consumers for masks and sanitisers. FDA teams have also taken action against hand wash makers and distributors and seized substandard products worth Rs42.83 lakh. There are five cases registered against manufacturers of PPE kits for making poor quality kits or charging high prices for the sale of the kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-fda-warns-against-high-doses-of-vitamin-c/story-9k6W1q2uc29xa8qBaMkwGP.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Northern Haryana’s 6 districts account for 26% active Covid cases||Six northern Haryana districts — Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Karnal — have 26% (1,653) of the total ‘active cases’ of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that continues to spread across the state. These northern districts are just a step behind Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh and Gurugram, the four southern districts of the national capital region (NCR), where load of active Covid-19 cases is 26.85% (1,711), states the health department’s data released till August 9. Similarly, another region that has turned out to be the hotspot for the infection comprises Bhiwani, Rohtak, Sonepat and Panipat. These districts spread across the central region of the state account for 23.66% (1,508) of the active cases. Until Sunday evening, Haryana had 6,371 active cases (patients undergoing treatment in hospitals) of the contagion. There were 10.97% (699) active cases in Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendergarh and Rewari, while 12.55% (800) active cases were spread across Sirsa, Fatehabad, Jind and Hisar districts. As Haryana had recorded 41,635 cumulative cases of the Covid-19 till August 9 evening, four NCR districts of Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh and Gurugram had nearly 52% (21,569) of the total positive cases. In contrast, just 14% (5,837) of the total Covid-19 positive cases detected so far were restricted to six northern districts — Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Karnal. Another region, Bhiwani, Rohtak, Sonepat and Panipat, where active cases are 23.66%, the cumulative cases tally was 18% (7,525). And Sirsa, Fatehabad, Jind and Hisar districts had just 6% (2,512) cumulative cases of the Covid-19, the analysis of the data indicates. In Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendergarh and Rewari, the number of total positive cases stood at 10% (4,192). Nuh district had the lowest 47 active cases till Sunday, while Charkhi Dadri district had the lowest 182 cumulative cases of this disease. Worst-hit Faridabad district leads the 22 districts of the state in terms of active cases (833) and cumulative cases (10,129). 794 fresh cases take Haryana’s tally to 42,429Six patients — three in Rewari, two in Panipat and one in Faridabad — succumbed to Covid-19 in Haryana on Monday, taking the death toll to 489 (350 males and 139 females), the state health bulletin mentioned. As many as 794 fresh infections were recorded in 20 districts in the last 24 hours, increasing the number of positive cases to 42,429, the bulletin stated. The overall recovery rate of the state on Monday rose to 83.65% from 83.54% a day earlier. And, the doubling rate also improved by one more day on Monday as it climbed to 29 days. Haryana had 6,448 active cases on Monday while 711 patients recovered, taking the tally of those cured of Covid to 35,492. Faridabad recorded 154 new cases, followed by Ambala (84), Panipat (72), Rewari (71), Panchkula (59), Gurugram (57), Yamunanagar (44), Kurukshetra (43), Rohtak (40), Karnal (32), Sonepat (31), Hisar (23), Sirsa (22), Fatehabad (15), Kaithal (14), Bhiwani (11), Jhajjar (10), Nuh (5), Charkhi Dadri (4) and Jind (3).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/northern-haryana-s-6-districts-account-for-26-active-covid-cases/story-QnyxhbF6qcp3OksdhbtRAO.html
11-08-2020||City||Awhad says focus should be on managing Covid-19||Cabinet minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Jitendra Awhad on Monday said that the priority should be on managing Covid-19 pandemic efficiently and not on indulging in politics. His comment comes amid rumours of 12 NCP MLAs joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“There will be many who will come and go, but I am not used to such kind of politics. As a minister and a politician, my focus is on controlling the pandemic. We need to ensure that those who test positive get proper treatment. In such a difficult time, indulging in politics is a derogatory behaviour,” Awhad said.The housing minister was in Thane to meet with Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma to discuss implementing the measures used in Mumbra, which saw zero new cases on Sunday, across Thane city. Awhad’s constituency, Mumbra, was one of those areas which saw violation of lockdown rules and reported as many as 547 positive cases in June. However, the number of daily new cases dropped to single digits over the past fortnight.“When no one was observing lockdown norms, everyone pointed at crowded Mumbra markets and said it would be difficult to control the pandemic in Mumbra. There discussion from across the state about how Mumra could turn into the epicentre of the pandemic. But now, Mumbra is among one of those few places with zero new cases,” the minister said while addressing the media outside TMC headquarters on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/awhad-says-focus-should-be-on-managing-covid-19/story-haKnMbEUzrH9VkUBB7PbmM.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||ED opposes Nirav’s son’s plea against seizure of properties||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday opposed the petition filed by Rohin Modi, son of fugitive diamond trader Nirav Modi who is a prime accused in ₹13,500-crore fraud at Punjab National Bank (PNB), challenging confiscation of properties purportedly belonging to a trust under his own name.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, representing ED, supported the June 8, 2020 special court order passed under section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders (FEO) Act, 2018 ordering confiscation of movable and immovable properties worth ₹1,396 crore belonging to Nirav Modi and his firms.Singh said there was no need to hear Rohin as his parents Nirav and Ami Modi, both trustees of the trust, were represented before the special court and were heard before passing of the order that he has challenged. He further said that no relief can be granted to Rohin because his father defrauded PNB to the tune of ₹6,498 crore, laundered most of the amount outside India, and fled from the country.Rohin has moved HC, through advocate Lakshyaved Odhekar, challenging the special court order primarily on the grounds that no notice was issued either to Rohin Trust or him before ordering confiscation of trust properties including a penthouse in Samudra Mahal building at Worli and around 40 artworks. The said properties were part of other movable and immovable properties purportedly belonging to Nirav Modi and his firms which were listed for confiscation.Rohin’s counsel, advocate Abhimanyu Bhandari, pointed out that section 4 of FEO Act mandates that ED shall submit list of all persons, other than the FEO, interested in or who may have interest in the properties sought to be confiscated. He further added that ED was aware that Rohin Trust owned the paintings and the penthouse, but neither the trust nor Rohin was mentioned in the list of interested persons submitted by ED, and no notice was given to them.Bhandari also pointed out that section 10 of FEO Act provides for an opportunity of hearing to such interested persons, but no such hearing was given to Rohin before passing of the order. He therefore urged the high court to grant the 19-year-old son of the fugitive diamontaire an opportunity of hearing to point out to the special court that the penthouse cannot be ordered to be confiscated as the premises were purchased in 2006, about five years before PNB started extending financial facilities to Nirav Modi and his firms.Bhandari also urged the court to direct ED to maintain status quo with respect to the penthouse till Rohin is heard by the court.A division bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice NJ Jamadar, however, adjourned the matter for further hearing on Thursday after finding that the file before it did not contain reasoned order of the special court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-opposes-nirav-s-son-s-plea-against-seizure-of-properties/story-Lt34ZPqNP4w6lyK9Sl0j9K.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||State orders more distance between stone quarries||The state has increased the minimum distance between stone quarries that do not require blasting and residential areas and public buildings to 100 metres (m) from 50m. However, environmentalists maintain the revised guidelines are grossly inadequate and do not address the issue of uncontrolled blasting, which can affects human habitation within a 500m radius. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) published revised guidelines on August 3, which were made available on its website on Saturday. These come after a February 2 order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), based on a petition against quarrying in Kerala. NGT directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to develop country-wide uniform guidelines for quarrying. “We have implemented exactly what CPCB has communicated to us,” said Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, MPCB. MPCB’s circular states stone quarries may be set up at a minimum distance of 100 m (without blasting) from residential areas, highways, public buildings, railways lines, bridges, dams, monuments, heritage sites, canals, lakes, tanks etc. The minimum distance for quarries that require blasting of rocks remains the same at 200 m. “The regulation for the danger zone – 500m – as prescribed by the Directorate General (DG) of Mines Safety needs to be followed scrupulously,” reads the circular . While the pan-India mandate remains 200 m minimum distance (when blasting is involved), the 500 m rule regulation would applicable wherever necessary and the state pollution control board would implement it on a case-to-case basis, said officials. “However, it is not a mandate and needs to be enforced only when required through controlled blasting methods and ensuring that human habitations and linear infrastructure is not threatened by the quarry’s functioning,” said Srivastava, adding that MPCB would ensure the 500m distance is maintained and noise norms are not violated by stone quarries. Stone quarries emit particulate matter almost 100 times the safe limit, according to MPCB. “Apart from air, noise and water pollution, express guidelines for blasting and drilling have been issued. Such activities need to be done during favourable weather conditions [not during monsoon when there may be landslides] using permissible quantity of explosives so there is no impact to human habitation,” he said. Stone quarries emit particulate matter almost 100 times the safe limit, according to MPCB. “Apart from air, noise and water pollution, express guidelines for blasting and drilling have been issued. Such activities need to be done during favourable weather conditions (not during monsoon that can lead to landslides), permissible quantity of explosives so there is no impact to human habitations, and vibrations need to be periodically monitored,” said Srivastava. According to district survey reports from 2019, mining permits were issued to approximately 16 quarries in the Mumbai suburban district; 330 permits were issued in Thane; 52 in Palghar; 170 in Nagpur; and 30 in Sindhudurg. Environmentalists said the revised guidelines are inadequate. “While none of the existing quarries are following this rule, the 500m distance has not been followed by CPCB or MPCB. Another issue is cluster mining, which is more dangerous. This is an ad-hoc measure to comply with the NGT order,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust. BN Kumar, director, NatConnect said, “Going by the example of Navi Mumbai, for over three decades, Vashi, Nerul, Belapur face loud sounds of the blasts leading to cracks on glass windows. Presently, the neighbouring Kharghar node is facing a quarry menace. The hills behind the Tata Cancer Hospital are being blasted. Several houses at Gholwadi village also complained of cracks on their walls and window glasses.” CASE STUDIES OF QUARRY MENACE Thane-Belapur Industrial Belt “When there is uncontrolled blasting, the minimum distance has to be more than 500m and despite the advent of technology, most of these quarries are not installing better equipment for controlled blasting. We faced a horrible situation as the entire industrial belt was threatened by these activities until it was taken up with the state. Only then, most of these quarries were moved out. However, the threat looms for other industrial and residential areas where the 200 m minimum distance is insufficient,” said Jaydevan K, former additional chief secretary, Thane Belapur Industrial belt (TBIA). Hillocks Being Flattened In MMR Environmentalist Nandkumar Pawar, who has recently filed complaints of destruction of hills along the Dombivli-Ambernath MIDC road due to quarries that supply stones for housing construction projects in Kharghar, said, “These quarries are not even 50m away from the highway and there are villages less than 150 m where uncontrolled blasting had taken place before the monsoon season,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-orders-more-distance-between-stone-quarries/story-pQffbcI6tUo4tvJszCmpeI.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Air pollution killing giant Asian honey bees: Study||The giant Asian honey bee or apis dorsata, which produces more than 80% of India’s honey, is falling prey to air pollution, according to a first-of-its-kind quantitative analysis on the impacts of air pollution on insects by the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), Bengaluru. The study indicates a decline in India’s insect population. NCBS is a centre of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research. Through a four-year study of over 1,800 apis dorsata, an eight-member team led by NCBS found that more than 80% of the bees collected from moderate and highly-polluted sites died within 24 hours in Bengaluru as compared to less polluted areas where the number of dead bees was less by 20%. Between January 2017 and April 2019, average respiratory suspended particulate matter – also called PM10, which is fine particulate matter of diameter 10 microns or less – was around 28.32 micrograms per cubic metre (ug/m3) at a rural site; and 33.73ug/m3, 45.95ug/m3 and 98.59ug/3 at low, moderate and highly-polluted sites respectively. The main sources of air pollution include transport emissions, industries, integrated land-use developments and open burning. Results also revealed that the rate at which giant Asian honey bees visited flowers was lower in more polluted areas. Additionally, bees from more polluted areas showed irregular heartbeats, lower blood cell count, and the expression of genes coding for stress, immunity, and metabolism. Bee debris also contained several toxic elements. For instance, metals found on the bee cuticle comprised lead, tungsten, chromium, arsenic, aluminium and cobalt. While the study sites chosen were specific to Bengaluru, Shannon B Olsson, lead author and associate professor at NCBS’s naturalist-inspired chemical ecology laboratory, said she would imagine severe impacts on the heath of the wild bees in more polluted cities such as Delhi and Mumbai. “In a city like Delhi, which is among the top 10 polluted cities in the world, there are likely to be more severe effects on bees than in Bengaluru, but there may not be the same exact impacts since the sources and components of air pollution are different in the two cities,” said Olsson. Globally, studies have recorded declines in insect populations with one in six species of bees reported locally extinct in various regions and attributed reductions in habitat quality which include pollution as a factor. “The present study on the native pollinator is one of the few studies worldwide to address physiological and molecular impacts of air pollution on wild plants and animals with field experiments,” said Olsson. Titled “A field-based quantitative analysis of sublethal effects of air pollution on pollinators”, the study was published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, United States of America, on Tuesday. With India being the world’s largest fruit producer, second-largest vegetable producer as well as the second-most populous country, scientists said the findings are important because this wild pollinator is not only a common resident of Indian cities, but also an important contributor to India’s food security and ecosystems. For instance, it pollinates more than 687 plants in Karnataka alone. “India also is home to nine of the world’s 10 most polluted cities, but we have no idea of the impact of air pollution on plant and animal systems. We measure pollution using air quality index which is based on human health. The importance of bees and other pollinators to India’s plant biodiversity and agro-economy cannot be overstated,” said Olsson. For the study, four different sites were chosen based on multiple parameters, such as pollution levels, proximity to traffic, and lack of pesticide application. With India facing rapid and increased urbanisation within and among its agricultural lands, Geetha Thimmegowda, another lead author and post-doctoral researcher, NCBS, said, “There is an urgency for more studies on wild plant and animal systems to better inform Indian and international air quality guidelines. Such studies are imperative to reveal the full impact of air pollution not only on the health of humans and environmental ecosystem, but also economic loss to pollinator-dependent crops and food security in highly polluted and vulnerable regions such as India.” Researchers said more than 80% of all flowering plants rely on animal pollination, and that India’s annual mango export could stand to lose over Rs 65,000 lakhs because 53% mangoes would disappear without insect pollinators like honey bees. India’s crop species are mostly dependent on insects for their production and one reason of studying the giant Asian honey bee is because they are present in both urban and rural settings. Studies have shown this species, in addition to be often found nesting in cities, also migrates its colonies repeatedly over many kilometres throughout the year among urban, rural, and forest habitats. “As a consequence, any long-term physiological or behavioural impacts of urban air pollution will also impact the pollination services these insects provide to agricultural and forest areas where they migrate,” stated the study. Arunabha Ghosh, founder and CEO of the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said much of the air quality studies in India have either considered sources of pollution or impact on human health, and to an extent on economic productivity. “This study covers important new ground, by examining the impact of air pollution on pollinators, which would have serious implications for agricultural output in India. Such findings further underscore the need to raise India’s ambient air quality standards,” he said. The impact of poor air quality did not just take its toll on apis dorsata. Experiments undertaken with drosophila melanogaster (fruit fly) reared in the laboratory displayed similar effects when exposed to air pollution. Researchers said this suggests the impact is not species-specific nor likely the result of other environmental factors. “This study provides us with hard evidence that all is not well with our wild bees since it was done with wild bees naturally visiting flowers in Bengaluru city and not in lab assays on reared honey bees kept in hive boxes that may already be stressed or immuno-compromised,” said Hema Somanathan, who studies bee behaviour and pollination ecology at the Behavioural and Evolutionary Ecology (BEE) laboratory at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Thiruvananthapuram, and who was not involved in the study. “Given the scale of landscape alteration and urbanisation in India, it is expected that these effects are widespread and likely to worsen with time,” said Somanathan. In addition to NCBS, collaborators include Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (inStem), Bengaluru, Knight Cardiovascular Institute, and the department of medicine and molecular and medical genetics at the Oregon Health and Science University, Portland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-pollution-killing-giant-asian-honey-bees-study/story-fhIyLlGJA2bbFFVDWOmnXJ.html
11-08-2020||City||Navi Mumbai civic corporation revises guidelines at its Vashi hospital to reduce Covid deaths||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) issued revised staffing guidelines for treating critical patients at its Vashi hospital to bring down Covid fatality rate.The special orders were issued by municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar after it was found that the fatality rate of the critical patients at the civic hospital in Vashi’s sector 10 has not come down.“The duties of the doctors at the hospital will now be based upon the standard treatment protocol. We are confident that this step will bring a significant difference in our strategy to combat the pandemic. I want to ensure that critical patients at the hospital get the best treatment and care. Hence, the 11 physicians, intensivists, anesthetists, resident doctors and other medical experts and technicians will have a new timetable of working hours. The doctors will, at their specified time, be mandatorily present at the Covid ward and ICU. The medical experts will check on every patient at an interval of every one hour. The implementation of the standard treatment protocol for the treatment of the critical patients will be the responsibility of these medical experts,” said Bangar.He added, “It will be the responsibility of the medical superintendent to ensure that the doctors and technicians concerned are not just present in the hospital but are busy taking care of the patients. The medical superintendent will have to make three visits to the Covid ward and ICU.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-civic-corporation-revises-guidelines-at-its-vashi-hospital-to-reduce-covid-deaths/story-nxmkcy1Hzg04yCqrH7IF2M.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Petition seeks to quash ordinance allowing extension to co-operative society members||A petition challenging a June 2020 order and July 2020 ordinance of the state government which postponed elections to cooperative societies and gave a three-month extension to managing committees of cooperative societies has been moved in the Bombay high court (HC). The petition stated that in view of the Co-operative Societies Act, which does not have a provision for extension and only allows appointment as administrator in case term of managing committees end, the order and ordinance should be set aside. It further said that administrators should be appointed, similar to the ones appointed in 14,000 gram panchayats.According to the petition filed by Arun Yashwant Kulkarni through advocate Satish Talekar, the tenure of most cooperative societies in the state had ended before January 2020, but the state government passed orders postponing the elections on the grounds that most officers of the cooperative sector were involved in the Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Farmer Loan Waiver Scheme. The HC had quashed and set aside the order on the grounds that they were illegal, arbitrary and ultra vires to the constitution. The HC had also noted that there was no provision which permitted continuation of the term of managing committee members.Later on June 17, 2020, the state again issued an order to postpone elections of cooperative societies for three months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and an ordinance was promulgated on July 10, 2020 allowing members to continue to hold their office till new committees are constituted.The petition, while pointing to the unconstitutionality of the order and ordinance, referred to a 2011 amendment to the Cooperative Societies Act which fixes the term of managing committee members to five years and allows for formation of an independent body that will oversee the elections or appointment of administrators in the event elections cannot be held.In light of these submissions, the petition urged the HC to quash and set aside the order and ordinance and direct the government to appoint administrators.The petition is expected to come up for hearing on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/petition-seeks-to-quash-ordinance-allowing-extension-to-co-operative-society-members/story-Ng2fF6uL0M8rVaA1mkn1jM.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Mhaiskar among IAS officers transferred||State government on Monday appointed IAS officer Milind Mhaiskar, vice-president and chief executive officer of Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada), as principal secretary of forest in the revenue department. Mhaiskar will replace additional chief secretary Manu Kumar Srivastava who has not been appointed in any department. Sanjay Khandare, secretary of food and civil supplies department, has been appointed as chairman and managing director of Maharashtra State Power Generation Company Limited. Aurangabad collector Uday Chaudhari has been transferred as deputy secretary to chief secretary in Mantralaya. AA Gulhane, project manager, Jalswaraj Project, has been appointed as Chandrapur collector, while KH Bagate has been posted as CEO of Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mhaiskar-among-ias-officers-transferred/story-fDPfKaHFxla6JwjQx3X8kM.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rain likely at isolated places in Mumbai on Tuesday: IMD||The city and suburbs can expect heavy rain across isolated areas on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday as the weather bureau reiterated its yellow alert on Monday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said frequent light to moderate showers with isolated heavy rain was expected due to active monsoon conditions under the influence of a low-pressure weather system over Bay of Bengal. “It would lead to strengthening of the offshore trough, increase moisture incursions, and strong southwesterly winds leading to heavy rain,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.On Monday, south Mumbai recorded 4.4mm rain while no rain was recorded in the suburbs between 8.30am and 5.30pm. The maximum temperature crossed the 30 degrees Celsius mark almost after a week while the minimum temperature was 2 degree above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-likely-at-isolated-places-in-mumbai-on-tuesday-imd/story-7Xsw8avZjRqzQGZ2K3VKcO.html
11-08-2020||City||Minor kidnapped from West Bengal, rescued||A 14-year-old girl, who was kidnapped from a village in West Bengal on January 24, was rescued on Saturday from a construction site in Kashimira, Mira Road by police following information from NGO Mission Mukti Foundation. The accused, Sandip, 28, lured the minor, a resident of Ulashi, Nadia in West Bengal, citing prospects of job and marriage and brought her to Mumbai to sell her off. However, due to the lockdown he could not sell the minor and kept her in a makeshift hut at the construction site. The parents of the victim had filed a missing complaint with West Bengal Police, following which an investigation was initiated. Later, the Delhi-based NGO found out the minor was in Kashimira and informed two other local NGOs, Childline Foundation and Samata Foundation. Volunteers along with Kashimira police reached the spot and rescued the minor. The minor has been sent to rehabilitation and rescue home in Thane till West Bengal police arrives in Maharashtra to her custody.Kashimira police has registered a case of kidnapping under sections of the Indian Penal Code and also sections of the Protection of Children for Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-kidnapped-from-west-bengal-rescued/story-1ECfSVYUaftDE78Gcps7lK.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||MVA discusses statutory board, corporation appointments||Senior ministers from the three ruling parties held a meeting to discuss allocation and appointments on statutory boards and corporations and the long-pending transfer of IPS officers in the state, at chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s official bungalow Varsha on Monday evening.A minister said they discussed the appointments on the statutory boards and corporations from among the ruling party leaders. “More than 50 boards and corporations have been vacant for months after the formation of the government. We are keen on appointments at the earliest as they have been delayed for months owing to the pandemic. We have held preliminary discussion and have decided to submit the names from parties in the next few days,” said the minister.The leaders also discussed the long-pending transfers of IPS officers. “Transfers with the promotions of senior IPS officers, too, have been delayed by a few months. The list of promotions has been cleared by the department. It has to be decided whether to transfer them before Ganpati festival or after it,” a leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mva-discusses-statutory-board-corporation-appointments/story-XjXy2qX7F0qb2eujxxwf6L.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Civic body likely to re-invite tenders for two sewer tunnels||In the backdrop of the Central government’s curbs on bidders of countries that share a land border with India, on the grounds of national security, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) may have to scrap and re-invite tenders for construction of two 10-km underground sewer water tunnels (SWT) between Borivli and Goregaon. BMC had in February 2020 shortlisted Chinese companies with their joint venture partners that also included Indian firms. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had granted a green nod to BMC to go ahead with appointment of a Chinese contractor for construction of the two tunnels. However, the civic body said appointment was not done, and, in the light of new guidelines from the Central government, it may re-float tenders. India and China have been locked in a months-long border stand-off, which resulted in a deadly clash last month that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. The Government of India via the Union Finance Ministry on July 23 amended the General Financial Rules (GFR) 2017 to enable imposition of restrictions on bidders from countries, which share a land border with India on the grounds of defence of India, or matters directly or indirectly related, including national security. The countries sharing land borders can only bid, in case of special permission from the Central government. The civic body claimed it will float fresh tenders following all guidelines of the Central government. Additionally, BMC will also make changes to the tender process for the Goregaon-Mulund Link Road (GMLR) project, which currently allows any firm to participate in tenders. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We had shortlisted a Chinese company, but the appointment needed an approval of the BMC’s standing committee. In the meantime, the lockdown was imposed due to Covid-19, and we could not go further with the approval. However, with the fresh guidelines issued by the Centre, we may have to scrap the ongoing tender process and re-float fresh tenders.”Both the sewer water tunnels proposed by BMC are to be connected to Malad waste water treatment facility (WWTF), and are part of BMC’s Mumbai Sewerage Disposal Project. BMC had in March 2019 floated bids to appoint contractors for construction of sewer water tunnels in two phases. The first tunnel is proposed to be constructed between Borivli and Malad WWTF, while the second is planned between Goregaon and Malad WWTF. Both the tunnels are proposed to be constructed on the linking road. The project is aimed at improving the quality and reliability of wastewater collection, treatment and promotion of its usage by bulk consumers and citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/civic-body-likely-to-re-invite-tenders-for-two-sewer-tunnels/story-DBLk91jRWDI994PLoV3xmM.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Leopard trapped near JB Nagar, released in SGNP||Less than 24 hours after a leopard was spotted in an abandoned factory warehouse along the boundary of a residential complex in Andheri (East), the animal was captured in one of the strategically-placed trap cages and released back into the wild.Forest officials said it was an adult male leopard aged around four years.The animal was spotted close to Kanakia Atrium-2 near JB Nagar by security staff on Sunday early morning, following which the police and forest department were informed. Forest officials, then, set up three trap cages in the 20-acre warehouse premises on Sunday. “Early on Monday, the leopard was found trapped in one of the cages,” said Jitendra Ramgaokar, deputy conservator of forest (Thane). “The animal was transported to the van parked near the society and released back into the wild at the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) around 10am. However, as per protocol, we cannot name the exact location where the animal was released,” he said adding, “A medical examination before release showed the animal was healthy and fit.” The factory warehouse has been lying abandoned for over two decades and there are several areas that are covered with dense vegetation where the leopard could have hidden. “The animal avoided any movement during the day. But, it might have moved towards the trap cages, where a chicken was kept as bait, late at night on Sunday or Monday early morning and got trapped,” said Santosh Kank, range forest officer (Mumbai).Teams from SGNP, Thane forest range and animal rescue groups had gathered at the spot after the incident was reported on Sunday. Apart from three trap cages, around 10-12 camera traps were placed to track the animal’s movement. Two forest guards and a few police personnel were deployed at the residential complex in a bid to restrict movement of the public.In April 2019, a leopard was rescued after a three-hour operation following its entry into a residential area in Marol, Andheri (East). At least six leopards have been rescued from residential areas in the densely-populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) since 2017. SGNP and its surrounding areas, including Aarey Colony, are home to an estimated 47 leopards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/leopard-trapped-near-jb-nagar-released-in-sgnp/story-NWF3AU4foDg8x2uotFnDNO.html
11-08-2020||City||Mission ‘Zero Navi Mumbai’ launched to increase Covid testing in city||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) launched ‘Mission Zero Navi Mumbai’ initiative on Monday. As a part of the new initiative, mobile dispensaries will visit societies to conduct antigen tests of the residents. The launch was attended by Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde, parliamentarian Rajan Vichare, Mumbai Slum Improvement Board chairman Vijay Nahata and Navi Mumbai civic chief Abhijit Bangar. “Each of the 40 mobile dispensaries will have doctors, technicians and requisite staff. It will visit every corner of the city, including housing societies. These vehicles will ensure that antigen tests of suspected patients are conducted within the comforts of their homes. The doctors will check the residents and those found to be symptomatic will undergo the antigen and the RT-PCR tests. Residents who are aged and those suffering from comorbidities will especially benefit because of the initiative,” said Shinde, who launched Mission Zero Navi Mumbai. Bangar has appealed to citizens to support the initiative. “This project will ensure increased testing with little hassle to residents. We have already boosted testing in the city to over 3,000 per day and this initiative will further augment our capacity and reach. We appeal to the residents to support this initiative. It will help us curb fatalities and ultimately bring the cases down to zero in our city, which is our mission.” Organisations such as the Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana, Desh Apnayen, United Way and Credai MCHI helped the civic body procure 40 mobile van dispensaries. “A large number of people are unable to go to testing centres and this service will prove to be a boon for them. This is an excellent initiative and the residents should take maximum advantage of the opportunity,” said Nahata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mission-zero-navi-mumbai-launched-to-increase-covid-testing-in-city/story-fVc7pvVCWJMcSWPlrd87VM.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Transfer plot at Mahul to BMC for pumping station: Thackeray||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday sought transfer of a plot owned by the Union ministry of commerce and industry at Mahul to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for building a pumping station to improve the chronic flooding during monsoon at Dadar-Hindmata area. In a review meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on states which were hit by floods recently, Thackeray also said that a committee, headed by the PM, should be formed for better co-ordination to tackle natural calamities. Chief ministers of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka and Assam also attended the meeting through video conferencing.Thackeray also demanded a financial assistance of ₹1,500 crore from the Centre which includes ₹1,065 crore for damages due to Cyclone Nisarga in June this year and ₹500 crore for Mumbai floods.The pumping station at Mahul is part of the seven pumping stations planned under Brimstowad project and is one of the two stations which are yet to be constructed. Another pumping station in Mogra, Andheri is also pending construction. Brimstowad project got a boost after the July 2005 deluge in Mumbai and it envisages upgrading the city’s colonial drainage systems. The pumping station at Mahul will provide relief in low-lying areas such as Wadala, Dadar and Hindmata, which are among flood-prone spots in the city. Of the seven pumping stations, Mahul is the largest one with a capacity to pump out 150 cubic metres of water each second.“The CM insisted that the city needs the pumping station to prevent flooding at several areas including Wadala, Dadar, Hindmata. It is a long pending issue that needs to be resolved. It is also the most-suitable plot the civic body has identified for the project,” said a senior official who attended the meeting.Non-availability of land has delayed the Mahul pumping station project for over a decade. After identifying the plot, BMC issued tenders for the project multiple times but the work is yet to start. The civic body has written several letters for land transfer but got little response so far.“The PM directed the concerned departments to take decisions on all the suggestions and demands following due process and study,” said the official.On June 3, Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Alibag, and wreaked havoc in Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Thane and Palghar districts leading to damages to property, houses, infrastructure. Mumbai witnessed floods after heavy downpour which lasted for almost 24 hours, Thackeray said. He also raised the railways ministry’s proposed project to upgrade the 176-km long Akola-Khandwa railway line saying that it passes through Melghat tiger reserve and requires over 160 hectare forest land. Thackeray suggested alternative alignment of the railway line from outside the tiger reserve, an official said. The project involves conversion of metre-gauge line to a broad-gauge line along the stretch. Thackeray has already written a letter to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal and Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar in July in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/transfer-plot-at-mahul-to-bmc-for-pumping-station-thackeray/story-JYzZ0ZZpW6P6WRCHAgcqgO.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Turncoat MLAs now want to return: NCP||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday claimed that the legislators, who left the party in the run-up to the state elections last year, are eager to come back to the party fold. State minority affairs minister Nawab Malik made the claim on Monday and said that the party leadership is yet to decide on taking them back.Malik, who also heads the party’s Mumbai unit, was responding to the rumours making rounds in the political circles that 12 MLAs from NCP may jump the ship and join BJP. NCP, the then opposition party, had faced mass exodus before the state Assembly elections in 2019 with many senior leaders, apart from eight sitting MLAs and one sitting MP, had left the party to join the then ruling parties — the BJP and Shiv Sena.With the change in the political scenario, the party is now claiming that many of the turncoats want to return. “Some irresponsible news channels have claimed that 12 NCP MLAs are set to join BJP; their claims are false and baseless. In fact, the NCP MLAs who had left the party last year are ready for ghar wapsi. However, the leadership has not taken any decision yet. If attempts to spread rumours continue, we will take a decision and empty the state BJP,” Malik said in a video statement released on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/turncoat-mlas-now-want-to-return-ncp/story-RWm08N3Vk9VYURzj0mYmkN.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||WR plans ₹2.53-cr revamp for Charni Road station||In a bid to revamp the city’s suburban railway network, Western Railway (WR) will undertake redevelopment work at Charni Road railway station. As part of this, the station building along with passenger amenities will be rebuilt at a cost of ₹2.53 crore. The work is expected to commence soon. A railway booking office, booking store, station master’s office, chief booking supervisor’s office and other structures inside the railway station will also undergo development. A foot overbridge (FoB) that will connect the east side of the station to the west side is being constructed and the work is expected to be completed in August. “The construction is being undertaken based on age and structural condition in order to rehabilitate and develop the facilities that have been demolished,” said a senior WR official. A tender for rebuilding the station building with facilities is set to be issued by the zonal railway on August 11. In 2017, the stairs of a BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) FoB had collapsed outside Charni Road railway station injuring one person. Meanwhile, 19 suburban railway stations are also being redeveloped by Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC), the body responsible for execution of suburban rail infrastructure projects in the city. Suburban railway stations including Bhandup, Mulund, Thane, Dombivli, Shahad, Neral, Kasara, GTB Nagar, Chembur, Govandi, Mankhurd, Mumbai Central (local), Jogeshwari, Kandivili, Mira Road, Bhayandar and Vasai Road station are among the stations listed for redevelopment. As part of the project, which is aimed at easing decongestion on the suburban railway network, FoBs, elevated decks and skywalks connecting to railway stations have been planned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wr-plans-2-53-cr-revamp-for-charni-road-station/story-BGMBi0obhmnuuecgkB6u1H.html
11-08-2020||City||No antigen test despite fever? Kalyan private doctors may face legal action||Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi has decided to take legal action against private doctors who do not recommend antigen tests for patients suffering from fever.In a notice issued by the civic body chief, Suryavanshi said that if doctors do not ask patients to undergo antigen tests, it would lead to a surge in Covid-19 cases and even more deaths, owing to lack of timely treatment. “We received some complaints about private doctors who are not sending their patients for antigen tests. This will be considered a serious breach of directions and the doctors will face action under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and Disaster Management Act, 2005,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC. According to Panpatil, many patients end up taking various other tests on falling ill but do not undergo the Covid test as doctors do not direct them for it. “Later, when patients’ health deteriorates, they are categorised as suspected Covid patients. All of this delays their treatment,” she said. According to doctors, patients do not wish to take the antigen tests. “If required, we do ask patients to get the tests. But they want to take the medicines for fever and recover at home. However, now with the civic body’s clear directions, we will follow-up with the patients to ensure that they get the tests without fail,” a doctor from Kalyan’s Khadakpada area said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-antigen-test-despite-fever-kalyan-private-doctors-may-face-legal-action/story-bxxqds6nK8wnVEmo6tRTLO.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Three more cops succumb, Maharashtra Police toll rises to 118||Three police personnel in the state succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total death toll in Maharashtra Police to 118. Fifty-year-old police naik Shirish Mutyar, who was attached to Wadala police station and was sent on deputation to Sagari police station, was one of the personnel who died on Sunday. Mutyar, a Sion resident, was tested positive for the virus after he developed fever and breathing difficulties. He was admitted to Hinduja Hospital but died during treatment. Mutyar had a history of kidney ailments. He is survived by his wife and two teenaged sons. After his death, the death toll in the Mumbai Police rose to 57.In second case, 49-year-old head constable Vijaykumar Bansode, who was attached to Ulhasnagar central police station, also passed away on Sunday. “Bansode was a resident of Ambernath and was undergoing treatment at Meera Hospital in Kalyan, after he was tested positive for Covid recently. He had no other ailments,” said senior inspector Ganpat Pingle, who is attached to the Thane Police headquarters.The third death was reported from Solapur Rural after police naik Aamin Mulani, 50, who was attached to the Pandharpur city police passed away owing to Covid-19 on Sunday.“He was admitted to the Solapur civil hospital immediately after he showed some symptoms of Covid-19 and died there during treatment. There is no clarity if he had a medical history of any other disease. He was mostly given indoor duties,” said inspector Arun Pawar of Pandharpur police station. Mulani is survived by his wife and two sons.In the past 24 hours, 240 Covid-19 cases were also reported across various commissionerates and district police in the state, taking the total number of cases in the department to 10,993. However, only 1,981 of these cases are active, the police said.According to Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general (law and order), 8,894 police personnel recovered from the virus and most of them, especially the younger personnel who have been recovering fast, also reported back to the duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-more-cops-succumb-maharashtra-police-toll-rises-to-118/story-Nkcj4HY0whTvNixvQCmKFP.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||117 civic employees in Mumbai died of Covid-19: Data||A total of 117 employees of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have succumbed to Covid-19, information by the civic body has revealed. So far, 2,384 BMC employees have been infected with Covid-19, of whom 1,280 (53%) have recovered. The case fatality rate among the civic employees is 4.9%. Sainath Rajadhyaksha, head of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Engineers’ Association, attributed the high case fatality ratio to the late reporting of the cases. “The high number of deaths is owing to the late reportage of cases when the BMC was not allowing anyone to get tested unless they had developed symptoms and a doctor’s prescription was also must. Nearly 30,000 civic employees are out on the field, working to curb the outbreak. The likelihood of many of them getting infected is high,” he said.Among the senior officials who have succumbed to Covid-19 is H-East ward’s assistant commissioner, who was working towards creating the jumbo Covid facility at Bandra-Kurla Complex. He died on July 11. On June 9, a deputy municipal commissioner also succumbed to the infection.According to the corporation, most employees who have tested positive for Covid-19 are from the solid waste management (SWM) department, health department and many staffers who work at the ward level. “These are frontline staff who come directly in contact with Covid-19 patients, work at containment zones and have been assigned field work,” a civic official said.According to the official the BMC is taking several measures to prevent the spread of the virus among its employees. “Unlike the pre-Covid times, people are not allowed to gather in large numbers at corridors or outside the BMC canteen. There are sanitisers at every entry point. Many wards are adopting foot-operated lifts and sensor-based taps. Even the Worli engineering hub will now be fitted with foot-operated machines. However, we can’t say how and when can the infection spread,” the official added.Meanwhile, Rajadhyaksha said that the compensation amount for the family of the deceased staffers should be released soon to their families. “The compensation of ₹50 lakh promised by the state to the families of government employees who succumb to Covid-19 should be expedited, as there is a lot of red tapism in releasing the money. Also, the kin of the deceased should be given jobs as per their qualification without any delay,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/117-civic-employees-in-mumbai-died-of-covid-19-data/story-PbFAXPOgXnEADrV4fxgmfI.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government to invite Covid-19 warriors to its official events on Independence Day across state||The Maharashtra government has decided to invite Covid-19 warriors such as doctors, conservancy workers and health workers for this year’s official Independence Day events, an order from the protocol department stated on Monday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will be attending his first flag-hoisting ceremony at Mantralaya — the state headquarters — as per protocol. Similar ceremonies will be held at all the district and divisional headquarters across the state. “Along with public representatives, freedom fighters and families of martyred soldiers, doctors, conservancy workers, health workers and those fully recovered from Covid-19 should be invited as Covid warriors for this Independence Day programme,” the order by the protocol department read. Considering the health crisis, the state has issued directives to local authorities such as divisional commissioner and district collectors over celebrating Independence Day event this year. The authorities have been asked to follow all the precautionary norms, including social distancing and mandatory wearing of masks. “All the social distancing norms shall be followed considering the ongoing health crisis. The responsibility for the same would be on the organisers of the event,” the order reads, adding that arrangements must be made to telecast the official event live on the government websites so that maximum citizens can watch it from their homes. “Corona warriors have played a significant role in the battle against the pandemic. We want to acknowledge their noble service, by inviting them for the event,” a senior official from the protocol department said.Maharashtra has been the most-affected state in the country owing to Covid-19 pandemic. It has recorded over 5.24 lakh cases and around 18,000 deaths. However, the tally of the recovered patients has also crossed 3.58 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-to-invite-covid-19-warriors-to-its-official-events-on-independence-day-across-state/story-FyzSqSaDT5HfFH7UvY3raL.html
11-08-2020||City||Kalyan hospital gets show-cause notice for ‘violating state’s directions’ over treatment of Covid patients||In yet another case of action against private hospitals for violating the state’s directions over the treatment of Covid-19 patients, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Monday served a show-cause notice to Shree Devi Hospital in Kalyan, allegedly for overcharging, not displaying the fixed rates and bed availability and for failing to co-operate with the civic body officials.Bala Shetty, the hospital’s owner, said, “We have received the KDMC notice and we will justify all the complaints mentioned in the notice with proper documentation.”The civic body has asked the hospital to send their explanation and documents of all the discharged Covid patients, their contact details and bills in three days’ time.The notice stated that the hospital charged a patient ₹1.77 lakh, including ₹49,810 for personal protective equipment (PPE), for 13 days. However, KDMC claims that according to its calculations, the total bill should amount to ₹1.16 lakh. KDMC said the per day cost incurred for PPE amounts to ₹1,000. “The hospital has charged ₹36,810 extra for the PPE kits, which is not permissible. The actual total bill should have been ₹1.16 lakh. We have asked the hospital for an explanation, based on which further action will be taken,” said a KDMC official. KDMC also alleged that the hospital did not maintain details of 80% beds reserved for Covid-19 patients and also did not submit all the bills to them to KDMC auditors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-hospital-gets-show-cause-notice-for-violating-state-s-directions-over-treatment-of-covid-patients/story-rZv7ewlnNuuuZ2ncTSXQAI.html
11-08-2020||City||1 lakh more rapid test kits for Mumbai?||After crossing the six lakh Covid-19 tests mark, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to procure one lakh more antigen testing kits to continue with its “proactive testing approach”. The total number of Covid tests done till Sunday is 6.05 lakh. Rapid antigen kits deliver test results within 15-20 minutes, but are less sensitive compared to the RT-PCR tests. More than 50% of the daily Covid tests are done using these kits, according to BMC officials. According to the civic body’s data, more than 24,937 sanitation workers have been tested using the kits; 215 of them have tested positive. Among the 4,551 rapid tests conducted on the Mumbai police staff, 101 have come positive. A senior civic official said, “A proposal will soon be put up for another one lakh antigen kits. We are halfway through exhausting the antigen kits from the current stock of one lakh kits. These testing kits are proving to be beneficial as we are able to find more positive cases in a short span.” Civic officials also said they plan to increase the number of teams that are conducting tests and test in phases to cover more areas. Madhav Sathe, retired professor of microbiology at Nair Hospital, said, “Rapid antigen testing should be done on a larger scale across Maharashtra. Areas like Jalgaon, Solapur, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Navi Mumbai should have antigen testings, too, as there are more cases there and the testing capacity is not up to the mark.” BMC had procured one lakh kits in the first week of July from a South Korean firm, which was the only company approved by ICMR. On July 2, the civic body announced that it would start rapid antigen tests at the five wards with the most Covid-19 cases at the time – R-North (Dahisar), R-Central (Borivli), R-South (Kandivli), P-North (Malad) and P-South (Goregaon). Later, it was decided to include all wards. Meanwhile, on Monday, Mumbai recorded 925 Covid-19 cases and 46 deaths, taking the tally to 124, 307 and toll to 6, 845, according to the state health department data. As per BMC’s data, of the 46 deaths, four were of patients below 40 years of age, 30 of patients above 60 years of age, and 12 patients were between 40 and 60 years. The data stated that 1, 407 patients were discharged on Monday. A total of 97,993 patients have been treated and discharged so far. The number of active patients in the city is 19, 172. The recovery rate of the city is 78%. Dharavi reported nine new cases on Monday, taking the total to 2,626.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-lakh-more-rapid-test-kits-for-mumbai/story-JkjQZVqnK2ZpqRLCq2F5iL.html
11-08-2020||City||Commandant, DSP among 81 +ve cases in Himachal||A commandant and a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) were among the 81 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal on Monday. The total tally has risen to 3,452 of which 1,215 cases are active. As many as 31 people tested positive in Solan, 20 in Mandi, nine each in Sirmaur and Hamirpur, four in Kangra, three in Shimla, two cases each in Kullu and Kinnaur and one in Bilaspur. One person died due to the contagion in Mandi and another on in Shimla, taking the death toll in the state to 15. Commandant of 4th Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) Virender Singh Thakur was among the nine people who tested positive in Sirmaur. He was staying at a rest house in Paonta Sahib. His staff has been quarantined. Besides, Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur Singh has also contracted the virus. The driver of the former Shillai MLA and vice-chairman of state civil supply corporation Baldev Tomar also tested positive. Forest minister Rakesh Pathania’s assistant is among the three people who tested positive in Kangra. Pathania has urged people who came in their contact in the last two days to undergo tests for Covid-19. Out of the 31 people who tested positive in Solan district, 16 are from the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial belt. Most of them are workers of industrial units or are their primary contacts. Five people tested positive in Arki, six in Parwanoo, two in Solan town, and one in the Kandaghat area. Out of the 20 people who tested positive in Mandi district, eight are from Khunagi village of Thunag sub-division. They had all come in contact with a meat seller. Four members of a family tested positive in Mandi. They had returned from Chandigarh. Two cases were reported in Kotli village. Patients have a travel history from Uttar Pradesh and Leh. Two cases were reported in the Sandhol area. Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded its two causalities due to Covid-19 as a 70-year-old man succumbed to the contagion in Mandi and another in Shimla’s IGMC. The Mandi deceased was under-treatment at Zonal Hospital Mandi. The patient with co-morbidities was shifted to Nerchowk Medical College late on Sunday where he passed away on Monday morning, said Mandi chief medical officer Dr Devender Sharma. The man who passed away in Shimla belonged from Nalagarh of Solan and was admitted in the isolation ward of IGMC. To date, four deaths each have been reported in Mandi and Hamirpur district, three each in Kangra and Shimla, and one in Sirmaur.1,215 ACTIVE CASES; 2,195 CURED The number of active cases in the state has gone up to 1,215 while 2,195 patients have been cured. To date, 1,66,342 people have been tested of which 3,452 came out positive. Solan is the worst-hit district with 853 cases followed by Kangra with 533 cases. Sirmaur is third in the list with 423 cases. Hamirpur has 369 cases, Una 278, Mandi 270, Chamba 216, Shimla 207, Bilaspur 148, Kullu 101, Kinnaur 48, and Lahaul-Spiti four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/commandant-dsp-among-81-ve-cases-in-himachal/story-IN1oXEeXqbQwubBRYiATMO.html
11-08-2020||City||Bali flays govt over violation of social distancing norms during CM’s Kangra tour||Senior Congress leader and former minister GS Bali lashed out at the state government for organising chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s tour to Kangra district amid the Covid-19 pandemic.While addressing a press conference at Kangra, Bali said that social distancing norms were thrown to wind by the BJP workers during the CM’s visit which may have led to a major outbreak.The CM was on a four-day tour to Kangra from August 6 to 9.“Wherever the chief minister went, we saw social distancing norms being violated. People didn’t even wear masks,” said Bali, adding that people gathering in large numbers is obvious when a political leader visits some area.He said that the administration should have suggested the CM to avoid touring the district amid the pandemic.“If the tour was necessary, he should have listened to the public grievances at the Mini-Secretariat where it would have been easy for the authorities to implement social distancing,” said Bali.Citing an example, Bali said that he cancelled the annual Bal Mela, an annual event held at Nagrota Bagwan, which coincides with his birthday due to the Covid pandemic.He also hit out at the government over second capital status to the Dharamshala town.Bali said that the government mentions Dharamshala as second capital but leave aside the minister, not even a secretary sits here.The former minister said that the state government was talking about ₹30,000 crores losses but did not tell people where these losses occurred.“It was just a ploy to increase the bus fare and cut subsidies. Recent decisions have exposed the government’s anti-people face. The BJP government is functioning like an agent of transporters and contractors,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bali-flays-govt-over-violation-of-social-distancing-norms-during-cm-s-kangra-tour/story-w1bGveLz2G0XL9u1bPNLNN.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||GoAir on cash and carry mode; says won’t hit flight ops||The Wadia Group-owned GoAir has been put on cash-and-carry (pay as you fly) mode by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) over the pending dues. GoAir is the third such airline to go on this mode, after Air India and SpiceJet. GoAir has said there will be no impact on its flight operations. The Airports Authority of India’s letter dated August 10 stated the authority has put “GoAir on cash-and- carry mode for all AAI airports across the country from Tuesday (00:01hrs of August 11)”. An AAI official, however, said the airline has been given time till August 18. “GoAir is engaged in constructive discussions with AAI and would like to assure our customers there will be no impact on GoAir’s operations. GoAir flights will continue to run, as normal, at all airports,” GoAir spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/goair-on-cash-and-carry-mode-says-won-t-hit-flight-ops/story-B2ALocIo7OCaUCuw45TUJP.html
11-08-2020||City||Armed burglars barge into DLF Phase 3 house, rob elderly couple||Gurugram: Three armed suspects allegedly broke into a house and robbed a senior citizen couple of cash and jewellery while holding them and their domestic helper hostage at gun-point, in the DLF Phase 3 area on Monday afternoon. Police said the burglars locked them up in a room before ransacking the house and decamping with Rs 30,000 in cash and some gold and silver ornaments. The suspects are yet to be identified. According to the police, the incident took place around 3.30pm when the house owner, a 77-year-old retired government employee, his wife and the domestic helper were home. Police said the three armed suspects barged into the house, gaining entry by breaking the door open. Jaibir Singh, station house officer (SHO), DLF phase 3 police station, said: “At the time of the incident, the couple and their domestic helper were in the house. The door was bolted from inside. The suspects used force to break the door open. They held the three at gunpoint and asked them to reveal where the cash and valuables were kept.”Police said the suspects told the victims to stay put in one corner while they ransacked the house. Police are checking footage of CCTVs in the area to identify the suspects. A case has been registered against unidentified suspects under relevant sections of the IPC at the DLF Phase 3 police station.After two similar incidents of burglaries, where armed suspects had targeted senior citizens in sectors 40 and 10 in the past five weeks, police are investigating if it is the same gang that is behind these incidents. On July 21, an armed suspect rang the doorbell of a house in Sector 40 for reconnaissance and after 20 minutes, he and his two aides had held a senior citizen couple hostage at gun-point, decamping with Rs 35,000 apart from jewellery worth lakhs. The suspects had tied the hands of the victims while ransacking the house. On July 4, three armed men had barged into a house in Sector 10 and snatched a phone and car keys from a family. The suspects had fired a gunshot to intimidate the victims and in March, four men including a domestic help had robbed jewellery and cash worth Rs 2 crore after tying up a senior citizen and a minor in Sector 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/armed-burglars-barge-into-dlf-phase-3-house-rob-elderly-couple/story-FSPmvnL7yHASMZkHG4y8dL.html
11-08-2020||City||3 Rajouri labourers missing from Shopian since July 17||Suspecting foul play, the family of three labourers from Rajouri district, who remain missing since July 17, on Sunday lodged a missing report with the Rajouri police. The three men Imtiyaz Ahmad, 21, of Dhar Sakri in Koteranka, Abrar Ahmad Khan, 18, of Dhar Sakri and Abrar Ahamd, 26, of Tarkassi Tehsil Koteranka in Rajouri had reached Shopian via the Mughal Road on July 2 and July 17 to work as labourers but have remained missing since. Rajouri district police chief SSP Chandan Kohli confirmed that a missing report had been lodged with the Koteranka police post. Ahmad’s uncle Lal Hussain said, “On July 2 my nephew Imtiyaz Ahmad was the first to leave Rajouri for Chowgam in Shopian district and on July 17 the other two, who are also my relatives joined Imtiyaz. On July 17, I talked to them and they told me that they had reached Chowgam. They had taken a room on rent and had brought ration and beddings for themselves. Since then there has been no contact since, the families are really worried,” he told HT over a phone from a Dhok in upper reaches of Koteranka. Hussain said “They have only one phone with them, which is switched off. Initially, we thought that they may have been quarantined in Kashmir amid the Covid-19 pandemic and Kashmir usually has connectivity problems but eventually we lodged a written missing persons complaint at Koteranka police post,” said Lal Hussain. Meanwhile, CPI (M) leader and former legislator MY Tarigami has demanded a time-bound judicial probe. “The incident of three labourers from Rajouri going missing from Shopian district from July 17 is a serious issue and needs a time-bound judicial probe,” said Tarigami. ‘KILLED IN FAKE ENCOUNTER’As per media reports the trio went missing just a day before security forces claimed they had killed three unidentified militants in Shopian. “There are unverified reports that the missing labourers have been killed in a fake encounter in Shopian on July 18. This is shocking and must be probed by a sitting high court judge in a time-bound manner,” he added. “In the past too, there have been unfortunate incidents of civilians being killed in fake encounters for rewards and promotions in Kashmir. The 2010 unrest was the creation of the Machil fake encounter,” he said. Srinagar-based defence spokesperson of the 15 Corps and 14 Corps colonel Rajesh Kalia said, “We have noted social media inputs linked to the operation at Shopian on July 18. The three terrorists killed during the operation have not been identified and the bodies were buried based on established protocols. Army is investigating the matter”.Altaf Bukhari demands high level probe Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari also sought an impartial and time bound probe to unearth the mystery behind the disappearance of the labourers. In a statement issued here, Bukhari said, “The Lt governor-led government in J&K is expected to order and pursue a serious, impartial and transparent investigation that leaves no stone unturned in finding out what happened to these three poor labourers who have lost contact with their families since July 17,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-rajouri-labourers-missing-from-shopian-since-july-17/story-FQS2EepldVWVs4MNraAbEK.html
11-08-2020||City||Gurugram: 35-yr-old foreman found dead in Sec 111, probe launched||Gurugram: A 35-year-old foreman of a construction company was found dead at a construction site in Sector 111 on Sunday. The victim’s family has submitted a complaint to the police alleging foul play and has demanded a probe.According to the police, the victim, a resident of Najafgarh in Delhi, worked with a construction company in New Palam Vihar. He had gone for work on Saturday morning and on Sunday afternoon his body was found at an office of the construction site in Sector 111. In the complaint submitted by the victim’s wife, she said that she had been trying to reach him on his mobile phone when he did not return. “His phone was switched off. At 2.30pm on Sunday, a policeman informed me that his body had been found. When I reached the spot, I noticed that he had injuries on his face. I suspect that someone has killed him and police should investigate. When I had spoken to my husband on Saturday, he had mentioned that he was accompanied by an electrician, a supervisor and some labourers to the site,” she said.A police official, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “Prima facie, it appears that the man died Saturday. The cause of death would be known after the post-mortem report comes out. Videography was conducted and the forensic team collected samples from the spot. Inquest proceedings have been initiated.” A medical board conducted the autopsy on Monday. Dr Deepak Mathur, forensic expert, said, “The body was partially decomposed and the samples have been sent for chemical analysis.” Police said they have filed an inquest report under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-35-yr-old-foreman-found-dead-in-sec-111-probe-launched/story-3lWVayqutAXOvSMXXVbNnO.html
11-08-2020||Gurugram||Serological survey 2.0 may start from August 13 in Gurugram, cover 850 people||The second round of the serological survey for Gurugram is likely to kick-off from August 13 and cover at least 850 people. Serological survey detects IgG antibodies against Covid-19, which people might have developed without showing any classic symptoms of the virus like cough, cold and fever. A sero survey helps in gauging the extent of spread of and the actual burden of Covid-19 infection in the society. IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 virus develops in the human body two weeks after the onset of the infection and it remains in the body for long time, indicating that the episode of the infection happened in the past. For the second round of survey , the administration has identified 16 clusters in the district where 500 people from rural and 350 from urban areas will be tested for SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. The latest round will be part of a statewide survey that is likely to cover at least 21,000 people.The identified clusters in urban areas in Gurugram are Basai, Khandsa, Patel Nagar and Tigra. In the rural areas the 12 identified clusters are Daulatabad, Badshahpur, Pataudi, Bajghera, Palra, Sherpur, Sarai, Aklimpur, Inchhapuri, Bhudka, Bhorakalan and Rathiwas. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Lab technicians have been trained to carry out the survey in identified clusters tentatively from August 13 or from August 17. In urban areas, 88 samples will be taken from a cluster. Each cluster will be divided into four quadrants, with each quadrant comprising of 22 households.”“Likewise, in rural areas 42 samples will be taken from each cluster. Each cluster will be divided into four quadrants comprising 11 households. Informed verbal consent of the people above 18 years of age will be taken to give their blood samples for the antibody test,” said Yadav. According to him, 16 teams have been formed. Each team will comprise three members — one medical officer, one lab technician and a health care worker. A supervisor will be appointed for every two clusters. Earlier, from June 24 till mid-July, first round of serological survey had been conducted in the district. At least 454 IgG antibody tests were conducted then, out of which 56 tested positive while 398 were negative. The districts of Ambala, Faridabad, Panchkula and Sonepat were also covered in similar surveys. This time, all 22 districts of the state will be part of the survey, with officials aiming to cover at least 21,000 people across the state. Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, said, “Final report of the survey will be prepared within a week’s time, after the survey starts.We have 21 lab technicians who have been trained and will take blood samples for antibody detection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/serological-survey-2-0-may-start-from-august-13-in-gurugram-cover-850-people/story-V6bI3mBvT2IJeZ5J4uTyQM.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid recovery rate rises to 68.33%||Maharashtra on Monday reported 9,181 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 524,513, while the death toll rose to 18,050 with 293 new fatalities. Mumbai saw 925 new infections and 46 deaths, taking the tally to 124,307 and toll to 6,845.A total of 6,711 patients recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the total of recovered patients to 358,421, which pushed the recovery rate to 68.33%. The state has 147,735 active patients — 1,001,268 are home quarantined and 35,521 are in institutional quarantine. The percentage of active patients against the recovered ones has improved to 41.21% on Monday, from 66.49% two weeks ago on July 27. The state conducted 48,430 tests and the cumulative positivity rate of the state stood at 18.91%. Pune district continues to be on top, with respect to daily caseload, at 1,699 new cases, including 280 in rural Pune, 779 in Pune city and 640 in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Pune city has, however, for the first time in the past few weeks reported fewer cases than Mumbai. Pune city reported 23 deaths, while 19 fatalities were reported in the district’s rural part. Of the other deaths on Monday, 96 were from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including 46 in Mumbai, 10 in Mira-Bhayander, eight in Thane city and seven in Kalyan-Dombivli. State’s case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 3.44%, against the national rate of 2.01%. The CFR of the state is a cause of worry for the state administration, as of the total fatalities, more than half have been reported in the past 35 days. Of the 17,757 deaths reported in the past five months of outbreak of the Covid-19, till August 9, 8,935 or 50.32% deaths were between July 6 and August 9. First case of the virus infection was reported in the state on March 9 this year. In the last 35 days, the state reported 3,08,713 infections and registered a CFR of 2.89%.Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune districts accounted for 69.34% or 6,196 deaths in the last 35 days. Mumbai alone has seen 1,900 cases during this period.According to the officials, the high CFR is attributed to the weak health infrastructure, lacklustre approach towards tracking and tracing of contacts. “Districts like Nandurbar depend on testing labs from neighbouring districts, leading to delay in reports, which in turn results in faster spread of the infection. The district’s administrations in such districts have failed to rope in private laboratories and use private infrastructure. The state and central government’s diktats for aggressive testing and tracing are not followed rigorously. We have been asking the district authorities to trace at least 15 people per infection, but in many districts it is below 10. Districts like Jalgaon, Solapur, Nagpur have not been able to augment the infrastructure and manage the available resources properly,” said an official from the health department.State health minister Rajesh Tope said on Sunday that the authorities have been directed to go for the aggressive tracing of more than 15 people per infection and their proper treatment which will help in reduction of CFR. Dr TP Lahane, director, directorate of medical education and research said, “High CFR is due to the late admission of patients in many districts. We have directed authorities to go for aggressive tracking and tracing to entail reduction in fatalities. We have set up labs in almost all districts now.” Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health consultant, said, “In many districts, we do not have crucial infrastructure with ICUs, oxygen and ventilators, apart from the lack of trained manpower and medical expertise. Government should have participation of the doctors from private medical colleges, which will help the authorities tide over the shortage of doctors. Proper analysis of deaths and critical patients with the help of district-level committee of doctors will also help the government in reducing CFR.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-recovery-rate-rises-to-68-33/story-1GJoB1pbEQLmHQTJZN51GL.html
11-08-2020||Gurugram||Existing measures sufficient for a ‘second wave’ of Covid-19 infections: Health department||The health department on Monday said it is adequately prepared to tackle a second wave of Covid-19 infections in the district, if one were to arrive in the coming weeks, or months. Officials, including the chief medical officer of Gurugram and the district surveillance officer, clarified that while there were no immediate plans to ramp up surveillance for Covid-19 in the district, the current rate (and the strategy) of testing will continue until further orders from the state government. They added that the present strategy to tackle Covid-19 infections in the state would suffice in case a spike in cases occurs. Moreover, 25% of all hospital beds in Gurugram will also remain reserved for Covid-19 patients, in the anticipation of the virus’ resurgence within the community.“At present, we don’t see any need to increase testing capabilities, but we are not going to reduce testing either. Whether we will see a second wave or not is a matter of debate, but for our part, we are confident that the existing surveillance system will be enough to help us tackle another rise in cases,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer in Gurugram, who emphasised that the health department’s “test-trace-isolate” policy has been successful at curbing transmission of the SARS-Cov-2 virus among the district population. While Gurugram is conducting between 2,000 to 2,500 tests a day (with about a quarter comprising the more reliable RT-PCR method), the test-positivity rate has been on the decline over the past six weeks, now resting at below 5%. This is down from almost 60% in mid-June. For at least the past 10 days, Gurugram has reported less than 100 new cases of Covid-19 each day, with recoveries outweighing new positives. The recovery rate stands at 91 percent, up from 86 percent three weeks ago, while the mortality rate now stands at 1.2% (with 125 deaths in total), as opposed to 1.4% three weeks ago. While experts were less reluctant to attribute Gurugram’s improvement solely to public health interventions, they agreed that increasing testing may not be necessary at this stage. Dr Prabhakaran Dorairaj, vice president (research and policy) at the Public Health Foundation of India, said, “With rural districts now emerging as the hot spots, it makes more sense to divert resources there instead of deploying them in urban centres where there has been a perceptible decline in cases and deaths.”Dorairaj also said that this perceptible decline is a natural progression of the epidemic, which has only been slowed down by the lockdown. “But transmission of the virus has continued despite curbs, as shown by serological studies from Delhi and Mumbai, where as many as 23% of the sampled population has been exposed to the virus. Gurugram, being a part of Delhi-NCR, would likely have a similar proportion of population infected, and this may have reached a natural threshold after which the virus has slowed down,” he said, clarifying that this hypothesis requires supporting evidence, which is yet to emerge.This view was also echoed by a senior epidemiologist at a public university in Delhi who, requesting anonymity, said, “It has yet to be proven scientifically, but my hunch is that the slowdown in NCR is happening because of a large number of people having acquired immunity through exposure. In some models, the prevalence for herd immunity is as little as 25%. Faridabad’s reported case numbers, for example, are growing not because the outbreak there is more severe, but because the population is more than Gurugram’s. Given what we know about seroprevalence in large cities now, the role of public health vigilance should be to preventing deaths when they occur, not really stopping the spread of the virus.”Gurugram’s chief medical officer, Dr Virender Yadav, was skeptical of a second wave, as it is traditionally understood in epidemiology. “India as a whole is still going through a first wave. India is so large that we will see different states, and different districts within states, reach their peaks at different times. It is good to be vigilant because cases will naturally increase as people start moving about more, but whether this counts as a ‘second wave’ can be debated. That term comes from our experience with the influenza virus, which is seasonal. We don’t know the seasonality of SARS-Cov-2 yet. Nevertheless, we have enough hospital beds reserved to treat an increase in cases, which may happen as people start going about their normal lives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/existing-measures-sufficient-for-a-second-wave-of-covid-19-infections-health-department/story-sRwFpy2MVbsdKwYToPc67H.html
11-08-2020||Gurugram||Two kidnap senior engineer of pvt company, police probe ‘honey trap’ angle||Two men were arrested for allegedly kidnapping and assaulting a senior engineer of a private company and attempting to extort Rs 2 lakh from him after recording some ‘objectionable videos’ of him in sector 50 on Sunday. Police said the kidnapped man, however, managed to escape by jumping from the car window and informing the police when the kidnappers were taking him to Badshahpur. Police said they were also probing the role of the victim’s female friend, whom the alleged kidnappers had dropped home before taking him to a hotel, with investigators looking at the ‘honey trap’ angle keenly. Police said the victim, identified as Anil, a resident of Garhi Harsaru near sector 10, received a phone call from a woman friend on Saturday evening during which she asked him to meet her in a hotel in sector 49. After the meeting, which lasted over two hours, as Anil and his friend were exiting the hotel at 11pm, two suspects parked their car near the gate of the hotel and approached them. According to the police, one of the accused men, Sahil Kamboj, 26, was acquainted with Anil’s woman friend. Police said the accused offered to drop the woman to her house and then ‘forced’ the victim into their car. After dropping the woman, the accused took Anil to a hotel near a bus stand in sector 12 and held him hostage there till Sunday morning. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The accused men held Anil hostage all night and beat him up. They disrobed him and recorded his videos and threatened to share them if he didn’t cough up money. On Sunday, they asked him for Rs 2 lakh cash. The victim asked his brother to transfer the amount to his account. During the night, the suspects went to the hotel in sector 49, where the victim’s SUV was parked and brought it to the hotel, where he was held hostage.” Police said according to the victim, on Sunday evening, the accused then forced him into his SUV and drove towards Badshahpur area with the alleged intention of ‘killing him’. When the SUV slowed down at a traffic signal near Vatika Chowk, the victim jumped out from the car’s window to save himself. Police said the suspects fled with the SUV immediately after. Some documents and Rs 40,000 cash was kept in the victim’s car at the time. The victim later informed the police control room and teams from sector 50 police station conducted raids to nab the duo, who were later tracked and arrested from Fazilpur Jharsa village near sector 71. Police said later on Sunday night, Anil’s woman friend filed a complaint against him alleging that he had raped her in the hotel in sector 49 on Saturday. Surender Singh, station house officer (SHO), sector 50 police station, said, “One of the arrested suspects is a friend of the woman. We are probing if she was also complicit in the kidnapping. Prima facie, our probe suggests that the accused wanted to extort money and were waiting for the amount to be transferred to his account. The woman has also filed a complaint of rape against Anil and an FIR has been registered. We are investigating the allegations levelled by her.” The arrested men, Sahil Kamboj and Aman Sharma, 18, are both residents of Sheetla Colony. Police recovered two cars, including the victim’s SUV, and Rs 29,500 cash from their possession. Kamboj works as a supervisor of a private outsourced project with the municipal corporation of Gurugram, according to a police statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-kidnap-senior-engineer-of-pvt-company-police-probe-honey-trap-angle/story-77u2ves4CmHqvNxqj14s0K.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: ED questions Rhea Chakraborty again for 10 hours||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday questioned actor Rhea Chakraborty for over ten hours in the case of money laundering registered in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Chakraborty, 28, had allegedly been in a romantic relationship with Rajput at the time of his death. This is the second time Chakraborty has been questioned by ED following allegations by Rajput’s father that Chakraborty abetted Rajput’s suspected suicide and misappropriated his funds. On Monday, Chakraborty arrived at the Central agency’s office at Ballard Estate at around 11.30 am. She was accompanied by her father Indrajeet and brother Showik. Later, her manager Shruti Modi also arrived at the ED office. A few hours later, Rajput’s friend and flatmate Sidhharth Pithani also reached the ED office for questioning. Chakraborty and her family were questioned for over nine hours and left the ED office at around 9pm. Sources in ED said the questioning was focused around Chakraborty’s income, expenditures, investments, business and professional deals. Details of properties in Khar and Navi Mumbai linked to Chakraborty as well as dealings of the companies that she and her family had established with Rajput were under scrutiny. Her statements were recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). ED’s investigation has focused on a possible mismatch between Chakraborty’s income and expenditures. Sources said questions were raised about a flat she owns in Khar. Chakraborty told investigators that the property is valued at ₹84 lakh and to purchase it, she took a home loan of ₹60 lakh. Chakraborty has maintained she is innocent and she has denied using Rajput’s money for any of her investments, officials said. Chakraborty had initially refused to appear before the agency, citing an appeal pending before the Supreme Court. However, she later produced herself before ED investigators on Friday and again on Monday. Officials said she had responded to most of their questions. Rhea’s manager Shruti Modi left ED office at around 10.30pm. At the time of going to press Rajput’s close friend Sidhharth Pithani was still being questioned at the ED office.Previously, Chakraborty’s brother Showik, who is a director at two companies reportedly owned by Rajput, was questioned for approximately 18 hours by ED. On July 31, ED filed a case on the basis of a first information report (FIR) by Bihar Police. The FIR was registered following a complaint by Rajput’s father, KK Singh, who accused Chakraborty and her family of abetting Rajput’s suspected suicide and misappropriating his funds. Singh alleged close to ₹15 crore had been transferred from Rajput’s account to unknown persons and that Rajput’s credit cards were linked to Chakraborty. On the request of the Bihar government, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has launched a probe in the matter of Rajput’s death and named Chakraborty, Showik and four other family members of Chakraborty, as accused along with other unknown persons. Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in Bandra on June 14 and a case of accidental death was registered by Bandra Police, which is conducting a parallel investigation into the actor’s death. According to the post-mortem report, Rajput’s death was due to asphyxia and there were no indications of foul play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ed-questions-rhea-chakraborty-again-for-9-hours/story-yYzjb6VhM07avCeIMQAGCJ.html
11-08-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Covid-related death reported after 19 days as 37-year-old dies during treatment||After having recorded no Covid-related deaths for 19 days, the Ghaziabad district saw a fatality on Sunday when a 37-year-old coronavirus-positive man died, according to the August 10 data of the state control room for the district. According to officials, the man breathed his last at the L3 hospital in Ghaziabad.The last death was reported in the district on July 21. In Sunday’s case, which is the first Covid-related in the month for Ghaziabad, the patient was admitted to Santosh Medical, the only L3 facility here, on August 3. According to the health department, the patient was admitted with low (82%) oxygen level and low respiratory rate. “The man was from Ambedkar Nagar area and was admitted to ICU and also given oxygen through high flow nasal cannula to relax the low oxygen levels. On August 4, he was given Remdesivir and other high value medicines. Although his oxygen level increased, it could not go beyond 85%, against the minimum required at 94%. On August 5, he was given plasma. On August 8, he developed complications with kidney ailments and passed away on August 9,” said an officer from the district health department, who wished not to be named.Officials said they gave the best possible treatment to the patient.“We tried every possible treatment, along with medicines available. But his was a case of someone who got admitted when his condition had already deteriorated. Since June, when a majority of deaths were reported, we have put in a number of systems in place for early testing and early detection, faster referral and treatment in order to avoid fatalities. It is still our focus that people should get themselves tested at the onset of symptoms so that their treatment can start immediately,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.Till May 31, the district had four deaths while a majority of them, 51, were added to the tally in the month of June. In July, the fatality rate decreased with nine deaths, while one has taken place so far in the month of August.In another case, the DM on Monday assigned an inquiry to the city magistrate to look into allegations made by the family of a 92-year-old man who died at the premises of the MMG District Hospital early Sunday. His family alleged that after the man had tested positive at Sarvodaya Hospital in Kavi Nagar, they took him to the emergency wing of the MMG Hospital at around 1.30am on Sunday but no doctor turned up till 6am. “As a result, he died. He was suffering diarrhoea and we took him to Sarvodaya Hospital where he was treated for a similar complication three years ago and had got relief. At the hospital, he tested positive for Covid-19. We rushed him in a private car to MMG Hospital but no one attended to him till 6am. Finally when a team of doctors arrived and declared him dead,” alleged Anil Kumar, son of victim Mangu Ram.DM Shankar said that city magistrate Shiv Pratap Shukla has been assigned an inquiry. “The allegations of the family will be taken up in the inquiry and the report is expected within two-three days,” Pandey added. This fatality, however, has not been added to the district’s tally as inquiry is still pending in the case.Dr Neeraj Garg, the chief medical superintendent of Sarvodaya Hospital, said that the patient was not admitted to the hospital.“When his family brought him to the hospital, we conducted a test and found him positive for Covid-19. He was admitted at another private hospital and later brought here at 12.30m on August 9. Later, the family said that they have some contacts at the government hospital and offered to take him. They took him within 30-40 minutes,” he said. Dr Sunil Katyal, the acting chief medical superintendent of MMG Hospital, however, declined to offer any comments about the incident and said that he has submitted a report to the chief medical officer. “As per protocol, the hospital where the patient tested positive should immediately inform the office of the chief medical officer so that the patient can be referred to an appropriate Covid facility,” said an officer from the district health department, who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-covid-related-death-reported-after-19-days-as-37-year-old-dies-during-treatment/story-uwjZ6g2kCjP1Dwv9t8H6uL.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Govt employee, aide held for supplying guns on fake licences||Delhi police arrested a 31-year-old junior statistical officer working with the ministry of labour and employment and one of his aides for supplying pistols manufactured in ordnance factories to criminals based in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi on fake arms licences. The weapons were sold through various gun shops to criminals without verification of arms licences and no record of buyers was maintained, senior officers said.The arrested government officer was identified as Insar Khan from Baghpat in UP, who was working as a junior statistical officer in the ministry of labour and employment in Delhi. Police identified Khan’s aide as Paras Chopra, 36, from Karnal, Haryana. He owns a gun shop in Karnal.Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bhisham Singh said they received information on August 4 that a consignment of illegal arms was being supplied from UP to Delhi and would be delivered near India Gate. “Based on the information, a raid was conducted at a location on Tilak Marg and a suspect later identified Insar Khan was held and one 0.32 bore automatic pistol made in ordnance factory of Kolkata. A magazine and five live cartridges were recovered from Khan,” the DCP said. During interrogation, the police found he worked in the ministry. “Khan said he collected the pistol from Deepak, a criminal from Baghpat, UP. He said they buy automatic pistols from a gun house on a fake arms licence. A raid was conducted at the identified gun house from where 14 live cartridges and one magazine were recovered. Khan disclosed the name of his associate as Paras Chopra,” police said.The DCP said Khan joined the government job in 2012. “His first posting was at Pune from 2012 to 2015. He was transferred to Delhi in 2015. He was arrested in 2012 in a case of SSC paper cheating by Lucknow police,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-employee-aide-held-for-supplying-guns-on-fake-licences/story-7DkFCkFhlY5kZGVcRd9czJ.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||More Covid patients in Delhi hospitals after two-week lull||Hospitalisation from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi have stayed above 3,000 since Thursday after registering a steady decline in the two preceding weeks, shows data from the daily health bulletins released by the Delhi government. Clinicians in Covid-19 wards and hospital administrators say the spike in the number is both because hospitals are choosing to admit at-risk patients at an early stage of infection to save lives, and an increase in the number of patients from other states getting tested and treated in Delhi. With over 1.3 lakh recoveries, 90% of those who were diagnosed with the infection have recovered, shows government data. “Over 90% of Corona patients in Delhi have now recovered. Only 7% cases are active now. Slowly and steadily, the people of Delhi are defeating Corona. #DelhiModel,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Monday. More than 3,000 people with Covid-19 have been hospitalised in Delhi over the past five days -- the number had stayed below 3,000 for 11 days with the exception of July 29, when 3028 people were in hospitals. On July 28, 2,775 people with Covid-19 needed hospitalisation, the data shows. On Monday, 3,115 Covid patients were in city hospitals. This accounted for 30% of the total active cases or those still living with the infection. The rest of the patients are either admitted to Covid Care Centres or are in home isolation. This proportion has been on the rise since the first week of July when on average 21% of the active cases needed hospitalisation. “We are admitting people early on and taking them into the intensive care units (ICUs) before they start developing complications like multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. The referrals from other smaller centres or non-Covid hospitals are also happening in a timely manner. This has resulted in better outcomes for the Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, of the 2,000-bed Lok Nayak hospital, which is Delhi’s biggest Covid-19 centre. This could be one of the reasons for increase in the number of hospitalisations in the city, even as the number of active cases has remained around 10,000 for two weeks. Another reason for the increase in the number of admissions is the influx of patients from the neighbouring states. “We have started getting patients from Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and other parts of the NCR over the last week or so. Earlier, inter-state travel was restricted and we used to receive almost no Covd-19 patients from these areas,” said Dr Kumar. This is a trend observed by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences as well. “Yes, there has been an increase in the number of admissions, but not too much – at the trauma centre the numbers have gone up to about 160 from the average of 120. I don’t think it is worrying but we need to keep our guards up. The numbers could be driven up by patients from neighbouring states being referred here or coming here over the last 10 days, which had almost stopped with restrictions on borders, difficulty in travelling, etc,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, All India Institute of Medical sciences (AIIMS) Delhi. Earlier, the Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday had said that about 35% beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 in Delhi are occupied by patients from other states.The number of hospitalisations in Delhi had peaked at just over 6,200 in the last week of June. The government had worked to ramp up the bed capacity by converting some government hospitals to Covid-19 only, asking all big hospitals in the city to reserve 20% of their bed capacity for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, linking hotels to hospitals, and creating temporary field hospitals with the help of the armed forces. “The increase in the hospitalisation rate is a very positive sign. I think people are now coming forward. Earlier, they were scared of going to hospitals and preferred to remain home unless absolutely necessary. This also shows that the protocols have become well-established and receptive – patients are no longer being referred from hospital to hospital or to other places to get tests etc,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.“The other reason could be that patients from other states have started to come here for treatment. I have said it time and again that the travel restriction for patients from other states should be eased, especially now that so many beds are lying vacant in Delhi hospitals. We can help patients from UP and Haryana in a big way. The admissions are likely to go up as the number of cases is on the rise across the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-covid-patients-in-delhi-hospitals-after-two-week-lull/story-uKJbOtV9bECyItCzegV2EK.html
11-08-2020||Mumbai||After Kozhikode crash, focus on pilots’ health||Senior and former Air India pilots said the airline must pay attention to the mental and physical health of pilots, especially since there have been pay cuts and greater stress since the outbreak of Covid-19. Senior airline officials said Air India Express had announced heavy pay cuts for its flying crew on August 5. An office circular dated August 5 cited adverse effects on airlines due to the pandemic and announced pay cuts for Air India Express’s flying crew (pilots and cabin crew). All pilots, along with the ground instructors, would have to take a 40% pay cut from their flying allowance, which pilots claim constitutes 70% of their salary. The circular also stated cabin crew would take a 20% pay cut. An Air India Express pilot alleged the pay cuts were unfair, “Unlike Air India, Air India Express has been posting profits for the past four consecutive years. Why has the management then imposed heavy pay cuts? Also, the management is taking a pay-cut of around 8% whereas we are burdened with maximum pay cuts,” said the pilot. Air India Express did not respond to calls or message from this reporter. Additionally, both Air India and Air India Express have done away with testing pilots for Covid-19 after flights, which has raised anxieties of getting infected, said pilots. An Air India spokesperson said, “We are adhering to all the laid down protocols required to protect the safety of our crew members. We are only streamlining the procedure. Our crew still have the option of getting the test done whenever they feel they have the symptoms on return.” A senior airline pilot said, “Initially, pilots would be tested for Covid two days before flying and after landing at the destination airport. However, it is nearly two weeks now that the airline has stopped conducting post-flight Covid tests for pilots which is a cause of worry for everyone.” An official from Air India said, “According to the new norms, a pilot can be tested after landing only if he is symptomatic. But there are many cases where a person with no symptoms tests positive for the virus. In that case, there are high chances that the pilot will infect his family, and children or parents are at higher risk of getting infected. Every pilot flying during this phase has this stress of carrying the virus home.” Captain Mohan Ranganathan, former Boeing 737 instructor and aviation safety aviation expert, said, “Stress is a big factor because you are not only worried for yourself but also about infecting family hence it will always be there in your mind. You will not (mentally) be 200% in the cockpit.” He said another worry among pilots would be losing their license in case they contract a severe case of Covid-19 and their medical record is affected as a result of this. Another Air India Express pilot said the pilots are suffering from fatigue. “The previous flight duty time limit (FDTL) for pilots did not allow consecutive night flying. However, the revised FDTL, introduced in 2019, allows pilots to be rostered for two consecutive nights in a week. Air India Express particularly has many flights scheduled at night, which take a toll on the body as a pilot is expected to report to duty two hours before departure time,” they said. A senior official from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said, “The [FTDL] matter is sub judice and so I would not like to comment.” All pilots spoke to HT requesting anonymity since they are not authorised to speak to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-kozhikode-crash-focus-on-pilots-health/story-QvTnAtEuwlexseO5m5fqRM.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Three dozen gangsters held while celebrating release of criminal on bail||Over three dozen members of the notorious Naveen Khati gang were caught while they were celebrating the release of one of their associates from jail on bail in west Delhi’s Dwarka in the early hours of Sunday, the police said.While five of them were arrested for carrying illegal weapons, the others were booked for violating social distancing norms.The police did not find the released prisoner, identified as Sunny alias Nandi, at the venue. They believe he was among three-four people who managed to scale the walls and escape.Anto Alphonse, the deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), said that 23-year-old Deepak was released from jail on bail on Saturday for the treatment of piles. He is accused of a double murder, attacking police personnel and robbery. He is to return to jail on August 30.“To celebrate his release, members of the Naveen Khati gang held a cocktail party at a party lawn in Pochanpur village near Dwarka,” the DCP said.“Though they are members of the Naveen Khati gang, they were planning to start their own gang—Nandi Gang,” the DCP added.But the local police were tipped off about the gathering and surrounded the place. “When the gathering got to know of our arrival, they tried to scale the walls of the party lawn and escape. Three-four of them managed to escape while we nabbed 37 others,” the DCP said.The police apprehended four of them for carrying automatic pistols and one for carrying a short hand gun, apart from a dozen bullets, illegally.The men carrying the weapons were booked under the Arms Act and arrested. These five men have previously been involved in several criminal cases each, the DCP said.As for the others, the police are verifying their criminal antecedents and for now have booked them for violating social distancing.“We have also booked the owner of the party lawn for allowing the violation of social distancing norms under the Epidemic Diseases Act,” another investigator said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-dozen-gangsters-held-while-celebrating-release-of-criminal-on-bail/story-ZcLGCwPKB9FmuME1oorYWI.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Head constable killed after drunk driver rams police van in north campus||A head constable was killed and another policeman injured when an allegedly drunk 19-year-old student drove his Honda City into an anti-street crimes police van, Prakhar, near Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College in Delhi University’s North Campus in the early hours of Monday, the police said.The impact of the hit was such that the police van -- a Mahindra Scorpio -- was toppled and skid over 15 feet, leaving the head constable trapped inside.The errant driver, Tushar Gupta, who too was injured in the mishap, was caught from the spot, said Monika Bhardwaj, deputy commissioner of police (north). Gupta is pursuing Bachelors in Commerce degree from a university in Singapore and was visiting his parents in Delhi’s Model Town in March when the lockdown was announced, leaving him stranded in India, the DCP said.“He was heavily drunk, possibly way beyond the permissible limit. We are awaiting his blood sample report,” the DCP said.The accident took place at a time when the Delhi Traffic Police has been forced to suspend prosecution of drunk driving on Delhi’s roads amid fears that using alcometers to check if a driver is drunk or not may lead to infections to the traffic personnel.There has not been any prosecution or action against drunk drivers ever since, unless someone is involved in an accident and gets caught.Head constable Wazir Singh, 50, and his colleague constable Amit, 40, were patrolling the streets in the Prakhar van when the accident took place around 1.30 am.The DCP said Gupta was returning home from the house of a friend in Civil Lines where he had been drinking.“The Prakhar van was moving very slow when a Honda City rammed it at a very high speed at the junction of the Chhatra Marg and Ring Road,” said the DCP, adding that the sedan’s front was heavily damaged while the police vehicle toppled and skidded for several feet before coming to a halt.Constable Amit, who was behind the wheel of the van, was badly injured, but he managed to emerge from the vehicle. Head constable Singh, however, was trapped inside.“Despite his injury, Amit joined hands with some passersby to pull out Singh from the mangled remains of the vehicle. They were then rushed to Sushruta Trauma Centre where the head constable died during treatment,” said the DCP. Amit continues to remain hospitalised, but the police said that he is likely to survive.Singh’s son, Vinay, who is a constable with the Haryana Police, said his father had left their home in Sonepat on Sunday evening, hours before his death. “He would come home to us during the 24 hours of rest he got after 12 hours of duty on the roads. He left us on Sunday night saying he would return as soon as his duty ended,” said Vinay, one of two sons of Singh.He said his father had joined the Delhi Police 19 years ago and was deployed with the PCR unit just two months ago after a prolonged stint in the traffic police.“I’ll pursue the case to ensure justice for my father,” said Vinay.Gupta, meanwhile, was saved from severe injuries because of the safety airbags, which were deployed immediately after the collision, the DCP said.Gupta was restrained at the accident spot by the passersby and he was later booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, rash driving and causing hurt due to a negligent act, said the DCP.When HT reached out to Gupta’s family, they refused to comment on the incident.The traffic police, is “waiting and watching” the Covid-19 situation before resuming its action against drunk drivers, said Taj Hassan, special commissioner of police (traffic police).“The drunk driving checking involves a one-to-one interface while using the alcometers, which makes the process unsafe for the personnel carrying out the exercise. Apart from that, they have to escort many drunk drivers to hospitals, which too is risky,” said Hassan about the reason behind the suspension of the exercise.Last month, the traffic police also stepped out on the streets to begin issuing e-challans to other violators, but there has been no resumption in the prosecution of drunk drivers, said Hassan.The fatal accident comes just two weeks after a traffic assistant commissioner of police, Sanket Kaushik, was fatally run over by a tempo on the service lane near Rajokri Flyover.Till July 31 this year, 557 people have been killed in 543 fatal accidents in the national capital, data released by the traffic police on Monday showed.In the corresponding period last year, there were 929 accidents which left 945 people dead.In 2019, there were 1,433 fatal accidents in which 1,463 people died.According to the data, while private car users accounted for only 13 road accident deaths, these cars were responsible for killing 83 of 265 people in whose cases the cause for the death have been ascertained.As for drunk driving, there have been 26 accidents due to drunk driving till July end this year, as against 107 in the corresponding period last year.Four persons were killed during the two corresponding durations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/head-constable-killed-after-drunk-driver-rams-police-van-in-north-campus/story-iAtaKycbkrKBqaYvenS6jK.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||SET holds Haryana excise officials guilty of inaction in liquor seizure probes||Indicating inaction by Haryana excise and taxation officials in investigation of cases involving large seizures of illegal liquor, the special enquiry team (SET), constituted to inquire into the instances of liquor pilferage from warehouses, in its report said that despite having powers to investigate, the department did not do so. During an interactive session with SET, the excise and taxation commissioner (ETC), Shekhar Vidyarthi, on June 27 said that deputy excise and taxation commissioners (excise) posted in districts were vested with the powers of collector to investigate cases of seizure of illegal liquor and were fully responsible for investigation as per the requirement of the case. “In cases of big seizures, the details are also sent to the collector at the head office. Normally, the collector follows up the large detections though excise and taxation commissioner is also apprised. However, the ETC admitted no such investigation of illegal liquor confiscated in the field is being done by the excise department,” said the inquiry report submitted to home minister Anil Vij. Quoting an instance, the SET report said one such huge detection was reported by Sonepat DETC (excise) in February 2019 whose details were also sent to the ETC office. “Since no action was taken by the ETC office, the Sonepat DETC simply kept on issuing notices in that case and did not finalise the proceedings until May 2020 when that case came into limelight after the Kharkhauda-Matindoo godown fiasco wherein FIR was registered by police on May 5,” the report said. Excise department failed to recover big penalty amount The SET report has also blamed the excise and taxation department for its failure to ensure that penalties for excise offences were levied on time and recovered from the offenders. “As per provisions of Haryana Imposition and Recovery of Penalty Rules, 2003, the collector releases the offender on furnishing of sureties or securities to his satisfaction. Hence, it is indefensible as to why penalties have not been recovered in many cases,” the report said. The report mentioned that out of 8,337 cases of illegal liquor seizure between April 1, 2019, and March 31, 2020, 8,171 cases have been decided. Out of penalty of about ₹8.58 crore imposed, the department has recovered only ₹7.21 crore, leaving a balance of ₹1.37 crore, the report said. “The then collector, Yogesh Kumar, tried to defend this inaction by stating that penalty has been recovered in 97% of cases. However, he has cleverly not given the amount of penalty which is required to be recovered because remaining 3% cases amount to 16% of the total amount of penalty imposed,” the report said. As per the report, in cases involving huge penalty amounts like the one pertaining to Kharkhauda-Matindoo godown case, penalties have not been recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/set-holds-haryana-excise-officials-guilty-of-inaction-in-liquor-seizure-probes/story-UVa6bmo0gZVb89PifzsQYJ.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||In absence of scribes and assistive devices, many visually impaired students couldn’t take DU online exam on day 1||Many visually challenged students on Monday said they were unable to take the test on the first day of Delhi University’s (DU) online open-book exams (OBE) for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students, due to unavailability of scribes and assistive devices. The university had earlier said visually impaired students appearing in the exams could seek its help in getting scribes at the common service centres (CSCs) -- facilities created under the ministry of electronics and information technology -- or their campuses. The university had asked colleges to provide support material to all visually challenged students. There are around 400 visually challenged final-year students in undergraduate and postgraduate courses. It was not yet known how many took the test as DU was still collecting data from colleges.But many students alleged they were not provided scribes, assistive devices and relevant study material by their colleges. Roshan Kumar, 19, a final-year BA (prog) student at Ramjas College, was among those who could not take the exam on Monday. “We cannot read printed books. We use two types of devices. One is a laptop or netbook with a screen reader software and another is DAISY (digital accessible information system) players. These players have recorded study material. We could not get anything since colleges are closed in view of the pandemic. It was impossible for me to prepare for exams without all this,” said Kumar, a first-generation learner from west Delhi’s Nawada. Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said all visually impaired students got audio study material. “We had informed students that they can visit the campus and avail of the facility of scribes. A visually challenged student will come this week to write his exam with the help of a scribe provided by the college,” he said.Then there were students stuck in different parts of the country amid the Covid-19 pandemic, who could not get scribes. Deepak Gupta, 23, a visually impaired student studying MA in English, said he could not arrange for a scribe in his home town in Bihar. “I could not appear in the exam on Monday. It was not possible for me to travel to Delhi at this time. We do not have proper study material at home. We used to take help of our classmates in audio recording study material. Nothing such happened this time amid the pandemic,” he said.Ramjastan, a BA (prog) final-year student at a south campus college and a resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur, also could not take the exam. “I did not have the prescribed study material in accessible form to study. The college asked me to visit the campus if I needed a scribe. When other students are not called to the campus amid the pandemic, why have students with disabilities have to go?” Preevi, 20, a final-year BA (English Hons) student at Miranda House, said she will not be able to appear Tuesday’s exam also. “I am stuck in my home town Varanasi due to the prevailing situation. The college had asked me to come to the campus if I want a scribe. It’s absolutely unsafe to travel at this time. I have no idea when I will get another opportunity to appear in the exams now,” she said.Bijayalaxmi Nanda, principal of Miranda House, said, “We have set up a support system at our college campus for students with disabilities. But it was not possible to provide scribes in different parts of the country amid the pandemic.”Despite several attempts, DU dean of exam, Vinay Gupta, did not respond to calls and texts sent for a comment. A member of the examination branch, who wished not to be named, said, “The online exam is optional and all students will get another chance to write the exam.”Senior advocate SK Rungta, who has filed a petition in the Delhi High Court on behalf of the National Federation of Blind (NFB), seeking effective mechanisms for visually impaired and specially abled students for the online exam, said, “The university and UGC should consider promoting of these students on the basis their internal exams. We will soon move Supreme Court, demanding the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-absence-of-scribes-and-assistive-devices-many-visually-impaired-students-couldn-t-take-du-online-exam-on-day-1/story-94eLtOdhD73sybLwuQo9UK.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Hotels, gyms in Delhi, unlikely to open this week||Hotels, gyms and weekly markets in Delhi are unlikely to open this week, senior government officials said on Monday.“If the number of daily fresh Covid-19 cases continues to be like it was last week, it is highly possible that gyms, hotels and yoga centres will not be allowed for now,” said an official in the health department on condition of anonymity. The Delhi government declined to comment on the matter.Officials in the chief minister’s office said Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal is yet to return the file sent by revenue minister Kailash Gahlot on August 6, seeking approval to open hotels, gyms, weekly markets and yoga centres in the Capital. Delhi recorded 707 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, which is because of fewer tests (12,323) conducted on Sunday and its recovery rate crossed the 90% mark with 131,657 persons recovering of the total 146,134 cases recorded so far. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted that only around 7% of the total Covid cases in Delhi are now active. “Slowly and steadily, the people of Delhi are defeating Corona,” he said. Between August 1 and 7, Delhi witnessed an average of 1,028 fresh cases per day.Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday had said around 35% of beds in Covid hospitals in Delhi are currently occupied by patients from other states. “Till last month, we observed that total bed occupancy in Covid hospitals in the city in terms of absolute numbers was dropping by around 100 per day on an average. But, for at least the last 10 days, the number has been more or less constant. When we studied the trends, it emerged that around 35% of patients who have occupied beds currently are outsiders. In fact, on Saturday, 224 Delhi residents were admitted in Covid hospitals, compared to 97 patients from other states,” said Jain, who himself recovered from Covid and joined the office last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hotels-gyms-unlikely-to-open-this-week/story-khrB22uGbhrFaHbMxkeGrJ.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Seven-day ‘Garbage-Free Delhi’ campaign to help clean up city||Delhi’s three municipal corporations — north, east and south — will launch a week-long intensive sanitation campaign “Garbage Free Delhi” from Tuesday, in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to make cities garbage-free. Under the campaign, the civic bodies will press into service 100 more garbage compactors to reduce the number of dhalaos (local garbage collection sites) across the city. Mayors of the three municipalities said that nearly 500 places have been identified where garbage is accumulated and eventually spills on to the roads. These places will be cleared on a priority. In the cleanliness campaign, the focus will also be on segregation of waste at source in market areas, which is negligible in the city. Addressing a joint press conference, Jai Prakash, mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said that in the special drive, teams of political executives and municipal officials will conduct inspections in different areas under their jurisdiction to check if sanitation work is being carried out properly and garbage is being lifted from the colonies and dhalaos. “We will also spread awareness among masses through pamphlets and stickers about the importance of waste segregation at source and also appeal the public not to litter on roads and throw garbage in drains. Additional dustbins will be installed in markets across Delhi with the help of market associations,” he said.Prakash further said that a meeting will be conducted with the market associations and they would be requested to start waste segregation at source and for this, they would be given separate dustbins for dry and wet waste. According to municipal estimates, Delhi produces over 10,817 metric tonnes of garbage daily. Most of this waste makes its way to the three landfill sites — Ghazipur, Bhalswa and Okhla. The municipal officials said that nearly 330 dhalaos have been eliminated across the city with the help of over 450 garbage compactor machines. With a workforce of over 72,000 sanitation employees, the three civic bodies are majorly responsible for maintaining cleanliness in the city.Anamika Mithilesh, mayor South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said that the exercise would continue till August 18 and every councillor and civic officials will remain on the field to ensure proper execution of the plan. She said that nearly 100 more garbage compactor machines will be deployed in different areas in the three corporations to reduce the number of local garbage dumping points. Nirmal Jain, mayor East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), said that the main aim of the campaign is to make the city roads and drains free of garbage. “Nearly 500 points have been identified across the city where garbage is dumped and then later spills on roads. In the drive, we will ensure that no garbage remains at dhalaos and waste is not littered on roads and in drains. Nine compost plants of one-tonne capacity each have been installed in east corporation areas so that less waste reaches the landfill,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/seven-day-garbage-free-delhi-campaign-to-help-clean-up-city/story-SoxyxvLmMGrKKWtExUqecO.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||SDMC to increase de-sealing fees for big businesses||Commercial establishments in south Delhi such as restaurants, coffee shops, banquet halls, health clubs sealed for violation of civic norms may have to shell out more money in order to get the government seal removed, officials of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said.The officials said the SDMC proposes to increase the charge for de-sealing from Rs 15,000 to Rs 50,000 in case of big businesses such as restaurants (seating capacity of 20 or more), coffee shops, banquet halls, health clubs, spa, etc. For smaller businesses such as fruit juice vendors, paan shops and barbers shops (up to 5 chairs), the charge will remain Rs 15,000, they said.The proposal will be presented before the SDMC standing committee on Tuesday, and if approved, it will be presented before the SDMC House.If approved, the hiked charges will apply only to the shops sealed by the corporation. The shops that were sealed by the SC-monitoring committee are de-sealed only on court orders. Earlier, the SDMC had passed the proposal to levy a professional tax on self-employed persons — a first for Delhi — and doubled the tax on rented commercial property. The municipal body also announced hike in tax on transfer of property in new tax proposals aimed at ramping up revenue collection hit by the national lockdown to contain spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Rajdutt Gahlot, chairman, standing committee, SDMC said that the proposal is mainly to curb violations of building bye-laws, licence norms, operational and structural guidelines. “The proposal will be discussed at length and is subject to changes before it’s approved. We will bring in different slabs depending on the trade. For instance of the licence fee of a particular unit is just ₹6000 then the de-sealing charges cannot be hiked to 50,000. Similarly in case of bigger establishments such as cinema halls and bigger banquet halls or farmhouses where the licence fee starts from Rs 50,000, the de-sealing charges must be increased much more. We will introduce different categories just as it’s done while fixing circle rates,” he said. Leader of Opposition in the SDMC Prem Chauhan said that though they are in favour of revision of charges, it has to be done systematically and all bigger trades cannot be just charged Rs 50,000 for violations. “There are restauarants with 20 seats and those with over 50 seats, similarly there are banquet halls spread across much larger area that can house around 1000 guests and so the charges must be according to the floor area of an establishment and different slabs should be made for bringing in the policy.” For de-sealing of properties, owners have to comply with the rules under which the property was sealed. After this, an inspection is conducted by the municipal officials. If they find that the owners has complied, he pays the de-sealing charges for reopening the property.Ramesh Gupta, who runs a catering business in Lajpat Nagar, said hiking the charges will further hit businesses, which are already suffering on account of sealing and the loss of business due to the prolonged lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. “A hike in any kind of charges at this point is not in the public interest. Traders have already been hit hard because of low sales,” said Gupta.Vijay Kheterpal, member, South Extension-1 market association, said that hiking charges at this point of time is not a good idea. “Eateries are the worst hit at this time and surviving only on takeaways. Anyways when a trader is adhering to the norms, only then a property is de-sealed then why make them pay extra charges,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdmc-to-increase-de-sealing-fees-for-big-businesses/story-fDV22lScqBR47U6O5tGLVK.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi BJP will announce new team soon; women to get bigger roles||After the assembly election debacle early this year, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Delhi unit is now gearing up for the municipal polls in 2022. The party’s Delhi unit chief Adesh Gupta said that he will announce the new state team by the end of this month. Women party workers, Gupta said, will be given key positions, especially at the grassroot level—municipal wards (mandal) and districts.The rejig, party members say, has been long overdue. Former Delhi BJP president and North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari’s tenure—Tiwari was appointed the state chief in December 2016—was extended due to the assembly elections earlier this year and later due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“This time there was no election due to Covid-19. But we are in the process of finalising the team based on extensive discussions with party workers at all levels—from mandals to state and MPs. We will announce the new team by the end of this month. The team, which will lead the party into municipal elections, will be a mix of young and experienced people. This time, active women party workers will be given key roles such as mandal and district presidents,” Gupta said.The biggest challenge for the BJP, which was limited to single-digit seats in the recent assembly elections, is to regain the lost ground. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) won 62 seats while BJP got just eight seats in the elections held earlier this year.While the BJP has been out of power in the Delhi assembly, the saffron party has been ruling the three civic bodies for 13 years. Despite strong anti-incumbency sentiments in 2017, the party won 184 seats, 46 seats more than it had won in 2012, in the three municipal elections.Gupta said that the party will work hard to retain its hold over the corporations in the next elections. The party plans to start an aggressive campaign showcasing the work done by them in the last 13 years and also against the ruling AAP for stifling the corporations by not releasing funds on time.“The three corporations have done a lot of work in sanitation. We have successfully lowered the heights of landfill sites. We aim to flatten the garbage mounds in the next few years. The Centre has helped us a lot. But the Delhi government has only made things worse for us. They have not released funds on time. We will go to people and highlight these issues,” he said.With nearly one-and-a-half-years left for the corporation elections, BJP says that it has enough time to complete all the pending projects. Gupta said that once the new team is in place, the party will start the work for municipal elections.BJP attacks AAP on job portalMeanwhile, the BJP on Monday hit out at the Delhi government on its initiative for providing job-seekers with employment. The BJP alleged that the ruling party had started a similar initiative two years ago on which it spent ₹34.41 crore.“Two years ago, the party started an employment scheme which failed. The Kejriwal government had spent ₹34. 41 crore on the scheme, but only 334 people were employed,” Gupta said.Gupta said that the portal is yet another attempt to misguide people. “It is being claimed that the job portal has more than 9 lakh vacancies and has 8.64 lakh applicants. The government should tell us how many people have got jobs through the portal so far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-bjp-will-announce-new-team-soon-women-to-get-bigger-roles/story-hUxImpEKgOT3ZsConPeACJ.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||Riots accused given bail three times due to lack of evidence||A Delhi court has granted bail to a man three times in three separate FIRs related to the arson of three floors of a building during the north-east Delhi riots in February. The order came after the police failed to put on record CCTV camera footage they claimed was evidence as part of the supplementary charge sheet despite repeated orders by the judge. The judge, on the third instance on July 28, while granting bail to Kasim Ali due to the absence of evidence in the form of the CCTV camera footage, also directed that the copy of the order be sent to the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) and Special Commissioner (Crime) for necessary action. Ali was arrested for rioting and the arson of various houses, including three floors of a building in the Jaffarabad area, on February 24 during the riots. On the basis of CCTV camera footage, Ali was first arrested when FIR-96/2020 was registered. The police said that during interrogation, he signed a disclosure statement regarding the crime following which three separate FIRs were registered (one for each floor) and he was arrested. (Three FIRS—64/2020, 121/2020 and 127/2020). In two FIRS—64/2020 and 127/2020—he was granted bail on July 22 due to the police’s failure to put the CCTV camera footage on record. “Since it is claimed that there exists CCTV camera footage, which is in the possession of the police but has not been inadvertently filed in the present case for the last several months despite allowing of previous bail application in which similar observation was made by the court with the same accused in relation to the third and fourth floors of the property…hence, let the copy of this order be sent to the concerned DCP and Special Commissioner (Crime) for their information and necessary action [sic],” the court stated in its order dated July 28. Appearing for Ali, his counsel contended that his client was falsely implicated in the case and the evidence was planted. Opposing the bail application earlier, the police had said that the allegations against Ali were serious. They said that he admitted his crime in one of the FIRs registered in the arson of an adjacent property (FIR –96/2020). The Special Public Prosecutor submitted earlier that under FIR-96/2020, there was evidence in the form of CCTV camera footage, which should be common for two of the properties Ali damaged. He, however, said that the footage had not been filed inadvertently and they will file a supplementary charge­ sheet later on. The court said that as on date, the footage was not on record and the charge sheet in the present case was filed on May 16. It said that in such circumstances, Ali was granted bail on a personal bond of ₹40,000 and a surety of like amount. According to a complaint by one Naved, that on February 24 around 4pm, he and his family left his house fearing for their safety. The next day around 11am, his neighbours informed him that rioters broke into his house, looted his possessions and set his house on fire. When he returned home, he found that the mob had looted cash of ₹1,50,000­, gold jewellery weighing 450 grams, 1½ kilogram of silver ornaments, his two Apple mobile phones and stridhan (his wife and his brother’s property) worth ₹15,00,000, and burnt the house down.Communal riots had broken in February this year in north-east Delhi, claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/riots-accused-given-bail-three-times-due-to-lack-of-evidence/story-5UDkEyZZBssgdq7z6uvAjJ.html
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||IMD warns of heavy rain in Chandigarh||After the city received 30.4mm rain on Monday, India Meteorological Department has issued an orange alert for the region including Chandigarh with a chance of heavy rain up to 60mm in the coming days.As per IMD, at isolated places heavy rain up to 60 mm and thunderstorm with wind speeds up to 45 km/h are expected.The alert has been issued till Wednesday by the officials. “Rainfall activity is likely to decrease by Wednesday evening, although spells of rain can continue till the weekend,” officials said.This was the first major spell of rain in the city this month after 31.6 mm of rain on August 1. Maximum temperature of the city remained consistent between Sunday and Monday at 33.3°C. Minimum temperature fell down from 28.9°C on Sunday to 27.5°C on Monday. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 31°C-32°C while minimum temperature will remain around 27°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/imd-warns-of-heavy-rain-today-in-chandigarh/story-ZMl7ux71Z98AOPNi7OJfeI.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||South Delhi internal roads in bad shape||Several roads in various south Delhi colonies such as Defence Colony, Malviya Nagar, Saket, Green Park and Mehrauli have worn out due to lack of repair and maintenance causing water-logging, accidents and damage to vehicles, residents complained. Most of these roads are maintained by the municipal corporations. Local councillors said that due to the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus, lack of funds and labour roads could not be re-carpeted and potholes repaired ahead of the monsoon. Residents of Defence Colony D-block said getting vehicles inside during the rains is a nightmare and that there have been frequent accidents. Blocks A and C too have similar uneven roads, which have been patched up at some places. “The entire stretch gets immersed in water after rain. Pedestrians are always at risk. Many cyclists and those coming for home deliveries of food and grocery get hurt. A few months ago, a child broke his ankle on the road,” said Soni Singh, a resident of D-block. Major Ranjit Singh (retd), president, Defence Colony RWA, said after repeated letters and requests to senior officers of the civic body as well as political representatives relaying of the stretch has been sanctioned a few days ago. “We have written to the SDMC officials to involve the RWA when the project starts so that we ensure that there are no vehicles parked on the stretch and it’s fully covered. Also, there are other roads that are in bad condition and need to be repaired,” he said. Local municipal councillor Seema Malik agreed that several road stretches in her ward are in a bad condition. “The stretch in C-block has not been fixed for almost 11 years. Just four days ago, I have got ₹71 lakh sanctioned for improving and strengthening the road. There are many roads in poor condition in C-block and other areas. I am trying to get approval for repairs,” she said. Councillors in other areas said since the municipal corporations are facing massive funds crunch, several works have got delayed. They said the local area development funds for councillors has also been halved from last year.Rakhi Jain, a resident of K-block, Saket, said roads in the area have not been repaired for the past seven years. “Patches were repaired some time ago, but it didn’t last more than two to three months. The work was sanctioned and even started in some pockets before assembly elections, but then it got delayed again because of the lockdown,” said Jain, joint secretary of the K-block RWA. Kishanwati, the AAP councillor from Lado Sarai ward, which includes Saket, said the work of re-laying and repairing roads has been relaunched in many colonies, including Lodo Sarai, Katwaria Sarai and Ber Sarai. “Work has started in parts of Saket as well. It will be done in all blocks. The MLA has helped me with funds for works in my ward,” said Kishanwati. Residents in nearby Mehrauli are also struggling with poor roads for more than a year and a half. “The Delhi Jal Board had dug up around 20-25 kms of the road for laying water pipeline. Since then it has not been repaired. There have been accidents due to poor roads. Despite several requests, the authorities have done nothing,” said Sandeep Bali, president, Mehrauli RWA. While officials in the DJB said that the road cutting cost has already been paid to the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), civic officials said that they have received only half the funds. Mehrauli councillor Aarti Singh said, “I have been requesting the area MLA to help with the release of remaining funds, but there has been no response. Also, work has been held up because of lack of labour.” Mehrauli MLA Naresh Yadav said the cost for cutting roads for laying water and sewer pipelines were given to the civic body even before the elections. “Around ₹20 crores have been deposited with the corporation for the project. The roads are in bad condition and it falls under the civic body. They have failed to use the funds for doing basic road repair work,” said Yadav. SDMC spokesperson Radha Krishan said, “The work was delayed because of the lockdown and the ongoing restrictions. It is now being taken up on a priority basis in areas where improvement and strengthening of roads was due.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/south-delhi-internal-roads-in-bad-shape/story-XDddGqXPW2rIl1kXRFRPfJ.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||AIIMS student dies after jumping from hostel terrace||A 22-year-old student of AIIMS died after jumping from the terrace of his hostel at the campus on Monday evening, the police said. Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), said it was not known why the student took the step. No suicide note has been found. A senior AIIMS administration officials said the MBBS student had begun showing symptoms of depression soon after coming to Delhi in 2018 from his home town. The official said that his parents had to take him back to their home town for a while. The DCP said that he was admitted to the psychiatry ward of the hospital. “Around 6 pm, he walked out of the ward after seeking an hour’s leave, but instead jumped from the hostel roof,” said the DCP. He was rushed to the trauma centre, but he succumbed to his injuries. Inquest proceedings have been initiated in the death.Several NGOs run helplines to address concerns of people who are emotionally distressed. Two of these are: +914066202000 for ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 for Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aiims-student-dies-after-jumping-from-hostel-terrace/story-eIuYUlvxpxfP82OjZZiGjO.html
11-08-2020||Delhi||DDA to approve land use change of plot where V-P’s residence is proposed||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is in the process of notifying the land-use change for a 15-acre plot, which is part of Centre’s ambitious Central Vista Redevelopment project.The land-use of this plot, where the Vice President of India’s residence is proposed under the redevelopment plan, will be changed from transportation (bus terminal/parking) to residential. The land-owning agency held the public meeting in this regard on August 7, which is part of the process.Two residential plots, each spread over 15 acres, have been marked in the reworked Central Vista plan. While one on Dalhousie Road near South Block is likely to be the Prime Minister’s residence, the Vice President’s house is likely to be on the other side of Rajpath near North Block.The land-use of the plot, where the Vice President’s residence is proposed under the Centre’s redevelopment plan, was changed by the DDA in February this year. In March, the land-owning agency had invited public suggestions/objections. But the public hearing couldn’t be held due to Coronavirus pandemic.“We held the public hearing on August 7. A report regarding the public hearing will be tabled in the next authority meeting. Once approved, the proposal will be sent to the ministry of housing and urban affairs for notification,” said a senior DDA official, requesting anonymity.Another senior DDA official said that a large number of objections were raised regarding the overall project and not specific to the plot.In December last year, DDA had changed the land-use of this plot to “government office” based on a request made by the Land and Development Office (L&DO), which is under the Housing and Urban Affairs (HUA) ministry, along with six other land parcels spread over 86 acres. But the redevelopment plan was later reworked. Anuj Srivastava, spokesperson of LokPATH (people for Appropriate Transformation of Habitat), a collective of urban development experts and civil society members, said, “The very fact they have changed the plan twice in such a short span shows that it has not been properly planned. The previous changes should not be approved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dda-to-approve-land-use-change-of-plot-where-v-p-s-residence-is-proposed/story-FyhbH0ir7lmdaLTvK6V8EP.html
11-08-2020||Pune||PCMC Covid-19 tally nears 30k mark||Pimpri-Chinchwad on Monday reported 640 fresh positive cases of Covid-19, according to the state health department.According to the state health department, total progressive cases in twin cities is 29,169 and total deaths 522.As per the PCMC health department, 708 fresh positive cases and 11 deaths were reported on Monday taking the progressive positive count to 30,501 and 522 deaths.“The state health department date is released early in the afternoon while the PCMC dashboard is updated continuously. So the daily figures vary,” said, Anna Bodade, assistant municipal commissioner.“We are noticing an increase in positive cases only because we have increased the number of tests,” said Shravan Hardikar, PCMC commissioner.“The facilities of 30 ICU oxygen beds in Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital, 10 ICU oxygen beds in Bhosari hospital and 10 ICU beds in Jijamata hospital are ready and appointment of doctors is in the final stage. The work of Covid-19 facilities at Balnagri, Bhosari (425 beds) and Auto Cluster, Chinchwad (202 beds) will be completed by August 20,” he added.PCMC has also sped up the work of jumbo 800-bed Covid facility at Annasaheb Magar Stadium, Pimpri.Currently, PCMC has 12 Covid care centres, one Covid care hospital and two health centres, according to officials.Also, PCMC has decided to hand over 12 Covid-19 care centres to private firms for functioning due to staff crunch.“We are currently staff crunched. Once these 12 Covid care centres will be operated by private firms then we will be able to manage staff at new upcoming Covid care centres. Since positive virus cases are increasing we have to add more staff on duty,” said, Dr Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer PCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcmc-covid-19-tally-nears-30k-mark/story-7bWYoFSaaD68j2FapcVPZN.html
11-08-2020||Pune||Covid-19 curve likely to flatten in Pune by August-end||The two jumbo facilities being set up in the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad may not be very useful for patients from the city as administration expects Pune’s cases are likely to stabilise by August 25. However, these facilities will be utilised to their fullest as Pimpri-Chinchwad is likely to witness a surge in the cases, followed by rural parts of the district, according to officials.The two jumbo facilities are being set up at College of Engineering, Pune and Annasaheb Magar Ground, Pimpri. The administration has set the target to make them operational by August 19.According to Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, various models including the one developed by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay suggest that by August 25, cases in the city will stabilise. From there on the next hotspot will be Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits, where the curve is likely to flatten by September-end and by October-end, the number of cases in Pune’s rural parts will stabilise.As on August 9, city’s progressive Covid-19 tally was 65,966 and the active cases at 15,812. In the case of PCMC, total progressive cases in the industrial town are 28,529, while in rural parts of the district, the total cases are 11,028.“Areas in PMC will see a sign of relief by August 25 and this has been indicated by various research institutions including IIT Bombay. This prediction is based on various algorithms and it looks like Covid-19 cases in PMC will peak by last week of August and thereafter cause of concern will be PCMC followed by rural areas, where the case fatality rate is higher,” said Rao.The higher case fatality rate is an indication of the prevalence of an unidentified number of positive cases, along with a relative lack of sufficient health infrastructure. In Pune rural, the average case fatality rate is 3.1 per cent while in Pune city, it is 2.3 per cent.According to Rao, PCMC behind by four to five weeks behind PMC in attaining a peak in Covid-19 cases and rural area again are behind by three to four weeks behind PCMC. “So when we consider district as a unit, it looks like jumbo facilities will be fully utilised. And once they are in use, it will offer respite to existing health infrastructure, which is under tremendous stress,” said Rao.“Within rural areas of Pune, the spread of virus is currently along the semi-urban areas and alongside the highways with administration expecting its spread in market areas in various villages,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune zilla parishad.Prasad said, “Currently for every 100 cases, seven are from rural parts and the cases may go up in the coming days. However, we are taking every possible step to control its spread.”In the rural parts, Haveli and Khed have reported maximum cases so far, he added.An epidemiologist from the PCMC, however, said the number of cases in the industrial town will stabilize sooner than September-end, as predicted by others.Dr Pavan Salve, PCMC health and medical officer and epidemiologist, said, “The overall cases in Pune and PCMC are increasing currently. Till the end of August, the positive cases in PCMC will slow down. Although PCMC will be crossing the 30,000 active cases mark, it will come under control in the next 15 days and it will not turn into a new Covid-19 hotspot as predicted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-curve-likely-to-flatten-in-pmc-by-august-end/story-xIvCx5oI6Y0s90WVQDfx2K.html
11-08-2020||City||Chandigarh tricity sees steepest single-day spike with 218 Covid-19 cases||With 80 Covid-19 cases recorded in Chandigarh, 76 in Mohali and 62 in Panchkula, the tricity witnessed its steepest single-day spike of 218 new infections on Monday.The previous biggest surge came on August 8 when 209 people had tested positive for the disease.Chandigarh’s tally has climbed up to 1,595, with 565 cases still active. However, with record 100 recoveries registered on Monday, the total crossed the 1,000 mark. While 1,004 people have been discharged so far, 25 have died due to the disease in the Union Territory.Among the fresh cases, there are two health workers from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and one from Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, while a judicial magistrate (first class) of the district court, Chandigarh, has also tested positive. A senior UT health official said at least six employees of a newspaper published from Chandigarh have also tested positive in Panchkula. While two of them are from Chandigarh and have been added to the UT’s tally, one is from Zirakpur, he said. The cases are spread across urban and rural pockets, and are mostly contacts of already hospitalised patients. Some also have travel history to Punjab, Delhi and Gurugram.Out of the total 80, 24 have been diagnosed through rapid antigen testing, stated a release.Panchkula crosses 1,000 markPanchkula district’s tally reached 1,001 on Monday, with 408 cases still active. Till July 31, there were 561 cases in the district. The remaining 440, which include 21 people deported from the US, have surfaced within just 10 days. As many as 590 patients have recovered so far while three have succumbed to the disease.On Monday, majority of the infections were reported from urban pockets.Sector 9 accounted for 12 cases while 10 people from Sector 10 tested positive too. Four cases each surfaced in Sectors 15 and 20 and three each in Sector 25 and Mansa Devi Complex’s Sector 5. The remaining were spread across the district, including Kalka and Pinjore.Meanwhile, even as the number of cases is shooting up in the district, police have decided to observe two-day “mask challan mukt divas”, wherein instead of issuing fines for not wearing masks, cops will distribute free masks to the violators and educate them about its importance.Two deaths in Dera BassiTwo more Covid-19 deaths in Dera Bassi took Mohali’s fatalities on Monday to 21, even as 76 new cases pushed up the count to 1,385. The deceased included a 38-year-old man from Mubarakpur and a 70-year-old from Preet Nagar. The former was admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research at Chandigarh on July 22 and had brain surgery. The latter, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, was admitted to a private hospital in Panchkula on August 5. Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, said the bodies were cremated as per protocol and supervised by health officials. Of the new cases, 40 were from the Dera Bassi sub-division, 23 from Mohali and 13 from Kharar. Also, 21 persons had recovered, bringing down the number of active patients to 649 in the district. Till date, 715 persons have recovered, while 21 have lost their lives in the last four months. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-tricity-sees-steepest-spike-with-218-covid-19-cases/story-hSuPsaw13rRe8UqjNa4gAJ.html
11-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s first sero survey results to be out by Aug 15||The findings of Pune’s first Covid-19 sero (serological) surveillance study will be out this week as Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) goes ahead with another survey led by BJ Medical College. The findings of the first sero survey, conducted by Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) along with Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), will be released by August 15, said IISER scientists involved in the activity. “We will come out with findings about presence of antibodies by mid-August. The findings won’t include factors like neutralising effect, which will take time,” said IISER professor Aurnab Ghose. As part of sero survey, IISER and SPPU collected random blood samples from 1,550 persons from slum and non-slum pockets from five wards. Purpose of the surveillance project and its utility for PMC is to make appropriate decisions in the coming months with project funded by Persistent Systems. The community-based sero survey helps identify presence of antibodies among vulnerable population. The presence of antibodies indicates that the person who contracted the infection has developed resistance to the virus. Both Mumbai and Delhi have already completed similar studies. In Mumbai, the sero survey revealed presence of antibodies in 57% of those surveyed in slums and 16% in non-slums. “It gives us a direction and is a reasonable indicator, but not necessarily a very strong pointer to suggest it means herd immunity,” said Ghose The second sero study in Pune will be carried out by BJ Medical College’s Microbiology department along with SPPU and IISER. What is sero survey? It includes collecting samples of people to identify whether they have developed antibodies What does presence of antibodies indicate? It indicates that the person who contracted the infection has developed resistance to the virus What is sample size in Pune? IISER and SPPU collected random blood samples from 1,550 persons from slum and non-slum pockets from five wards||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-first-sero-survey-results-to-be-out-by-aug-15/story-MfrfpVABExINY1FXepj5gL.html
