12-08-2020||Gurugram||HSVP to auction 85 commercial properties on Friday||To monetise its properties in various parts of the city, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has listed 85 such commercial properties for auction on Friday. These properties include booths, double storey shops, shopping and office complexes spread across estate office 1 and 2. HSVP officials said that these properties are at prime locations and they expect it to generate around ₹100 crore in revenue. The success of the auctions is crucial as HSVP is facing an acute financial crisis with large loans to pay for land acquisition and enhancements. The properties in the estate office I listed for auction fall in sectors 4, 5, 7 extension, 9, 9A, 10A, 15 part one and two, sector 21 and those located on the jail land. The properties listed in estate office II are located sector 38, 39, 45 and 56. The base price of commercial spaces in estate office 1 has been fixed ₹3.5 crore, while in estate office II, it is ₹4.5 crore.Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate officer 1 said, “We hope to sell these properties at prime locations. In the mean time, the auction of residential plots is still on hold pending a court decision. We are preparing a list of plots that would be reserved for those whose land have been acquired and thereafter, we shall seek permission to sell the remaining plots.” HSVP in June had said that it had identified 163 commercial plots, 137 residential plots and 27 institutional plots that would be put on auction. The authority has also identified 26 sites for schools that include two high schools, eight primary schools and 15 nurseries that would be put on the block.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-to-auction-85-commercial-properties-on-friday/story-2U7vvu2793HkYJHLU8H7CM.html
12-08-2020||City||30-year-old woman dies of Covid days after delivery||With one more death recorded on Wednesday, 66 people have died in Ghaziabad of Covid-19.The latest to die was a 30-year-old woman who was under treatment at a Meerut hospital and had delivered a baby at home just two days before she was admitted to the hospital on August 10. She had been running a fever for the past 10 days.“The officials at Meerut informed us about the death and also that she tested positive for Covid-19 after tested with the help of TrueNat machine. The exact cause of death will be known after the death audit. Her family had delayed bringing her to the L-1 (mild care) district women’s hospital and she was immediately referred to Meerut,” said Dr NK Gupta, district chief medical officer. An official at the women’s hospital said that she had tested negative in the antigen test before she was referred to the Meerut hospital.More surveillanceThe district magistrate has instructed different surveillance teams on door-to-door surveys to take more comprehensive efforts to detect more possible cases in order to reduce the number of patients requiring critical care. “The teams are carrying out surveys in containment zones as well as outside. Their primary job is to identify the cases of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (Sari). But they have also been directed to keep track of patients with co-morbidities and also anyone who underwent deliveries or any surgeries. The idea is to locate more people who could develop severe conditions,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate (DM). “The general public is also requested to cooperate with the survey teams.” According to the health department, the officials have a set of about 861 teams who are taking up surveillance activities on day to basis in containment zones while other teams comprising of 3047 booth level officers and 237 of their supervisors are also taking up door-to-door surveys in the district. The block level officers (BLO) have also been directed that they will keep track whether the suspected cases have undergone tests or not and will further inform the integrated control room where team of doctors will motivate people to take up testing in case they fail to take up Covid-19 test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-year-old-woman-dies-of-covid-days-after-delivery/story-ugn1JcTMKLOiBOw3UjN9ZN.html
12-08-2020||City||Luxury cars, properties worth ₹1.2 cr of eight gangsters attached||Noida: The Noida police commissionerate on Tuesday attached assets, including luxury cars and properties, worth ₹1.2 crore of eight known gangsters and mafias across the district.The move is a deterrent against organised crime and known criminals active in Gautam Budh Nagar, said the police. “One of them is related to the Shahberi incident also. He is a Ghaziabad native and we have attached his SUVs, among other vehicles,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.Nine people were killed in the twin building collapse in Shahberi village on July 17, 2018 while several builders were booked under the Gangster Act for allegedly selling unauthorised plots in the area. Under Section 14a of the Gangster Act, movable and immovable assets of criminals booked under the act can be attached if they are obtained by fraudulent methods. Earlier, the power to attach such assets resided with the district magistrate. However, with the formation of the commissionerate system in Gautam Budh Nagar, the power is now in the hands of the police commissioner.“We have attached a total of nine four wheelers, two 2-wheelers and two tractors. The total worth of all the assets is around ₹1.2 crore. Action has been taken against eight gangsters and mafias, most of whom were wanted in major loot and dacoity cases. We will continue to take more action against them,” said the DCP. Four of these suspects are from Ghaziabad while the rest are from Gautam Budh Nagar, said the police. They were identified as Suraj Chandra Sharma (related to the Shahberi incident), his father Mahesh Chandra, Sanjeev Kumar, Rishi Tyagi, Hajendra, Harish, Rohit and Vikas Chaudhary respectively.In a similar move in July, assets worth more than ₹14 crore of various suspects were attached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/luxury-cars-properties-worth-1-2-cr-of-eight-gangsters-attached/story-XBGq2Sq0hMWoUGunrEzPQL.html
12-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad police recommends cancellation of 125 arms licences for violations||The Ghaziabad police has recommended the cancellation of 125 arms licences after their holders were allegedly found misusing or violating the licence conditions during a special drive. The police said they have sent a report to the district administration recommending their cancellations. During the drive in the past one week, the police of various police station areas were directed to inquire about weapons whose license holders have criminal records; or their close relatives were involved in crime; or those who gave their weapons to any other person and also those who were found not having possession of the weapon. The list also included those persons who did not renew their licences despite expiry of licences. “The idea behind the drive is to ensure that arms are used properly by licence holders and strictly comply with conditions. It has come to light that there are use of illegal weapons in crime and even instances wherein people violate licence conditions. We have identified 125 such cases wherein there has been violation of conditions. A report has been sent to the district administration for cancellation of such licences,” SSP Kalanidhi Naithani said in a video recorded message sent to the media. “We will also initiate action under the Arms Act,” he added. He did not respond to calls when contacted. The officer further added that since January 1, the police have registered 755 cases under the Arms Act and also arrested about 100 persons for posting photos or videos while holding weapons on the social media. “The current operation is also being speeded up. The SHOs have been asked to find out if licence holders have given their weapons to anyone else or not using properly the cartridges issued to them. They have also been asked to find out instances wherein people have deposited their weapons in shops and have not taken them back. The current drive will continue,” he said. Of the 125 licence holders, the police found that 27 of them had close relatives or family members having criminal history while 55 had either criminal cases against themselves or their close relatives. There were another 10 instances wherein licence holders did not renew their licences and 13 were those who had tried to terrify others with arms. Another seven instances were those who were involved in celebratory firing while eight others were found to have loaned their weapons to others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-police-recommends-cancellation-of-125-arms-licences-for-violations/story-xUT1jvB12lw2XWsnnL4QJP.html
12-08-2020||City||Noida: Male model ends life, police recover note||Noida: A 22-year-old male model allegedly took his own life at his home under the Phase 3 police jurisdiction on Tuesday. A suicide note was recovered from the spot, the police said.According to police officials, the youth lived with his mother and she was the one who found him hanging when she returned from work.“A call came around 10.30pm after she saw him hanging. A team was rushed to the spot and the body was sent for an autopsy which suggests ante mortem hanging,” said Amit Kumar Singh, station house officer (SHO), Phase 3 police station.He also said that a suicide note has been recovered from the spot.“In the note, he has mentioned the names of three of his friends who will be able to provide answers to the reasons behind his action. It also mentions that he was not able to get love. The note was addressed to his mother,” said the SHO.The police officials said that according to the mother, he was in close contact with a girl and problems in the relationship could be behind his extreme step.“The body was handed over to the mother following the autopsy. We will question the friends mentioned in the note for information, if the mother, a native of Jharkhand, files a complaint. We will also identify the girl and question her. Thereafter due necessary action will be taken,” said Singh.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and 011-23389090 from SUMAITRI (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-male-model-ends-life-police-recover-note/story-rpzLLq3ASFq2V2l2RB7gRO.html
12-08-2020||City||Greater Noida authority issues tenders worth ₹27 crore for multiple projects||GREATER NOIDA The Greater Noida authority has issued ₹27.07-crore tenders to start work on multiple projects that include repair of drains and roads, and development of footpath, among others.The authority has issued a total of 32 tenders related with important projects, officials said, adding that the interested private firms or contractors can apply for these projects. The authority will finish the legal procedures and formalities in two months.“After completing all formalities that will take two months, the authority will start work on these important projects. These 32 tenders are related with repair, construction and other development works in different sectors,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.The authority wants to carry out maintenance work of the cricket ground, installation of CCTV cameras and high mast lights at Vijay Singh Pathik sports complex and maintenance of streetlights in sectors 36 and 37. Besides, it will also repair/construct small stretches of roads in sectors Chi 3, Xu 1, 2, Mu 2, Ecotech 1 and 11, among others, the officials said.The authority will also repair drains, sewage network, footpath and roads in different villages, including Khanpur, Sirsa, Ladpura, Rampur Majra and Niyana.In June and July this year, the authority had started work on construction and repair of key roads with a budget of ₹208.72 crore. The authority had issued 183 tenders in order to construct new roads and carry out other important works in the city.“The work on ₹208.72-crore projects is underway in different sectors as the formalities related with hiring contractors was done earlier in June and July,” said Deep Chandra, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-authority-issues-tenders-worth-27-crore-for-multiple-projects/story-ywQs6rVf6pCyXJ9T4moNhL.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||25% students of civic-run schools unable to access online learning: BMC||Around 25% students enrolled in schools under the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have not been able to join online learning in the current academic year, data obtained by the civic body’s education department has revealed. Some of the key reasons behind a large number of students not being able to take part in online learning are migration of parents due to loss of livelihood, unavailability of android phones, not being able to afford internet connection and schools not having updated contact details of parents. In a circular released on Tuesday, the education department has asked schools and teachers to take measures to ensure that 100% students are able to access online learning. To begin with, schools have to compile data for each student which has to be sent to the civic body. Every school also has to form a committee, consisting parents, school principal, representatives of NGOs etc, which has to meet online at least once every 15 days to take a stock of the situation and ensure that all students are accessing online education. For students who are ‘out of school’ due to the ongoing Covid-19 situation, schools have been asked to identify palak mitra (friends among parents) who will help other parents with online learning, sharing of resources etc. Similarly, principals have been asked to ensure that they take up learning activities in communities keeping in mind social distancing norms. “It is worrying to see that some students are not able to join online learning due to several challenges. While the situation is unprecedented, it is also important for us to ensure that not a single child is left out. If that happens, chances are that students might drop out. Schools should take up the necessary actions to ensure that this doesn’t happen,” said Mahesh Palkar, BMC education officer. As per the data obtained by BMC in June, the migrant exodus displaced nearly 1.15 lakh or 21% of the total students enrolled in civic and private primary schools in Mumbai. “While some families have come back home, several others still remain in their hometowns waiting to find work to be able to return. There is poor connectivity in rural areas, so we try to call them whenever we can to give them guidance about how to study,” said a teacher who works at a BMC school in the suburbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/25-students-of-civic-run-schools-unable-to-access-online-learning-bmc/story-2oA8KeSDv6NPf224j4inIM.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||HC directs state to respond to PIL seeking taskforce to curb sale of gutkha||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the state government to file an affidavit in reply to a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought directions to constitute a special task force led by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to deal with manufacturing, selling, trading of banned products including gutkha, khaini, zarda and other products which could contribute towards the spread of Covid-19. The plea seeks stringent laws to implement the ban as well as immediate action against cartels, hoarders and transporters from Madhya Pradesh.A division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice SP Tavade, while hearing the PIL filed by lawyer Arvind Singh, was informed by senior advocate Jamshed Cama along with advocates Anil Mishra and Jindagi Shah that one of the contributors to the spread of Covid 19 was banned products like gutkha, khaini and zarda. Cama submitted that as Covid-19 spreads through droplets from the mouth, infected persons who consumed these products could transfer the infection through their saliva when they spit in public places. Cama further submitted that smoking could also result in the spread of the virus.Cama further submitted that though the Food Safety and Standards (Prohibition and Restriction on Sales) Regulations, 2011 banned the use of gutkha and nicotine, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Maharashtra had banned the use of these products from time to time through orders. He also submitted that the Maharashtra FDA had, on February 7, announced that persons found manufacturing gutkha would be booked under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime (MCOCA) Act.He submitted that as the ban was in place, the products were coming from Madhya Pradesh after the district magistrate of Indore allowed pan masala wholesalers and retailers to sell their products outside the district. He submitted that a large consignment of gutkha had entered Maharashtra which posed a huge threat to the lives of the citizens, and hence immediate steps should be taken to stop it.Cama stressed there was an urgent need to form a special task force to be led by CBI to unearth the trade routes, manufacturing units and selling points to stop the use of gutkha and related products. After hearing the submissions, the court directed the state to file an affidavit in response to the plea and posted the matter for hearing on September 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-directs-state-to-respond-to-pil-seeking-taskforce-to-curb-sale-of-gutkha/story-Q7rKlfRDSn2Jx98lZ7ButL.html
12-08-2020||City||Thane residents can pre-book immersion slots online to avoid crowding||Thane residents can now pre-book the time slots online for idol immersion during the ten-day Ganesh festival to avoid overcrowding at the immersion sites. The slots can be booked on the Covid dashboard of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), informed civic commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma. TMC had issued several guidelines last week for the ten-day festival and also assured to increase idol donation centre in the city to curb the crowd at immersion sites. The pre-booking is another initiative to aim at easing the crowd. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC said, “The city this year will have 13 artificial lakes and 20 idol donation centres. People will be allowed to book their time slots at all these sites and will be allowed to immerse idols as per their slots. The bookings for slots will be opened from Friday, August 14.” The slots can be booked on www.covidthane.org. Malvi said, “There will be a list of artificial lakes and donation centres. Devotees will have to choose one centre, day, date and time slot. We appeal that maximum residents should book their immersion slots beforehand and avoid overcrowding.” The slots will not be allowed for those residing in containment zones. The residents in containment zones will have to immerse the idols within the zone or at their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-residents-can-pre-book-immersion-slots-online-to-avoid-crowding/story-YrXVVrTYYmDRDijHvU7QiK.html
12-08-2020||City||Ulhasnagar residents’ association demands cancellation of tenders for Covid facilities||In a letter addressed to the commissioner of Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) earlier this week, the Ulhasnagar Residents’ Association has asked to cancel five tenders issued by the civic body for Covid facilities worth around ₹18 crore. The association claims the expenses will be a waste of public funds as the additional treatment infrastructure will not be required. The residents’ association, in its letter, mentioned that UMC had issued tenders worth ₹1.60 crore to set up a 400-bed Covid centre at Tabor Ashram, and other tenders worth around ₹16-₹17 crore to acquire various medicinal instruments and equipment for Covid hospitals and Covid centres. Moti Ludhwani, founder of the association, said, “The civic body has plans to build a 650-bed Covid centre in its Town Hall, so why build another 400-bed facility at Tabor Ashram, which is around 10km away from Ulhasnagar when patients will not be willing to go there. We feel it is a waste of money as the number of active cases in the city is around 400-500 now, and there are enough beds, of which 85% are vacant as per the civic body’s website. We want UMC to cancel this tender.” The association also alleged that the tenders issued for the materials and medical equipment are overpriced and need to be cancelled. “We have asked the civic body chief to take expert views before finalising the tenders and spending more,” said Ludhwani. Yuvraj Badhane, public relations officer, UMC, explained that the infrastructure is required as the pandemic is not over. “The health infrastructure is not up to mark in Ulhasnagar, so we are setting up this infrastructure with a focus on the future. At present, we have to send patients to quarantine at the Tata Amantra at Kalyan-Bhiwandi road, which is far away. Comparatively, Tabor Ashram is nearby and well-equipped with facilities,” Badhane said.He said that the corporation will take into account expert views before issuing tenders for the remaining infrastructure and equipment, which are necessary to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ulhasnagar-residents-association-demands-cancellation-of-tenders-for-covid-facilities/story-wr0ZTNoBgcQgUMIuEJ22vK.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||Demand for office spaces to go down as work from home becomes the norm||A pan-India report to understand the impact of Covid-19 on cities and mobility has revealed that there will be a significant reduction in demand for commercial real estate and office spaces post-lockdown as companies may encourage employees to continue working from home. Of the respondents, who include business leaders, policymakers, researchers and academicians, 60% felt the demand for office space would reduce post-lockdown.According to the report, ‘Project Impact: Impact of Covid-19 on Cities and Mobility’, which surveyed more than 350 decision-makers and experts across cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, etc, 89% respondents said that going forward, the ‘work-from-home’ concept would have greater acceptance; 79% said that office sizes would reduce, while 49% said that people would prefer bigger houses if work from home becomes a norm.The survey was conducted between June and July via questionnaire and interviews by Cities Forum, a global organisation looking into urban issues; the Gujarat-based CEPT Research and Development Foundation (CDRF); a German development agency, and Ideal Management Consultants. The organisations had previously released a similar global report based on a survey of industry leaders across 45 countries in June 2020.Shailendra Kaushik, co-founder, Cities Forum, said, “This is an opportunity for smaller cities to grow, as people would prefer living in smaller cities with larger tenement sizes, in the post-lockdown scenario.”DS Mishra, secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, who has been quoted in the report, said, “Covid-19 pandemic has engulfed the entire world, adversely impacting lives and livelihoods of citizens. It has severely stressed the urban systems, including healthcare infrastructure. However, this pandemic has given us an opportunity to rethink the way we live, work, shop, study, socialise, travel or pursue any other activity.”According to the survey, 88% of the respondents said that cities need to invest more in cycling and walking infrastructure. The organizing institutions hope this research helps to drive policy decisions.An overwhelming majority also feel that there will be a drastic decrease in public transport trips in cities. Additionally, 93% said that public hygiene needs to be given more importance, followed by frequency and flexible routes, to make public transport more reliable. The majority of respondents said that there would be an increase in cycling, walking and usage of personal vehicles considering the safety factor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/demand-for-office-spaces-to-go-down-as-work-from-home-becomes-the-norm/story-8NKjOfF4PYQg4ZMwUYHEWJ.html
12-08-2020||City||Despite 16 infected staffers, no contact tracing at Ludhiana MC’s offices||Even as two employees of the Ludhiana municipal corporation have succumbed to Covid-19, while 16 have tested positive in the recent past, the district’s health department has yet to track their contacts.Though the family members of the infected staff have been home quarantined, nothing much has been done to check the spread of the virus in the various MC offices, posing risk to hundreds of employees and daily visitors. Among those positive are a joint commissioner, superintendent, sub-divisional officer, MC commissioner’s personal assistant, an inspector deputed in the house tax wing at Zone D office, a staffer aligned with a councillor and several sanitation workers. The deceased are two sweepers from Zones C and D, while four staffers, including the joint commissioner and three sanitation workers, have recovered. Besides, three councillors – Manpreet Grewal, Rakesh Prashar and Sukhdev Shera – had also tested positive in the past.A staff member, requesting anonymity, claimed that the health department had not conducted contact tracing in any of these cases. “Even as the inspector deputed in the house tax wing at Zone D office has contracted the infection, his colleagues are still working there without getting tested. Also the staff at MC commissioner’s office is working without any check-up. While the office was sanitised, not a single person was quarantined,” the employee said.“Only verbal directions are issued by senior officials to the staff concerned to get themselves tested. But neither does the staff follow the directions nor do the officials follow-up. Some employees had also demanded that the affected offices be closed for some days to break the chain of infection, but in vain,” he said.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “The attached staff were immediately told to get the tests done after some employees started testing positive. Precautions are being taken in MC offices, with everyone entering the premises being scanned for body temperature. Residents should avoid visiting offices for now and forward their concerns online.” On the health department’s part, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh said, “The department has increased the number of teams for contact tracing. Some teams will also be sent to the MC offices in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-16-infected-staffers-no-contact-tracing-at-ludhiana-mc-s-offices/story-cRgx63neXDnNlbCIlzDiAJ.html
12-08-2020||City||45 hot spots in Kalyan-Dombivli have zero cases since past 2 weeks: Civic chief||As the average number of Covid-19 cases in Kalyan-Dombivli has witnessed a continuous decline since the start of August, the civic commissioner announced that no new cases were reported in the last 15 days in 45 slum pockets. Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) chief Vijay Suryavanshi said that early detection and strict quarantine has helped curb the spread in these areas. As per the civic body, no new Covid-19 cases were recorded in 10 slums and 33 chawls in the twin cities. “The areas which were once hot spots have had no cases since the last 15 days. This is due to the testing and strict quarantine procedure by the civic body. However, the survey in these areas will continue, to avoid any new cases. Antigen testing based on the Dharavi pattern too, has helped to detect more cases and ensure timely isolation,” said Suryavanshi. KDMC recorded 386 new cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 26,046. The corporation also recorded 15 new deaths, taking the toll to 554. To date, the civic body has conducted 8,338 antigen tests, and private doctors in the city have helped the KDMC get information on around 4,300 fever cases. Of the 57,828 tests performed to date, 49,490 were reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, and the rest were rapid antigen tests. Daily, the civic body conducts 600-700 antigen tests. On Wednesday, Suryavanshi made RT-PCR tests mandatory for all high-risk contacts of Covid patients, within five days. The civic chief has warned that if high-risk contacts fail to get tested, they will face action under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Areas with no cases: Govindwadi in Kalyan, Bhoi Wada, Saparde Gaon, Parsi Galli, Kranti Nagar Slum, BSUP (Dombivali) Lahuji Nagar, Patra Chawl, Patil Nagar, Atali, Ambivali, Jyoti Nagar in Dombivli, Samata Nagar, Sai Balaji, Sainath Wadi, Gangubai Jadhav Chawl, Tukaram Nagar, Manik Mhatre Chawl in Manjunath Urban Health Center Dombivali, Chickan Ghar Health Centre in Kalyan, Uro Patil Chawl, Sanjeevani Chawl, Laxmi Nagar in Dombivali, Manpada, Sandapgaon, Ghariwali village, Kala Talao in Kalyan, Jetha Compound, Vallipir Road, Pilaji Bagh, Sanglewadi,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45-hot-spots-in-kalyan-dombivli-have-zero-cases-since-past-2-weeks-civic-chief/story-49dcWIRFva7UOng139ZC0N.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||Ahead of 2nd sero survey at the end of this week, BMC starts sensitisation programmes||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will begin the second round of serological surveillance, or sero survey, by the end of this week. The survey will be conducted in M (West), F (North) and R (North) wards, which are the same wards where the first sero survey was carried out in July. Researchers said the surveying the same wards would allow them to compare data to better understand the spread of Covid-19. Results of the sero survey should be out in September. In a sero survey, a group of individuals undergoes blood tests to detect the presence of immunoglobulin-G (IgG) antibodies, which are produced by the body’s immune system upon exposure to a virus. This helps identify individuals who have recovered from infections. In July, the first sero survey was conducted with samples from 6,936 individuals, in three wards, in collaboration with NITI-Aayog and the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR). “We need comparative data to see the nature of the spread in two phases. This has to be done in the same places, though not on the same individuals,” said Suresh Kakani, assistant commissioner, BMC. For the second survey, which is expected to start by the end of this week, BMC will test 6,200 individuals from slums and non-slum areas in Tilaknagar and Chembur in M (West) ward; Matunga, Sion and Wadala in F-North ward; and Dahisar and Mandapeshwar in R (North) ward. Officials started sensitisation and awareness programmes on antibody testing in these areas from August 10. “It is essential to undertake the survey in the same areas to understand if the pandemic curve has actually flattened or more people are getting undiagnosed. For instance, in the first sero survey, BMC found 57% infection prevalence in slums. So, in the second survey, we have to see if the presence of antibodies has declined or increased in the same crowd. Also, there is a need to include more areas as each ward has its own demographic prevalence,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, pulmonary medicine specialist at PD Hinduja Hospital. Last week, principal investigator of the survey and a professor at TIFR, Ullas S Kolthur held an online interaction on the survey with fellow TIFR professor Sandeep Juneja. They said these three wards had been selected due to the high prevalence of Covid-19 cases at the beginning of June. “F (North) and M (West) are neighbouring wards, which are also closer to G (North) ward which covers Dharavi, the biggest slum in Mumbai. As we didn’t want to cover such a big slum area, we decided to take the surrounding two wards to gauge the extent of the spread of infection. Also, we had to take one ward which is in the northern part of Mumbai so we decided to take R (North) where cases were showing a gradual rise [since June],” said Juneja. Dr Behram Pardiwala, internal medicine expert, Wockhardt Hospital, said the scope of the sero survey should be extended to other civic wards. “Experts should focus on a more general population. This will help to provide a better picture of the exposure of the virus demographically,” he said. BMC said it would decide on expanding the sero survey after the conclusion of this second round. “We are already in talks to include more areas but that would be done after the conclusion of the second survey,” said Kakani. As HT had reported earlier, BMC faced a lot of resistance from individuals in non-slum residential areas during the first sero survey. Compared to the original target of 4,000 people from non-slum areas, field workers managed to collect samples from 2,702. This time around, BMC has been conducting door-to-door surveys in the three wards since August 10, to raise awareness about the survey. “We have started with fieldwork where volunteers are conducting workshops and sensitizing people from residential areas about the sero survey and its importance,” said Kakani. Sandhya Nandekar, ward officer of R (North) ward, said, “Slum dwellers are more co-operative than those from residential societies. Those in slums voluntarily come forward whereas the latter hid because from fear of getting quarantined.” HT spoke to field workers involved in collecting blood samples in Matunga who said they were often insulted by residents and housing society members. “There is so much fear among people of getting diagnosed with Covid-19 that they won’t even allow us to go inside. Guards were asked to keep the gates locked. Several housing society members would behave rudely and make us go away,” said one field worker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ahead-of-2nd-sero-survey-at-the-end-of-this-week-bmc-starts-sensitisation-programmes/story-O8B9MiGA6M1uNJqiunbYFL.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||Self-testing identifies only 20% cases: BMC||More than a month after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) liberalised the testing policy, the civic body said that a majority of new cases of Covid-19 remain from close contacts of patients or detections at the testing camps, with 10-20% from among those who get tested on their own. From July 7, BMC had allowed anyone to get tested at private labs without any medical prescription. The city has been reporting around 900-1,200 cases daily for over a month. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “A majority of cases being reported daily is not from those getting tested on their own. Around 10-20% daily cases come from people who get tested on their own. The rest are from our efforts. This includes testing high- and low-risk contacts of patients and our camps. It is a good sign. It indicates the situation is under control, considering the daily positivity rate is around 20% for the past few days.” BMC started to screen citizens from Mumbai airport since January 18, and conducted the first test on February 3. The first positive case in Mumbai was reported on March 11. In the past two months, the number of tests has also doubled in the city, partly owing to usage of 1 lakh rapid antigen kits procured by BMC. As of August 10, Mumbai had conducted 6.13 lakh tests. The one-lakh-test mark was crossed on May 6, two lakh on June 1, three lakh on June 24, four lakh on July 14, five lakh on July 29 and six lakh on August 9. Although Mumbai’s testing has increased, it is lower than Delhi that has tested around 12.04 lakh samples until August 10, according to BMC’s Covid-19 dashboard. On August 11, Mumbai conducted 9,218 tests, taking the total to 6.22 lakh, with an overall positivity rate of 20.10 per cent. BMC has traced around 20 lakh citizens in the past five months, of which 3 lakh are low-risk and 7 lakh are high-risk contacts. The civic body has also screened around 1.79 crore citizens, including 7.83 lakh senior citizens. Kakani said, “We are also starting the second phase of sero-surveillance survey from Thursday. The sero-survey will be conducted in the same areas of Dahisar, Borivli, Matunga, Dadar and Wadala. We will collect 6,500 samples. The results in the second phase will help us ascertain the spread, and will also help us take decisions on lockdown relaxations. However, the third phase will be taken up at a later stage.” In the first phase of sero-survey, BMC had tested around 6,900 samples. Further, the number of recovered patients crossed 1 lakh on Wednesday, with the total reaching 100,068. The recovery rate in Mumbai was 79.1%. On Wednesday, Mumbai recorded 1,132 fresh cases and 50 new deaths, taking the city’s tally to 126,356 and toll to 6,944. There were 19,047 active cases in the city and fatality rate was 5.49%, according to the state health department data.Dharavi recorded nine new cases on Wednesday, bringing the case count to 2,643, of which 2,298 have been discharged. Kakani said, “We are contacting all patients who were discharged in the earlier days. This will help us understand the symptoms, and help patients mentally. We will also appeal to the recovered patients to donate plasma, but that is last on our agenda of following up.” Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a private health consultant from Mumbai, said, “It is a good sign that new patients are from those who are being traced by BMC. BMC should also disclose the number of tests conducted by citizens on their own. We need to understand if the number of those testing on their own is substantial, increasing or decreasing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/self-testing-identifies-only-20-cases-bmc/story-ioNCpT7MLwa7UNGTMF8BLN.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||RT-PCR test rates in Maharashtra slashed by ₹300||The state on Wednesday reduced the cost of the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests — considered the gold standard of Covid-19 testing — by Rs300 in each of the three slabs.Now, a test through a private laboratory will cost ₹1,900, ₹2,200 or ₹2,500, depending from where the swab sample was collected.State health minister Rajesh Tope announced the decision, which is the second time the state has reduced the Covid testing rates. Earlier, the test cost was ₹4,500, which was reduced to ₹2,800 for home collection.“A committee was appointed to revise the rates of these tests. Now it has been reduced further by ₹300. Now, the collection of swab at laboratories will cost ₹900, instead of ₹2,200. For swab collection at Covid Care Centres and institutional quarantine centres, the tests will cost ₹2,200, instead of ₹2,500. For swab collection at home, the cost will be ₹ 2,500, instead of ₹2,800,” a statement from the health department said. The minister in the statement added that private laboratories will not be allowed to charge above the revised rates now.The conditions for a person to get a test done have been relaxed by district authorities and local civic bodies, allowing people without any symptoms to also get tested without any prescription from a doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rt-pcr-test-rates-in-maharashtra-slashed-by-300/story-CYs8n9rxhahrh6r3VZeG9I.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||3 cops succumb to Covid, Maharashtra Police toll hits 121||Three personnel from the Maharashtra Police force have died in the last 24-hours due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 121. Additionally, 294 new cases were reported among policemen on Tuesday.Head constable Balnath Dagadu Ghoderao, 57, attached to RAK Marg police station in Sewri, succumbed on Tuesday. Viresh Prabhu, additional commissioner of police (central region), said that he was admitted to Kasturba Hospital after showing symptoms of high fever and breathlessness. His test later detected came positive for Covid. “During treatment, he succumbed to the disease on Tuesday morning. He did not have any comorbidities,” said Prabhu. A Chembur resident, Ghoderao was on leave as he was exempted from duty due to his age. However, he used to report for duty once a week. His family members have not contracted the disease. His death has brought the death toll in the Mumbai Police to 58.In the second fatality case, 48-year-old Anand Gajanand Gosavi, a head constable attached to Rehmatpur police station in Satara succumbed to the virus. Gosavi was undergoing treatment at Satara Civil Hospital when he died. In the third case, 37-year-old police naik Gopal Vitthal Bhoje died of Covid-19 on Tuesday. Attached to Chalisgaon police station in Jalgaon, Bhoje was admitted to Godavari Hospital after he tested positive for Covid. According to police, 18 personnel died in the first 11 days of August; 1,826 personnel got infected during this period, and 1,653 have recovered.At present, the state police’s total count of Covid-infected policemen is 11,392, of which 9,187 have recovered. Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order) said that only 2,084 patients are active as most of the infected have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-cops-succumb-to-covid-state-toll-hits-121/story-6e9UgZCDkPAIZmn9d8SfKM.html
12-08-2020||City||NMMC sends notice to 10 hospitals for inflated bills||A day after issuing strict orders to private hospitals in the city to adhere to the government norms on charging Covid patients, Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar has issued show-cause notices to 10 hospitals for allegedly overcharging patients.Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) had instructed hospitals in the city to follow the government order issued on May 21, with respect to the billing of medical equipment and service.“I have issued a detailed order on the conduct of private and charitable hospitals, to ensure that no one is denied treatment, and that hospital expenses are regulated as per the government norms. The nodal officers will personally monitor it. Earlier too, hospitals were given instructions to ensure that patients are not fleeced,” said Bangar.He said that the civic body has received several complaints of some hospitals charging unreasonable amounts to Covid patients. “A special audit committee led by the additional municipal commissioner has investigated the complaints. Following the investigations, prima facie, 10 private hospitals have been found to be at fault. Hence, I have issued show-cause notices to them,” said the civic chief.He went on to state that the corporation would not tolerate misconduct in any hospital. “If anyone has any complaint, they should approach us and our special audit committee will give its decision within 24 hours,” Bangar said, adding, “We shall continue to take strict action against those violating the norms and causing hardship to patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nmmc-sends-notice-to-10-hospitals-for-inflated-bills/story-Qp7jeGPs6fTJIbjNiKKv7O.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||Maha sees 12,712 new Covid cases; Mumbai crosses 1L recoveries||Maharashtra on Wednesday saw its second-highest single-day jump in the number of Covid-19 cases with 12,712 new infections, taking the state’s tally to 548,313. The state now has 147,513 active cases. The state also recorded 344 fatalities, pushing its toll to 18,650. Mumbai, meanwhile, recorded 1,132 new infections, taking the city’s tally to 126,356. Mumbai also recorded 50 new fatalities, pushing the toll to 6,943, while also crossing the 1 lakh mark in recoveries on Wednesday. Now, the city has 19,047 active cases.Of the fatalities reported in the state, 238 were from the past 48 hours and 66 were from last week. The remaining 40 deaths were from the period before last week, according to the state health department. Even as the case fatality rate (CFR) is gradually reducing, the absolute number of deaths reported daily is on the higher side. In August so far, the state has reported 3,676 fatalities. Sanjay Kumar, chief secretary, said that the state government is striving to bring it down and results will show in a few weeks. The top bureaucrat said the CFR of Maharashtra will be under 2% within a month. The CFR of the state stood at 3.4%, as on August 12. “One will have to have patience. All efforts are being taken, but results will appear after some time. If you see, the death rate has come down from the past three months. It will come down further with better infrastructure created, better management. Our goal is to bring it below 1%. Within a month or so, we will reach [between] 1.5% and 2% [CFR],” he said.In the past two months, Maharashtra has witnessed a shift in the pattern of the spread of the coronavirus disease from largely being concentrated to urban areas, to semi-urban centres and rural parts of Maharashtra. Since the outbreak in March, the spread of Covid-19 was largely limited to Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune rural, and parts of Nashik district. There were sporadic cases in other parts of the state, but it had not shot up.The data provided by the state Medical Education and Drugs department showed a significant rise in the number of active cases between June and August. On June 12, active cases from centres other than Mumbai, MMR and Pune district contributed only 14.13%, while on August 12, the active cases in rest of Maharashtra have shot up to 46.58% of the total active cases in the state.On June 12, Mumbai, MMR and Pune district had 41,188 active cases, while the active caseload from rest of the state was 6,780. On July 12, the active caseload from rest of Maharashtra shot to 24,081 cases, while Mumbai, MMR and Pune district had 75,121 active cases. As per the data, the rest of the state, as on August 12, had 69,204 active cases, while Mumbai, MMR and Pune district have 79,349 active cases.Kumar said, “Naturally once the restrictions are lifted, there is movement in urban and rural areas. Increase in cases was bound to happen, but we have things under control.” A senior state government bureaucrat added, “Expecting the rise in cases, the government did not open up activities in one go. There was a calibrated approach in relaxing curbs. The rise in cases seen today is due to increased movement of people from one part of the state to another. The state government had directed district authorities and civic bodies to ramp up health infrastructure in advance to tackle the increase in cases,” the official said, requesting anonymity.The active cases in Nashik, Kolhapur, Solapur, Aurangabad, Nagpur districts are over 5,000 in each district. Districts such as Latur, Beed, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Nanded, Buldhana, Akola, etc too have seen a rise in active cases in the past four to five weeks.As per the data of the health department, Maharashtra conducted 71,309 tests and the positivity rate for Wednesday stood at 17.82%. The overall positivity rate in the state stood at 18.84%. The state also discharged 13,408 patients on Wednesday, taking the total tally of recovered patients to 381,843. The recovery rate in the state improved to 69.64%.Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Pune recorded 1,665 new infections, taking its tally to 74,305. Pimpri-Chinchwad recorded 948 new cases, while Pune rural added 369 new cases. Nashik city recorded 816 new cases, pushing its tally to 15,381. Kolhapur rural added 396 cases, taking its total confirmed cases to 8,060. Nagpur reported 454 new cases, while Nagpur district reported 318 new cases, taking their tally to 7,241 and 3,367, respectively. Ahmednagar rural and city reported 633 new cases. Jalgaon added 353 new infections, pushing its tally to 11,636.The satellite towns in MMR, which contributed to around 40% of the state’s daily increase in cases in June, now contributed close to 18%. On Wednesday, MMR, excluding Mumbai, reported 2,338 new cases, which is 18.39% of the total cases reported. Navi Mumbai reported the highest in the region with 432 new cases, followed by Kalyan-Dombivli with 386, taking their tally to 21,285 and 26,046, respectively. Thane city reported 220 new cases, while its rural areas saw 229 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-sees-12-712-new-covid-cases-mumbai-crosses-1l-recoveries/story-QxpirKZVfny0PN3T9UkYdM.html
12-08-2020||Kolkata||Bengal reports 54 fresh Covid deaths, 2,936 new cases||The Covid-19 death toll in West Bengal rose to 2,203 on Wednesday after 54 people succumbed to the disease, the health department said.The state’s coronavirus count has gone up to 1,04,326 after 2,936 new cases of infection were reported, a bulletin released by the department said.The number of active patients is 26,003 in the state, it said.Since Tuesday, 2,725 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from different hospitals of West Bengal and the state’s discharge rate is 72.96 per cent.So far, 76,120 people have recovered from the disease, the bulletin added.Of the 54, deaths, 50 were due to the comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental.Nineteen of these fatalities were reported from Kolkata, 13 from North Parganas and three each from Howrah, Purba Medinipur, Nadia and Jalpaiguri districts. The remaining 10 deaths were recorded in seven other districts.Among the fresh infections, the metropolis registered 619, followed by 589 in North 24 Parganas, 272 in Howrah, 255 in South 24 Parganas, 113 in Hooghly, 109 in Murshidabad and 100 in Purba Medinipur, the bulletin said. The remaining 879 cases were reported from 16 other districts.In the last 24 hours, 27,712 samples have been tested, while 11,86,923 such tests were conducted so far in the state, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-reports-54-fresh-covid-deaths-2-936-new-cases/story-2QkuzarYBHsEjzyzIKGqNN.html
12-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC allows 16-year-old rape survivor to terminate pregnancy||The Delhi High Court on August 10 allowed a rape victim, a minor, to terminate her 22-week pregnancy, following the report of a medical board set up by Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital.The court clarified that the order is subject to reports of further blood tests, required to assess if there is any additional risk to the girl.According to Section 3 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, terminating a pregnancy is not permitted if the gestation period is more than 20 weeks. An amendment to the act, in the form of a bill, was introduced in Lok Sabha on March 2, 2020, to increase the gestation period to 24 weeks. However, it has not been passed by the House yet.Justice Vibhu Bakhru said that the pregnancy would be terminated only if there is no added risk. Earlier, the court had directed the medical superintendent of RML Hospital to constitute a medical board to examine the girl and report whether terminating the pregnancy would involve a risk to her.“This court considers it apposite to allow the present petition and direct that the petitioner (girl) be admitted to Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and the necessary procedures be carried out for termination of the pregnancy,” justice Bakhru said.The court passed the order while hearing a plea by the 16-year-old rape survivor. The girl approached the high court seeking direction to the Delhi government and a hospital to terminate her pregnancy.During the video conference hearing, the judge interacted with the girl and her father and noted that the minor was under considerable distress and her father was insistent that the pregnancy be terminated as well. The court said the risks of terminating the pregnancy have been explained to the girl and her father.The doctors, who had joined the virtual hearing, had told the court that the girl was in considerable distress and the clinical psychologist had also reported that carrying the foetus to term would result in psychological complications.“In view of the report and psychological assessment of the petitioner (girl), it does appear that she is at considerable risk of psychological complications if the pregnancy is continued. The doctors concerned have explained that there may be some risks in terminating the pregnancy but they are not higher than what is acceptable and expected at this stage,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-allows-16-year-old-rape-survivor-to-terminate-pregnancy/story-KiciA4X5NT0I72OIiqwevN.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn to rope in hotels as Covid care centres||With the city witnessing a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases and hospitals overwhelmed with patients, the UT administration has decided to rope in hotels to double as Covid care centres.As per the Covid contingency plan, the administration will make use of three CITCO hotels — Mountview, Shivalikview and Parkview — besides James Plaza Hotel in Sector 17 and community centres. These facilities will be utilised to house mild to moderately ill patients. Only those community centres not surrounded by residential areas will be pressed into service.The city has 700 active Covid cases and concerns have been raised regarding accommodating critically-ill patients.Stating that there was no shortage of beds, UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “We have a bed capacity of 3,000. Not all patients require to be admitted in a hospital, but those who do will not face any issue.”“We are also putting into use GMCH-48 and facilities will be expanded in GMSH-16 as well,” said Parida, adding that the administration had also put in a request for procuring more ventilators with the Union ministry of health.COVID HELPLINE TO BE LAUNCHEDThe UT is all set to launch a helpline to facilitate Covid patients in getting admission in hospitals. “In a couple of days, we will be starting the helpline to resolve any issues related to treatment and availability of beds. Any patient who wants any advice, ambulance, or wants to get admitted and doesn’t know where (s)he will get a bed will be assisted within half an hour,” said Parida.The helpline will be manned by two doctors and other supporting staff of the Chandigarh Housing Board.KHER TWEETS #HELPMYCITYCity MP Kirron Kher in a tweet on Wednesday tagged PMO, home minister Amit Shah, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Bandore, and BJP president JP Nadda, and said, “#HelpMyCity PGI & other hospitals are under immense pressure. If medical facilities are not allowed in various parts of the city there will be fatalities due to #nobeds. I urge the Administration to take necessary action.”Reacting to Kher’s tweet, Congress leader Devinder Singh Babla said, “It is very unfortunate that even during these hard times, the MP is nowhere to be seen. These occasional tweets will do no good for the city. Instead, the MP should at least participate in the war room meetings.”Kher had earlier asked the UT administration to allow new nursing homes to be built on residential plots, but a committee of the advisory council had rejected it last month.Meanwhile, Parida said they will act on the suggestions of the MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-to-rope-in-hotels-as-covid-care-centres/story-L5p4e7KoPfqdQTAyB8FZcP.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||3 IAS, 8 HCS officers posted as district municipal chiefs||Haryana government has posted three IAS and eight HCS officers as district municipal commissioners (DMCs), the posts created recently to accelerate development activities of all municipal committees and councils across the state. The DMCs have been given many powers currently being exercised by the deputy commissioners and director, urban local bodies department, over the municipal committees and councils, an official spokesperson said. The three IAS officers who have been posted as DMCs are Jai Krishan Abhir (Mahendergarh), Sangeeta Tetarwal (Sirsa) and Monika Gupta (Palwal). The eight HCS officers are Dinesh Singh Yadav (Nuh), Kuldhir Singh (Kaithal), Ashima Sangwan (Jhajjar), Amrita Singh (Bhiwani), Samwartak Singh Khangwal (Fatehabad), Sushil Kumar (Jind), and Narender Pal Malik (Kurukshetra). In the remaining districts, the commissioners of the municipal corporations will act as the district municipal commissioners in addition to their present duties. Meanwhile , Haryana government has posted four 2018-batch IAS officers as sub-divisional officers (SDOs), while two IAS officers of 2016 batch have been posted as additional deputy commissioners (ADCs). The 2018-batch IAS officers given new assignments are Akhil Pilani (SDO, Thanesar), Aprajita ( SDO, Ballabgarh), Ayush Sinha (SDO Karnal), and Sachin Gupta (SDO, Ambala). The 2016-batch IAS officers are Rahul Narwal (ADC and secretary, RTA, Bhiwani) and Abhishek Meena (ADC and secretary, RTA, Mahendergarh). Preeti, a 2015-batch IAS officer, who is currently posted as Bhiwani ADC has been posted as ADC and secretary, RTA, Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-ias-8-hcs-officers-posted-as-district-municipal-chiefs/story-gzDOBEZcQetY2mgbnWTeQL.html
12-08-2020||City||32-year-old Jind man gunned down over rivalry||A 32-year-old man was shot dead by a group of four assailants in Jind’s Shadipura village on Wednesday, police said.The victim has been identified as Jitender Kumar of the same village.The incident took place on Wednesday morning about 200 metres away from the victim’s residence when he was coming back from his fields.Julana police station in-charge Surender Kumar said the victim was shot dead by a group of assailants, following which he was rushed to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, but he died on the way. “The motive behind the murder is said to be a rivalry as the victim had encroached upon the government land and built 12 shops on it. He had indulged in a verbal spat with few persons of the same village,” he added.The police have registered a case under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance with common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Man ‘beaten to death’ by cousins in Karnal villageA 28-year-old man was beaten to death allegedly over a minor dispute in Taparana village of Karnal district, police said on Wednesday. The victim is Gulab Singh of the same village.As per the information, the incident took place on Tuesday following a dispute between two families over clash among their children.Following the clash, Gulab reportedly scolded the kids of his cousins, which agitated them. Later in the evening, they allegedly attacked Gulab, who was first rushed to a hospital in Karnal, from where he was referred to PGIMER in Chandigarh, but he died on the way.The police said that on the complaint of the family members of the victim, an FIR was registered and investigation launched.Karnal Sadar police station in-charge Baljit Singh said the FIR has been registered as per the initial complaint and a probe was going on. “Action will be taken against the accused as per the law. The victim’s body has been handed over to his family members,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/32-year-old-jind-man-gunned-down-over-rivalry/story-cTeTPNYMuDqwU3ZLvG1BqI.html
12-08-2020||City||Haryana SGPC presidential polls today||Elections for the post of Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (HSGPC) president will be held at Patshahi Chevin and Nauvin Sahib gurdwara at Guhla Cheeka in Kaithal district on Thursday.The fresh elections are being held after former president Jagdish Singh Jhinda of Karnal resigned from the post on February 25 citing health reasons. Later, the date for fresh polls was announced on July 13 for which the nominations were filed on August 7, officials said. Presiding officer Darshan Singh Barari said 36 members have the right to vote in the presidential elections and results will be declared by the evening. The voting will be held between 10am and 3pm. There are three candidates in fray for these elections: Jasbir Singh Khalsa from Ambala, Baljit Singh Daduwal of Sirsa and Swaran Singh Ratia of Fatehabad, said Barari. “Swaran Singh had withdrawn his name recently, but as a presiding officer, I’ve to add his name to the ballot paper because he did this after the due date. The final date for candidature withdrawal was August 9 till 2pm.” The Haryana Police have also tightened security in view of the elections. Kaithal SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said, “We have deployed nearly 200 cops along with two DSP-rank and four inspector-rank officers for the elections. The police are fully prepared to maintain the law and order.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-sgpc-presidential-polls-today/story-IXd7vKMyLWyAF4RVq2vxlJ.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees wettest day since 2009 with 133mm rain||With heavy showers lashing Chandigarh in the early hours of Wednesday, the city recorded its wettest day in at least 12 years.More heavy rain can be expected on Thursday, though the intensity will reduce thereon, said the India Meteorological Department.Of the 133.5mm rain recorded at the IMD observatory in Sector 39 on Wednesday, 105mm was received between 1am and 2:30am. Only traces were recorded during the day, leading to only a marginal drop in the mercury. The airport observatory in comparison recorded just 39.2mm rain throughout the day.According to data available till as back as 2009, this was the maximum rain received in a day. The all-time record was set in 2000 when 262mm rain was recorded on July 18. For the month of August, the record was set in 2004 with 241.6mm rain on August 3.Monsoon: From 16% deficit to 7% surplusThe Wednesday rainfall also turned the 16% monsoon deficit into 7% surplus. As much as 592.3mm rain has been received so far this season as compared to the normal of 554.6mm for the same period (June 1-August 12). Speaking about the high intensity of rain, IMD, Chandigarh, director Surender Paul said: “Monsoon trough is now moving northwards towards its normal position for this time of season, which is near Rajasthan. A low pressure area has also formed over Arabian Sea due to which the monsoon became active again.”Paul said chances of heavy rain will continue on Thursday, but are likely to reduce after that with only light rain up to 20mm expected on Friday and Saturday. He said an anti-cyclonic movement that had formed over the city keeping away heavy rain isn’t there anymore, and more spells of heavy rain can be expected in the coming days.Meanwhile, maximum temperature went down marginally from 34.5°C on Tuesday to 34.4°C on Wednesday. The minimum also dipped from 27°C to 25°C. In the next three days, the mercury will hover between 25°C and 33°C, according to the IMD bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-wettest-day-since-2009-with-133mm-rain/story-3562WtzcKq0BN1HOk6wvsM.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Fund starved Chandigarh MC sitting tight on vacant properties, arrear recovery||Trying to rise above its financial crisis, the municipal corporation is planning fresh taxes and user charges on city residents even as its commercial properties worth more than Rs 208 crore are lying vacant and unsold.Besides losing out on this major chunk of revenue, the civic body also has not recovered arrears worth more than Rs 9.2 crore against its over 1,000 properties allotted on freehold, leasehold and monthly rent basis. This, when the corporation is facing a deficit of Rs 16 crore in its budget. Against its total committed liabilities of Rs 597 crore, MC has only ₹581 crore, which comprises projected revenue receipts of just Rs 241 crore, while the remaining funds will come through grants.The figures of revenue loss against MC’s properties form a part of a report submitted by various MC departments to a civic body panel set up to suggest ways to improve its financial condition, which has worsened amid the Covid-19 pandemic. To explore ways to augment its revenues and curtail expenditure, mayor Raj Bala Malik had constituted a committee comprising councillors and MC officials.The panel had further asked MC departments to submit reports detailing their current financial position, steps taken to improve it and recommendations.200 SITES UNSOLDThe MC estate branch in its report states that over 200 commercial properties under its purview are lying vacant. Several attempts to auction these properties had failed to bear fruit. For instance, it tried to sell off 105 booths at Mauli Jagran six times, but failed. Similarly, a 24-acre site for a specialty hospital with a reserve price of Rs 81 crore was offered twice for sale, but found no takers. As many as 51 commercial sites in Sector 17 are also lying vacant as two auctions went in vain.MC officials blame the mess on UT administration’s reluctance to allow sale of these properties on freehold basis. “Freehold properties will find more takers. But the administration is adamant,” said a senior MC official, wishing not to be named.“Besides, several arrear cases are in court. The reports will be studied to find a way out,” the official added.Criticising the incumbent BJP-led MC, Congress councillor and leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla said, “It is a total failure of the municipal corporation. While the civic body keeps burdening the common man with new taxes, it is unable to raise funds through a large pool of its commercial properties.”“Worse, properties are available on freehold all over the city, but the administration is not allowing the same for MC properties. Leasehold properties will not elicit any interest in the market,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fund-starved-chandigarh-mc-sitting-tight-on-vacant-properties-arrear-recovery/story-gvMedppaoapVhu3gAK7IaI.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University chancellor closes inquiry into sexual harassment allegation against former V-C Arun Grover||The inquiry into the allegations of sexual harassment against former Panjab University vice-chancellor Arun Kumar Grover has been closed by the chancellor on the recommendations of an independent internal committee (IIC).The report of the committee that was headed by Dheera Khandelwal, additional chief secretary, environment, Haryana government, was submitted to the office of Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the chancellor of Panjab University. The chancellor’s office has sent a communication to Grover along with the report of the minutes of the meeting of the committee held on June 16, 2020. Grover said he has been informed that the chancellor has accepted the report.However, PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said the varsity has not received any communication from the chancellor’s office yet.WOMAN PROF FAILED TO APPEARAccording to the report, which has been accessed by HT, all IIC members unanimously recommended to close the inquiry proceedings.“It appears that the complainant did not want to stand to her complaints/allegations, as despite due notices and receipts by her, she has failed to appear before the committee and as the procedure requires there is no jurisdiction to further proceed with the present enquiry into the complaints made by the woman, professor in the Panjab University (sic),” states the report.The committee had given the professor three opportunities to appear before it, but she through multiple representations had questioned its jurisdiction, stating there was no employee-employer relationship between the office of the chancellor and Grover, whose term ended in 2018. Grover was appointed as the V-C in July 2012 and retired in July 2018. The woman professor levelled the allegations against him in 2015, following which the PU committee against sexual harassment (PUCASH) started a probe into the matter.In October 2019, the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) had upheld the varsity’s decision to constitute an IIC to look into the allegations, after the woman professor raised objections against some names in the panel that were approved by the chancellor and approached court in September 2018.GROVER SEEKS ACTIONAfter receiving the communication from the chancellor’s office, Grover on Wednesday wrote to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, requesting disciplinary action against the woman professor for not cooperating with the inquiry.“Now, it is the responsibility of the university and its senate to take action against the person who has made allegations against me and did not join the inquiry,” he said.Despite several attempts, the women professor was not available for comments.CASE SO FARApril 15, 2015: A woman professor accuses then PU V-C AK Grover of sexual harassment in a complaint to the then chancellor, Hamid AnsariApril 17: A panel gives clean chit to GroverMay 8: The National Commission for Women writes to the UT IGP to submit a report on fresh allegations made by the woman professor in a letter to the panelMarch 20, 2018: PU receives communication from the chancellor’s office, approving an independent internal committee under Haryana IAS officer Navraj Sandhu to probe the caseJuly 11: Chancellor sends a letter to varsity to discuss the complainant’s representation in syndicate and senate meetingsSeptember: Woman professor approaches HC raising objections against constitution of the committeeOctober 2019: HC upholds PU’s decision to constitute an IICJanuary 17, 2020: Chancellor nominates Dheera Khandelwal as new IIC headJune 16: IIC recommends to close down the inquiry proceedings||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-chancellor-closes-inquiry-into-sexual-harassment-allegation-against-former-v-c-arun-grover/story-REpojDy0KiFcP8yGYgxVCP.html
12-08-2020||City||Licence of 16 arhtiyas in Ludhiana suspended for subletting vending spaces||Acting tough against 16 arhtiyas found subletting their vending spaces at the main vegetable market near Jalandhar bypass in Ludhiana, the chairman of the market committee, Darshan Lal Baweja, recommended that their licence be suspended for 14 days.The chairman and officials of the market committee conducted an inspection at the market on Wednesday, following which the action was taken. Baweja said that due to this illegal practice, a large numbers of visitors were gathering at one spot, in violation of social distancing norms. “There is always a fear of infection due to which the licence suspension was recommended,” he said. Baweja further added, “I have also written to the assistant commissioner of police (ACP) to take action against those arhtiyas who have allowed retail vendors to install vends at the sites allotted to the arhtiyas. Warning has been issued to the arhtiyas and if they don’t stop this illegal practice, their licences will be terminated permanently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/licence-of-16-arhtiyas-in-ludhiana-suspended-for-subletting-vending-spaces/story-QHwms5tFbmdgZpb2XEMdAL.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Private sector job quota: Haryana governor in a fix over ordinance, politics may influence decision||Haryana governor Satyadeo Narain Arya seems to have been caught in a dilemma over whether or not to promulgate an ordinance to provide 75% quota in private sector jobs for local candidates. The state cabinet had sent the proposed law for promulgation to him three weeks ago. Arya’s predicament stems from conflicting pieces of advice given by state’s top two law officers as well as the political ramifications attached to the issue. The ordinance is designed on the lines of a law enacted by YS Jaganmohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh, challenged on the grounds of constitutional validity in the high court. The Haryana governor may well get more time to deal with the matter if the cabinet on August 13 announces dates for convening the monsoon assembly session. In the event of assembly being convened, the state government will have to table a private sector quota bill in the house, get it through and send it to the governor for assent. Dilemma before Arya Under Article 213 of the Constitution, the governor has the powers to promulgate an ordinance or a law when the state assembly is not in session. The dilemma before the Haryana governor is that he has to deal with two divergent pieces of legal advice from the law secretary and the advocate general. While the law secretary has advised that assent of the President should be sought on the proposed legislation, the advocate general’s advice is to the contrary. Political implications in light of Bihar polls “The governor has consulted the advocate general and the law secretary again on the matter. But he is keeping his cards close to his chest,” Raj Bhawan sources said. Political analysts said that political implications of implementing a law, which would put migrants from his home state of Bihar at a disadvantage in terms of employment opportunities in private sector, would also weigh heavy on governor Arya’s mind — who himself is an eight-time Bihar MLA — particularly in view of the Bihar assembly polls later this year. The BJP is a coalition partner in the Janta Dal (U) led government in Bihar. Also, the BJP government at the Centre seems to have reservations on the issue. At least two former central ministers had answered in negative to Parliament questions regarding reservations in private jobs. The governor has three options – to agree with the advice of the advocate general and give his assent for promulgation of the ordinance, thus putting the law into effect; return the proposed law to the cabinet with a message for reconsideration; or reserve it for the President’s consideration. The proposed law if reserved for the consideration of the president would go through time consuming scrutiny of the central ministries before the President takes a call. Article 213 of the Constitution also empowers the governor to promulgate an ordinance after obtaining instructions from the President. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had recently said that governor would take a decision in his wisdom on the proposed law after consulting legal experts. Deputy chief minister and Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leader Dushyant Chautala, who has spearheaded the private quota move, had on Monday met the governor to persuade him to expedite the official proclamation of the proposed quota law. Why Presidential assent? Officials said that law secretary’s opinion on reserving the proposed law for the consideration of the President is primarily based on two factors. “Section 23 of the proposed law gives it an overriding effect over other laws. Such a broad provision has the potential to be repugnant to an Act of the parliament or an existing law and thereby needs presidential assent. Another provision providing for preference in jobs to the local candidates domiciled in Haryana seemingly is also in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution pertaining to equality before law,” officials said. Advocate general BR Mahajan, however, had said that the proposed Haryana law did not violate any central law. “It also does not come in conflict with Article 14 of the Constitution,” he added. The proposed law Titled Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance, 2020, it provides for 75% of the new employment to local candidates for jobs having salary less than ₹50,000 per month in private companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms and partnership firms situated in the state. Employers will also have the option to recruit local candidates from one district to the extent of only 10%. The proposed law also contained a bailout clause for the industry if suitable local candidates are not available for a particular category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/private-sector-job-quota-haryana-governor-in-a-fix-over-ordinance-politics-may-influence-decision/story-0DAvrwnEAH0aWiFHaXwLXO.html
12-08-2020||City||Five knitwear associations of Ludhiana file petition in Supreme Court seeking waiver of interest on loans||Reeling under losses and a slowdown post the lockdown, five knitwear associations of Ludhiana—the hub of knitwear and hosiery—have filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking waiver of interests on the loans availed by the sector.The hearing of the case has been scheduled for August 14.These associations include Bajwa Nagar Hosiery Association, Knitwear Club, Ludhiana Woollen Manufacturer Association, Bahadurke Textiles and Knitwear Association, and Knitwear and Apparel Manufacturers Association of Ludhiana.President of Bajwa Nagar Knitwear Club, Darshan Dawar, said, “Small and micro enterprises have been hit badly due to the lockdown and we have suffered losses running in crores. The sector has not been able to revive itself post lockdown due to shortage of labour and low demand. We have demanded that the government should waive off the interests to bring some relief to the sector.”“We were not able to sell the stock manufactured for summers due to the lockdown and now, we are also unable to manufacture products for winters due to shortage of labour. No relief has been provided to the sector and many units are on the brink of a shutdown. Due to this, we were forced to move the Supreme Court,” added Dawar.Advocates Ashish Virmani and Himanshu Dhuper said, “The five associations have around 2,000 members and the accumulated value of loans availed by the is around ₹3,500 crore. They pay around ₹23 crore as interest on a monthly basis. The associations have demanded that the bank interests be waived for six months starting from March this year, and after six months, a moratorium of next six months should be given for payment. Two similar petitions have also been filed by two other associations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-knitwear-associations-of-ludhiana-file-petition-in-supreme-court-seeking-waiver-of-interest-on-loans/story-l8caND8QQBY3BtYn08kFnO.html
12-08-2020||Pune||ACP, who probed Elgar Parishad case, awarded by Union home ministry||Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Shivaji Pawar, who probed the Elgar Parishad case, has been awarded with the Union home minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation for the year 2020. Pawar is among the 121 police personnel across India to receive this award, which was originally constituted in 2018. “I am happy that all my efforts have been rewarded. The award is being given to me for the Elgar Parishad investigation,” said Pawar. Ten other police personnel from Maharashtra have also received the award. Pawar was the investigating officer in the Elgar case when it was with the Pune police. He led the team that carried out nationwide searches and arrested 10 activists, including Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Shoma Sen, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Sudha Bharadwaj and Varavara Rao and Gautam Navlakha in the case. The Pune police in their chargesheet argued that the conclave was backed by Maoists and the speeches made their triggered violence the next day at Bhima Koregaon in Pune district. The case was later shifted to the National Investigating Agency by the Union government just when the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra was contemplating to constitute a Special Investigation Team to investigate Pune police action against activists in the Elgar case after NCP chief Sharad Pawar questioned the investigators’ role. According to the Press Information Bureau release, this medal was constituted with the objective to “promote high professional standards of investigation of crime and to recognise such excellence in investigation by investigating officers.” Besides 10 police personnel from Maharashtra, 15 are from the CBI, 10 from Madhya Pradesh, eight are from the Uttar Pradesh Police, seven each are from Kerala and West Bengal Police, and the remaining are from other states/UTs. The list of awardees also includes, 21 women police officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/acp-who-probed-elgar-parishad-case-awarded-by-union-home-ministry/story-m4DQR3B6vI5wdoH0lKc1yJ.html
12-08-2020||City||SUV driver opens fire as biker duo tries to overtake him in Kharar||High drama was witnessed in Gobind Nagar near Jhampur village in Kharar here on Wednesday after an overtaking attempt by a bike-borne duo led to firing of gunshots by an SUV occupant. However, no one was injured in the incident.Balongi station house officer (SHO) Amardeep Singh said around 2pm on Wednesday, Ranbir Singh (21) and his brother Dilbar Singh (23), both residents of Sahora village near Kurali, were going towards Jhampur when they repeatedly honked at an SUV in a bid to overtake it. Enraged by this, the SUV occupants — Bikram of Togan village, Sheetal and Happy of Behlolpur village — intercepted the motorcycle and stepped out of their vehicle.The trio then abused Ranbir and Dilbar and thrashed them. Soon, another friend of the suspects, Shanky of Behlolpur, along with two unidentified men, also reached the spot and joined them. Meanwhile, Bikram took out his gun and fired a shot towards Ranbir, who managed to dodge it. Then another shot was fired by him in the air. On seeing this, villagers gathered at the spot and the suspects sped away in their vehicle.On getting the information, Kharar DSP Pal Singh, Balongi SHO and sub-inspector Harpreet Singh rushed to the spot.“After recording the statements of Ranbir and Dilbar, we have registered a case under sections 307, 323, 336, 148, 149 of the IPC and sections 25, 27-54-59 of the Arms Act against the six suspects, including two unidentified persons. They are all at large and we will arrest them soon. The licence of the weapon used in the crime, will also be checked after arresting them,” said sub-inspector Harpreet Singh, the investigation officer, adding that all the accused are youngsters.DSP Pal Singh said, “The police have recovered a single cartridge from the crime spot. The investigation is on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suv-driver-opens-fire-as-biker-duo-tries-to-overtake-him-in-kharar/story-u6uAQIzUPakwPF4w8i9JSL.html
12-08-2020||Lucknow||UP reports 4,583 new Covid-19 cases||Uttar Pradesh reported 4,583 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, as per the state health department’s bulletin on Wednesday.The total number of active cases till date stands at 49,347 while total 84,661 people have recovered from the disease.The death toll due to Covid-19 in the state stands at 2,230.A total of 60,963 new coronavirus cases were reported in India in the last 24 hours taking the total count of cases to over 23 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-reports-4-583-new-covid-19-cases/story-KM4yxd0GdOElIVL7DXuUnN.html
12-08-2020||City||Ludhiana’s Arya College shut after professor tests positive for Covid-19||A physics professor at Arya College tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, prompting the authorities to close the college for two days.The college will remain closed on August 13 and 14 for sanitisation while August 15 is already a holiday on account of Independence Day. As the next day is a Sunday, the college will reopen only on August 17.The professor’s wife, who teaches at Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, has also tested positive for the virus. Staff members who came in contact with the couple at their respective colleges have also been asked to get themselves tested. When contacted, KCW principal Mukti Gill said, “I was informed by the professor today that she has been found infected with the virus. Teachers who came in contact with her have been told to go into self-quarantine. The professor had not been coming to the college for the last five days.”“As per protocol, limited staff is coming to the college to conduct the counselling process and we are taking all precautions. The college will function as usual,” she added. Despite repeated attempts, Arya College principal Savita Uppal was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-arya-college-shut-after-professor-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-6ib4dgb0yPJCZpWc0jf9WO.html
12-08-2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput’s lawmaker cousin sends legal notice to Sanjay Raut||Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s cousin and BJP MLA Neeraj Kumar Bablu on Wednesday sent a legal notice to Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut over his controversial remarks on the late actor’s family, his lawyer said.He has asked Raut to apologize publicly in 48 hours or he might face legal action over his offensive comments on Rajput’s relation with his father. Also read: ‘Nobody talks when farmers die’: Sharad Pawar on Sushant Singh Rajput caseThe MLA’s counsel Birendra Kumar Jha said that the legal notice has been sent to the Raut through email raising objections to the latter’s remarks and seeking a public apology. “Raut has told the media that Rajput’s father had married twice, which was the reason the slain actor was unhappy with his father. This is completely untrue and baseless”, said Jha. “Hence, you are given a chance to express regret or apologise without delay as anyone can commit a mistake,” the notice read. Earlier on Wednesday, Sanjay Raut while talking with media persons said that “if there has been any kind of miss on our part, we will think about it.” He also said, “What I have said so far is based on info I have.” Relatives and friends of Sushant in Patna denied that his father KK Singh had tied the knot again after his mother died in 2002. Her death had affected the actor deeply. The late actor’s last Insatgram post too, was a dedication to his mother.Bablu’s lawyer said that Raut is a senior political leader and should not make personal remarks against anyone without being aware of facts. He said Raut’s comments were baseless and nothing of the sort had happened.“The Shiv Sena leader might be giving the statement under political duress or that he had been misled by someone into doing so,” Jha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/sushant-singh-rajput-s-lawmaker-cousin-sends-legal-notice-to-sanjay-raut/story-chxFh7wZ0BrLedzwLGOGQM.html
12-08-2020||City||Day after protest without masks, Ludhiana police ask LIP president Simarjeet Bains to submit Covid report||A day after Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) president Simarjeet Bains and his supporters were booked for staging a protest outside the office of police commissioner without masks, the police has asked Bains to get himself and his supporters tested for Covid-19 and submit the reports with the concerned police stations.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Civil Lines) Jatinder Chopra said that the decision of serving a notice to the LIP leader was taken in wake of the rising Covid cases in the city. It was reported that during the protest, the MLA and his supporters were not wearing masks and violated social distancing guidelines.“The virus does not differentiate between a leader and a common man. Several supporters had gathered to protest and many among them were not wearing masks. Anyone among them could be an asymptomatic carrier. For their safety and of others, we have asked Bains and his supporters to get themselves tested and submit the reports,” said ACP (Central) Jatinder Chopra.“We are serving them notices in this regard. Further action will be taken if the leader will not respond to the notices,” added Chopra.Sources said that the police could also proceed with cancelling the passports of LIP leader and his supporters. ‘POLICE CAN’T INFRINGE ON MY FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS’Reacting sharply, Bains said that those in power are using coronavirus as a tool to quell democratic rights of the people. Leaders across the world are using the virus as a ploy to impose dictatorial rule, he added. “Punjab Police is no different. I have not received any notice. Police cannot impose their authority upon me. They cannot infringe on my fundamental rights and cannot force me to get the Covid-19 test,” said Bains.Bains said that he will hold a fortnightly panchayat against the police at Ludhiana Circuit House wherein residents facing any police atrocities could raise the issue before him and he will take the matter with those in power, pressing the authorities to act and bring justice to the aggrieved.THE TRIGGERThe Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) had staged a protest against Ludhiana police for not taking action against MP Ravneet Singh Bittu whom they accused of thrashing and tossing the turban of LIP leader Sunny Kainth on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-protest-without-masks-ludhiana-police-ask-lip-president-simarjeet-bains-to-submit-covid-report/story-pucACx8m0EXOkj2wLSXhIK.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal firm recalls unsold cough syrup bottles after toxic chemical found in drug||The pharma company already under scanner for manufacturing adulterated cough syrup has recalled a “toxic” drug from Bengaluru and Kolkata after a two-year-old girl developed life-threatening complications upon consuming the same.A similar instance had come to the fore in February this year when the Coldbest-PC syrup made by the same company allegedly caused the deaths of 10 children in Jammu and Kashmir, following which the licence of the manufacturer was cancelled. This time, a two-year-old girl from Baddi, Himachal Pradesh, who consumed the firm’s Cofset syrup, has developed the same complications.It was found that both cough syrups which were manufactured in September 2019 by Digital Vision Pharma, a Kala Amb based pharma company, were contaminated with Diethylene Glycol (DEG), a compound that leads to kidney failure and neurological toxicity.Even though the firm’s licence stands cancelled, around 2,800 bottles of the batch under question had been sold in the markets of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan from September 2019 to December 2019. The manufacturer has recalled around 100 unsold bottles from Bengaluru and Kolkata.FRESH TRIGGERAfter falling ill, the two-year-old Himachal girl was referred from a private hospital to Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, with the condition of kidney failure. Doctors here found the presence of poisonous compound DEG in one of the cough syrups consumed by her, following which they wrote to the Drug Controller General of India for necessary steps.Dr Bhavneet Bharti, professor at Advanced Pediatric Centre, said the girl’s condition continues to remain critical.Authorities in Himachal said they are trying to recall the product under question so that lives can be saved. “The matter is under investigation. The samples of the drug have been taken and further action will be taken once we receive the reports,” said HP drug controller Navneet Marwah.Digital Vision Pharma managing director Parshottam Goyal said they are open to any investigation and will be waiting for the sample reports taken from the firm.“I am not responsible for any unsealed product being tested at any hospital. All our quality checks were in place. We are waiting for reports of the samples taken from here. Meanwhile, we have stopped the sale of this product and also recalled 86 bottles which were lying unsold,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-firm-recalls-unsold-cough-syrup-bottles-after-toxic-chemical-found-in-drug/story-AdfYDgNLbxtoevEsYgoxGK.html
12-08-2020||Noida||Noida: Covid-19 tally at 6,182, recovery rate over 85%||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Wednesday recorded 84 new Covid-19 patients, pushing the tally of cases in the district to 6,182, official data showed. However, the number of active cases stood at 862 and the recovery rate of patients rose over 85 per cent, according to the data released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period. Also, 76 more patients got discharged during the period. So far, 5,277 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, the second highest number of recovered patients among districts in UP after Lucknow (7,633), it showed.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The district has so far recorded 43 deaths linked to coronavirus and the mortality rate among positive cases stood at 0.69 per cent, according to official statistics. The recovery rate of patients improved to 85.36 per cent from 85.24 on Tuesday, 83.79 per cent on Monday and 83.65 per cent on Sunday, per the statistics. Gautam Buddh Nagar (862) stands 11th on the list of districts in the state in terms of active cases. The maximum active cases are in Lucknow (6,895) followed by Kanpur Nagar (4,515), Varanasi (2,347), Allahabad (2,126), Gorakhpur (1,845), Bareilly (1,836), Aligarh (1,344), Ghaziabad (998), Azamgarh (983), and Basti (872), according to the data. There were 49,347 active cases across Uttar Pradesh. So far, 84,661 patients have recovered across the state, showed the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-covid-19-tally-at-6-182-recovery-rate-over-85/story-w3iddAn4DjCkLEMM8ZySXI.html
12-08-2020||Delhi||Four held for garbage collector’s murder in Delhi||Six days after the decomposed body of an unidentified man wrapped in a gunny bag was found in a forested area near Tughlaqabad Fort in south Delhi, the police on Wednesday arrested four men for the murder. Police said the man was bludgeoned to death on August 3 for not returning a push cart belonging to one of the arrested persons.The dead man was identified as Jhinaka (he goes by his first name), a garbage collector. The four arrested men are Ramji, 60, his son Kaushal, 28, Gautam,47, and Bhagirath,45 (all have single names). They too are garbage collectors, police said. On August 6, the Govindpuri police received a call that a man’s body wrapped in a gunny bag was lying near the Tughlaqabad Fort. The police found four names tattooed on the man’s right forearm. A case of murder was registered, deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said.During the probe, the police learnt that the man lived in Tughlaqabad village. Since the gunny bag and a stick attached with it are commonly used by garbage collectors, the police examined many such workers.“We learnt about quarrels Jhinaka used to have with one Gautam from Tughlaqabad village over a push cart. Jhinaka had borrowed a push cart from Gautam but did not return it,” DCP Meena said.The four were interrogated and they admitted to the crime, Meena said.“The four said that on the night of August 3, they beat Jhinaka to death after an argument over the same issue. They wrapped his body in the gunny bag and carried it on their shoulders using the sticks to throw it in a well in the forested area. They panicked on spotting a passerby and dumped the body there,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-held-for-garbage-collector-s-murder-in-delhi/story-EP2383L5INRxRE6RlpSWwO.html
12-08-2020||City||Excise dept imposes Rs 1.1 cr fine on Gurdaspur distillery||Chandigarh The Punjab excise and taxation department has imposed a penalty of Rs 1.1 crore on Adie Broswon Breweries Private Limited for allegedly violating provisions of the excise laws. The order to impose the fine on the distillery at Gurdaspur, which has been part of the high-profile Chadha Group, was issued by state excise commissioner Rajat Agarwal on Tuesday, according to a senior official in the know of the matter. A notice was issued to the distillery for excise law violations on May 23 following an inspection. During the inspection, it was reported that the distillery had manufactured beer and was trying to “evade duty by dispatching it without mandatory holograms and payment of fees and duties”. Before issuing the order, the department gave a hearing to the company representatives who denied any violation, said the official who did not want to be identified. The proceedings have been concluded in about two months. The excise department had carried out a total of 40 inspections at distilleries and bottling plants in May 2020 and noticed irregularities in 11 of these, with liquor bottles without batch numbers and holograms having been seized at several places. The stock checking was carried out after some contractors had raised the issue that liquor from other states was being pushed into Punjab and distilleries here were not supplying alcohol to other states and selling their stock in the state only. The official said notices were issued to these distilleries and bottling plants, but some of them started adopting delaying tactics during the hearing of the cases by expressing their inability to join for physical hearing. However, the department has started holding hearing through video conference and continued the proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/excise-dept-imposes-rs-1-1-cr-fine-on-gurdaspur-distillery/story-akbb4UkhLOh298ube4D0TN.html
12-08-2020||Lifestyle||Janmashtami 2020: Making panjiri at home? Read on to get some pro tips||Celebrating Janmashtami, and the birth of Lord Krishna... how can you miss out on the quintessential prasad of panjiri. This traditional sweet dish is a must to be made on the auspicious occasion. And in the unlock phase as most are homebound, we ask celebrity chefs and home chefs to share some simple tips and quick recipes to prepare this food for the God. Ghaziabad-based home chef Ekta Jain, from Simply Ladoos, says, “The sweets associated with Janmashtami include makhan mishri, dry panjiri, panjiri ladoos, gond ladoos, rice kheer, nariyal barfi and mewa ladoos. Panjiri is significant for Janmashtami celebrations because it’s associated with birthing, and is given to new moms. It has loads of dry fruits, wheat, and semolina roasted in desi ghee. It’s believed to be highly nutritious.” ALSO READ: Krishna Janmashtami 2020: Recipes to try at home this festive season  Celebrate Janamashtmi with Simply Laddoos ✨ Offer Fresh Panjiri for Janamashtmi Krishna puja. Filled with the goodness & richness of dry fruits & DesiGhee. Dm for orders You can also call us on +91 9811633207 or email your orders at order@simplyladdoos.com #besanladdoos #aataladdoos #multigrainladdoos #datesladdoos #khajurladdoos #panjiriladdoo #homemade #desighee #desisweets #indianmithai #laddoos #sweets #ecofriendly #deliveryavailable #tilladdoos #gudtil #immunitybooster #indianweddings #weddingsweets #immunityfoods #savouries #mathri #ajwainmathri #methimathri #namakpare #healthysnacks #freshfromhomeA post shared by  Ekta Jain (@simplyladdoos) on Aug 12, 2020 at 12:20am PDT“Panjiri is a great sweet when travelling, an instant energy booster, and gives immense strength to the body,” says Gurugram-based chef Ila Prakash Singh, adding, “With the goodness of cow ghee and pure ingredients it’s a tried and tested home made delicacy. It’s one of the sweets that one can have during fasting. There are various kinds of panjiri.I make the one with nariyal gond and dry fruits.”On Janmashtami, the most popular version that’s often prepared in temples and even in some households is dhaniya panjiri. “Panjiri is a traditional north Indian dessert that is made with whole wheat flour, sooji, powdered sugar or boora, ghee and various dry fruits and nuts,” says Gurugram-based home chef Shahla Ahmed, adding, “Generally we add khand or khandsari (which is desi raw sugar) to it. You can also add jaggery powder or white sugar powder or organic unrefined cane sugar. If you do not get desi khand, you can grind the regular sugar and then add it. We usually make this whole wheat panjiri for the kids in the family. There is a variation in this recipe too, where you could use 2:1 proportion of whole wheat flour and sooji (rava) respectively.”   Panjiri It’s a winter staple in most North Indian households but panjiri is also a special Prasad for Krishnaji. It is said that the chappan bhog consisted of dhaniye ki panjiri. This is a simple atte ki panjiri because that is my little Gopika’s favourite. It’s simple recipe to make: In a heavy bottomed wok, add 1 cup whole wheat flour. Slow roast by stirring it till it is fragrant. Add 1/4 cup ghee. Add cardamom and dry fruits of choice. Remove from flame and add powdered mishri (I added 1/3 cup powdered) (or sugar). Mix well. Panjiri is ready. Sending this to #krishnabhog2020 by @food_feed_fiesta, @nivtalks and @ananyaghosh90 @masterchefulkasantra Sponsors @blablafoodz, @lilpeppers.in @kaploths @wahhIndia Tagging @g3vijayakumar @homemade_with_sush @mygardenofrecipes to participate #365daysofeating #dhaniyekipanjiri #indiandessert #indianfood #feedfeeddesserts #f52grams #mumbaifoodie #nagpurfoodies #dallasfoodie #swissfoodie #indianfoodbloggers #homemade #dessert #mithai #diwalimithai #krishnabhog #khanaforkanha #iskcon #annakut #56bhog #janmashtami #panjiriA post shared by  Purvi Dave (@365daysofeating) on Aug 8, 2020 at 9:26am PDTWondering how to make it at home and get results as if it’s prepared by a master chef? Chef Sabyasachi Gorai shares a recipe for those keen to try their hands: “Take two tablespoons of ghee, one cup whole wheat flour, one tablespoon semolina, half cup bura or shakkar, two tablespoon almond powder, half a teaspoon cardamom powder. Heat ghee in a heavy bottom pan, add atta, suji and crushed green elaichi (cardamom). Cook these on a slow heat till they turn golden brown in colour. Remove from the heat, and add sugar and almond powder. You can even use coconut powder in place of almond; I used it because I like the nutty taste of almonds more. Cool it down and later fill a small glass jar with a layer of this panjiri, alternating with recipes of saffron rabri, and garnish with fresh fruits and flower petals. I prefer using fresh seasonal cherries around this time. Offer to the God and enjoy the prasad!”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/janmashtami-2020-making-panjiri-at-home-read-on-to-get-some-pro-tips/story-pc792IGiz3i3Ig8hwT7JpK.html
12-08-2020||City||Two die of Covid in Mohali, as cases cross 1,500 mark||With two men succumbing to Covid-19 on Wednesday, the toll in Mohali district has gone up to 25. As many as six people have died in the past three days.Also, with 84 fresh cases being reported, the total crossed 1,500 in the district. The first positive case in the district was reported on March 20, and it took 121 days to cross the 500 mark. It has taken 24 days to add the next 1,000 cases and just seven to add the recent 500.Among those dead is a 45-year-old man from Sector 74, who was admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, about a week back. He was a diabetes patient. The other is a 62-year-old man from Phase 6, who underwent an intestine surgery at a private hospital in Mohali a week back.Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said both men have been cremated as per protocol and samples of their family members and other contacts are being collected. Meanwhile, the district’s infection tally has risen to 1,536, with 736 cases still active. Among the fresh cases, 35 are from Dera Bassi subdivision, 30 from Mohali and 19 from Kharar. With 35 people being discharged on Wednesday, the total number of those cured has reached 775.10 health workers found infected in Chandigarh A 34-year-old man was found positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, two days after he committed suicide at his house in Sector 21. Being a non-Covid death, his case has not been added to Chandigarh’s toll, which stands at 26.Meanwhile, with 81 fresh cases, the total has risen to 1,751 and active ones to 700. As many as 1,023 people have recovered, eight of whom were discharged on Wednesday.Among those infected are 10 health workers of the PGIMER and GMCH, Sector 32. An employee each of the intelligence bureau, BSNL and India Meteorological Department have also tested positive. The remaining cases are spread across urban and rural pockets, and are mostly contacts of already hospitalised patients. Some also have travel history to Punjab, Haryana and Delhi.6 ITBP men among 36 +ve in PanchkulaThirty-six new Covid-19 cases took the total count to 1,060 in Panchkula district. This excludes three positive cases that are still being tracked.The district has 372 active cases, as 684 people have been cured and four have died so far.Among the fresh cases, there are six personnel of the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP). As many as six infections have been reported from Sector 27. The remaining are spread across the district, including Sectors 9, 17, 18, 20, 23 and 26 in the city besides Barwala and Morni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-die-of-covid-in-mohali-as-cases-cross-1-500-mark/story-PVoJs6ppocsAF75WGWPt0J.html
12-08-2020||City||Youths given phones during launch of Punjab Smart Connect Scheme in Mohali||Launching the Punjab Smart Connect scheme in Mohali, cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday handed over smartphones to fifteen Class XII students of government schools, in a programme organised at the District Administrative Complex here.The minister informed that in the first phase of the scheme, nearly 1.75 lakh smartphones would be distributed to the eligible youth across the state, while 5,686 would get phones in Mohali. However, the number may increase as admissions are still taking place, he said.Talking about the utility of smartphones, Sidhu said these will facilitate digital learning, whereby the students would be able to access relevant information about their course, in the difficult times of Covid-19. The youth shall have the means to avail citizen services online, besides access to employment opportunities, job fairs and recruitment drives under the government’s flagship schemes, he said, adding that by virtue of improved digital literacy, the youth shall have access to digital payments, insurance, online banking etc. It may be recalled that the state government had already received the first consignment of 50,000 smartphones and the remaining were in the pipeline. Coincidentally, August 12, which has been chosen as the day for commencement of distribution of phones, is also International Youth Day.Not more than 15 students studying in each town/district were invited at the launch events at their respective locations and handed over the smartphones. Apps mSewa and Captain Connect shall be pre-installed on these mobile phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youths-given-phones-during-launch-of-punjab-smart-connect-scheme-in-mohali/story-0PNfgP6INuPB1Q7448WSgL.html
12-08-2020||Noida||Independence day: Noida traffic police issues advisory||Heavy and medium-range goods carriers will not be allowed entry into Delhi via Noida from 11 pm on Wednesday till 11 am on Thursday and again on Friday and Saturday for the same time period, the Gautam Buddh Nagar police said. The restrictions have been imposed in view of the full dress rehearsal on Thursday and the Independence Day parade on Friday in the national capital, the district traffic police said in an advisory.  “Please use alternative routes to Delhi during the restricted period in order to avoid inconvenience,” the police said. The Delhi Police had earlier announced similar restrictions and diversions in view of the Independence Day programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/independence-day-noida-traffic-police-issues-advisory/story-IhFLl3w546yy0WgcIDrTKM.html
12-08-2020||Jaipur||Temples in Rajasthan go digital on Janmashtami amid pandemic||The usual hustle and bustle of devotees on the occasion of Janmashtami on Wednesday was missing in temples across Rajasthan this year as coronavirus-induced restrictions kept them confined to their homes.However, administrations of some prominent temples took the digital route to allow devotees to witness the birthday celebrations of their beloved Lord Krishna from home.The Govind Dev Ji temple in Jaipur was decked up like every year and the festivities were streamed online. Devotees could also witness tableaux depicting the life of Lord Krishna online.Celebrations at ISKCON temple in Jagatpura and Mansarovar also took the virtual route.Public Relations Officer of Shrinathji Temple in Nathdwara Girish Kumar said that the traditional tableau and ‘jagran’ will be open from 9:30 PM to 11:30 PM but devotees will not be allowed to visit.Continuing a 350-year-old tradition, a 21-gun salute will be presented to Lord Krishna in Rasala Chowk, he said.The famous Khatu Shyam temple, however, remained closed after eight people in nearby areas tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday night, according to Khatushyam police station SHO Pooja Poonia.The entry of people to nearby markets has been banned until further orders, she said.Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot extended Janmashtami greetings to the people of the state and appealed to them to celebrate the festival at home.Mishra said Lord Krishna countered injustice and established the importance of eternal truth and deeds. Everyone should take inspiration from Lord Krishna’s teachings.Gehlot said Lord Krishna gave the world the message of knowledge, action and devotion.The message that Lord Krishna gave through the Bhagavat Gita is a motivation for everyone to always work to counter injustice and for the welfare of destitute people, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/temples-in-rajasthan-go-digital-on-janmashtami-amid-pandemic/story-Q1wU2KR50wvmIh5Zf5sjCJ.html
12-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 count surges to 19,469||Jharkhand on Tuesday reported 591 new Covid-19 cases, taking the count of people affected with the virus to 19,469, said the state health department. With three deaths on Tuesday, the death toll due to Covid-19 has climbed to 184 in the state.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“591 Covid-19 cases, 682 recovered/discharged and 3 deaths reported in Jharkhand today. Total number of cases in the state is now at 19,469, including 10,555 recovered/discharged, 8,720 active cases, and 194 deaths,” the department said. With 53,601 new coronavirus cases and 871 deaths in India on Tuesday, the Covid-19 count in India has risen to 22,68,676 including 6,39,929 active cases, 15,83,490 cured/discharged/migrated cases and 45,257 deaths, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-covid-19-count-surges-to-19-469/story-UBwAii7MPmzOpEqcF1fCvK.html
12-08-2020||City||SAD-Congress target each other over YAD leader Ravinder Sonu’s killing||The killing of Youth Akali Leader (YAD) leader Ravinder Singh Sonu from Samrala snowballed into a political controversy on Wednesday when senior Akali leader Santa Singh Umedpur accused the ruling Congress government of sheltering criminals. Umedpur was visiting Sonu’s native village to condole his mother, Ranjit Kaur, who lost both her sons in a span of two years. Umedpur said that the persons involved in the killing were Congress workers who were rattled after the victim’s mother, who is a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) worker, won the elections. SAD spokespersons Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal said that nothing in the name of law exists in the state. On the other hand, Congress leaders in Samrala termed the allegations baseless. Congress MLA from Samrala, Amrik Singh Dhillon said that it was a case of personnel enmity and the killer had no connection with the Congress party. “My sympathies are with the grieving family but even the victim had a tainted past and was facing several criminal charges, including illegal liquor trade,” alleged Dhillon. As per some reports, two days before his death, Sonu had thrashed the son of an affluent landlord in the area. Sources in the Akali Dal said that SAD supremo Sukhbir Singh Badal is expected to visit Khanna on August 14 and likely visit the family in Samrala. Sonu, 38, president of YAD’s Samrala rural unit, was shot dead in Seh village on Tuesday afternoon. He was taking part in a tree plantation drive at a gurdwara when four men stepped out of a Maruti Suzuki Swift car and fired at him from close range and fled. It has been over a day to the incident but the cops are still groping in the dark about the killers. Despite repeated attempts, Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh was not available for comments. Ravinder’s younger brother Gurpreet Singh, alias Gura Seh, was hacked to death 17 months ago following a dispute over torn posters of a rival group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-congress-target-each-other-over-yad-leader-ravinder-sonu-s-killing/story-gjKILmbnZC1geqw20Vbd9I.html
12-08-2020||Pune||Pune gets official sanction for Knowledge Cluster||The city officially received the tag of ‘Pune Knowledge Cluster’ on Wednesday through the office of the principal scientific advisor. The goal of the cluster is to connect organisations with a high-level of expertise in diverse domains of science and technology, innovation and entrepreneurship, in and around Pune. The inter-university centre for astronomy and astrophysics (IUCAA) has been designated to facilitate the project and the funding for the cluster from the advisor’s office will be dealt with by the office of the director of IUCAA. Talking at an online press conference on Wednesday Dr Somak Raychaudhary director of IUCAA who is the nodal head for the cluster said, “In this knowledge cluster, the stakeholders are not just universities and colleges but also the research institutions and industries. These three categories are brought together and often there is not much cross-talk between the three and the idea is we will take up these projects and make a seamless interaction between these three categories of stakeholders. It is a new concept and it is going on for the last year. We are very proud that Pune has been chosen as one of the first places in the country where such an initiative has been started.” The Pune Knowledge Cluster includes universities and colleges, research laboratories, research and development establishments at the national and state level that is situated in Pune, and the leading industries based in Pune. This initial project proposal was coordinated and submitted by professors Ajit Kembhavi former IUCAA director and L S Shashidhara as principal investigators on behalf of the cluster. It is among the first city-wide clusters that have been approved by the office of the scientific advisor. Similar clusters for Hyderabad and Jodhpur were approved at the same time. Talking about how the cluster will work, Kembhavi said, “Initially small-scale projects are to be developed and executed, along with awareness programmes and outreach activities which are relevant for Pune city. Then there will be studying and improvement of the tree cover of Pune, study and modelling of last-mile connectivity by e-transport, pilot study to connect electric vehicles to the grid or at home and viral epidemics, vector dynamics and other healthcare issues. This knowledge cluster will also take up pilot studies leading to projects on a much larger scale to improve the quality of life in the city. Some of these areas are integrated electric multi-modal transport, Pune digital twin and city’s water management.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-gets-official-sanction-for-knowledge-cluster/story-7NlDMZ5wiQwApYEsnFGT7K.html
12-08-2020||City||Uruli Devachi, Phursungi residents threaten agitation over garbage depot||A citizens’ forum representing Uruli Devachi and Phursungi, have threatened to start an agitation from August 15 if the garbage depot in the area is not permanently shut down. The forum, represented by Ranjeet Raskar, Ganesh Dhore, Bhagwan Bhadale and Sanjay Harpale, have written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, stating their intent to agitate from Independence Day if their demand is not met. The letter stated: “We are fighting for the last 30 years for the improvement of the garbage depot. Even the National Green Tribunal had issued a warning to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The PMC promised to sort out our pollution-related issues, but forget their promise once agitations in the past have been withdrawn.” Bhadale said, “Earlier it was decided that the Uruli Devachi garbage depot would be utilised only for garbage processing, but now garbage from across the city is coming in to the depot. PMC is not doing any processing, but dumping it at the garbage depot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uruli-devachi-phursungi-residents-threaten-agitation-over-garbage-depot/story-FccC1SS0Bqo9eU45Ov9RSP.html
12-08-2020||City||PMC to procure 1 lakh antigen detection kits||PUNE The civic body will procure one lakh rapid antigen detection kits, after its earlier stock of kits, also at one lakh, has been used up. This the second time the civic body is procuring the kits which have ramped up the city’s testing capacity. The one lakh rapid antigen testing kits will cost the civic body Rs 4.59 crore and will be used by ground staff during home-to-home surveys, or at the Covid care centres. Murlidhar Mohol, mayor, said, “ The decision to procure one lakh more kits was taken earlier which got an official confirmation on Tuesday. This will ramp up city’s testing capacity even more which is already testing maximum number of people in the state. We will soon get these kits.”The kits are used only on symptomatic patients who have flu-like symptoms after close contact with a positive patient. However, the ICMR guidelines do caution that the antigen test could give false negatives and need a double confirmation through an RT-PCR test. The standing committee approved the decision to procure more kits during a meeting on Tuesday, at Rs 459 per kit. This is expected to be supplied within 24 hours. The kits are used for any person suffering from heart/lung/kidney ailments, diabetes, blood pressure, or those undergoing chemotherapy. HIV positive, organ recipients, senior citizens or pregnant women who need to be operated in an urgent basis can also use the antigen detection testing kits. The testing kits are also used to test essential service providers who may have been exposed to the virus while performing their daily job. Test of the tests The RT-PCR is the gold standard for detection of the virus with a nasopharyngeal swab sample. The rapid antigen detection test too seeks to find the same. However, the primary difference between the two is the time factor. While RT-PCR detects the antigen produced by the virus in about four-five hours, the rapid antigen kit detects the antigens in less than 30 minutes. The kits are easy to use for ground staff, after a minor training. However, the antigen detection kits are also known to give false negatives and so need to be cross verified using an RT-PCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-to-procure-1-lakh-antigen-detection-kits/story-7JB8r8gSkiFzbEfRMGKRIM.html
12-08-2020||City||Punjab’s dengue cases up 70% over past month||AMRITSAR With the Punjab health department solely focusing on covid-19, dengue is creeping up as another danger on the health of state’s residents. The number of patients of this viral infection transmitted by mosquito has risen 70% over the past month, starting July 10. There are now 119 dengue patients in the state, against 70 on July 10. Most dengue cases are being reported from Ferozepur, Bathinda and Hoshiarpur districts.The figures are as per the record of the The National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP) wing of the health department. Nearly 10,400 cases of dengue and 1,100 of malaria were recorded in the state in 2019. This year, 53 malaria cases have already been reported to date. Experts say testing for dengue is also the key. “A person suffering from dengue also has fever, as is the case in covid-19. The only way to diagnose is to conduct a lot of testing, but the state is ignoring the need of conducting dengue tests amid the covid-19 outbreak. Till August’s initial days, the health department had not started conducting dengue tests in Punjab’s big cities, including Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana. Testing has now started and will gradually pick up pace,” said an epidemiologist, on the condition of anonymity. “To date, only three tests for dengue have been conducted in Amritsar city, of which two were found positive. Dengue tests were started from July 22 and labs are open for public. We have started awareness drives against dengue. Raids are also on destroy dengue larvae,” said Dr Amarjit Singh, Amritsar assistant civil surgeon. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “Dengue testing has started and 85 tests have been conducted to date. Health workers are stretched as they are assigned covid-19 duties, as well as asked to carry out fogging for dengue.”Dr Gagandeep Singh Grover, Punjab programme officer for NVBDCP and Dr Avneet Kaur, director, health and family welfare, did not respond to repeated calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-dengue-cases-up-70-over-past-month/story-Ce2txnK3kNeNZ2risvssNO.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cop to get Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in investigation||Punjab Police DSP Bikramjit Singh Brar has been chosen for the Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation for his role in solving many sensational cases including those of targeted killings that rocked the state between 2015 and 2017. A passout of YPS Patiala, Brar is currently posted as DSP (detective) in Mohali with additional charge in the organised crime control unit (OCCU). He has also been instrumental in busting of Billa Mandiala cross-border terror module leading to the recovery of one of the biggest caches of highly-sophisticated weapons. Congratulating Brar for the achievement, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said the officer has played a key role in the arrest of gangster Sukhpreet Singh aka Budha and solving Amritsar ex-sarpanch Gurdeep Singh’s murder. Brar had also busted a racket of illegal diversion of 160 firearms from gun houses to terrorists and gangsters, the DGP added. Brar had led the operation in which most wanted gangster Vicky Gounder and Prema Lahoria were killed in an encounter in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar, he said. “Brar was also the pivot of a major police operation which led to the arrest of 23 persons including two gangsters and gun house owners, and recovery of 36 illegally diverted weapons. This racket had supplied the illegal weapons used in the targeted killings between 2015 and 2017,” the DGP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cop-to-get-home-minister-s-medal-for-excellence-in-investigation/story-sjOJdqVrByfcOy7dicJLHP.html
12-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan governor asks universities to conduct plantation drive on Independence Day||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra has asked the state universities to carry out plantation of saplings in their campuses after flag hoisting on the Independence Day.A total of 88,151 saplings have been given to the universities for the plantation drive, a statement said on Wednesday. Mishra has also asked the vice chancellors of the state universities to ensure compliance of social distancing norms and other protocols in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The governor has directed the VCs to set up committees in their universities to look after the plants, according to the statement.The University of Rajasthan in Jaipur and Mohalal Sukhadia University in Udaipur will plant 1,500 saplings each. Similarly, other universities too will plant the saplings allotted to them by the Raj Bhawan, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-governor-asks-universities-to-conduct-plantation-drive-on-independence-day/story-Mb36REKsbvA6SYpIGew6VK.html
12-08-2020||Patna||Bihar CM asks officials to create awareness about his govt’s work||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday asked officials to apprise people, especially the new generation, of the development work carried out by the state government in the past 15 years.The chief minister said this at a programme here to mark the inauguration of several schemes of the Road Construction Department through video-conferencing.“People should also be informed about what happened during the previous regime. How will the new generation come to know about the work if you (officers) dont tell them?” Kumar remarked.The major 119 schemes, worth Rs 3,516 crore, which Kumar inaugurated, included Bangraghat bridge in Gopalganj district.The 1.5-km bridge, constructed at a cost of Rs 509 crore, would reduce the distance between Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur and Saran districts.The chief minister also laid the foundation stone for 98 schemes worth Rs 1,508 crore.Asserting that the state government has done considerable development work in the state, Kumar made it clear that he was not referring to the road sector alone.In the past 15 years, work had also been done in the sectors of education, health, power and Jal Jiwan Hariyali, he said.Kumars JD(U) has been sharing power with the BJP under the banner of NDA in Bihar for past 15 years except the period between 2013 to 2017.The chief minister’s assertion assumes significance in view of the assembly elections, due in October-November this year, and the ruling dispensation trying to highlight its achievements in comparison to the work done by Lalu Prasad followed by his wife Rabri Devi as chief ministers before the NDA came to power in the state.Talking about the construction of state highways and major district roads, Kumar said that “6,735 km length of roads were constructed during 2006-10, while 9913 km were built between 2010-15 and 10,287 km between 2015-20.” Asking engineers to issue pictures of roads and bridges prior to 2005 and the infrastructure at present, he said, “it will help the people to know what has been done”.After achieving the target of reaching the state capital in six hours from any part of the state, the government is now working hard to reduce the travel time to five hours, the chief minister said.Kumar assured the people that his government would work further for the states overall development if they give him another opportunity to serve them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-cm-asks-officials-to-create-awareness-about-his-govt-s-work/story-UZRaB8NPy99MOLIk1G25AI.html
12-08-2020||City||Can finally attend classes, say elated students after receiving phones under Punjab govt scheme||Seventeen-year-old Simrandeep Kaur, a non-medical student of the government school in Bharat Nagar, has always been a bright student. In Class-11, she scored 90% and bagged the second position in her school. Always regular with her classes, she was hoping to pass with flying colours this year too. But the pandemic outbreak and the subsequent lockdown seemed to spoil her plans.As schools shut down and switched to virtual classes, Simrandeep suddenly found herself unable to keep up.Having two younger sisters—one in Class 3 and the other in Class 8— and just one phone at home, Simrandeep had to skip some classes to ensure that her siblings could attend theirs. “I don’t have a personal phone. I would use my mother’s phone whenever it was free. As I sometimes had to skip classes when it clashed with my sisters’ classes, I used to take my classmates’ help in completing my notes.”The connectivity issues and additional burden of buying an internet pack every fortnight was another hassle.So when she received a smart phone from Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Wednesday, as part of the Punjab Smart Connect Scheme, her joy knew no bounds. “I can finally attend my classes without disruption,” said the teen, who dreams of becoming a computer engineer.Like Simrandeep, 16,676 other Class-12 students are set to benefit from the scheme, aimed at bridging the digital gap. As many as 10 students, including Simrandeep, received their phones at the Bachat Bhawan today.Arvind Kumar, another Class-12 student, who received the phone today, said he had not been able to attend any classes since April as he did not own a phone. “I used to take notes from my friends and gave the online assessment exam using my neighbour’s mobile. I’m happy I finally have my own phone,” he said. The elated students were seen clicking selfies with each other after the event. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and district education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur were also present on the occassion. SOCIAL DISTANCING GOES FOR A TOSSMeanwhile, social distancing went for a toss during the event, with many, even officials, seen flouting the safety norms while handing over the phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/can-finally-attend-classes-say-elated-students-after-receiving-phones-under-punjab-govt-scheme/story-y0meog93Kt7uXwJDyFlgwK.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bail, parole time of 450 inmates of Chandigarh’s Model Jail extended by 4-7 weeks||Taking into consideration the worsening Covid-19 situation, the parole and interim bail time of over 450 undertrials and convicts who were lodged at Model Jail, Sector 51, Chandigarh, also known as Burail Jail, has been extended from four to seven weeks by the State Legal Services Authority (SLSA).As of March 26, 1,007 prisoners (947 males, 56 females, 4 children) were lodged in the jail, against the sanctioned strength of 1,120. During the pandemic, 47.56% of the undertrials/convicts were released.A meeting in this regard was held on Thursday under the chairmanship of justice Jaswant Singh, judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and executive chairman, SLSA. The meeting was attended through video-conferencing by Mahavir Singh, member secretary, SLSA, Chandigarh, Ashok Kumar Mann, chief judicial magistrate-cum-secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, IG (prisons) Ombir Singh and others.It was mentioned in the meeting that earlier, the undertrials were released on special interim bail for an initial period of 60 days and thereafter, the special bail period was further extended on May 16 and again on June 20. They were due to return to the jail shortly.“In the prevailing Covid-19 situation, re-admitting those undertrial prisoners back into the jail poses enormous risk and will defeat the whole purpose of releasing them in the first place,” Mann said.Hence, the extension period of the undertrials scheduled to return between August 14 to 31 has been increased by seven weeks.For those undertrial prisoners who were scheduled to return between September 1 to 15, the extension is by five weeks; for those scheduled to return between September 16 to 30, the extension is by four weeks.Similarly, the convicted prisoners who were released on special parole for an initial period of 56 days and thereafter, the special parole period was extended from May 16 to 20, have also been granted extension from four weeks to seven weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bail-parole-time-of-450-inmates-of-chandigarh-s-model-jail-extended-by-4-7-weeks/story-P7JWvyP5xRI5r9EivJMbTP.html
12-08-2020||City||ASI, man posing as excise inspector held for extortion in Moga||The district police arrest an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and a fake excise inspector from Kot Isse Khan sub-division in Moga on Wednesday for extorting money from truck drivers.The accused were identified as ASI Major Singh, who is posted at Kot Isse Khan police station, and Sukhmander Singh of Galauti village in Moga. Police said Sukhmander is a driver and was extorting money from truck drivers posing as an excise inspector.DSP Shubeg Singh said a case was registered on the complaint of truck driver Gurjeet Singh, of Fatehgarh Sahib, both accused were arrested, and further investigation is on.The truck driver alleged that when he was going to Tarn Taran from Fatehgarh Sahib on August 10, the ASI and Sukhmander, who was in civil clothes, stopped him. “Sukhmander said he is an excise inspector and asked for documents. When I asked him to show an identity proof, he failed to produce one and started arguing. He took away Rs 1,600 from the dashboards of the truck,” he said.The case was registered under Sections 384 (extortion), 419(cheating by personation), and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act at Kot Isse Khan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asi-man-posing-as-excise-inspector-held-for-extortion-in-moga/story-q0RyNNb9ZDz1OcM2h2yoFI.html
12-08-2020||Bangalore||146 arrested in Bengaluru violence, DM to hold inquiry: Karnataka home minister||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that a district magistrate will hold an inquiry into Tuesday’s violence in Bengaluru and said so far 146 people have been arrested.“It has been decided in a meeting with Chief Minister with senior officials that district magistrate will hold an inquiry into the incident as per the guidelines of the National Human Rights Commission. So far, 146 people have been arrested,” Bommai told ANI.Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday informed that directives have been issued to take strict action against accused of Bengaluru violence and asserted that the government has taken all possible steps to curb the situation.While appealing people to maintain peace, he also said that violence against journalists, police and people last night was unacceptable.“Miscreants at the DJ Halli police station has led to the assault and rioting at MLA Akhand Srinivasa’s house and police station. Already, directives have been issued against the perpetrators and the government has taken all possible steps to curb the situation,” he tweeted (roughly translated from Kannada).“The attack on journalists, the police and the public in the riot last night was unacceptable. The government will not tolerate such provocations and rumours. Strict action against perpetrators is certain. I appeal to people to maintain peace and act with restraint and without panic,” the Chief Minister said in another tweet.Congress MLA Srinivas Murthy’s nephew was arrested for allegedly sharing a ‘derogatory’ post on social media that triggered last night’s violence in which two persons died and around 60 police personnel sustained injuries.The police said that accused Naveen has been arrested allegedly for posting derogatory posts.Murthy’s house was also vandalised by miscreants following the social media post by his nephew Naveen.Residence of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy was also attacked after the violence broke out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/146-arrested-in-bengaluru-violence-dm-to-hold-inquiry-karnataka-home-minister/story-mGkLqMNLLLdVLMwUthKsBJ.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sector-48 resident body to put up 55 signboards to demarcate societies||To make it easier for people to look for apartment societies that form most of Sector 48, the sector’s resident welfare association (RWA) will be installing signages at 55 points in the area making it the first sector in the city to do so.Each signboard cost the RWA around ₹3,500. The project was inaugurated by additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain and local area councillor Davesh Moudgil on Wednesday morning.President of the RWA, JJ Singh, said, “It was difficult for people, especially delivery boys, to look for societies, so we decided to install signages for their convenience.”The RWA had earlier approached the municipal corporation (MC) regarding this in November 2019, but citing a lack of funds, they turned them away. The resident body had also wanted to install signages similar to the ones being used in Sectors 35 and 16, but the Chandigarh Heritage Conservation Committee of the UT had vetoed their proposal.“Next, we approached UT chief architect Kapil Setia to get drawings made consistent with Corbusier’s image of Chandigarh. Permission was given by MC commissioner Kamal Kishore Yadav and all 55 points where the signages will be installed were checked by officials of the MC to ensure they didn’t block the way,” added Singh.The signages that have reflective tape on them to enable visibility at night will take around three days to install. Apart from the societies, these boards will also demarcate other buildings in the sector including the police station, the open theatre and the e-sampark centre.Lauding the RWA’s initiative, Moudgil said, “This is the first time that an RWA has independently put up signages. I hope this serves as an example for the apex resident welfare bodies of the city to adopt this for other sectors as well.”Moudgil added that he had spoken to the RWAs of Sector 47 C and D as well and was hopeful they would also get similar installations in their areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-48-resident-body-to-put-up-55-signboards-to-demarcate-societies/story-nLxJjuowwFa3eqgDfZkeZL.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Purse snatcher caught while dragging victim in Dadumajra Colony||A 34-year-old man was arrested for snatching a woman’s purse and dragging her into the bushes at Dadumajra Colony on Wednesday night.The accused, identified as Monu, is a resident of Shahpur Colony, Sector 38 (West).He was nabbed red-handed by ASI Satinder and driver constable Sandeep, who were on patrolling duty in a PCR vehicle.The cops had noticed a man dragging a woman near the public conveniences at Dadumajra Colony (DMC). On spotting the PCR vehicle, the accused hid in the nearby bushes, but was nabbed. The PCR cops handed over Monu to the Maloya police station, where he was booked under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code.The woman, a sanitation worker at a private hospital in Phase 8, Mohali, told the police that she was returning home to Dhanas around 10.30pm, when the man attacked her and pinned her down to snatch her purse and started dragging her towards the jungle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/purse-snatcher-caught-while-dragging-victim-in-dadumajra-colony/story-SACjTIq8WDLzRTWynaVoiJ.html
12-08-2020||City||Day 2 of online counselling in Ludhiana: Cut-off for BBA-I higher by 5.6% in general category at GCG; 36 seats filled||On the second day of online counselling at Government College for Girls (GCG) on Wednesday, 36 seats out of 40 were filled in BBA-I course and 95 seats in BSc (medical)-I course against a total of 120 seats.The cut-off percentage of the BBA course went higher by 5.6% from last year’s 89.4% in the general category. Total 456 students have applied for the course. In the scheduled castes (SC) category, the cut-off was 87.78% and in the other backward classes (OBC) category, it was 93.11%.Sukhwinder Kaur, associate professor in commerce, said, “Online counseling was held as per directions and committee members checked all documents submitted by the students. Total 36 seats have been filled; the four left will be filled before August 22.”Kritika Khosla, a student who scored 93% marks, said, “In the general category, the last student who got a seat scored 95%. I was short of two marks due to which I was not able to get admission in BBA in a government college. I will now try to grab a seat in other girls colleges.”In BSc (medical), the cut-off in the general category is 90.22% as against last year’s 78.8%; in the SC category, it is 66.89%. A total of 240 candidates have applied for the course.After document verification, a message was sent to the students giving them 48 hours to deposit the fee. After two days, the students will be contacted according to the rank list to fill the rest of the seats.For admission in BSc (non-medical), the online counseling will be conducted on Thursday. The college offers 160 seats and 466 candidates have applied for the course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-2-of-online-counselling-in-ludhiana-cut-off-for-bba-i-higher-by-5-6-in-general-category-at-gcg-36-seats-filled/story-9wm7kJqxfjhfNlCRrpNiBJ.html
12-08-2020||City||30-year-old dies by suicide in Badlapur||A 30-year-old man died by suicide on Wednesday early morning in Badlapur. He left a note for his wife and family before his death. His wife was sleeping in another room of the same flat, while the man was in the bedroom. Badlapur police are investigating the case. The man worked as a medical representative but had lost his job during the lockdown. Assistant police inspector, S Burade, said, “We got a call around 4am on Wednesday. The man lives in one bedroom-kitchen flat with his wife in Dattawadi. His wife was sleeping in the living room when he went to the bedroom and killed himself. He has written a note where he explained that he was fed up of financial crisis and his property be given to his wife.” Badlapur East police have registered an accidental death report in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-year-old-dies-by-suicide-in-badlapur/story-6MDL3HkdhSfSEMZImTEurI.html
12-08-2020||City||3-member panel to study Punjabi varsity’s woes, give report in a month||Patiala Taking serious note of financial and administrative mismanagement at Punjabi University, the state government has formed a three-member high-level committee to suggest measures to improve the functioning of the ‘beleaguered’ university. The three members are additional chief secretary (revenue) Viswajeet Khanna; higher education secretary Rahul Bhandari and university vice-chancellor Prof BS Ghuman. According to budgetary proposals for this fiscal, the varsity expects an income of ₹380 crore, with expenditure at ₹676 crore, leaving a massive ₹296-crore deficit.The commission’s mandate is to thoroughly work upon improving fiscal health of the university, which is presently in doldrums as it has been toiling hard to meet its committed expenditure. “The committee has been formed with approval from the chief minister, following which the department of higher education and languages issued the final notification,” an official said. Bhandari said the main aim of the committee is to come up with measures for overall improvement of the varsity’s financial condition.“It includes optimisation of salary budget, quality of staff and courses of the university, increasing revenues, rationalisation of pay scales and pension benefits for faculty and staff based on the guidelines of Punjab government. We want to institutionalise transparent procurement procedures,” Bhandari said, adding, “The committee will submit its report within one month.”Bhandari said the committee will also review irregular appointments made in the past for teaching and non-teaching staff and suggest action thereon.On the directions of state government, the varsity had appointed retired IAS officer Manjit Singh Narang as honorary advisor to the V-C to help it tide over its acute financial crisis last month. Narang, however, resigned, accusing the V-C of deliberately delaying his joining.For other administrative measures, the committee will suggest reviewing of courses and consequent rationalisation (including redeployment) of faculty within and across departments. Reforms in the working of constituent colleges, regional centres and neighbourhood campuses will also be suggested. The notification states that the committee will also review the system of admission and examination and suggest suitable reform measures. It will also examine the current use of IT in pedagogy, including digital delivery of content, and academic management of the courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-member-panel-to-study-punjabi-varsity-s-woes-give-report-in-a-month/story-gNaL1MPAl1yaqsL52Sx63L.html
12-08-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka govt will deal with rioters with iron hand, says minister||Terming the violence in the city as a ‘well planned act,’ Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Wednesday said the ‘traitors,’ who perpetrated the riots would be dealt with an iron hand and steps would be taken to ensure that such incidents do not recur.Speaking to reporters after meeting Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy at Vidhana Soudha here, Ashoka said, “The manner in which the riots were perpetrated shows that it was a well planned act and was intended to spread to other parts of the city. These are traitors and we will subdue them.” Also read: 5 charred to death after private bus catches fire in Karnataka’s ChitradurgaAs many as three people were killed in the police firing and scores other injured including 50 policemen in the violence that erupted on Tuesday night at D J Halli in Pulakeshinagar locality over an alleged social media post on a ‘communally sensitive’ issue posted by the MLA’s relative.The Minister said the law maker’s house was completely damaged and belongings including, sarees and jewels were looted while the rest was set on fire.“It is clear from the intensity of vandalism that the intention was to attack and finish off Srinivasa Murthy. It has to be investigated whether any anti-social elements from within the state and outside were involved,” Ashoka said.Claiming that the violence was planned to terrorise the people of Bengaluru, Ashoka said government will send across a strong message so that no one would ever dare to take law into their hands again.He also said he met the Chief Minister and apprised him of the ground situation.The Minister added that steps would be taken to rein in anti-social elements as vandalism was carried out in a manner that communities were identified to target them.Also read: ‘Miracle that am alive’: Karnataka Congress MLA describes attack, his escape“Whether Popular Front or SDPI is behind it, we will not bother. These people must be arrested. We will hunt them wherever they are holed up,” Ashoka said.Addressing the media after meeting the minister, Murthy said he wanted the government to provide him protection. “We were not at home when nearly 3,000 people with petrol bombs, clubs, came and burnt the vehicles, damaged our house.I need protection from the government after this incident,” a visibly shaken MLA said.He said for the past 25 years he has been living with the Muslim brethren but never faced such a problem. He demanded a CBI or CID inquiry into the matter to bring out the facts.Asked about his relative Naveen, whose alleged social media post sparked violence, Murthy said, “Naveen is not my relative. For the past 10 years we have not been in touch with him.” Meanwhile, BJP leaders questioned the Congress as to why it hesitated to condemn the riots by “minority groups” on the residence of its own MLA.The ruling party leaders in Karnataka projected the incident that led to violence in parts of the city as an attack on a Dalit MLA.“Dead silence by @INCIndia @INCKarnataka even after their Dalit MLA Sri Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy was attacked , house ransacked yesterday in Bengaluru. Total support for RIGHT TO RIOT ...? For them appeasement is the only official party policy,” BJP national General Secretary B L Santosh tweeted.In another tweet, Santosh said, “After 14 hours @INCKarnataka wakes up to blame Naveen (MLAs nephew) for facebook post & Police for delay in taking action . One straight question .. Does your Party support riots like this .? Why Cong hesitates to condemn riots by minority groups ..? #CongSupportsRiots.” Demanding strict action against those involved in the incident, Karnataka Tourism Minister C T Ravi said some people feel that they are above the law. This is the result of seven decades of appeasement politics, he said.Seeking to know if the “Lutyens and liberals” talk about this growing intolerance in a particular community in Bengaluru, BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje said this was nothing but the result of Congress’ appeasement politics.Karandlaje who visited Pulikeshi Nagara assembly constituency in a tweet said, “PFI-SDPI conspired this violence, they targeted only Hindu houses & burnt public properties.I strongly condemn this behaviour of a communal elements & urge @CMofKarnataka to take stringent actions against the culprits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-will-deal-with-rioters-with-iron-hand-says-minister/story-2ShO6N7nkgikoEWsYY3g5L.html
12-08-2020||City||Son booked for abusing, assaulting 80-year-old mother||Manickpur police has booked a 40-year-old man for harassing his 80-year-old mother for the past four months. She has also alleged that he uses her ATM card to withdraw her ₹9,000 monthly pension and spend the money on liquor and other things. According to police, Kamlini Kamble stays with her younger son, Shirish Kamble in a flat along with his family, while the elder son stays separately, said senior inspector Rajendra Kamble of Manickpur police station. Her husband Marutirao died in 2001. He was a government employee at the time of retirement, she gets the monthly pension. The son since the past few months had seized her ATM card and other documents and would withdraw all the money from her savings account and spend it on liquor. Kamble has alleged that Shirish would abuse and assault her if she objected, said the officer. The wife of the accused was mute. Shirish would threaten her to send her to maternal home if she complained, Kamble alleges.Police has registered a complaint against Shirish under Sections 504, 506 of the IPC and Section 24 of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 said Kamble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/son-booked-for-abusing-assaulting-80-year-old-mother/story-IBCVgWsixGclGIZv3SNf2J.html
12-08-2020||City||After bed crunch, DMCH facing shortage of doctors||Already grappling with shortage of beds due to the sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) is now facing an acute shortage of doctors. The hospital has placed an advertisement seeking more doctors on daily emoluments of Rs 3,500 for serving in Covid wards. DMCH secretary Prem Gupta said the institution has placed an advertisement to meet the shortage of doctors. He said that it is for the first time that the institute has had to hire doctors on daily basis to meet the requirements. “Our doctors and paramedical staff are hard-pressed. They are working for long hours and some of them have even got infected. Most importantly, they are getting tired and mentally drained. We need more doctors to fill the gap and ease the existing staff,” said Prem Gupta.He further said that they have spared 200 beds and all their 65 ICU beds, including those having ventilator facility, are occupied and there is a huge waiting list of patients. “Right now we need doctors urgently. The number is not specific. The more doctors we get, the better it will be. We get patients not only from Ludhiana but from nearby districts of Malwa and Doaba region as well. Besides Covid-19 patients, there are those suffering from other ailments,” said Gupta. Dr Sandeep Puri, principal of the institute, said, “We are dealing with a pandemic. This means 50 Covid-19 patients are equivalent to 500 patients of dengue. To deal with the situation, we have to strategise accordingly. We need more manpower to tackle the situation. My doctors and staff are already working round-the-clock so we have decided to hire more doctors on Covid duties,” said Dr Puri. The institute had recently urged doctors to come and offer voluntary service but no one turned up.The hospital was recently served a notice by the health department after a 49-year-old Covid-19 patient, who was referred to the civil hospital, died while being shifted from DMCH.Following the incident, additional chief secretary, health, Anurag Aggarwal conducted a meeting with the authorities of city’s private hospitals, asking them to put aside at least 50 ICU beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. DMCH has also increased the number of beds. The hospital has converted Dumra Auditorium into an isolation facility. Besides this, Ram Sharnam, a spiritual centre adjacent to DMCH, has also been converted into a Covid care centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-bed-crunch-dmch-facing-shortage-of-doctors/story-Y7237ejL72a7FhPXCVZ7wL.html
12-08-2020||City||Seven dead, 243 fresh infections detected in Ludhiana||Seven more people succumbed to Covid-19 while 243 fresh infections were detected in Ludhiana on Wednesday. With this, the district’s toll has reached 194. As many as 106 lives were lost in the last 12 days alone.The cumulative count of the infections in the district has now reached 5,767. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 1,699 active cases in the district. Among those who tested positive, 86 showed influenza-like symptoms, 56 are contacts of already positive patients; nine are healthcare workers, eight police personnel, nine pregnant women and five domestic and international travellers. The dead include a 47-year-old male from Shekhupura Mohalla, a 58-year-old male from Janta Nagar, a 60-year-old male from Dhandari, a 49-year-old female from Gurmail Kaur Road, a 66-year-old female from Pritam Nagar, Model Town, a 65-year-old woman from Rahon Road and a 70-year-old female form Vishkarma Chowk in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-dead-243-fresh-infections-detected-in-ludhiana/story-ysG0e2r3bJnvtXDWn9jXxI.html
12-08-2020||City||Ludhiana grocer rapes eight-year-old in his shop, arrested||Police have arrested a grocer for allegedly raping an eight-year-old girl at his shop in Harkrishan Nagar, Seera Road, on Monday. The accused, Baldev Singh, was arrested on the complaint of the child’s grandmother.The woman told the police that Singh lured her granddaughter into his shop with sweets and raped her. The girl screamed and ran back to her house bleeding. She narrated the incident to her parents, who raised the alarm and alerted the police.Police arrested Singh on Tuesday. He was presented before a court that sent him to judicial custody. The accused had been booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 (penetrative sexual assault on a child below 16 years of age) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, said investigating officer Kamaljeet Singh from Meharban police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-grocer-rapes-eight-year-old-in-his-shop-arrested/story-8t4kxiaf8TJwrNJ9VjlkFP.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||3 men pose as cops, rob woman of Rs2.12 lakh jewellery in Mumbai||A 45-year-old woman, who was heading on Tuesday to purchase vegetables at Rajendra Nagar in Borivli, was robbed of jewellery worth Rs2.12 lakh by three men posing as policemen.According to police, the incident took place in Borivli at around 9am when Purnima Shetty, 45, was walking on Dattapada road. One person on a bike, posing as a policeman stopped her midway and told her that two policemen, standing near a car, were calling her. When Shetty walked up to them, they warned her of a spate of robberies in the area. An officer from Kasturba Marg police station said, “The two men posing as policemen convinced her to remove her gold mangalsutra, chain, bangles, and ring and keep it in her bag. They then diverted her attention and fled with her valuables worth Rs2.12 lakh.”“We registered a first information report (FIR) against three unknown people who posed as policemen. We booked them under section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 170 (personating a public servant) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code. We are scanning CCTV camera footage to identify accused,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-men-pose-as-cops-rob-woman-of-2-12-lakh-jewellery/story-mGRXSrMohd2KTxCSW5sj2H.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Apex court order on SYL must be implemented: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday said that Haryana government was committed to bringing Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) water to the state.Chautala was addressing mediapersons after paying obeisance at the Golden Temple. He said the Supreme Court’s order two years ago on the issue should be implemented. He said water flowing from India into Pakistan should be put to better use among the states using technology. On liquor smuggling, Chautala said whenever a complaint is received, immediate action is taken. He said the excise department conducted raids and more than 1,250 FIRs were registered during the lockdown. Earlier, Dushyant, his wife Meghna and brother Digvijay Singh took part in prayers at the Golden Temple premises. He was honoured by the officials of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apex-court-order-on-syl-must-be-implemented-dushyant/story-5eQ8gN0naiLJNmqaWFVBiJ.html
12-08-2020||Pune||200 gardens in the city and Rs 2 crore loss stares PMC||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sustained an aggregated loss of Rs 2 crore after the closure of its 200 public gardens across the city during the past four months. The garden department garnered a revenue of Rs 1.15 crore during the first four months during the previous fiscal year and its revenue was expected to double starting May when lockdown was announced. According to the garden department officials, the losses are pegged around Rs 2 crore wherein all the main city and suburban gardens remained shut due to the strict lockdown announced by the central and state governments.The prominent gardens comprising Rajeev Gandhi animal park, Peshwe park, Katraj lake garden, Sambhaji garden, Seven Wonders garden, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj garden, Aundh rural garden, Pu La Deshpande garden have been the top grossers for the civic body as they attracted huge crowds of elders, children and womenfolk during the summer season and other times. The city gardens generate cash revenue of Rs 1.25 crore during the summer season. In 2020, the civic body was expecting double revenue but the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic dashed their hopes, garden department officials said.PMC municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “We are closely monitoring the Covid- 19 situation in the city and gradually opening places of public importance based on the ground situation like in the case of malls and P1 and P2 parking. Similarly, the situation of gardens is also being assessed and a decision will be taken as per the Covid situation in the city. Health of citizens is far important than opening the gardens at this juncture,” he said.However, on being specifically asked about when the city gardens will actually open, Kumar did not give any deadline for restarting them.Kumar said, earnings from the garden department are also spent on workforce which maintains the gardens.RTI activist Vijay Kumbhar said, “Public gardens will keep citizens healthy and social distancing norms and masks are mandatory. When liquor shops and malls are open then why not gardens? Also the gardens are sustaining losses due to the prolonged locking of gardens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/200-gardens-in-the-city-and-rs-2-crore-loss-stares-pmc/story-Q1S7p6b9zPGgYk4wE4RYuM.html
12-08-2020||Pune||Dahi handi celebrations cancelled, mandals aid Covid warriors instead||In the past four months, several festivals have been celebrated quietly in a low-key manner due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, however, Dahi handi which was scheduled to be celebrated today has suffered this year, given the huge spectacle of the festival. The Dahi Handi mandals in Pune are well known for their grand celebrations with celebrities, huge prize money and the reward given to the team who breaks the handi for its grand decoration sets. This year all of these things don’t exist and several prominent mandals are going to celebrate the Dahi Handi by donating prize money for the Covid related works. Balasaheb Marne president of Hutatma Babu Genu mandal trust which is one of Pune’s biggest Dahi Handi mandal said, “This year we have cancelled the Dahi Handi celebrations as the Covid pandemic has affected all of us. Every year we give away prize money of Rs 3 to 5 lakh during Dahi Handi, for which we do not take any public contributions (Vargani). This year the mandal is going to donate the same prize money to several government agencies who are fighting against this disease and for a social cause.” The Khajina Vihir Tarun mandal in Sadashiv peth is working on similar lines. Om Kasar, president of the mandal said, “Our mandal every year celebrates the Dahi Handi in grand style with huge decorations and sound system. Teams from Mumbai, Thane, Chiplun, Baramati and Pune come to break the Dahi handi at our mandal and more than Rs 1 lakh prize money is given. This year there is no Dahi Handi celebrations instead we are going to provide meals to sex workers in Budhwar peth and will distribute 5,000 face masks and sanitizers to citizens in Sadashiv peth area.” Another prominent Dahi Handi mandal, the Suvarnyug Tarun mandal has also cancelled the Dahi Handi this year.Prakash Chavan, president of Suvarnayug Tarun mandal said, “As the Covid situation is rising in Pune city and several government agencies are working to fight against it we are going to donate medical equipment to them. An amount of Rs 1.25 lakh will be used to purchase the medical equipment and it will be handed over to the Pune district administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dahi-handi-celebrations-cancelled-mandals-aid-covid-warriors-instead/story-uOj5LXZHciT9rITId2iRoM.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Green tribunal refrains from asking Punjab to run Bathinda power plant with biomass fuel||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has turned down a petition seeking its intervention in asking the Punjab government to consider converting the defunct Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDPT) in Bathinda into a biomass-fuelled facility. Disposing of the petition filed by GNDTP retired deputy chief engineer Darshan Singh, the principal bench headed by chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, the NGT said: “The Punjab government may act in accordance with the law and if the power plant is to be converted from coal-fired to paddy straw fuelled, all norms should be complied with.” Justice SP Wangdi and an expert, Dr Nagin Nanda, were on the panel that decided the matter through a virtual hearing. The order was published on the NGT’s website on Tuesday. The tribunal’s decision was based on a report submitted by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB). WILL SOLVE STUBBLE PROBLEM: PETITIONER In a petition on December 16, 2019, Darshan Singh claimed to have prepared a report for the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) on the possibility of converting Unit-IV of the thermal plant into a paddy straw fuelled unit. The petitioner said switching from coal to crop waste-based fuel will help in providing a solution for the safe disposal of stubble of major kharif crops of Punjab’s Malwa belt. The petitioner contended that PSPCL’s board of directors had put the proposal of converting the thermal power plant into a biomass facility before the Punjab government in November 2018. But the state government did not act on the proposal. He said that the cost of upgrading the defunct plant into a stubble-based facility will be cheaper than building a new biomass unit. Thus, the cost of power generation will be lower in the biomass plant. “Besides bringing down air pollution during winter in Punjab and Delhi, conversion from conventional to paddy stubble-based fuel will add to the income of rice growers in the state,” he said. PROPOSAL AT PRELIMINARY STAGE: PPCB In its report to the NGT after analysing Darshan Singh’s representation, the PPCB said that the proposal to convert GNDTP into a stubble-fired power plant was only at the preliminary stage of consideration by the state government. The PPCB said that it’s up to the PSPCL to comment on the technical and economic viability. However, the PPCB said that if the government finds the proposal viable, it will help in using the paddy residue. “While considering the implementation of the proposal to upgrade GNDTP, the state authorities have to set up an exhaustive mechanism and facilities for time-bound collection, storage and transportation of stubble generated during paddy harvesting to ensure the availability of fuel for the power plant throughout the year,” the report said. The power plant was decommissioned two years ago and the state government has already started the process to dismantle it. The Punjab government is keen to develop a pharmaceutical park on the land of the defunct power plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/green-tribunal-refrains-from-asking-punjab-to-run-bathinda-power-plant-with-biomass-fuel/story-VwQzUPweSSqeWDoCtKzNiI.html
12-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s coaching classes, study circles hit with Covid pandemic||The Covid-19 pandemic has adversely affected all sectors of society, but with students gone from the city, the peth areas, home to a number of coaching classes in Pune are facing the heat. In the last 15 years, Pune has emerged as a hotspot for competitive exams and preparations. Students from across the country spend time in Pune for education. Due to Covid-19, 90 per cent of students have returned back to their villages and home towns, which affected an entire eco-system that depend on it. From coaching classes, study circles, paying guest rooms, hostels, small snack centres to food mess have been hit. In this first part of the story we will look at the impact on coaching classes and study circles where students prepared for competitive exams. Before lockdown, these study circles were full and students were on a waiting list at prominent study circles in the city. Similarly, after the completion of 10th and 12th standard, students signed up for coaching classes in preparation for their graduation course or competitive exams, however the pandemic has put this year’s admissions on hold. “This is a big loss to the entire city’s economy due to the Covid-19 pandemic in the last 5 months. We haven’t received official permission from the state government about starting study circles in the state. As there are a large number of students who come from outside Pune for competitive exam preparations, the city’s economy had flourished in the last few years,” said Ajaiz Shaikh president of the Abhyasika Owners Association Maharashtra Rajya (AOAMR) who also is the owner of a ‘reader’s club’ study circle in Pune. According to Shaikh, the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted the city largely, including the financial economy of the city that grew by Rs 3,000 crore yearly due to these students. “Students want to come back and study in Pune to prepare for competitive exams. They are in need of privacy and a continuous link to studies which is not available in their own village or towns. They can live here separately, attend coaching classes and study at their study circles,” he added.The situation of competitive exams institutions in Pune has also worsened in the last four months. Jayant Umranikar, former Pune city police commissioner and the director of competitive examination centre in Savitribai Phule Pune University said, “There are several impacts on Pune due to the pandemic, especially on students who come to Pune for MPSC or UPSC studies. Till now there are no clear cut instructions coming from the state government about how they will monitor these exams, students’ return journey or the safety guidelines to coaching classes.” According to Umranikar, due to the lack of proper guidelines hostels cannot be restarted since some of them have been converted into quarantine centres. “This impacts adversely on the financial position of the coaching classes and their hostels if they have it. There is a financial aspect, safety grounds and most importantly students are in a confuse state whether to come back or not. The accommodation of students is a big issue and how do we appeal students to come back and join classes is another one. Some of the coaching classes have started online teaching, but it is very dangerous and students can get into financial frauds by fake coaching classes taking advantage of pandemic,” Umranikar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-coaching-classes-study-circles-hit-with-covid-pandemic/story-g56oVSpscY2Pg1czuOfXMK.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Jai Ram disburses incentives worth ₹16L among milk producers||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday launched an immunity booster ‘Him Haldi Dudh’ manufactured by MILKFED on Wednesday. He also distributed incentives worth ₹16 lakh to milk producers in Mandi, Shimla and Kullu districts under the national programme for dairy development and interacted with them through video conference in Shimla. The CM said the turmeric milk had been developed by the Punjabi University bio-technology department had been patented. “The drink helps detox and has anti-hangover, anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and immunity boosting properties,” he said. Thakur said that under the National Dairy Development Programme MILKFED had transferred ₹2,000 each into the accounts of 835 milk producers as incentive and also provided 5-litre stainless steel buckets to 1,000 mill producers for collection and transportation of milk for marketing. He said the state government had enhanced the procurement price of milk twice to facilitate milk producers. He said presently milk was being procured at the rate of ₹ 27.80 per litre. He said the capacity of MILKFED plants at Chakkar and Duttnagar had been enhanced. At present, MILKFED os managing eleven milk plants in the State and around 1,011 Milk Cooperatives are associated with the federation. Thakur said the annual turnover of MILKFED was ₹ 132 crore in 2019-20, which was 33% higher than the previous year. Govt committed to economic welfare of poor, downtrodden: CMThakur said his government is committed to the economic upliftment and welfare poor and downtrodden section of the society. He was interacting with the beneficiaries of different schemes in his home constituency Seraj Vidhan through video conference. The CM said the state government had started several schemes for social economic upliftment of the poor and downtrodden of the state. He said it was for the first time that the state government has set a target of construction of 10,000 houses in the state under different housing schemes.“The state government has also launched Himachal Grihini Suvidha Yojana to make every household smoke-free and save womenfolk from the indoor pollution,” said Thakur. He said under this scheme, free LPG connections were being provided to the families left out from Ujjawala scheme started by the Central Government.To date, over 2.78 lakh free gas connections have been provided to the beneficiaries under the scheme, he added. He said 9,12,078 farmers of the state have been benefitted under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. “State government has decided to provide financial assistance worth ₹ 4 crore to the affected floriculturists,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jai-ram-disburses-incentives-worth-16l-among-milk-producers/story-cprSMWT64UeetxMbxdDFOL.html
12-08-2020||Pune||Court allows DSK, wife, son to attend 13th day rites of late daughter||Additional sessions judge J N Raje in his order to the Yerawada central jail superintendent has allowed jailed real estate developer DS Kulkarni, wife Hemanti Kulkarni and son Shirish Kulkarni to attend the 13th day rites of their deceased daughter Ashwini Sanjay Deshpande in Karvenagar on August 16. DSK and his family will step out of the Yerawada central jail after two and a half years.The order further directed the Yerawada central jail superintendent to make arrangements for the escorting party and the Kulkarnis to deposit escorting charges for the escorting party with the appropriate police department. After performing the last rites, the escorting party shall lodge the accused inside Yerawada central jail immediately. “The accused shall follow the guidelines issued by the government of Maharashtra in respect of Covid-19 to wear a mask, to maintain physical distance. The accused shall not misuse the concession granted by this court on the ground of humanity. The jail authority is directed to report compliance,” the order stated.The founder and chairman of DS Kulkarni developers ltd (DSKDL), Kulkarni, along with wife Hemanti, were arrested by Pune police from a hotel in New Delhi on the morning of February 17, 2018. DSK’s son Shirish Kulkarni surrendered in a local court on June 25, 2018. On May 16, 2018, DSK’s niece Sai Vanjpe and her husband Kedar Vanjpe were arrested along with Dhananjay Pachpor, the chief operating officer of DSKDL. The economic offences wing (EOW) of Pune police submitted a 37,000-page chargesheet against DS Kulkarni and his wife Hemanti before the court of special judge JT Utpat in connection with the Rs 2,043 crore investor fraud. The DSK couple were booked for cheating and criminal breach of trust at Shivajinagar police station following the complaint from investors. The Kulkarnis were booked under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 3 and 4 of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/court-allows-dsk-wife-son-to-attend-13th-day-rites-of-late-daughter/story-whsdZP9egesmjjQdw3I3MM.html
12-08-2020||City||Flash flood washes away temporary bridge in Kinnaur||Flash floods triggered by heavy rains washed away a temporary bridge in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district near Skibba village on Wednesday, officials said.The area has been cut off from district headquarters Reckongpeo and some fields have also been damaged. The movement of heavy vehicles towards Pooh and Kaza has been stopped. Besides the bridge, a three-metre-long stretch of a road in Skiba village also washed away, a district official said. No loss of life has been reported. Meanwhile, Shimla deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap also advised people to avoid venturing towards Satluj river as the water will be released from Nathpa Dam at the rate of 1,500 cusecs which will increase the level river.Heavy showers to continue till August 18State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said heavy rainfall is very likely to continue throughout the state till August 18. On Wednesday, rains lashed isolated places in Kangra and Una districts while light to moderate rainfall was witnessed at many places of the state. Maximum temperatures increased by one to two degrees while minimum temperatures in the state were normal.Guler in Kangra district received 105mm rain which was the highest in the state followed by Amb in Una district which received 67mm rain. Gaggal in Kangra district received 63mm rain while Naina Devi in Bilaspur district received 47mm rain. Berthin, a town in Bilaspur district received 37 mm, Nadaun and Bilaspur witnessed 35mm each, Jogindernagar 32mm, Mandi 22mm, Una 21mm, Palampur 15mm, Solan 13.8mm Dharamshala 10.6mm and Shimla received 5mm rain.Maximum temperature in Shimla was 24.5°C while Kufri recorded 19.5°C. Maximum temperature in Manali, Dalhousie and Dharamshala was 26.2°C, 22.2°C. and 27.8°C respectively. Solan recorded 30.5°C, Bilaspur 30°C, Hamirpur 29.8°C, and Nahan 26.9°C. Kalpa in Kinnaur district was the coldest place at 13.6°C minimum temperature while Una was the hottest at 34°C maximum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/flash-flood-washes-away-temporary-bridge-in-kinnaur/story-ELnvaW0ER4lqK7mkZhDCAI.html
12-08-2020||Pune||Doctor arrested for molesting patient in Shirur||The Shirur police have arrested a 46-year old doctor on charges of allegedly molesting a patient inside his private cabin in the hospital on Sunday. The incident occurred at a private hospital located at Nhavra in Shirur where the hospital owner allegedly molested and demanded physical favours from the 21-year-old victim, according to rural police. PSI SN Mote, the investigating officer in the case said that the victim had been admitted to the hospital since the past four to five days as she had a stomach problem.“At 10pm on Sunday night, the doctor called her to his cabin on the pretext of conducting a check-up and tests and engaged in a sexual conversation. The woman rejected his advance and then he physically molested her. We have arrested the doctor and he has been released on bail,” Mote said. The FIR against the doctor was lodged by the victim’s parents after they were informed about the incident over the phone. The victim ran outside and immediately contacted her parents, who rushed to the police station to lodge the FIR.The police have invoked IPC Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 354 A (sexual harassment) against the doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/doctor-arrested-for-molesting-patient-in-shirur/story-gLjU7ajQeEsdZGH3YLvlYL.html
12-08-2020||City||Jalandhar OOATs see addicts drop out of treatment after lockdown relaxation||Jalandhar The district has recorded a drop out of drug addicts and a decline in new admissions from its Outpatient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) centres since the relaxation of the lockdown in May-end. The district is receiving 8-10 new admissions per day in all centres, against over 40 admissions a day, during curfew in the state in April and May.Experts attribute this trend to two causes. The availability of drugs with the addicts or shortage of medicines in de-addiction centres. The district has 10 OOAT centres and a de-addiction centre in the civil hospital that provides treatment and medicines for drug de-addiction to patients. “The availability of drugs might be a reason behind addicts not taking treatment,” said Dr Aman Sood, a psychiatrist at a de-addiction centre. The monthly data also points to the trend. In March, OOAT centres registered 353 new admissions of addicts, in April 1,432, in May 1,097, in June 382 and in July 233 patients for treatment. There is also a decline in registered drug addict patients over the past three months. In July, 3,225 dropped out against total registered 13,663 patients. In June, 2,936 did not come for treatment against total registered 13,420 patients and in May 1,837 people left the treatment, after registration with the health department.Officials admit that shortage of supply of medicine was the prime reason for addicts losing interest in treatment. A drug addict told HT that some of them had jobs and they could not risk their employment by coming frequently to the centre, as it wasted a lot of their time. “Every addict has to visit the OOAT centre every day to take his daily dose. During the lockdown, we used to give 5-7 day medicine to people so they do not have to come every day,” said a senior doctor on the request of anonymity. Dr Sood added that supply was regular, but was replenished weekly. “To cater to all registered 14,000 patients, all OOAT centres manage with available stock.” Dr Sandeep Bhola, de-addiction centre in-charge Kapurthala said, “There has been a decline in new admission and rise in drop-outs over past three months. No new woman patient had registered over these three months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-ooats-see-addicts-drop-out-of-treatment-after-lockdown-relaxation/story-O2jBkitmtH29ugfkGDA2FO.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Shimla’s heart sinks as the Ridge develops fresh cracks||Shimla: The Ridge maidan (ground) in the heart of Shimla has developed fresh cracks and a portion of the ground near Lakkar Bazaar has sunk further after heavy rain this monsoon. The municipal corporation has sought suggestions from experts at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Roorkee, to save the Ridge from sliding further though the open space has been vulnerable ever since it was built over a century ago when the British made Shimla their summer capital. The cracks developed at the north end of the Ridge before the monsoon but became prominent after the rains. A portion has begun to cave in, raising concern for the municipal corporation that has so far taken only piecemeal measures such as filling the cracks with concrete. But the temporary fixes have not worked. “We have formulated a project for finding a permanent solution. The project will cost about Rs 60 crore. The corporation has taken fresh suggestions from IIT, Roorkee,” says mayor Satya Kaundal. 2015 RESTORATION PLAN REJECTED The MC had sought the views of experts from the Roorkee institute in 2015, too. A Rs 30-crore restoration project was prepared but the then Virbhadra Singh-led Congress government did not approve the proposal. That year, the corporation conducted a survey which found muck had been dumped in a four to nine metre area when Shimla was being developed during the British Raj. “Through the Rs 30-crore self-finance plan, the MC was going to shift the Tibetan market to the Lift area and develop a park at the marketplace but the then state government did not approve our proposal,” says former mayor Sanjay Chauhan. SHOPKEEPERS WORRIED The water storage tank beneath Ridge happens to be a stone structure that is not sufficiently reinforced. The open space on the Ridge in the past has been used for holding political events such as rallies and other ceremonies. The area around Gaiety Theatre has been sinking for a while now, a phenomenon that damaged over a dozen shops at the Tibetan market in 2010. It also poses a threat to the Town Hall, which had been renovated at a cost of Rs 14 crore under a project funded by the Asian Development Bank a decade ago.Local residents and Tibetan shopkeepers are a worried lot. “The Ridge sinks about nine inches annually. The government needs to find a permanent solution,” says Kalsang, a Tibetan shopkeeper. VAJPAYEE’S STATUE IN PARK The fresh cracks have upset chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s plans of installing the statue of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on the Ridge. The government had finalised the spot near Padam Dev Complex, where the statue of former prime minister Indira Gandhi is put up. But now the MC has finalised a spot in a park between the Ridge and Mall Road instead. A HISTORIC MAIDAN *The Ridge maidan or ground was built in 1910 when Shimla was the summer capital of British India. *The Ridge, flanked by a catchment of the Sutlej river basin on one side and the Ganga basin on the other, connects Lakkar Bazaar with Scandal Point on Mall Road. *It houses two heritage buildings, a neo-Tudor style construction that doubles as the Town Hall and an Anglican church dating back to 1857. The religious structure built in neo-Gothic style is one of Shimla’s landmarks. *Cracks have also appeared on a portion of the Ridge overlooking Gaiety Theatre and Town Hall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shimla-s-heart-sinks-as-the-ridge-develops-fresh-cracks/story-p09FHyWVHR68HVfdR4ZLvN.html
12-08-2020||Lucknow||Heavy to very heavy rainfall recorded in isolated places of Uttar Pradesh||There was isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall across Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday.According to the meteorological department, thunderstorms accompanied with lightning occurred at a few places in the eastern part of the state and at isolated places in the western region.Heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely in isolated places across the state on Thursday, the weather office said.Rains and thundershower are very likely at many places in the state on August 14 and August 15, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/heavy-to-very-heavy-rainfall-recorded-in-isolated-places-of-uttar-pradesh/story-TBNPfug5Mzj9NP6v5CWkPP.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Police’s Covid-19 tally crosses 11,000; death toll at 121||At least three Maharashtra police personnel died of Covid-19 and 294 tested positive for the deadly infection in the last 24 hours, an official said on Wednesday.A total of 121 police personnel, including 11 officers, have succumbed to coronavirus infection in the state so far, the official said.With the addition of 294 fresh Covid-19 cases, the tally of infections in the police force has reached 11,392, of which 9,187 personnel have recovered and 2,084 are undergoing treatment, he said.Moreover, 2,26,460 cases of violation of prohibitory orders have been registered across the state since the imposition of the coronavirus-induced lockdown in March, the official said.The police have arrested 33,173 people for these violations, he added.Apart from this, 332 incidents of assault on police were reported, in which 89 personnel were injured and 66 health workers were attacked, the official said.A total of 888 persons have been arrested in the assault cases, he said. The state police have recovered Rs 20 crore in fines in various cases of violation, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-police-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-11-000-death-toll-at-121/story-AnDJXMLOw9qroB0J3wStdM.html
12-08-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata airport gets mobile command post vehicle after Kerala plane mishap||A mobile command post (MCP) vehicle that was commissioned by the Airport Authority of India (AAI) on April 30 has reached Kolkata airport amid Covid-19 lockdown, as a preventive measure after the crash-landing of Air India Express on August 7 at Kozhikode airport.As per the AAI, the MCP vehicle that cost Rs 46,36,220 has a compartment where various facilities are mounted for use on the site, as and where required, for rescue operations or in unlawful situations.“[MCP] serves as a point where liaison officers of the various cooperating agencies assemble to plan and coordinate the rescue operations. It is used for establishing staging area for all ground service equipment such as tow tractors, coaches etc. [It is also used to] establish an Assembly Area for the uninjured survivors and to secure/ provide any assistance required by doctors at the Triage Area and arrange the speedy evacuation of injured casualty cases in the hospital. [It also] liaises with the airline concerned to transport the uninjured casualties to the SRC (Survivors Reception Centre) and establish communication with Crisis Management Centre (CMC) and Airport Operation Control Centre (AOCC),” informed AAI.According to AAI, Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Services is responsible for the deployment of MCP as quickly as possible at a distance of not less than 90m upwind from the aircraft accident site.There was heavy rainfall in Kerala on August 7 and an Air India Express flight overshot the tabletop runway before plunging 35 feet below into a valley and splitting into two. The plane which was part of the Vande Bharat mission was ferrying 190 passengers from Dubai to Kerala during the Covid-19 pandemic and killed 18 people including the pilots. Following this, various measures are taken at airports across the country to tackle untoward incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-airport-gets-mobile-command-post-vehicle-after-kerala-plane-mishap/story-eUgcFsAzz5glJgHD7cMoIL.html
12-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: HC seeks police reply on Pinjra Tod member’s bail plea||The Delhi High Court has sought the police response on a plea by a member of Pinjra Tod, a women’s collective, seeking bail in a case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in February.Justice Vibhu Bakhru issued notice to Delhi Police on the plea challenging a trial court’s order which had dismissed the bail application of JNU student Natasha Narwal.“Issue notice. Amit Mahajan, Special PP accepts notice and seeks ten days time to file a status report. Let the same be filed within the said period with a copy to the counsel for the petitioner (Narwal),” the court said and listed the matter for further hearing on August 26.Narwal and another member of the group Devangana Kalita were arrested in the case in May this year by the Crime Branch of the Delhi Police and booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including rioting, unlawful assembly and attempt to murder.They have also been booked under the stringent anti-terror law - Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a separate case related to the communal violence, for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in the riots.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.In all, four cases have been registered against Kalita, including in relation to the northeast Delhi riots earlier this year and violence in old Delhi’s Daryaganj area during protests against the CAA in December last year. Natasha is accused in three cases.On June 14, a trial court had dismissed bail pleas of Natasha and Kalita on the ground that there was no merit in the applications and that it was amply clear from the charge sheet that the investigation was still pending and it has been filed against other accused persons also.It had said that considering the investigation so far and the nature of the offence and the role being ascribed to the accused, there were no reasons at all to grant bail.The trial court was informed that the charge sheet has been filed against 10 persons in the case and investigation qua the accused persons was still being done. Kalita has also challenged the trial court’s order denying her bail and the matter is listed for hearing on August 14.Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) was founded in 2015 to make hostels and paying guest accommodations less restrictive for women students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-delhi-hc-seeks-police-reply-on-pinjra-tod-member-s-bail-plea/story-4RmlOMNDHxU3vYpakQ1niK.html
12-08-2020||Ranchi||Cop axes fellow personnel to death, injures another in Jharkhand jail||A Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP-7) police personnel was arrested for allegedly murdering a fellow personnel with an axe and injuring one other in Ghatsila jail barracks late Monday night, officials said on Tuesday.“The accused JAP-7 havaldar Manish Kumar has been arrested for murdering fellow havaldar Dharmendra Kumar Singh in Ghatsila jail barracks late Monday night. JAP-7 battalion DSP Bharat Prasad is investigating the incident. Another injured jawan Upendra Kumar Singh is undergoing treatment at MGMMCH in Jamshedpur. The body of the slain jawan has been handed over to his family after post mortem,” Dr M Tamil Vanan, Jamshedpur senior superintendent of police (SSP), said.Prasad reached Ghatsila Tuesday morning and started an inquiry into the incident, while jail superintendent-in-charge Narendra Prasad Singh took stock of the situation.As per available information, Dharmendra, Manish and Upendra were having dinner in the jail barrack Monday night when Dharmendra and Manish got engaged in a heated argument . An infuriated Manish picked up an axe kept in the barrack and attacked 52-year-old Dharmendra. Doctors at Ghatsila sub-division hospital declared him brought dead Monday night.Fellow jawan Upendra (36) also sustained serious injuries on his leg while he was trying to pacify Manish. The jail superintendent-in-charge said all the JAP-7 jawans deployed in the jail would be replaced in a day or two.QUARANTINED ASI SHOOTS HIMSELF TO DEATH A Jamshedpur district police assistant sub-inspector (ASI) under home quarantine shot himself dead at his flat in Golmuri police line under Golmuri police station in Jamshedpur on Monday evening, police said Tuesday.The deceased was identified as Tarun Pandey (35). He had shot himself with a licensed revolver, allegedly over a dispute with his wife for not letting him out of the house due to being in quarantine. He was in home quarantine with his wife Jyoti Kumari after returning to the city from Patna on August 7.“The reason behind the ASI’s suicide is not clear. The revolver with which he shot himself was not his service revolver. It was licensed from either Chaibasa or Nawada (Bihar). We have sought information from both the district authorities. All forensic evidence has been collected. We have also written to BSF, where he earlier worked before joining Jharkhand police in 2012,” said the SSP. Pandey was recently promoted to the post of ASI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-axes-fellow-to-death-and-injures-another-in-ghatsila-jail-held/story-Ns6YQrZkVGpWPAjtYVo7IN.html
12-08-2020||Lucknow||BSP demands punishment for culprits in Sudiksha Bhati death case||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national spokesperson Sudhindra Bhadoria on Wednesday demanded punishment for those responsible for the death of Sudiksha Bhati, the daughter of a tea shop owner, who died Monday near Bulandshahr in a road accident.“I would like to state that the Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been constituted but immediate action should be taken to punish those who are responsible for the death of this child. I must say that the program of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao will have meaning if such children are protected and the girls in this country can go forward for their education. If not, then it will be a big blow to the whole movement of education for girls,” he said while speaking to ANI.Bhadoria further said that “Bhati was a role model for Indian girl students. She had achieved what very few could have achieved. The deceased was one of the brightest scholars studying in the United States. The manner in which she was eve teased and lost her life is something which the nation condemns.”The deceased was allegedly being chased by eve-teasers while she was going to meet her relatives in Bulandshahr on a bike with her uncle Sathendra Bhati. She was living in Dadri Tehsil of Gautam Buddha Nagar district and was on holiday due to Covid-19 pandemic and was supposed to return to college in the US on August 20.Sathendra Bhati, paternal uncle of Sudeeksha said that she was studying in the US at a scholarship of Rs 3.80 crore from HCL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bsp-demands-punishment-for-culprits-in-sudiksha-bhati-death-case/story-YNiaJZMh4cMiYF4WDzJnoI.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Rise in suicides underscores need for better mental healthcare in Himachal||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh has seen a rise in the number of suicides this year, particularly during the lockdown since March, which underscores the need for improving the state’s mental health facilities. Though a mental health rehabilitation centre was set up in Shimla in 1997 and a helpline number 104 was launched two years ago, these facilities are woefully inadequate in dealing with the scale of the problem. According to police data, an average of three people commit suicide in the state every day and there are only five government counsellors to address issues related to mental health of a population of 75 lakh. Initially, the helpline that functions 24 hours a day and seven days in a week, was not active but nowadays it gets 120 calls daily. Special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal says, “Mental health problems have increased during the lockdown and there is a plan to set up a helpline in each of the 12 districts.” Issues related to mental health are also being addressed on the e-sanjeevani portal. MOST VICTIMS ARE LABOURERS, HOUSEWIVES The police recorded 466 suicides till July 31 this year with an average of 67 people ending their life every month. Last year, 710 people committed suicide, an average of 59 suicides a month. Of the total suicides this year, 12% (55) were abetted and cases were registered under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code. In the remaining 88% of cases (411), inquest proceedings were initiated under Section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Among the victims, 62% are men and 38% women. Of them, 21% (101 cases) are of labourers; 15% (72) housewives; 8% (38) students; 6% (29) private employees; and 4% (16) each are farmers and businessmen. 13% of the victims took the extreme step due to marital discord (60 cases) and 12% due to domestic disputes (58 cases), while 7% or 33 victims ended their life because of health problems. Ten people committed suicide due to loss of job. Police said that from January to April, the average number of suicides was 10 but it shot up to 25 from May to July. In May, June and July, more than 100 suicides were reported each month. The monthly average from January to April was 41. YOUNGSTERS MOST VULNERABLE People between 18 years and 35 years are most vulnerable to suicides as 111 men and 57 women in the age group ended their lives this year. They comprised students and those in their early married life. Those in the 35-50 year age group were also vulnerable with issues such as a troubled marriage and hectic professional life. Domestic violence, economic distress, failed relationships, unemployment, health, setback in business; drug abuse and alcoholism are factors that drove people to take the extreme step. PRESSURES OF SOCIAL DISTANCING “Social distancing measures, though vital to stop the spread of Covid-19, leads to isolation from loved ones. People are at greater risk of anxiety, depression and loneliness. It could lead to fear, panic, regret, guilt, a sense of loss or despair. Such emotions can lead to suicidal thoughts,” says Dinesh Dutt, the head of the psychiatry department at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla. Health experts say that not only the government but people at large can also play a vital role in improving the mental health scenario. “Social media has a responsible role to play. A suicidal act is unwarranted and undesirable,” says Dr Sanjay Pathak, the senior medical superintendent at the Himachal Hospital of Mental Health and Rehabilitation, Shimla. “Drinking, smoking and drugs are escape routes that complicate matters. Face the problem and seek help of a therapist. Meditation, yoga and music help improve mental health,” he adds. WORST-HIT DISTRICTS (JANUARY TO JULY, 2020) District Male Female Total Kangra 54 25 79 Mandi 43 32 75 Shimla 31 28 59 Una 34 13 47 Sirmour 27 14 41 Hamirpur 21 15 36 Solan 19 14 33 SIGNS TO WATCH OUT FOR 1) Change in routine, eating and sleeping less 2) Lack of energy or feeling tired 3) Feeling of hopelessness or feeling overwhelmed 4) Restless, agitated, nervous, and irritable 5) Withdrawal from family and friends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rise-in-suicides-underscores-need-for-better-mental-healthcare-in-himachal/story-PdqYwecBDqKBSseuT9tbNK.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi attitude of ‘koyi gal nahin’ causing delay in Covid testing, says CM||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said Tuesday the Punjabi attitude of ‘koyi gal nahin’ was causing people to delay their Covid-19 testing until it became inevitable, warning them it could prove detrimental in some cases.Singh blamed the attitude for the higher-than-Haryana mortality rate in Punjab.While this was a nice attitude, he said, it could prove detrimental in some cases.He said he had conveyed this to Prime Minister Narendra Modi too earlier Tuesday.“The concern at present, however, was the rising number of Covid cases in the state, with the Punjabi spirit of ‘koyi gal nahin’ (no worries) causing people to delay going for testing and treatment,” said Singh.He was addressing a virtual meeting with industry leaders, including Hindustan Unilever Ltd CMD Sanjiv Mehta, Biocon’s Executive Chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw and Tech Mahindra MD C P Gurnani.Earlier during a video conference with Prime Minister Modi to review the Covid-19 situation, the chief minister said the cases in the state have reached 24,891 with 604 deaths.Singh said the state had seen cases go up from 500 to 1,000 in two weeks, with the positivity rate of the last five days at 8.73 per cent.The majority of cases were being reported from Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala, though they were increasing in all districts, he said.Micro-containment zones were being increased in high incidence districts like Ludhiana, Patiala and Jalandhar, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjabi-attitude-of-koyi-gal-nahin-causing-delay-in-covid-testing-says-cm/story-Ul9BB9IzgRmNiD2abnreKJ.html
12-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police advises invitees not to attend I-Day event if they have Covid symptoms||The Delhi Police Tuesday advised invitees for the Independence Day function at the Red Fort here to refrain from attending it if they experienced any Covid-19 symptom within two weeks before the event and haven’t got tested. The police also requested the invitees to follow Covid-related guidelines issued by the Home Ministry and the Health Ministry at all times during the Independence Day celebration at the Red Fort. “In the event of any invitee experiencing/having a history of any symptoms of Covid-19 within two weeks (running up to) of the Independence Day, which is yet untested or confirmed positive for the disease, the invitee may consider refraining to attend the event,” the police said in a statement.They said there will be markings at the entry gate at adequate distance and controlling officers and ushers will be on duty to assist invitees for seating inside the designated enclosures.They said that on conclusion of the function, the invitees should avoid crowding at the exit, and wait for the controlling officers to guide them. According to a senior police officer, there will be around 4,000 security personnel at the Red Fort on the occasion and they will stand maintaining social distance. No cameras, binoculars, remote-controlled car keys, umbrella, handbags, briefcases, transistors, cigarette lighters, tiffin boxes, water bottles, lunch boxes etc. will be permitted, they said. The full-dress rehearsal for the Independence Day will take place at the Red Fort on Thursday. Defence personnel from the Army, Navy and the Air Force will march across the Mughal-era structure.Earlier the police had said a multi-layer security ring, including NSG snipers, elite SWAT commandos and kite catchers, will be placed around the Red Fort, from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on the 74th Independence Day. Over 350 Delhi Police personnel, who will be part of the guard of honour at Red Fort on Independence Day, have been quarantined as a precautionary measure, they had said.These personnel of the force of all ranks -- from a constable to Deputy Commissioner of Police -- have been quarantined at a newly built police colony in Delhi Cantonment. Flying of sub-conventional aerial platforms like para-gliders, para-motors, hang gliders, UAVs, micro light aircraft, remotely piloted aircraft, hot air balloons, small size powered aircraft, quadcopters or para-jumping from aircraft etc. are prohibited over the jurisdiction of National Capital Territory of Delhi up to August 15, police had said.  The guest list likely to be pruned and children wearing clothes resembling the Tricolour will be missing this year. However, there will be no change in the security arrangements and they will be as stringent as they are every year. The police personnel involved in frisking would also don personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, the police had said. The Independence Day event witnesses attendance of ministers, senior political leaders, top officials of different ministries and diplomats. Even the general public is allowed to attend.This time, however, there was also a proposal to not allow the general public at the event and instead have 1,500 corona warriors, including 500 police personnel who have recovered from the infection, attend it. The event at the Red Fort shall consist of a guard of honour by the armed forces and the Delhi Police to the prime minister, unfurling of the national flag and firing of the 21-gun salute, address by the PM, singing of the national anthem immediately after the speech and release of tricoloured balloons at the end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-advises-invitees-not-to-attend-i-day-event-if-they-have-covid-symptoms/story-g3HpaqTV8Q2LQLa74ULbbP.html
12-08-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru clashes: Digvijaya Singh seeks probe into source social media post||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Wednesday demanded an investigation into the source of social media post which resulted in violence in Bengaluru rather only taking cognizance of people who shared it. The Congress leader condemned the violence and appealed for peace.“I strongly condemn Communally Provocative Offensive Post on Social Media which resulted in violence in Bengaluru. I appeal to all to remain calm and peaceful. Police must find out the source from which the Post originated rather than take cognisance of only those who shared it,” the Congress leader tweeted.Congress MLA Srinivas Murthy’s nephew was arrested for allegedly sharing a ‘derogatory’ post on social media that triggered violence in the city last night.110 accused of arson, stone-pelting, and assault on the police have been arrested in connection with the violence.Two persons died and around 60 police personnel sustained injuries during the clashes, the police said.Earlier, Murthy’s house was also vandalised by miscreants following the social media post by his nephew Naveen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-clashes-digvijaya-singh-seeks-probe-into-source-social-media-post/story-a4IZZlPMuz084dixT0TIPJ.html
12-08-2020||Bangalore||5 charred to death after private bus catches fire in Karnataka’s Chitradurga||At least five people were burnt alive after a bus travelling from Vijayapura to Bengaluru caught fire on the highway in Chitradurga district of Karnataka in the early hours of Wednesday. The private bus was said to be carrying 32 passengers when it caught fire on National Highway 4 at KR Halli in Hiriyur taluk of the district. Among the dead are two children and a woman. The bus is said to have caught fire after it developed some engine trouble. Hiriyur SP Radhika visited the site of the accident. The injured have been shifted to a district government hospital. Hiriyur Police have registered an FIR and further investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/5-charred-to-death-after-private-bus-catches-fire-in-karnataka-s-chitradurga/story-2Uo35JistKWDGOJbVWXZlI.html
12-08-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru Police arrests accused of sharing ‘derogatory’ social media post, 110 people for violence||Bengaluru Police has arrested Congress MLA Srinivas Murthy’s nephew for sharing a ‘derogatory’ post on social media, which triggered violence in the city last night.As many as 110 people have been arrested in connection with the violence in the city.“Accused Naveen arrested for sharing a derogatory post on social media,” said Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant.“110 people have also been arrested in connection with the violence that broke out in Bengaluru over an alleged inciting social media post,” Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime), Bengaluru said.Two persons died and around 60 police personnel sustained injuries during the clashes, police said.While Section 144 has been imposed in Bengaluru, curfew has been imposed in DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits after violence broke out in the area.Earlier, Congress MLA Srinivas Murthy’s house was also vandalised by miscreants following the social media post by his nephew Naveen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-police-arrests-accused-of-sharing-derogatory-social-media-post-110-people-for-violence/story-YxlVB4JJKGXYJi3CrKgivI.html
12-08-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 recovery rate touches 75%, says CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that the recovery rate of coronavirus has touched 75 per cent mark in the state and patients in large number are going home after the recovery.“At present, the recovery rate of the state has touched 75.1 percent and the number of active patients has become 9,105. New 843 patients have been admitted to the state and at the same time, 922 went back home after the recovery. In comparison to Monday, the number of active patients has declined by 98,” said Chouhan while he was reviewing the situation of Covid-19 and arrangements in the state through video conference The fatality rate in the state is 2.54 and every possible effort is being made to minimise it further, he said.The chief minister said that arrangement of treatment for patients with minor symptoms should be made at home, subject to availability of facility at home.He further instructed that corona related health checkups should be conducted compulsorily in all jails of the state. State Home Minister Dr Narrotam Mishra informed that 30 patients of coronavirus have been found in Gwalior jail. Chouhan then instructed to make separate wards and arrangements for treatment in the jails.He asked officials to pay special heed to Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Jabalpur and Vidisha. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-touches-75-says-cm-chouhan/story-ma0KCzoAKQZ4QnZIaK6zJM.html
12-08-2020||Bangalore||3 die after violence erupts in Bengaluru over Facebook post||Three people were killed in Bengaluru after police opened fire as clashes broke out in parts of the city on Tuesday night after a youth allegedly posted derogatory content inciting hatred on Facebook. Members of the minority community pelted stones at the residence of Congress MLA Akhanda Shrinivasa Murthy, DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations. The youth, who is said to be associated with the Congress lawmaker, has been arrested.Among the three dead persons, two have been identified as Wajid Khan (20) and Yaseen Pasha (20). The third person remains unidentified. The bodies are currently kept at the Bowring Hospital morgue as the authorities will conduct Covid-19 tests and post-mortem before handing them over to the family members. Karnataka: Visuals from Bengaluru's DJ Halli Police Station area where violence broke out over an alleged inciting social media post.Two people died & around 60 police personnel sustained injuries in the violence in Bengaluru, according to Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. pic.twitter.com/QsAALZycs0According to news agency ANI, 60 policemen sustained injuries as the mob hurled bottles and stones at them while protesting against the Facebook post which allegedly insulted the religious figure.  #UPDATE Accused Naveen arrested for sharing derogatory posts on social media: Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal PantTwo persons died and around 60 police personnel sustained injuries in the violence that broke out over the social media post, in Bengaluru last night.#Karnataka https://t.co/VlZKo8CW3dThe city police commissioner Kamal Pant has said that the police has also detained 165 people for rioting. People familiar to the development said that the youth arrested for posting the content has denied his role saying that his social media account was hacked. Section 144 has been imposed across Bengaluru following the violence that erupted in some parts of the city. State home minister B Bommai said that nobody will be allowed to take the law into their own hands. He also added that additional police forces have been deployed to maintain law and order.  Karnataka: Residence of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy was attacked last night, as violence broke out in Bengaluru over an alleged inciting social media post.Section 144 imposed in entire Bangalore city. Curfew imposed in DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits. pic.twitter.com/fEYJvUdomDThe home minister has also briefed Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa about the incident. The chief minister in a tweet condemned the violence and ordered action against elements who took the law in their hands. Yediyurappa further added that the miscreants who attacked the police personnel, media and the general public will not be spared. He also appealed for calm and asked people to not get incited. BJP Karnataka president and member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Katee while speaking to reporters said that the government is thinking to hand over the case to the CB-CID for investigation. ನಿನ್ನೆ ರಾತ್ರಿ ನಡೆದ ಗಲಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಪತ್ರಕರ್ತರು, ಪೋಲೀಸರು, ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕರ ‌ಮೇಲೆ ಹಲ್ಲೆ ಮಾಡಿರುವುದು ಅಕ್ಷಮ್ಯ. ಇಂತಹ ಪ್ರಚೋದನೆ, ಪುಂಡಾಟಗಳನ್ನು ಸರ್ಕಾರ ಕಿಂಚಿತ್ತೂ ಸಹಿಸುವುದಿಲ್ಲ. ದುಷ್ಕರ್ಮಿಗಳ ವಿರುದ್ಧ ಕಠಿಣ ಕ್ರಮ ನಿಶ್ಚಿತ. ಜನರು ಈ ಸಂದರ್ಭದಲ್ಲಿ ಆವೇಶಕ್ಕೆ ಒಳಗಾಗದೆ ಸಂಯಮದಿಂದ ವರ್ತಿಸಬೇಕೆಂದು ಮನವಿ ಮಾಡುತ್ತೇನೆ. (2/2)Officials familiar with the development said that additional police forces have been deployed to ensure peace and security throughout Bengaluru city.  Now, situation is completely under control. Curfew imposed in DJ Halli & KG Halli police station limits & Section 144 imposed in remaining city. We are getting some companies from RAF, CRPF & CISF, to join our security arrangements: Kamal Pant, Bengaluru City Police Commissioner pic.twitter.com/zw39XnKPY4Congress president for Karnataka unit DK Shivakumar condemned the incident saying, “Completely condemn the violence unleashed on our party legislator’s house as well as on the police. Equally condemn the derogatory facebook post. Nobody should indulge in violence.” I condemn the violence that has happened in Bengaluru. No one must take law into their own hands.The Government must take strict and exemplary action against the person who made the derogatory social media post as well as those who indulged in rioting and arson. pic.twitter.com/Adhl152LPtHe has also called for a meeting at 12 pm on Wednesday at the Karnataka Congress officer to discuss the matter. Congress MLA AS Murthy will meet R Ashoka, Karnataka revenue minister, to seek protection for him and his family. Murthy’s residence was burnt down in the violence that erupted on late Tuesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/2-die-after-communal-violence-breaks-out-in-bengaluru-over-facebook-post/story-kB6zYccSYKgetMK4n4JdNM.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Police busts interstate gang involved in ATM card cloning, 4 held||With the arrest of four accused in Jind, Haryana Police on Tuesday busted an interstate card cloning gang that was instrumental in stealing ATM card data and cheating people.Police have seized an ATM cloning machine and swap machine from them.Haryana Police spokesperson informed that arrested accused were identified as Sonu of Bhiwani, Ajay of Delhi, Jony of district Hisar and Amrit of Hansi. The gang cheated people in Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttrakhand, Gujarat, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. They first steal data and then data was used to clone cards and later used at different ATM machines.The gang was busted after police managed to get hold of one of the gang members Sonu, when his wallet fell outside an ATM in Safidon on August 1 while he was attempting a similar crime with card cloning. Police started an investigation on the basis of documents recovered from the wallet. While Sonu and Ajay were nabbed from Delhi, two others were arrested from Hansi.During preliminary interrogation revealed that the gang had carried out 55 ATM frauds including 17 in Haryana, 7 in Uttar Pradesh, 2 in Maharashtra, 6 in Uttrakhand, 3 each in Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, 11 in Rajasthan, 5 in Delhi and 1 in West Bengal. Police are also trying to arrest other gang members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-police-busts-interstate-gang-involved-in-atm-card-cloning-4-held/story-opn2ltO99yNsQjsHNBN7GP.html
12-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A gentleman lost in love||It’s evening. He’s lying sprawled along a grassy slope, against a background of yellow flowers. The sky is pitch blue. The air is breezy. His head is resting against his hand. He is in a light pink T-shirt. The strap of a pale blue mask is dangling out from his pants’ pocket like a piece of fashion accessory. His face is bare. He seems lost in thoughts.He must be in love.“I’m in love,” admits Muhammed Gulzar. It’s Sunday evening and the supplier of beauty parlour products (“makeup stuff such as lipstick, nail polish, mask, creams, shampoo...”) is lounging in this central Delhi park to console his heart—he uses the Hindi word tasalli. He lives nearby, in a rented room in Sarai Kale Khan.Mr Gulzar is in his mid-20s and is missing a woman called Rubeena. “I feel alone without her.” He stays silent for a while, as if preparing to open his mouth to speak a profound revelation about his life, but seems to be struggling with some dilemma. Finally, he says—“She is my wife.”He says he is also missing his son, Sufiyan. Both mother and son are away at the home of Mr Gulzar’s parents, in Madhubani.Isn’t that district in Bihar famous for its art, with people painting their own house-walls with beautiful drawings? Mr Gulzar nods. Is his house similarly decked? He shakes his head, looking amused.Intently watching at a cloud drifting over the setting sun, the brooding man gives a brief biography of his relationship with Rubeena: “We had a love marriage. I have been married to her for five years but I had known her for two years prior to that.”Rubeena’s mother used to run a small “canteen” for labourers in Nabi Karim, near the New Delhi railway station. This is where he first spotted his future wife. “She would stand beside her Ammi, speaking nothing, doing nothing... she would stay there like a statue.”Drawn by the enigma of her “chuppi (silence)”, Mr Gulzar started to daily patronise the canteen and soon the ice broke between the two.“We started to go to the zoo together, where we would spend a lot of time.”Unlike in popular love stories or romantic movies, there was no protest from the couple’s respective families.“We have always been staying together as a husband and wife, but some weeks before the lockdown, my parents suggested that she should come over to Madhubani for a few days, so that they could be with their grandchild.”Mr Gulzar escorted her and the child to Bihar and rushed back to Delhi, intending to bring them back in two weeks.And then the coronavirus arrived, the lockdown happened, and Mr Gulzar continues to be without the woman he loves.“And today I was missing her very much. So I came over to this park.”It’s been some time since the lockdown has been lifted but the lonely man is hesitating to get back his family, waiting for the pandemic to recede.He now takes out his mobile phone and scrolls through the photo album—most of the images have different poses of him flexing his muscles—until reaching the portrait of a woman in a pink dupatta with a smiling young boy in white kurta pajama—“my wife and my son.”Mr Gulzar now brings the phone close to his face, closes his eyes and kisses the screen.Not long after, it is time for the park to close.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwala-a-gentleman-lost-in-love/story-sRLMPzNwmButYNC46n5s0I.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||AI pilots’ union seeks DGCA chief’s removal||Pilots from Air India on Tuesday wrote to the civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri asking him to immediately replace director general of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation with an officer who possesses knowledge of aviation. The pilots have raised questions on DG Arun Kumar who in an interview to one of the media channels made statements on the deceased pilots’ landing method in last week’s plane crash in Kozhikode.The Air Indian pilots unions- Indian pilots Guild (flying Boeing aircraft) and Indian Commercial Pilots Guild (ICPA) in the letter stated, ‘It has come to our notice that...Arun Kumar, IAS, in a nationally televised interview conducted moments after the catastrophic accident of Air India Express Flight..has gone on record to state.. “...two fellows are dead …. and the landing it seems was not appropriate….”. In another televised interview he also mentioned as follows: “…landing was not smooth….”.The letter written on Tuesday read, ‘The DGCA’s hasty comments on TV clearly appeared to be biased, unprofessional, premature and presumptive...”.When contacted, Kumar, DG, DGCA, said, “Good luck to them.” Aviation ministry spokesperson could not be reached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ai-pilots-union-seeks-dgca-chief-s-removal/story-mg2xvgZ7dDKLoEBMugdkCP.html
12-08-2020||City||Missing photographer’s mutilated body found in Yamunanagar||A 19-year-old photographer’s partially mutilated body was found near Manakpur industrial area in Jagadhri on Tuesday. The victim, Vaibhav, had gone missing on Sunday from Jagadhri’s Jhanda Chowk. His family had on Monday lodged a missing person report at the Jagadhri City police station. Now, the family has alleged murder.His grandfather said, “Vaibhav received a call on Sunday morning about some photoshoot and he left saying that he’ll be back in two hours. We waited for him till 4pm and started calling him, but his phone was switched off. After searching for hours, we approached the police on Monday.”“On Tuesday, we were asked to identify a bike in Manakpur area, which was Vaibhav’s. His body was found in a water pit near the spot,” he added.Station in-charge Sukhbir said, “We have sent the body for autopsy. The family has alleged murder, so we have added Section 302 (murder) of the IPC to the FIR and have started an investigation.” Body recovered from Karnal canal An unidentified body was recovered from the Western Yamuna Canal in Karnal, police said on Tuesday. The investigating officer said the body has been sent for identification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-photographer-s-mutilated-body-found-in-yamunanagar/story-SyeGTEBf16q7awIgX0TT6O.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||Local train services to remain suspended in Mumbai: Rly ministry||The Railways has decided to hold off the resumption of local train services in the city for the general public, even as other restrictions imposed during the lockdown are being lifted gradually. A Press Information Bureau (PIB) release issued on Tuesday states that passenger trains along with local trains will continue to remain suspended till further notice.“Regular passenger and suburban train services will continue to remain suspended until further notice. It may be noted that 230 special trains, which are running at present, will continue to operate. Local trains in Mumbai, which are presently running on a limited basis, only on the requisition of the state government, will also continue to run. Additional special trains may be run based on the requirement,” mentions the release. The Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) operated more than 3,000 local train services daily on the suburban railway route before the lockdown was imposed. Currently, CR and WR run a total of 700 daily services only for essential service providers. Passengers have started demanding the resumption of train services, citing expensive commute by other modes of transport. A delegation of railway passenger associations met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday afternoon, demanding resumption of local train services for the general public in the city.“Nobody is thinking of the general passengers who need to travel by local trains. Some people want to travel by station trains but hey cannot reach the boarding stations as they are also not being allowed to travel by local trains. We met the Governor and raised our concerns. It is not justified.” said Madhu Kotian, president, Mumbai Rail Pravasi Sangh. The passenger association has also suggested the introduction of staggered office timings. “We have suggested that different shift timings should be introduced for companies. Train services should halt at Kalwa, Diva, Airoli and Ghansoli railway stations for emergency workers. QR-based code passes for emergency workers is not required,” added Kotian.The association stated that the Governor assured them he would address their concerns. “However, we will protest on the platforms of railway stations if the demands of general passengers are not met,” said Kotian.Meanwhile, passengers have stated that they have to spend extra money to travel to their workplace due to the suspension of train services. “I pay ₹250 daily for a journey that earlier cost me less than ₹10 by local train. Companies are slowly opening up, but why are the train services suspended till now? The government should implement a protocol for travel,” said Aarti Singh, a Vidyavihar resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/local-train-services-to-remain-suspended-in-mumbai-rly-ministry/story-Xv9QnlgiwHupyiHLqIEF7L.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||Efforts on to prevent second wave of Covid-19, Thackeray tells PM Modi||The Maharashtra government is taking efforts to prevent a second wave of Covid-19 in the state, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray said in a meeting of chief ministers with Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on Tuesday. Thackeray said that though the state has been successful in bringing down cases in Mumbai’s Dharavi and Worli, the battle against the coronavirus is not over yet. The CM added that the state is working towards reducing the case fatality rate (CFR) in Maharashtra, which stands at 3.44%.Modi held a meeting with chief ministers of Maharashtra Gujarat, West Bengal, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh via video conferencing, to review measures taken to tackle Covid-19. A statement from the Maharashtra government said that Modi said that if the 10 states, which have 80% of cases in the country, win against Covid-19, then the country would emerge victorious.“Efforts are being taken to bring down the mortality rate. At the same time, there has been praise over controlling the situation in Dharavi and Worli. But the battle is not over yet. The government is working to see to it that there is no second wave in Maharashtra,” a statement quoting Thackeray said. He added that the Maharashtra government has not hidden any fatalities or confirmed cases, and the state has been “transparent” in providing all data.The state, according to the CM, has 3.5 lakh beds ready with oxygen supply, ventilators and other equipment, but there is a shortage of doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers.The CM pointed out that several people who have recovered from Covid-19 have contracted other illnesses, and were forced to get institutional treatment after they tested negative. The state, as on August 10, had 358,421 recovered patients. “Those who have recovered from Covid-19 have contracted some other illnesses. There is a need to set up a mechanism to treat such individuals,” the statement added. Thackeray added that the state government will set up infectious diseases control hospitals in all the districts, including Mumbai. He expressed the need to research how and why different types of viruses originate.During the meeting, Thackeray reiterated the demand to cancel final-year examinations for non-professional courses, to ensure that the lives of students are not endangered. Thackeray called for a decision on the issue at the national level. He made a strong pitch to declare students as passed by giving them aggregate marks. He said students cannot be left “hanging” due to the “uncertainty” during these pandemic times. Thackeray also called for a decision to be taken in the case of final-year medical students.The CM said that till the time a vaccine for Covid-19 is developed, masks and social distancing are the only medicine. “If we learn to live with the coronavirus, the process of unlocking restrictions will be easier and faster, Thackeray said during the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/efforts-on-to-prevent-second-wave-of-covid-19-thackeray-tells-pm-modi/story-1SJ97Edrk8gniupybGqDXP.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||Sanjay Dutt diagnosed with lung cancer||Actor Sanjay Dutt, 61, has been diagnosed with stage-four lung cancer and was discharged from Lilavati hospital on Monday, according to sources at the hospital, who are not authorised to speak to the media.The actor was rushed to the hospital on Saturday after he complained of breathlessness. His rapid Covid-19 antigen test result came back negative. But later, his diagnosis revealed stage-four lung cancer. “When he was taken to the hospital, he was low on oxygen saturation. But when his Covid-19 report came negative, we ran a cancer test and it was positive,” said a source.When contacted, the actor’s doctor, Dr Jalil Parker, refused to comment, citing patient confidentiality.Earlier in the day, he had tweeted, “Hi friends, I am taking a short break from work for medical treatment. My family and friends are with me and I urge my well-wishers not to worry or unnecessarily speculate. With your love and good wishes, I will be back soon!”The actor was admitted to the non-Covid-19 intensive care unit (ICU) at Lilavati Hospital around 6pm on Saturday and according to sources, the actors’ oxygen is fluctuating between 90-92%. Later, it was reported that he has developed fluid in his chest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sanjay-dutt-diagnosed-with-lung-cancer/story-CYXJC5q776kIpv9S3DokCO.html
12-08-2020||City||Fire breaks out at Thane hospital, no injuries reported||A minor fire broke out at the medical shop located inside Diya Multispeciality Hospital in Ghodbunder, Thane, on Tuesday around 11pm. As per the latest updates, attempts are on to douse the fire. No injuries have been in the incident.According to the Thane regional disaster management cell, it is a minor blaze. Four Covid-19 patients who were admitted to the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU) were being shifted to other hospitals.“We received a call at 11.05pm, following which our team rushed to the site with one fire engine. The dousing operations are on. The hospital had four Covid patients on the floor who are being shifted to other hospitals in ambulances,” an official from RDMC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-breaks-out-at-thane-hospital-no-injuries-reported/story-x6u97uzKeulQoak4qOhDFK.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||AI Express pilot Deepak Sathe cremated with state honours||Wing Commander Captain Deepak Sathe, pilot-in-command of the Air India Express plane that crashed in Kerala last week, was cremated with state honours in Mumbai on Tuesday.Earlier in the day, the chief minister’s office said the funeral of the former IAF pilot, who was a resident of Chandivli, will be accorded full state honours. “His life has been one that shall inspire many more young pilots to achieve the Sword of Honour and command over the skies,” a tweet from the chief minister’s office readAccording to officials from the protocol department of the state government, the state honour was accorded as per the rules laid by the Central government. “During the state funeral, mortal remains are draped in the national flag by the state police, followed by a gun salute as per their drill manual. The national flag is later handed over to the family. State does not have its own rules about the state funeral. We follow the laid procedure by the ministry of home affairs,” an official said.According state honours is according to the discretion of the chief minister. State funerals were conferred earlier to Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray, Vipassana guru Satyanarayan Goenka, religious leader Syedna Mohammad Burhanuddin, poet Mangesh Padgaonkar, actor Sri Devi, among others in the recent past. Tributes to Sathe were paid by members of parliament Poonam Mahajan, Priyanka Chaturvedi, member of legislative assembly Dilip Lande, councillor Ishwar Tawade, Harish Bhandirghe and mayor Kishori Padnekar. A statement from the family read, “Deepak Sathe was a loving husband and caring father and we are deeply pained by his tragic demise. He was a family man and loved to spend time with family and friends whenever possible. He was a calm, composed, simple, and genuine person who persistently imbued happiness in people around him. He was friendly and warm with friends and acquaintances alike. He was careful and meticulous in his ways, and always pursued excellence. He instilled in the children the importance of an honest day’s work, and a good night’s sleep. He infused in us a love for sport and the outdoors, the inquisitiveness to try novel experiences and an enthusiasm to explore new lands and varied cuisine. He will remain in our hearts forever.’The flight from Dubai with 190 people, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport in heavy rain on Friday, killing 18 people, including both pilots. Sathe’s body was flown into the city on Sunday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ai-express-pilot-deepak-sathe-cremated-with-state-honours/story-246brHH5fWcvjvRk0YOv5O.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||August set to be worst Covid-19 month; Maha tally is 535,601||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 11,088 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 535,601, of which 148,553 (27.73%) were active infections, state health department data revealed. In the first 11 days of this month, the state has reported over 1 lakh cases (113,483), translating to 10,316 infections per day on an average. The state saw 102,172 cases in June, 57,157 in May, 10,196 in April and 302 in March. July saw 247,392 infections. The numbers suggest that August will likely record the wort numbers, after it already registered highest single-day spikes in cases and deaths at 12,822 and 390 respectively. The death toll of the state went up to 18,306 after 256 fatalities were reported, of which, 211 were reported in the past 48 hours, another 34 were from the past week, while the remaining 11 deaths were before past week, health officials said. Meanwhile, health minister Rajesh Tope said the state government will soon formulate a standard operating procedure and decide about opening gyms. He said the state will also cap prices of sanitisers and masks in the next four days. “SOP for gyms will be formulated and decision to allow gyms will soon be taken by the state government,” Tope said. “To bring relief to the people, Maharashtra will be the first state to cap prices of sanitisers and masks based on their quality. The decision to this effect will be taken in the next four days, after which sanitizers and masks cannot be sold at exorbitant prices,” he said.Last week, Tope had said that cases would rise and hit a plateau by mid-August. “In my view, the peak has arrived and cases will continue to rise by another 15 days. We are expecting a plateau or flattening of the curve somewhere around August 15. Once we hit the plateau, cases will start declining,” Tope told HT.Dr Pradeep Vyas, health secretary, said the situation was under control and improving. He said that the patient-growth rate was also reducing. “The situation is absolutely under control and improving as the doubling rate of cases in the state has increased to 31.25 days (on August 8) from 21.2 days on June 30 and 16.29 days on May 31,” Dr Vyas told HT. The patient growth rate has also reduced to 2.24% (On August 8) from 3.32 on June 30 and 4.35 on May 30. This is because the rate at which new cases are growing has slowed down and reduced, he added.Officials, however, said that the area where the government needs to focus more is tracing maximum contacts within 72 hours. The same was also pointed out by Lav Agrawal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, while reviewing pandemic situation along with the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last week, said an official from the health department.Agrawal had asked government officials to focus more on containment zones and house-to-house surveys. He has also said that if a patient tested positive, then 80% of his contacts need to be traced within 72 hours and also need to be tested within this period.Like surge in cases, the state is also struggling with high number of casualties. Maharashtra still has highest number of deaths across states in the country. As many as 3,312 deaths have been reported in the past 11 daysm as against 6,988 deaths in July, 5,638 in June, 2,286 deaths in May, 449 in April and 10 deaths in March, when pandemic was started.With 18,306 deaths, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded as 3.42% on Tuesday. It continued to be second-highest in the country after Gujarat, where the CFR was 3.71% with 2,672 deaths (72,031 cases) till Monday, according to statistics shared by the state medical education departmentMumbai has maintained a sort of stability in daily fresh cases with 917 cases reported on Tuesday. Its case count stood at 125,224. Of them, active cases were 18,887.Mumbai has reported highest single-day spike with 2,077 cases on June 27.City’s toll stood at 6,893 after 48 deaths were reported in a day.Pune again contributed maximum daily infection, as it recorded 928 cases, only 11 cases more than Mumbai, on Tuesday. Its tally stood at 72,640 cases. Pimpri-Chinchwad, satellite city in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), recorded 747 cases, third-highest contributor in the state. Its tally stood at 29,910.On Tuesday, the state conducted 64,058 tests and positivity rate recorded was 18.87%. Till date, 2,837,578 tests have been conducted. Dr Vyas also informed that the number of tests went up to 20,472 against per million population, as against 16,002 tests on July 31 and 6,897 tests on June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/august-set-to-be-worst-covid-19-month-maha-tally-is-535-601/story-MFjhEtYrLc0h1G8wZvwCMJ.html
12-08-2020||City||34 new cases in Himachal, Covid-19 count mounts to 3,497||Thirty-four people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday taking the state tally to 3,497, officials said. Of the new cases, 14 were reported in Chamba, eight in Sirmaur, six in Kangra, three in Solan and one each in Kullu, Hamirpur and Mandi. Dharog in Chamba town has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot with 80 positive cases reported from the locality since the first patient was detected on August 3. The 80 infections include 14 new cases reported on Tuesday morning. Chamba chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Rajesh Guleri said, “The 14 fresh cases have been reported from pending samples of August 7. They are primary contacts of people who tested positive for the virus earlier.” “All patients from Dharog have been shifted to Covid treatment facilities and the total number of positive cases has gone up to 230 in Chamba district of which 143 are active cases,” Dr Guleri said. The first patient from Dharog locality was reported on August 3 when a person with no travel history tested positive. A social gathering in the locality is turning out to be a ‘superspreader’ event. Active cases in the state stand at 1,180 and 2,273 patients have recovered so far of which 68 have been cured and discharged on Tuesday. On Monday night, 11 people had tested positive in Sirmaur district. Three of them are from Surla. They are primary contacts of a Covid patient. Four cases were reported from Nahan, including three employees of a Kala Amb-based pharmaceutical company. Two people tested positive in Paonta Sahib and one each in Sataun and Banaur. Solan is the worst-hit district with 856 cases followed by Kangra with 539 cases. Sirmaur is third in the list with 442 cases. Hamirpur has 370 cases, Una 278, Mandi 271, Chamba 230, Shimla 207, Bilaspur 148, Kullu 102, Kinnaur 48, and Lahaul-Spiti four. 1 more fatality, death toll 16 A 78-year-old woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, succumbed to the infection at Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk in Mandi, on Tuesday, taking the coronavirus toll in Himachal Pradesh to 16. The woman belonged to the Sandhol area of Dharampur sub division and had a travel history to Panchkula in Haryana, medical superintendent Dr Jeevanand Chauhan said. Himachal Pradesh has recorded four Covid-19 deaths in four days. Forest minister quarantines self Himachal Pradesh’s forest minister Rakesh Pathania and his family members have home quarantined themselves after the minister’s personal assistant tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Their samples will be sent for testing within next three days. The minister had undergone a test for Covid-19 on Friday after state power minister Sukhram Chaudhary tested positive. Pathania and Chaudhary along with Rajinder Garg were inducted into the state cabinet on July 30 and were in direct contact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/34-new-cases-in-himachal-covid-19-count-mounts-to-3-497/story-IfD2gaB05SdY88zF0AY5AO.html
12-08-2020||City||Inflated power bills: MNS workers ransack MSEDCL office at Navi Mumbai||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) workers ransacked the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited office in Vashi on Tuesday to “protest” against the inflated bills sent to consumers. They also broke a symbolic handi as a mark of their protest. The protest was led by MNS party leader Sandeep Galugade and three other party workers. The protesters smashed the glass doors of the office premises and raised slogans against MSEDCL. “Our leader Raj Thackeray had sent a message to the chief minister earlier, in which he had stated that people have been burdened with inflated electricity bills by MSEDCL amid the Covid outbreak. He had warned that if the bills are not corrected, MNS will take matters in hand. Today, after waiting for several days, we have taken this step and will continue to protest against the bills,” Galugade said. The party workers were later detained by Vashi police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inflated-power-bills-mns-workers-ransack-msedcl-office-at-navi-mumbai/story-lYkBe9sABfsOophtc8DIUI.html
12-08-2020||City||J&K police to carry out DNA sampling of three ‘militants’ killed in Shopian||Jammu and Kashmir Police have decided to carry out DNA sampling of the “militants” killed in Shopian district during an encounter last month.After the encounter, the bodies couldn’t be identified and they were “dubbed as militants” by the army and police. However, three families from Rajouri had filed a missing report about three youths and even identified the pictures of the men who were killed in the encounter in July.All the mainstream political parties have demanded a high-level probe into the encounter. On Tuesday, the police said that DNA sampling will be carried out. “Rajouri police has been approached by some families yesterday claiming that their kin who had gone to Shopian for some work are missing since July 17. They lodged a missing report at Peeru police station on August 10. Meanwhile, some reports on social media claim that the militants killed in the Shopian encounter on July 18 are their relatives,” a police spokesperson said.He said that police had provided sufficient time for the identification of bodies at Kashmir police control room in Srinagar. “The bodies could not be identified and they were buried in the presence of magistrate after conducting a post-mortem examination and taking the DNA samples. Taking cognizance of the claim by the families and media reports, Shopian police will carry out DNA sampling to match it with the family of missing youths. Besides identification, the police will also investigate all other aspects as per the law in due course of time,” the spokesperson added.The spokesperson said that the army has also initiated an investigation into the matter.Lone alleges fake encounterSRINAGAR: Peoples Conference chairman, Sajjad Lone on Tuesday castigated security forces for the alleged fake encounter in Shopian and deplored the silence of people of the country.Lone who was recently released from the house arrest tweeted about three missing youths from Rajouri and said nothing has been uttered on the fake encounter in the country. Leaders of mainstream political parties have demanded a probe into the circumstances under which three youths of Rajouri were killed in the Shopian district of south Kashmir in July and dubbed as militants.‘’The encounter in Shopian is yet again an ugly reminder of fake nature of claims made by security forces. This is the result of a culture of impunity. The tolerance for such incidents in the rest of the country is scary. Not a word has been uttered,’’ Sajjad Lone said in a tweet.On Sunday, the family of three labourers from Rajouri district, who remain missing since July 17, lodged a missing report with the Rajouri police. Three youth Imtiyaz Ahmad, 21, of Dhar Sakri in Koteranka, Abrar Ahmad Khan, 18, of Dhar Sakri and Abrar Ahamd, 26, of Tarkassi Tehsil Koteranka in Rajouri had reached Shopian via the Mughal Road on July 2 and have gone missing since July 17. Police had lodged a missing report with the Koteranka police post in Rajouri.Ahmad’s relative Lal Hussain said, “Since July 17, my nephew Imtiyaz Ahmad did not contact his family. They only have one mobile phone with them, which is switched off. Following this, we had lodged a written complaint at Koteranka police post.”Srinagar-based defence spokesperson colonel Rajesh Kalia said the investigation is going on. “However, no probe has been initiated in this case so far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-police-to-carry-out-dna-sampling-of-three-militants-killed-in-shopian/story-usX48cizFizZ50TLhU0ERJ.html
12-08-2020||City||Militant, 4 associates arrested in Kupwara, large cache of weapons recovered||Security forces on Tuesday arrested a militant and four associates of Hizbul Mujahideen in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara and recovered a large cache of weapons from their possession, police said.Police officials said a joint search operation was launched by the police, army and CRPF late on Monday in Lalpora area of Kupwara after getting information about smuggling of weapons from across the LoC. “Acting on a credible input regarding cross-LoC smuggling of large quantity of weapons and war like stores by militant associates of Hizbul Mujahedeen and their delivery to active terrorists, a joint operation was carried out during late hours,” senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ambarkar Shriram Dinkar said.He said during the operation a local Hizbul Mujahideen militant Parvaiz Ahmad Bhat, 22,was arrested. “An AK-47 rifle and a 9 mm Chinese pistol with magazines were recovered from his possession,” the SSP added.Besides, four militant associates or over ground workers (OGWs) were also apprehended for their alleged involvement in smuggling weapons for the terror outfit. They have been identified as Altaf Ahmad Mir and Mohammad Kohli, both aged 35 and residents of Kupwara, and Nizam Din Gujjar, 44 and Ab Qayoom Gujjar, 29, both from Bandipora district.The SSP said arms and ammunition were recovered from their possession. The weapons included 60 AK-7.62 rounds, one pistol, two pistol magazines, 12 pistol rounds (9mm) and one pouch.A case under Sections 7/25 IA Act and 13, 16, 18, 39 UAPA has been registered.The SSP said preliminary investigation revealed that these militant associates had established contacts with commanders having code name of Reyaz and Amjad. “Both hail from Bandipora and currently operate at Sonar Lauch Pad as district commanders for smuggling and supply of weapons to terrorists active in the Valley,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/militant-4-associates-arrested-in-kupwara-large-cache-of-weapons-recovered/story-IVMlc4k42PvLdHTpS1agyJ.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||MMRDA planning an inter-state bus terminal at Mumbai’s Wadala area||A long-pending project, aiming to curb illegal parking and traffic congestion in the city, is finally taking shape. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) is planning to develop an inter-state bus terminal (ISBT) at Wadala’s Anik bus depot. The 16-hectare plot will also include a Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) depot, a Metro stabling yard and a commercial hub. The authority already invited bids for preparing a conceptual plan, a techno-feasibility study and an implementation plan for the project. Though a large number of public and private buses ply in the city, there is no dedicated bus terminal for buses to operate from. Passengers are picked-up or dropped at various locations, or sometimes off the road, causing inconvenience to them as well as creating congestion on roads and hurdles in the movement of traffic. According to MMRDA, the proposed land parcel will include bus platforms, operators’ offices, parking facility for buses, waiting facilities for passengers and allied facilities, bus crew facilities, pick-up and drop off points, food courts, communications centre, fuel station, bus repair and maintenance facilities, transport interchange and integration facilities as well as commercial and entertainment facilities. A senior official from MMRDA said that the terminal will also alleviate traffic congestion, as there is currently no dedicated facility for parking buses, and will improve travel conditions for passengers. Wadala is being looked at as a major transport hub, as it is already connected via the Eastern Freeway and the Mumbai Monorail. It will further be strengthened with the under-construction Metro-4 (Wadala-Thane-Kasarwadavali) corridor. Recently, MMRDA also approved plans for developing a school and hospital at Wadala, which the authority is looking to develop as the central business district like Bandra-Kurla Complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrda-planning-an-inter-state-bus-terminal-at-mumbai-s-wadala-area/story-9we9VCNORMaiq84rp10RdM.html
12-08-2020||Mumbai||University of Mumbai’s second merit list: Marginal dip in cut-offs for undergraduate courses||The announcement of the second merit list for undergraduate courses (UG) by the University of Mumbai (MU) on Tuesday brought little relief to students, as the cut-offs for most top colleges witnessed only a marginal dip from the previous list on August 6.Bachelor of arts (BA) aspirants were in for a shock as the cut-offs in top colleges for the course barely dipped by 1-2 percentage points, with St Xavier’s College, one of the most prominent institutes for the course, having no seat left for aspirants in the general category in the second list. On Tuesday, the college only released the second merit list for aspirants who applied under the Christian minority quota. In the first merit list, St Xavier’s College had closed its list for the BA course at 92% for state board students and 98.6% for students from other boards.At KC College, the merit list for the BA course saw a dip of less than 1 percentage point from the first list, while the cut-off list for Jai Hind College’s witnessed a drop by less than 2 percentage point. At Ramnarain Ruia College, the second list for BA saw a 1.1 percentage point decline in the cut-off from the first list, with only nine seats left to be allotted under the general category.For the Bachelors of Commerce (BCom) course, cut-offs in the second merit list declined around 2-5 percentage points across top colleges.Among the unaided courses, the demand for Bachelors in Mass Media (BMM) and Bachelors in Management Studies (BMS) courses remained high, with most top colleges witnessing only 1-3 percentage points difference in the cut-off. “As we have an in-house quota, most of the seats are confirmed. So there are very few seats left for the general category. BMM (English) is a popular course and the seats for it get filled up soon,” said Anushree Lokur, principal, Ruia college.Principals are still hopeful over the availability of seats in top colleges in the third merit list. “Usually, the same student applies to more than one college, and with every list that is announced, many withdraw admissions to seek re-admission to another college of their choice. There will still be seats left for the third merit list and students need not be disheartened,” said Parag Thakkar, principal of HR College.The cut-offs for other unaided courses such as Bachelors of Accounting and Finance (BAF), Bachelors of Banking Insurance (BBI) and Bachelors of Financial Markets (BFM), too, remained high in the second list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-s-second-merit-list-marginal-dip-in-cut-offs-for-undergraduate-courses/story-nJEp4N9TMjk3kDM9zhIWiO.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Youth icons of Kashmir are harbingers of hope||Kashmir has been under lockdown for a year now, initially due to the restrictions after J&K’s special status was revoked on August 5, 2019, and then due to the coronavirus pandemic since March. Yet, amid the gloom, youngsters from Kashmir offer a silver lining on how to march on with courage and a positive mindset. They not only dodged the restrictions but also overcame physical challenges to emerge winners in these troubled times. On International Youth Day today, HT’s Ashiq Hussain profiles seven such youth icons. CHAMP IN HER OWN RIGHT Captain of J&K wheelchair basketball team Inshah Bashir, 26: Inshah is a pioneer of women wheelchair basketball in Kashmir. Within two years, she has built a team and captains J&K’s national wheelchair basketball team. An accident in 2009 damaged her spine. She was in Class 11 and since then, she can’t walk or even stand with double plates in her back. She had no idea of wheelchair basketball when she went to a rehabilitation centre for the physically challenged in Srinagar in 2017. “I saw boys playing on wheelchairs at the centre and decided to join in. It was challenging, a girl playing among the boys but they welcomed me,” she says. There has been no looking back since. She played at the district level, state level but when she reached the national level, she found there was no J&K team. She joined the Rest of India team for players from different states with no state-level team at the national level. In 2018, she became Delhi team captain and in 2019 represented India in the US during a sports tour. On her return, she chose to promote the sport in her home state. “The US tour changed my life. Despite being comfortably placed, I decided to resign from the Delhi team and work on building the J&K team,” she says. When Article 370 was revoked in 2019, the J&K team was in its infancy and Inshah got injured during practice in Mohali. “Medics suggested I stop but if I quit, the team would have been disheartened as we had no substitute player. They would never have been able to overcome the blow. I played despite my injuries and the J&K team moved ahead,” she says with pride. Playing that match did aggravate her injuries but she says she has no regrets. “I wanted to be a doctor but destiny led me here. I am ready for any challenge,” says the brave youngster from central Kashmir’s Budgam, who is doing MA in social work from Jamia Millia Islamia university in Delhi. SPORTS CHANGED HER LIFE Passion for basketball to pre-Olympics Ishrat Akhtar, 23: A resident of north Kashmir’s Baramulla, Ishrat was the first Kashmiri woman wheelchair basketball player who was selected to play the pre-Olympics wheelchair basketball qualifiers in Thailand from November 26 to December 8, 2019. This transformation happened three years after a fall from the second storey of her house that left her with spinal cord injuries. She was crippled and depressed. “Suddenly, I was wheelchair-bound. It was torturous. Slowly, I came to terms with reality and understood something needs to be done. It’s then that I came across basketball players at a rehab centre in Srinagar in 2017,” she recalls. After a few national tours, Akhtar says she would have missed the opportunity to play the pre-Olympic qualifiers at the international level as she was stuck in Kashmir incommunicado after the revocation of Article 370 last year. “One day, there was a knock on the door and it was the army’s 52 Rashtriya Rifles and local police who had come searching for my house to inform me about my selection. Our coach in Chennai had approached his friend in the army to locate me,” she says. She was reluctant to travel amid the restrictions but finally decided to go ahead. “I left for Chennai the next day and was selected for the international tour to Thailand. Unfortunately, we could not qualify for the Olympics but this is only the beginning,” she says. CRICKET IS TAKING HIM PLACES No challenge too big for this fast bowler Amir Hussain Rather, 20: This left arm fast bowler, who was a part of the Indian cricket team to win the inaugural World Cup for physically challenged in August 2019 in England, played all five matches and took eight wickets. Rather, who belongs to north Kashmir’s Sopore, was only four months old when four fingers of his right hand had to be amputated after he suffered burns. Despite the disability, he grew up playing cricket in his village. In 2017, he played for the Under-19 team and was selected for J&K’s physically challenged team that toured Himachal in which he was declared the best bowler for taking 15 wickets in six matches. In 2018, he was selected for the India-A physically challenged team. A year on, came the selection for the India team. “My coach is so proud that he says I can take on players with no disability,” he says. Even during the Covid-19 lockdown, he has been taking part in local tournaments such as the Janwara Premier League in July 2020. His fielding has won him accolades, too. “I was awarded for the best catch of the tournament. I ran more than 90 metres and made a six-foot jump to catch the ball with my left hand,” he says. CRICKET GAVE HIM IDENTITY, FREEDOM No substitute for hard work, focus Waseem Iqbal, 27: The opening batsman of India’s physically challenged team was among the top three scorers at the inaugural world cup that India won in England in August 2019. He was the highest individual scorer with 89 runs and was adjudged man of the match in the semi-final against Pakistan. Trained as an electrical engineer from a polytechnic in Srinagar in 2012, Waseem says, “Cricket has given me an identity, freedom and exposure.” Waseem fractured his right leg in an accident when he was nine. Multiple medical procedures resulted left him with no ability to bend the leg. Yet, he played cricket and got a call in 2019 for trials before he joined the India team. “There is no substitute for hard work whether it’s for a so-called ‘abled’ or ‘disabled’ person. There are many distractions for youngsters in Kashmir. They should stay engaged constructively. If you work hard, nobody is going to stop you from success,” he adds. DREAMS DO COME TRUE Civil services was her calling, and she made it Nadia Beig, 23: She is the first woman from north Kashmir’s Kupwara and one of the youngest in J&K to have qualified the Union Public Service Commission exam 2019, the results of which were announced recently. She cracked the exam in her second attempt and achieved an all-India rank of 350. “It has been a daunting journey. In 2018, I could not qualify even the prelims,” she said. She did her schooling in Kupwara and went to Jamia Millia Islamia to complete economics honours in 2017. Joining the civil services was her dream since she was in Class 12. “Nothing is impossible. If you focus on a goal and work hard, you will achieve it. Yes, there were sacrifices to be made. I’m grateful for the prayers of all my well-wishers,” she adds. BUSINESS WITH VISION HER STRENGTH Woman entrepreneur with a difference Mufti Sadia, 29: She owns a fashion showroom in Srinagar which she started when she was 22. Today, she employs 12 people, including young women, who have made 20,000 masks and hundreds of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits during the Covid-19 pandemic. “In March, when everything shut down, I was concerned about the livelihood of my workers. I noticed there was a shortage of masks and the ones available in the market were of poor quality. So we started making masks on no profit basis. Within days, we started making cotton, three-layered, surgical, and non-woven masks besides PPEs,” she says. Opening a fashion showroom in a place where parents are obsessed with government jobs was challenging. “I had no business background. My father is in the police and my three sisters in government service. But I can’t work under somebody. I wanted to be independent,” she says. A math graduate, she did masters in international business before starting her venture in 2014. “I wanted to give a western touch to ethnic wear in Kashmir. Many discouraged me and I was the only woman entrepreneur to open the outlet in a mall. Many would say, she’s just a youngster, what competition can she give,” she recalls. Gradually, she built her clientele in Kashmir, across the country and abroad. “I’m thinking of going ahead with my plan of opening another outlet. I like to do something different and look forward to providing customised products for people who have a good idea of fashion in Kashmir.” SETBACKS MAKE US STRONGER Srinagar’s woman gym trainer is a winner Mehreen Amin, 25: A resident of Srinagar’s Old City, Mehreen opened a gym training centre in 2016 when she was only 21. Despite the stone pelting, restrictions and lockdown, she can boast of training 1,500 women. Becoming a gym trainer was accidental for her. It started when her own health deteriorated and she started gaining weight after she went to Delhi to live with her brother in 2012. On her brother’s advice, she joined a women’s gym and lost 20 kg in six months. “This motivated me to take my instructor’s advice and become a trainer myself. After a year’s training, I got a certificate and returned home,” she said. Back home, she started gaining weight again and on her father’s insistence decided to join a gym but she couldn’t find a proper facility for women in Srinagar. It was then that she decided to start her own gym. Her father thought she was too young for the venture but she persisted. “Finally, he agreed and gave me money which he had saved since my childhood for my wedding,” she says. “When I went to look for the space, people would say that I should bring along an elder to negotiate the rent. These things did not deter me and I succeeded.” Within three months, the gym started getting regular members and doctors started recommending her centre. She has received a citation from the government. Covid may be a temporary setback but Mehreen knows we shall emerge stronger. “Had I not started this venture, I would have been dependent on others. Today, my parents and my husband are proud of me,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/youth-icons-of-kashmir-are-harbingers-of-hope/story-wDTsVQniuqq52gmKYcI11H.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University sees 150% jump in applications from foreign students this year||The number of foreign students’ applications received by Panjab University through the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) has gone up by 150% as compared to last year.According to the data shared by the office of the dean international students, this year, PU has received applications from 642 foreign students for admission to various courses through ICCR, as compared to 250 applications last year. Out of the 642 applications, 229 have been confirmed for admission by the varsity. In 2019, out of 250 foreign students, only 111 were confirmed. The students belong to 11 countries that include Afghanistan, Iran, Ethiopia, Iraq, Nepal, and Myanmar. Nandita Singh, PU’s dean international students, said, “We were not expecting the number to go up this year due to the pandemic.” “PU already has a good number of foreign students and they play a key role in motivating other students to take admission here. Most of the foreign students have sought admission in management courses followed by humanities and sciences in PU and its affiliated colleges in Chandigarh,” she said. Nalini Singhal, regional director, ICCR, said, “Our admissions process starts in December and these applications were received by us till March this year. PU alone gets the majority of the foreign students in this region and remains one of the preferred universities by foreign students.” PU professor Rajat Sandhir said, “Increase in the number of international students sponsored by ICCR to twice as compared to last year is a positive sign and would certainly improve PU’s score in various rankings.” Under the ICCR scholarship programme, the Government of India awards scholarships to foreign students from about 140 countries annually. During the 2018-19 academic session, approximately 2,150 new foreign students were confirmed for admission to various universities in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-sees-150-jump-in-applications-from-foreign-students-this-year/story-lgCYbJOfmROJucsmzFMI3K.html
12-08-2020||Gurugram||Bikers snatch gold chain of a man in Guguram Sector 12||Two unidentified motorcyclists allegedly snatched a gold chain of a man near the Sector 12 bus stand on Monday. The police said the victim, Sachin Kumar, a resident of Gopal Nagar, had gone near the bus stand to run some errands and was leaning on his scooter, when the snatchers targeted him. In a police complaint he submitted at the bus stand police post, Kumar said, “The motorcycle used by the suspects did not have a registration number plate. It came from behind and the suspect, who was seated pillion, snatched my gold chain. They escaped before I could react. I tried to chase them on my scooter, but they escaped towards Mata Road.” The police said the suspects are yet to be identified and they were checking footage from CCTVs in the area for possible leads. A case was registered against the unidentified suspects under section 379 A (snatching) of Indian Penal Code at Sector 14 police station on Monday, said police. In another incident, Ravi Parmar, a resident of Sector 3, alleged that his gold chain was snatched near his house when he was drinking coconut water after completing his work out in a gym on Monday around 8.30am. He told the police in the complaint that he saw two men, coming from an adjacent colony, on a motorbike. “The driver was wearing helmet and the pillion rider had covered his face with a scarf. The pillion rider snatched my gold chain and before I could raise an alarm, they fled from the spot. I called police control room and reported the incident,” he said in the FIR. The police said two police personnel, on motorbike patrolling, tried to chase the suspects but they drove towards the expressway. A case of snatching was registered at Sector 4 police station, said police, adding that no arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bikers-snatch-gold-chain-of-a-man-in-sector-12/story-gbQXCH9umxZVDJnttbeM4K.html
12-08-2020||Gurugram||Two buffalo traders from Ghasera beaten up, police deny link to earlier ‘beef’ attack||Two buffalo traders from Ghasera village in Nuh were assaulted with sticks by at least two men after being called to Begumpur Khatola area under Badshahpur police station’s jurisdiction on Tuesday on the pretext of selling them a buffalo. One of the victims suffered serious injuries on his head, chest and legs and is undergoing treatment at civil hospital. The victims, identified as Nasir, 30 and his younger brother, Mursalim, have alleged that the suspects accused them of ‘framing members of their community in false cases’, by making a reference to an incident on July 31, before assaulting them. On July31, a 25-year-old driver, Lukman from Ghasera village, was beaten up with rods and a hammer by a group of people on the suspicion that he was transporting beef. In Tuesday’s incident, the family of the victim have alleged that the police had not taken their statement and registered an FIR on their own. Police, however, denied any connection of Tuesday’s attack with the July 31 incident, adding that they registered the FIR on the statement of one of the victims and have arrested the two men. According to the FIR, the victims, Nasir and Mursalim, who sell and purchase buffaloes, came to Begumpur Khatola on Tuesday on a motorcycle after one Adesh told them over the phone that he wants to sell a buffalo to them. “When we reached, Adesh and his accomplice Dilbag, told us that the buffalo had already been sold. I told them they called us so far for no reason. At this point, Dilbag hurled abuses at me and when I protested, he hit me with a stick, which he had in his hand. When Mursalim intervened and tried to save me, Adesh slapped and punched him. Dilbag hit me with a stick on my head, legs and waist and then he also attacked my brother. As we started shouting for help, Dilbag threatened to kill us if we ever set foot in their village and then they left,” said Nasir, according to the FIR. The victims’ kin alleged that the suspects had targeted Nasir and Mursalim as they were angry about the July 31 incident, in which six people have been arrested by the police. “The suspects had planned this completely. The accused told my nephews, ‘Tum ghasera ke ho, hamara khaate ho, hum par hi ulte case karte ho’ (You are from Ghasera. You trade with us, then file cases against us). Police did not record any statement and registered an FIR on their own. The police did not read the charges mentioned in the FIR to the victims. They just took the victim’s signature for conducting medical examination. The suspects stole Rs 1 lakh from them too. Nasir’s head has been cut open and he is severely injured,” said Sallam, uncle of victims. Mursalim, who suffered minor injuries, later told reporters, “The men took us into a forested area and beat us with a stick and a hockey stick. They had been calling us for the past three days on the pretext of selling a buffalo. They mentioned the July 31 case which was reported from our village.” Police, however, insisted that the incident in Begumpur Khatola had no connection with the earlier case. Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “The victims had come to purchase a buffalo from the two suspects. After they were told that the buffalo had been sold, there was an argument which escalated and the victims were beaten up. The incident was reported to the police and on the statement of the victims, the FIR was registered and the two suspects immediately arrested. The contents of the FIR do not mention anything about the July 31 incident. The allegations that the FIR was recorded under duress are incorrect. The incident happened 800 metres from the village and only two suspects were present. Linking the incident to any earlier case is an attempt to disturb harmony.” The ACP added that the victims had conducted business with the suspects several times in the past. “They were not dealing with them for the first time.”A case has been registered against the suspects under various sections of the IPC at Badshahpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-buffalo-traders-from-ghasera-beaten-up-police-deny-link-to-earlier-beef-attack/story-UhZYbKBRmZWoSIKJPvlgmL.html
12-08-2020||City||Fake job scam: Chief agricultural officer demands investigation||A fake job scam has surfaced in the state agriculture department, where youngsters were duped on the pretext of securing them a job in the agriculture department. Chief agriculture officer Narinder Singh Benipal wrote to commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal and deputy commissioner (DC)Varinder Sharma highlighting the matter and demanded a thorough probe. CAO Narinder Singh Benipal said the matter came to light when a youngster approached the agriculture development officer in Hoshiarpur saying he was employed at the agriculture department in Ludhiana and furnished an employment letter, in which the youngster was asked to report to the office of the chief agriculture officer between August 10 to August 16. The letter reads Jaswant Singh of Mukerian town of Hoshiarpur has been appointed senior member of technical staff and was assured an in-hand salary of ₹22,000. “The agriculture department has not made any such recruitment so far,” said Benipal. He said, “Even the department’s name ‘cooperation and farmer welfare agriculture department’ is wrong as no such department exists. So far, we have come across three persons who have been duped. We have brought the matter to the notice of authorities to get the issue investigated so the culprit is sent behind the bars soon,” said Benipal. The swindlers also conducted a written examination and arranged their medical tests. “We suspected youngsters from other parts of the state were also duped,” said Benipal. Earlier in June, the department of agriculture came under fire after the owner of Brar seed store on Ferozepur Road in Ludhiana was caught selling fake seeds issued by PAU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-job-scam-chief-agricultural-officer-demands-investigation/story-0HbSlncBaeZdtm1egD5IIL.html
12-08-2020||City||‘Increased testing, targeted sampling in Large Outbreak Areas helped contain Covid’||IGurugram once among the worst-affected Covid-19 district in the state and country has been reporting less than 100 new cases daily and the fatality rate is almost 1.27%. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, tells Archana Mishra how increased testing, improved contact tracing and hospitalization of high-risks patients helped in tackling the Covid-19 situation in the district. Despite being in the Unlock phase, during which all economic activities resumed, Gurugram is seeing a decline in the number of active cases. What are the reasons behind the declining numbers?Gurugram’s test positivity rate (as on Tuesday) is 7.23%, which till two months ago was high as 18.04%. At that time only 18,000 Covid-19 tests were done. In two months, we have done almost one lakh tests — both rapid antigen detection and frontline Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). Every day on an average, 2,000 tests are conducted in the city. Targeted sampling in Large Outbreak Areas (LORs) and extended containment zones for weeks till the infectivity rate of any particular area goes down to less than 5% helped in reducing the overall active numbers. We have done 89,117 tests per million population, which is the highest in the state. There has been an improvement in the contact tracing, which is now almost 90%. Experts say that the overall test positivity rate is declining as antigen tests detect false negatives. It has to be later confirmed through RT-PCR tests. The department is taking a well-balanced approach in conducting antigen and RT-PCR tests. More than 56,000 antigen tests have been done and over 70,000 RT-PCR tests. Out of the total tests conducted in a day, we are doing almost 800-1,000 RT-PCR and almost similar number of antigen tests. The test positivity rate of antigen tests is at present almost 3%, while it varies from 7% to 9% in RT-PCR. The teams are doing RT-PCR test of patients who are tested negative for the antigen but are symptomatic. Through antigen tests, more than 2000 positive cases have been traced and it has been beneficial in increasing acceptability of Covid-19 testing among citizens. How many antigen kits have been donated by the corporate companies till now? More than 15,000 have been donated till now, all of which have already been utilised. Is Gurugram getting affected by neighbouring districts where Covid-19 districts are increasing?No one district can be blamed as we are in the unlocking phase. Yes, infected people from other districts are coming to Gurugram.Data shows that in Gurugram there are not too many critical patients. The fatality rate has been stagnant for almost a week now. What steps are being taken by the department to control the fatality?Knowing that a large number of active cases are home isolated, we have been distributing Hindi booklet on do’s and dont’s to them. Every second and third day, a text message or Whatsapp call is being made to patient to check on them. Based on the response, a patient is immediately shifted to a hospital, in case his health deteriorates. Also, we are not allowing any high-risk patient to be home isolated. Therefore, ambulance calls for transferring the patient from home isolation to hospital is almost negligible.Where is Gurugram currently placed in the Central government’s plan of considering Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) as one unit?Every month we have a meeting with Niti Aayog members on the matter. Delhi, Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad are working on a similar strategy to tackle Covid-19. It is for this reason that we are seeing a decline in cases in Delhi and Gurugram simultaneously. After Delhi set up a plasma bank, districts falling under NCR too had set up their own banks. Be it the availability of drugs, setting up testing or treatment, Delhi-NCR are on similar lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/increased-testing-targeted-sampling-in-large-outbreak-areas-helped-contain-covid/story-ED8HnCTVQ4v7XLHNZfKqKM.html
12-08-2020||Gurugram||MCG distributes 3,000 masks to violators||The Municipal Corporation Gurugram (MCG) on Tuesday said it has distributed over 3,000 face masks to violators in different parts of the city in a bid to motivate people to wear them voluntarily.The masks were distributed free of cost to violators, instead of a fine being issued on them. The distribution of masks was carried out on Monday and Tuesday as a part of an awareness drive on the directions of the urban local bodies(ULB) department of Haryana. Under the programme, officials from the sanitation wing of MCG visited their respective zones and handed out face masks to people who were found without one. They were given the masks free of cost and were told to wear them voluntarily in the future. According to MCG officials, masks were also handed out to sanitation workers. At least 800 masks were distributed in Zone-1, 19 in Zone-2 and 300 each in zones 3 and 4. Another 1,500 masks were given to sanitation workers, said MCG officials.“The campaign was carried out as per the directions of the ULB department of Haryana. This drive was observed as challan-free days,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, municipal commissioner, Gurugram, in a statement issued on Tuesday. MCG usually imposes a fine of ₹500 to people who are found without masks in public places. The practice is going to be resumed from Wednesday, said officials of the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-distributes-3-000-masks-to-violators/story-S26tWdO8GaAl0yGIHsty3L.html
12-08-2020||Gurugram||Places of worship to reopen in Gurugram from August 12||The district administration on Tuesday issued an order allowing places of worship to reopen their doors to devotees from August 12, on the occasion of Janmashthami. A detailed 26-point standard operating protocol has also been drafted, to which all worshipers and operators of religious places are expected to adhere.While places of religious worship in other parts of the state had been allowed to reopen on July 19, while observing a strict set of guidelines, Gurugram was one of two districts where places of worship remained shut on account of surging Covid-19 cases. However, with a perceptible decline in number of new cases and deaths , Tuesday’s order was “passed ex-parte in view of the emergent situation.”The order mandates that all places of religious worship will dispense sanitiser to devotees before allowing them into the premises.Where ever possible, devotees have been instructed to wash their hands and feet before entering. Thermal scanning of visitors is a must, with only asymptomatic people being granted entry. The order also recommends “staggering of visitors, if possible”.The need for social distancing is emphasised multiple times in the order, which calls for “proper crowd management” and maintaining a distance of six feet while waiting in queues. The instructions also disallow touching of idols, scriptures and statues, and devotees have been advised to avoid physical contact while greeting each other. Operators have been asked, wherever possible, to designate separate entry and exit points for visitors, Distribution of physical offering, such as prasad or holy water, have been disallowed .The order also mandates wearing of masks, and visitors and operators have been instructed to ensure proper and safe disposal of any masks found within the premises. In case a person on premises is suspected to have Covid-19, or is confirmed to have Covid-19, operators have been instructed to isolate the individual until they are seen by a doctor, and to provide them with a face mask. A rapid response team will be deployed to look into the matter and take further actions to manage further possible spread of the virus. If a Covid-19 positive patient is confirmed to have been on the premises, the order calls for immediate disinfection of the place.A spokesperson of the Sheetla Mata Mandir managing committee, which reports to the Shree Mata Sheetla Devi Shrine Board on matters of day to day administration, said, “We are expecting a good amount of visitors on Wednesday, but have made adequate preparations. Designated queue areas have been created with markings to let people know where to wait. We have also engaged people for crowd management, and spoken to eateries and sweet shops in the area, informing them to take necessary precautions as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/places-of-worship-to-reopen-in-gurugram-from-august-12/story-I5oSwuLOUBHMbHCr4DffCO.html
12-08-2020||Gurugram||Illegal call center busted in DLF Phase 2, two held||Days after an illegal call center was busted in Gurugram’s Sohna Road, the city police on Monday night busted on operating from a residence in DLF Phase 2 that allegedly duped people, especially those in English-speaking countries like the US, under the garb of providing technical support. Two of the owners were arrested from the spot, said police. According to the police, they had received a tip regarding the call centre operating from a house in Block N. A patrolling party of four policemen took a round of the area. Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said, “We took experts with us and raided the house. At least 12 young people were found making calls and trying to convince people to buy their technical support products.” The team told the employees to continue taking inbound calls and videographed more than 50 calls to establish the fraud, said police. Goel said they questioned all the 12 employees who allegedly revealed that they had duped hundreds of US citizens in the last six months. “They used to send an email to their IDs with fake pop-up error messages stating that a malware had infected their computer systems and if not rectified immediately, their personal and financial data would be compromised. Their modus operandi was similar to the one busted by the chief minister’s flying squad . The pop-up messages would be displayed on full screen mode and would lock the user’s browser,” said Goel. The firm did not have any permits to operate from a residence. Police said the pop-ups would repeatedly show up on a user’s computer screen with warnings such as ‘malicious malware detected’, ‘personal information is not safe’, ‘your computer has been locked’. “The victims would panic and contact at the helpline number that comes with the pop-up message to resolve the issue. Instead, they would end up being duped by them on the pretext of getting technical support,” he said. The commissioner of police, KK Rao, said the calls were answered by people who claimed to be technical experts of ‘Best Buy’ chain of stores. “The employees revealed that they would ask the victims to install a bogus paid application for a fee ranging between $100 to $3000. They took the fee in form of gift cards from iTunes or Amazon only. They never shared any bank account for any online transactions,” he said. The gift cards were routed to bank accounts in India through European countries. The bogus application, meanwhile, would also serve as a bug and allow the company to access the victims’ computers. This had the potential for data theft and identity theft. The data police recovered from the company had details of nearly 100,000 users, including their email IDs, credit and debit card numbers, and their CVV numbers. “We are verifying all the details and have assigned the task to the cyber crime unit to start sending emails to the victims, starting Wednesday,” Rao said. A case was registered under section 420 (cheating), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and section 66D (cheating by personation by using computer resource) and 75 (committing offence outside India using computer network) of IT Act 2008 at Cyber police station. Police recovered three servers, ₹1.45 lakh in cash, and the script the employees were to follow while speaking to their victims. The suspects were identified as Amit Dhanda of Jind and Saurabh Chaudhary of Hoogly in West Bengal. Both of them have worked together in a private company which provided IT solutions before starting the firm. “They had started their operations in March but due to lockdown they could not operate from a residential site and reopened last month,” said Goel. Police said that despite so many arrest and crackdown on fake call centre, people are still operating by illegal means. “The employees working for these illegal establishments are also equally responsible and we will start taking strict action against them,” said Rao.The chief minister’s flying squad on Saturday had busted the illegal call centre that allegedly had over 35,000 victims and raked in millions under the garb of providing technical service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/illegal-call-center-busted-in-dlf-phase-2-two-held/story-2mFTkIZnq2n8eyexGVHaYJ.html
12-08-2020||Gurugram||Former ward councillor of Sonepat shot at over monetary dispute in Sohna||A former ward councillor of Sonepat was allegedly shot at by a man in Sohna on Monday in what is suspected to be a dispute over money, said the police. The bullet, however, missed the victim and hit a wall in his office. The police said the prime suspect and his aides, who had accompanied him, escaped and are yet to be arrested. According to the police, the incident took place around 3.40pm when the victim, Harish Nanda, a former councillor, got a call from an acquaintance, identified by the police as Sachin from Basai. The police said that Sachin asked Nanda to meet him but hung up soon after. Later, he allegedly called him again and told him to come to a stadium in Sohna. The police said after some time, at least six men, including Sachin, arrived at Nanda’s office and an argument ensued. Arvind, station house officer (SHO), City Sohna police station, said, “A money-related dispute has been going on between the victim and the suspects for over a year. The suspects arrived in two cars. During the argument, a scuffle ensued and one of them pulled out a gun and fired a gunshot at Nanda. The bullet, however, went past his head and hit the wall in his office.” The police said one cartridge was recovered from the spot. No one was injured in the incident. The police are checking footage from the nearby CCTVs in the area to identify all the suspects, who escaped in two cars. A case has been registered against the accused men under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant Sections of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and the Arms Act at City Sohna police station on Monday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/former-ward-councillor-of-sonepat-shot-at-over-monetary-dispute-in-sohna/story-Af7REUZmyg2knPoKLZScnK.html
12-08-2020||Gurugram||Health department may reduce reserved beds for Covid patients||The district health department may look to bring down the amount of reserved beds in various private hospitals to 10-20% — from the present 25% — if active Covid-19 cases continue to decline in Gurugram. Even isolation beds in different hotels and guest houses can be brought down to 1,000 from the present 3,500 officials believe. Senior health officials said that the final decision will be taken only after consultation with the district administration and the state government.“The decision will be taken by the state only after the number of active cases in the city are less than 500,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Currently, there are 659 active cases in city, with 69 new cases reported on Tuesday. Out of these, 554 are under home isolation, 29 in Covid care centres and 76 in various hospitals. Till now, 9,840 people have been infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus and 126 have succumbed to it. Since the daily growth rate of cases is almost 0.58% and the recovery rate is 92%, most of the reserved beds in hospitals remain unutilized. “Several private hospitals of the city have approached us to lower the number of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. They have put forward a proposal to reduce the reserved beds to 10-20% from the existing 25%. Other government hospital like ESIC, where mildly symptomatic patients are admitted, might continue their isolation ward along with a minimum of 10 beds for Covid-19 patients,” said Yadav. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said, “We will take a decision regarding this after discussing with Gurugram administration.”No one from the district administration was available for a comment, despite repeated attempts by HT.The district administration in May had ordered all private hospitals of the city to reserve 25% of their bed capacity for Covid-19 patients. There are 40 hospitals with dedicated beds for Covid patients, including two government facilities, ESIC Hospital (58 beds) and Polyclinic (22 beds) in sector 31. At least 50 beds have been reserved in All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS),Jhajjar, as well. Out of the total 4,708 hospital beds available in 40 hospitals, 1,486 are Covid-19 designated beds. This includes 192 Intensive Care Units (ICU) beds and 92 beds with ventilators. It also incudes 120-bed Medeor Hospital in Manesar which was designated by the district administration as a Covid-19 facility for critical patients.Yadav said, “There are no plans to reduce the number of beds in Medeor Hospital. But if needed, the hospital can have a dedicated Covid-19 floor with separate entry and exit.” Over the last month, the bed occupancy has dipped consistently due to overall decline in the positivity rate, according to the hospitalisation data. On June 30, at least 417 Covid-19 patients — all Gurugram residents — were admitted in government and private hospitals. By July 7, it had come down to 197, and further to 175, on July 14, and 148 on July 21. By July 31, the bed occupancy dipped to 77, further falling to 64 on August 6.Even at Covid Care Centres, which are mostly hotels and guest houses that have at least 3,481 beds reserved, the number of beds can be reduced to 1,000, according to CMO Yadav. It includes 943 beds in 24 hotels which are government paid isolation facilities and 2,538 beds in self-paid isolation facilities. Yadav clarified that the department will continue to work with a cautious approach despite slow daily growth rate and high recovery rate of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-may-reduce-reserved-beds-for-covid-patients/story-eeHTGVNC4350iCHuRz3VUJ.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||PU announces schedule for admission to BA/BCom LLB courses||The candidates seeking admission to BA LLB (honours) and BCom LLB (honours) five-year integrated courses at Panjab University(PU),other than those who have already applied for the UGLAW entrance test, have to register themselves at uglaw.puchd.ac.in before August 17. Considering the Covid-19 situation, PU has scrapped the UGLAW entrance test. The new admission schedule has been finalised wherein the admissions will be based on Class 12 examination result. The applicants should upload their information and deposit the registration fee by August 19. All the registered candidates, including those who had applied earlier for the UGLAW entrance test, will be allowed to fill the admission form which will be available on the UGLAW website from August 25. The candidates who had applied earlier and had completed their form for the entrance test will be considered as registered candidates and will be eligible for filling the admission form. The admission form can be filled the latest by September 10 and the tentative merit list will be displayed by September 22. NRI/foreign nationals can apply from August 14 The admission form for NRI/ foreign national category candidates for PU-CET undergraduate courses will be available from August 14, 2020, at http://cetug.puchd.ac.in. This is for those candidates who were not in India during the period of registration for admission. After filling the admission form, the candidates are required to send the printout of the form along with relevant documents to nricetug@pu.ac.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-announces-schedule-for-admission-to-ba-bcom-llb-courses/story-Rq82OVcQBc8Ho3fVoEq2XP.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Avoid wearing jewellery: RWA apex body’s advisory amid snatching spree in Chandigarh||With six cases of snatching reported since the beginning of this month, Chandigarh Resident Associations Welfare Federation (Crawfed) has issued an advisory to all constituent RWAs to stay alert and practise caution.The CCTV footage of a 72-year-old woman being targeted by two bike-borne men outside her house in Sector 19 on August 6 has left residents worried after it was shared widely on social media.“As people are losing their jobs amid the Covid-19 pandemic, some are turning to crime, and it is necessary for all residents to remain prepared and stay safe,” said Crawfed chairman Hitesh Puri. According to the advisory, people should avoid wearing gold and diamond ornaments, including chains and earrings. It also asks people to keep doors latched owing to the recent string of thefts in the city, and to have phone numbers of neighbours, police control room and beat cops handy.RL Goyal, president of the Sector 19B RWA, said: “After the recent snatching in the sector, women have started going for walks in small groups of four or five for their safety.”SK Khosla, general secretary of the RWA in Sector 40C, where a woman’s mobile phone was snatched on August 8, said, “Roads in the sector are dimly lit and police need to be more stringent with patrolling or such crimes will keep happening.”Claiming that cops carry out special drives to check snatchings throughout the year, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Charanjit Singh Virk said: “In evening, all beat cops patrol their respective areas. With Independence Day coming up, police checking has already been stepped up and special nakas have been deployed throughout the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/avoid-wearing-jewellery-rwa-apex-body-s-advisory-amid-snatching-spree-in-chandigarh/story-paqunB9v0FbsvzGVYmRjOP.html
12-08-2020||Noida||Noida allots 21 plots to boost business in city||The Noida authority on Tuesday allotted 21 industrial plots generating a revenue of nearly ₹8 crore. Aimed at boosting business in Noida, officials said the city will attract an investment of ₹21.98 crore from private firms which bought the plots.“We conducted a lucky draw in the presence of at least 10% of the total applicants who applied for the scheme. The lucky draw was recorded on camera and also streamed live on social media page of the authority in order to maintain the transparency in the allotments. We offered a total of 22 plots out of which 21 were allotted. The remaining one plot will be allotted on August 20,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority.The authority said the firms, which have been allotted these plots, will create around 560 jobs in the city.The authority had received a total of 1, 371 applications for the plots ranging between 0-250 square metres in area. The authority had floated the scheme to sell these plots earlier this year in January, and investors were asked to submit their applications by Feruary-end.This scheme was floated to sell the left over plots which could not be allotted in the past.The authority’s industrial department has also been told to conduct a survey in all the old sectors to identify unsold plots under a new scheme. “The authority will come up with a new scheme of allotting plots, once we will identify an adequate number,” said MaheshwariThe Uttar Pradesh government has directed top officials across the state on encouraging entrepreneurs to invest in the state. The move is aimed at providing jobs to those who were left unemploued amid the Covid-19 pandemic, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-allots-21-plots-to-boost-business-in-city/story-gVxxGXVx47w2Ars3rPVahN.html
12-08-2020||Delhi||More than 700 have been administered plasma therapy for Covid-19 in Delhi||More than 700 Covid-19 patients in the national capital have been administered convalescent plasma therapy plasma therapy one-and-a-half months since the country’s first plasma bank was set up at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Science at Vasant Kunj. Two other dedicated Covid-19 hospitals — Lok Nayak and Guru Teg Bahadur — that had set up banks will now also provide convalescent plasma to those admitted in other hospitals, starting Wednesday. Either the patients or the hospital will have to provide a replacement donor or an undertaking of providing one at the earliest. Convalescent plasma therapy uses the blood component plasma that has virus-fighting antibodies from a patient who has recovered from Covid-19 to a person still fighting the infection to aid their immune system. According to data provided by the Delhi government, 710 units of convalescent plasma have been issued to patients from other hospitals so far — 388 to patients over the age of 60 and 322 to patient below that age. The youngest to have received plasma from the government bank was 18-years-old and the oldest was 94-years-old. The gender-wise breakup of the data shows that among the recipients 522 were males and 188 female. Several studies have shown that men are at a higher risk of dying of Covid-19 because of higher levels of ACE-2 receptors that the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes the disease, uses to enter cells. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said plasma therapy plays an important role in reducing the death rate among Covid-19 patients until a vaccine is available. He said it has shown encouraging results in recovery of critically ill patients and should be looked at as an effective treatment for Covid-19. An interim analysis of the clinical outcomes of 30 Covid-19 patients at the All India Institute of Medical Science found that the number of deaths remained the same among those who received convalescent plasma and those who didn’t. A large study of 20,000 patients spearheaded by the Mayo clinic in the United States found the therapy to be safe, it did not establish efficacy of the therapy. A study from China in April showed that there was improvement in clinical parameters such as oxygen saturation in patient who received the therapy, but the scientists noted that larger studies were needed to prove the effectiveness of the therapy. “However, none of the studies so far have shown mortality benefit of this therapy, or any other therapy for that matter. However, we have seen that it reduces the severity and the recovery time for the infection,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/more-than-700-have-been-administered-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19-in-delhi/story-KYquCOdK1YxpzRu2C0OmPL.html
12-08-2020||City||Four lose battle with Covid in Chandigarh tricity, 168 test positive||Four people were reported to have died while 168 fresh infections of Covid-19 surfaced in the tricity on Tuesday. The toll has climbed to 53, while the number of confirmed cases went past the 4,000 mark.The tricity has as many as 4,149 confirmed cases, of which 1,724 are active. An 81-year-old woman from Sector 43 has become Chandigarh’s twenty-sixth fatality and eleventh this month. She tested positive at the PGIMER on Monday and died the same day. She had a history of heart disease and was admitted to the hospital for its treatment.Meanwhile, with 75 fresh cases, the Union Territory’s total has reached 1,670, of which 630 are still active.Among the new cases there are three staffers of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation, a health worker each of the PGIMER and GMCH, Sector 32, and two health workers of private hospitals in Mohali. A person posted at the office of the director, health and family welfare services, in GMSH, Sector 16, has also tested positive.An employee of the government school in Sector 38 West and another of the University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology in Panjab University have also been found infected. The university staffer resides on the campus in Sector 14 and had last attended work on Friday last week. The institute has been closed for three days.The remaining cases are spread across urban and rural pockets, and are mostly contacts of already hospitalised patients. Some also have travel history to Punjab, Haryana and Delhi. TWO DEATHS IN MOHALIWith two more people succumbing to the virus, the toll in Mohali district has gone up to 23. The district also reported 67 fresh cases, taking the total to 1,452.Among the deceased is a 28-year-old woman from Sunny Enclave in Kharar who was suffering from kidney, lungs and heart problem. The other is a 62-year-old man from Manakpur in Gharuan block of Mohali. He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. Among the fresh cases, 39 are from Mohali, 18 from Dera Bassi and 10 from Kharar area. As many as 740 people have recovered so far, of which 25 were discharged on Tuesday. The number of active cases stands at 689. 26 INFECTIONS IN P’KULAA 72-year-old man from Sector 4 died on Tuesday, taking Panchkula district’s toll to four. Also 26 new infections were reported, which took the total count past to 1,027.“The deceased had reported with severe respiratory distress and cardiac history. He was a suspected Covid case at the time of admission and was tested positive later. He expired within few hours of admission,” said civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur.The fresh cases include seven from a private bank in Sector 10. Six cases were also reported from Sector 9 and five from Sector 8. The district has 405 active cases, as 615 patients have been cured and discharged so far.CURBS IMPOSED IN TWO BLOCKS IN SEC 40, 46The UT administration on Tuesday declared a few houses in Sector 40 and Sector 46 as micro-containment zones.UT adviser Manoj Parida, in his capacity as the chairman of the State Disaster Management Authority, imposed strict perimeter control and restrictions on a block of 24 houses from No. 2,778 to 2,801 in Sector 40, and a block of 23 flats and one garage from No. 1,185 to 1,190 in Sector 46.Meanwhile, criticising the administration, leader of opposition in the MC House Devinder Singh Babla has sought greater role for councillors in the fight against pandemic.“The administration seems to be clueless on actions required to control the spread. The decisions made in the war room would be more effective if it would include participation of people’s representatives and not just officials,” said the Congress leader said in a letter to the UT administrator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-lose-battle-with-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-168-test-positive/story-lyD4BTkT3fmIR2qy5HymQI.html
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Entry ticket to gardens: Chandigarh MC’s solution to fund crunch||With the Chandigarh municipal corporation struggling with severe financial crunch, residents might soon end up paying to enter gardens, profession tax and registration fee on property transactions.This is as per an internal MC report comprising recommendations made by different departments for improving its financial position.The MC has been struggling with its finances for several years, and the Covid-19 pandemic has worsened the situation.For instance, while the budget receipt target for the medical officer of health (MOH)’s office for the 2020-2021 fiscal was ₹21 crore, in the wake of the pandemic, it has been revised to ₹7 crore. Similarly, for the booking branch, earnings from booking of community centres was estimated to be ₹10 crore, which have been revised to ₹6.43 crore. OUTSOURCING GARDEN MAINTENANCEIn its recommendation, the MC horticulture department, states: “Putting an entry ticket to garden/green belts ranging from ₹10 to ₹20 will increase the revenue. The MC can also issue paid passes to morning/evening walkers.”It has suggested imposing user charges on Rose Garden, Sector 16; Fragrance Garden, Sector 36; Shivalik Garden, Manimajra; Japanese Garden, Sector 31; and Valley of Animals, Sector 49.There is also a proposal for imposing a fee of ₹25 per 100 sq ft on erecting hedges on road berms adjoining residential areas.The department has also recommended outsourcing maintenance of gardens and green belts. “In lieu, interested agencies can display their advertisement board at entry of gardens,” states its report.Meanwhile, the MC estate department has recommended tax on professions, trades, calling and employments, fee for property registration at the UT estate office in addition to the stamp duty and hike in fees for its various services.The booking branch has suggested increasing water tanker charges from ₹350 to ₹500. The MOH has suggested NOC fees and monthly charges from hotels, businesses and markets as per Swachh Bharat Mission.ADVERTISEMENT ON ROTARIESThe advertisement department has recommended an increase in unipoles for outdoor advertisements. It has suggested: “Identification of some prime locations for digital and static screens in Sector 17 and connected passages and e-auction them for display advertisements.” Rotaries should be transferred to the advertisement department so that it can raise revenue from these through display advertisements, it has been suggested.The transport department, which spends around ₹13 crore annually on fuel and maintenance of around 500 vehicles, has recommended maintenance of vehicles from open market rather than agencies; reducing monthly fuel quotas by 20% and withdrawing cars from certain officials. It also suggests that instead of buying new cars, vehicles should be hired as and when needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/entry-ticket-to-gardens-chandigarh-mc-s-solution-to-fund-crunch/story-vxWdSBFGi4Q01xhj8u2bBJ.html
12-08-2020||City||Family vandalise Vashi hospital after man’s death||Family members of a 48-year-old vegetable trader in Ghansoli vandalised Fortis- Hiranandani Hospital in Vashi after he died at the hospital. The family claims that the hospital staff had denied him admission due to non-availability of beds, early on Tuesday morning.Dr Trupti Rathod, medical superintendent of Fortis-Hiranandani Hospital, Vashi said, “The patient was brought in to the emergency room at 2.40am. The medical team immediately attended to him. While the assessment was underway, his family members enquired about hospitalisation and it was communicated to them that all critical care beds were full. Before we could assist the family with the next steps, the patient collapsed. This occurred within three minutes of the patient’s arrival in the emergency room.” Rathod further said, “Lifesaving procedures were initiated immediately, and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was administered, but the patient could not be revived. The patient’s family reacted aggressively to the news of the loss of their family member. They even vandalised the hospital and physically assaulted the hospital staff, causing grave injury.” Vashi police are in the process of registering a case against the family for rioting and vandalising property. At 2.30am, Suresh Chavan was rushed to Hiranandani Hospital by family members and a neighbour after he complained of chest pain.“The doctor said there are no beds available and asked us to take him to a different hospital. After an hour-long wait, the staff agreed to perform an electrocardiogram (ECG). However, soon another doctor said that he cannot be admitted as there were no beds and even stopped the ECG process. We left from the hospital around 4.30am, but the patient collapsed at the gate,” said Akshay Karad, 24, Chavan’s neighbour.The doctors finally attended to him, Karad said. “Almost an hour went by and the doctors did not give us any health updates. When my father went in forcefully, he saw that Chavan had passed away,” he said. Chavan’s family members then vandalised the hospital and broke its glass panes. No one was injured during the incident, said a police officer. Shubham Chavan, the deceased’s son, said, “My father was not Covid positive. We brought him here as this is a reputed hospital, but he was denied treatment. Everything that unfolded is on the CCTV cameras.”Mahesh Srirao, an assistant inspector at Vashi police said, “We are in the process of registering a case against the family members for damaging hospital property.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/family-vandalise-vashi-hospital-after-man-s-death/story-OK8lxBEdmxhkSYBuJne3KM.html
12-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s revised power tariffs likely to be announced by month-end||The Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) is going to revise power tariffs in the city by the end of this month, officials in the power regulator said on Tuesday. However, for the first time no public hearing would be conducted for the process, prompting criticism from resident’s welfare associations who said they would appellate authority. The power regulator, which is an independent and quasi-judicial body, will also not hold a press conference to announce the revised tariffs, officials said. “This year’s tariff announcement is expected any time now. At present, the two other members of the commission are going through the document. The new tariff structure will be uploaded on our website derc.gov.in “Due to Covid-19, no press conference, as has been the tradition for more than a decade, will be held this year. The tariff document will be sent to all media houses via email,” said SS Chauhan, chairperson DERC. Various RWAs criticised the DERC for completely doing away with the practice of conducting a public hearing, with some even saying that they would file a petition in the Appellate Tribunal of Electricity against the move. “Instead of not holding the hearing at all, the commission could have held a video conference over a couple of days. The DERC is holding a public hearing for other cases through video conference, but it did not do so in this case. Once the tariffs are announced, we will register a complaint because after seeking comments through post or email, holding a public hearing is mandatory under the Electricity Act,” said Saurabh Gandhi, secretary of United Residents of Delhi, an umbrella body of RWAs which is active in matters related to power in Delhi. Responding to the criticism, the DERC said to compensate for the public hearing, the commission this time extended the deadline for seeking comments, suggestions and objections from all stakeholders by over three months. “This is an exceptional time. Due to the pandemic, no large gathering of more than 50 people is allowed. We extended the last date of seeking written suggestions and objections from March 20 to June 30,” said a senior DERC official. As keeping power tariffs low has been a key poll promise of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government, electricity charges have not been hiked in the capital in the past four years. Senior government officials said an increase in tariff is highly unlikely. Throughout the lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, RWAs have demanded a waiver in the fixed charges that are levied on every electricity bill based on the sanctioned load of a household. “We have written to the commission as well requesting the same. RTI replies have shown that fixed charges are being collected by various discoms, on a total sanctioned load of 22,876 MW in Delhi. At the same time, the highest ever peak load till date in the Capital has been only 7,409 MW which is not even one-third of the total sanctioned load and that peak occurs for a few minutes only in the entire season,” said BS Vohra, president of East Delhi RWAs joint front. Owing to the pandemic and the lockdown that followed, the three private power distribution companies this year have demanded over Rs 2,277 crore more than last year’s aggregate revenue requirement (ARR). Aggregate Revenue Requirement means the revenue required to meet the cost pertaining to the licensed business for a financial year, which would be permitted to be recovered through tariff and charges by the commission. According to the petitions of discoms shared by the power regulator, all three utilities – BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL), BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL) and Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited (TPDDL) – together have stated an aggregate revenue requirement (ARR) of Rs 23,857.37 crore. They had sought Rs 21,580 crore last year. The BRPL has given an ARR of Rs 10,353 crore against last year’s Rs 9424 crore, TPDDL has demanded Rs 8510.37 crore (last year Rs 7,126 crore) and BYPL Rs 4994 crore (Rs 5,030 crore last year).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-s-revised-power-tariffs-likely-to-be-announced-by-month-end/story-o7TFPJ4J3clNmOUpITD63J.html
12-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi: De-sealing charges hiked to three times the licence fee||Commercial establishments such as restaurants, coffee shops, banquet halls and health clubs in south Delhi, sealed for being in violation of civic norms, will soon have to shell three times the amount of the health licence fee in order to get the establishment de-sealing. A proposal regarding the same was approved by the standing committee of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday. The proposal prepared by the public health department will now be presented before the SDMC House for a final approval. Currently, the de-sealing fee was Rs 15,000 for all kinds of health trade licence holders. Standing committee chairman Rajdutt Gahlot said the proposal to revise and increase the de-sealing charges from the present charge of Rs 15,000 to three times the licence fee was approved in order to curb violations of building by-laws, licence renewal norms, structural and operational guidelines. “The fee has been hiked to discourage illegal trades and violations of norms by businessmen. The licence fee starts from as low as ₹2,500 for minor trades such as fruit juice shops, barber shops (up to five chairs) etc and goes up to ₹50,000 for bigger establishments such as restaurants, banquet halls, coffee shops, cinema halls and health clubs, among others. The violators will be charged three times the amount of the licence fee in order to get their properties de-sealed,” Gahlot said. If approved by the SDMC House, the hiked charges will apply to shops that were sealed by the corporation. The shops that were sealed by the Supreme Court-monitoring committee for being in violation of norms can be de-sealed only on the court orders. Ashwani Marwah, general secretary, Traders Association Lajpat Nagar, said that though the move may pinch traders, it is important to create a deterrent for violations. “The hike in fee may create a fear and prevent violation of civic norms. Adhering to norms will only be in favour of traders.” However, many other traders felt that the move will only impact businessmen who have already been hit by sealing and low sales because of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-de-sealing-charges-hiked-to-three-times-the-licence-fee/story-U9je1rG6FbO743NZcx2txK.html
12-08-2020||Education||With WhatsApp and video texts, learning takes a new form in Delhi govt schools||A month after the Delhi government announced a semi-online model of education for its students amid the Covid-19 pandemic, with an increased focus on student-teacher interaction, teachers and principals across the capital are going the extra mile to ensure that they cover as many students as possible.On July 2, the government had announced that in the wake of the digital divide, students of 1,030 government schools in the capital will engage in “learning with a human feel” and have an increased interaction with their teachers over phone.CS Verma, principal of Kautilya Government Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Chirag Enclave, said the school has been trying to maximise their reach and approach as many students as they can. “We have roped in school management committee members to send hard copies of worksheets to those parents who can’t collect it from school. We have also reached out to parents and tried to coordinate online classes when they are at home so that children can access their phones,” he said.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has also been interacting with parents and reviewing the semi-online model. The education minister has visited eight districts so far. On Tuesday, the education minister visited Kautilya SBV and analysed the data from 32 schools in the south-east zone. Around 17% of students from these schools could not be traced in the wake of the lockdown. The education minister had told HT in an interview that the overall figure for schools across Delhi lies in the range of 10-15%.“These numbers keep fluctuating because we have been assessing weekly numbers of different zones. Trends indicate that class 6 students constitute a large segment of students who cannot be traced. This is mostly because they have transferred to Delhi government schools from municipal corporation schools and the data is not updated. We have asked schools to get in touch with MCD schools and track these students. A study of socio-economic backgrounds and other factors can help us come up with a system to help these students as well,” he said. “While academic losses cannot be completely covered up, it can be mitigated through the efforts of teachers and stakeholders,”Sisodia said.Aparna Pandita, who teaches biology to class 12 students at Veer Savarkar Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Kalkaji, said in addition to videos and worksheets, teachers often use the voice notes feature on WhatsApp. “Students can send us their queries and then we explain the concept in a voice note. It’s more instantaneous and convenient. The feature allows us to check who has seen the audio and who has played it. Teachers can now reach out to students who didn’t play the audio to find out the issues and then address them,” Pandita said. The interim class teacher also said several students across classes had moved out of Delhi to other states, leaving teachers with a different sets of problems to deal with.For instance, class 12 student Jyoti Yadav, a resident of south Delhi’s Govindpuri, moved to her village near Patna in Bihar following the lockdown. “We could not pay rent in Delhi and our family decided to relocate temporarily,” Yadav, who left Delhi last month, said. “The internet connection in our village is very poor. My brothers use the phone for nearly four hours, and by the time I get it, there is no battery charge left. The electricity supply is also intermittent and so I cannot charge the phone, This means I can’t attend my classes regularly. I have to resort to self-study whenever I get the chance,” Yadav, an engineering aspirant who studies at Veer Savarkar SKV, said.Pandita said she has spoken to Yadav’s father multiple times asking him to prioritise her education over their younger children. “This is her final year and hence most crucial. We have told them that if she doesn’t attend her classes, there is a chance that her name may be struck off the rolls. Her parents have assured us that they will let er use the phone more,” she said.Class 9 student Risha, who is currently in Bangarmau near Kanpur, began this academic year at her new school in Kalkaji through the online mode. “Our class teacher tried to arrange video conferencing sessions so that we would get acquainted with one another. But many of us could not connect because of internet issues,” she said. “Teachers are recording their own videos and sending them to us on WhatsApp. We enjoy the lessons when we understand it, write question and answers and send it back. But it gets frustrating when we can’t follow the lessons,” Risha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-whatsapp-and-video-texts-learning-takes-a-new-form-in-delhi-govt-schools/story-WAnE43OiwRSb8ULpHXoZAP.html
12-08-2020||Pune||Pune civic body has more people under home isolation than in hospitals||More number of Covid-19 patients is under home quarantine in Pune city compared to those at hospitals. While PMC has been pushing for home isolation over isolation at Covid care centres (CCC), PCMC, zilla parishad and cantonment boards have more number of people isolated at hospitals than homes. Out of the 15,043 active cases, almost 7,754 are in home isolation and 7,289 are in hospital isolation. In the entire district, there are over 27,000 active cases, out of which more than 12,000 people are in home isolation and close to 15,000 are in hospitals, according to a district official.As of August 10, out of the total active patients in the city, over 51.54% are at homes undergoing isolation for about ten days. Currently, there are about 19 CCCs in PMC limits where asymptomatic patients are isolated. As of Tuesday [August 11], there are 19 centres that have 4,543 allocated beds for Covid-19 cases, which includes 4,532 isolation beds without oxygen out of which 2,271 are vacant and 11 isolation beds with oxygen out of which only three are vacant. While in the district, as of Monday, there were 27,114 out of which 14,995 active patients isolated in the hospital and 12,119 are isolated at their homes. In the district, apart from PMC; PCMC, city councils, rural parts and cantonment boards have isolated more patients at hospitals than at homes. Sugar commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad has stated that the civic body will be pushing for home isolation as a policy decision after Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) gave guidelines for home isolation. He said that CCCs incur a lot of cost especially toiletries and bed materials and also diverts the staff from attending to more critical patients. However, the current commissioner states that it is the patients who are preferring to stay at homes. Vikram Kumar, PMC commissioner said, “It is not about costs, we have CCCs with 12,000 available beds. It is natural that any person would feel comfortable at home and not just Pune, but all major cities are pushing for home isolation including private hospitals too. Patients prefer to stay at homes rather than hospitals and those who have the luxury of isolating themselves at home. If any patient is asymptomatic or has mild symptoms, then they can isolate themselves at home. We do keep a follow up about their health till the isolation period is over by calling them regularly and also if they feel that the symptoms are escalating then we send an ambulance immediately. Also, we have a telemedicine app wherein any patient can get free consultation.” A few of the ICMR guidelines include, the person should be clinically assigned as a very mild/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic case by the treating medical officer, such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts, Patients suffering from immune compromised status (HIV, Transplant recipients, Cancer therapy) are not eligible for home isolation, Elderly patients aged more than 60 years and those with co-morbid conditions such as Hypertension, Diabetes, Heart disease, Chronic lung/liver/ kidney disease, Cerebro-vascular disease shall only be allowed home isolation after proper evaluation by the treating medical officer, a caregiver should be available to provide care on 24 x7 basis and a communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration of home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-has-more-people-under-home-isolation-than-in-hospitals/story-qAKMSzM4h3Zy6xFOOx35CM.html
12-08-2020||Pune||In over 4,000 samples in Pune, Covid antibodies found in close to 17%: private lab||Based on over 4,000 random samples at a private lab in the city, it was found that close to 17 per cent of the people tested had developed antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19. A total of 4,116 samples were tested for antibodies of persons who were either Covid positives or suspected to have contracted the virus. Of these 4,116, 698 persons or 16.95% were found to have developed antibodies, as per the tests carried out by Thyrocare Labs. The samples were collected from residents of Pune and adjoining areas under Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), including Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and other areas. Besides tests carried out by the lab between July 3 and August 10, a separate serological survey is underway in the city being carried out by Indian Institute of Science and Research (IISER). Vikram Kumar, Pune municipal commissioner said, “I will be unable to comment on the sero survey by a private lab, but PMC along with Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) and IISER along with SPPU will be running parallel sero surveys which would be more definitive. Such surveys will help us understand about opening up more activities in areas where more people are found to have antibodies in their body.” In areas which have been hotspots since the past two months have shown a higher presence of antibodies compared to other parts of the city for the samples which were tested. Antibodies help understand how much per cent of the population has developed immunity against the virus as more people develop antibodies, the spread of the virus also slows down. In addition, such a study also helps the government understand what restrictions need to be implemented in places and what relaxations can be allowed. PMC in collaboration with IISER and SPPU is also conducting such a study, a sero survey, to understand the presence of antibodies. The results for this will be out by mid-August. Dr Prachi Sinkar, head, Thyrocare Labs said, “Usually for any infectious diseases, antibodies stay in the body for years, but for Covid-19 particularly, it has to be studied. Our study has found that the antibodies last for at least 60 days. Usually the people who come to us for tests want to know about past infection if any and if the antibodies have developed. If they were asymptomatic, for donation of plasma once recovered and do they test Covid-19 negative.” She said that the city with a good recovery rate of 68%-70% and a better doubling time, things are positive and may improve in September. The tests shows a 16% positivity rate with Kasarwadi, Karvenagar, Hadapsar and Dapodi showing an antibody positivity rate of above 30%. Antibodies found in 17% of recovered patients in sample testIn over 4,000 samples tested in PMR, antibodies found in close to 17% Research says IgG antibody lasts for years for any infectious disease, but for Covid particularly this has to be studied as yet.Based on the study at the lab, it has been found that antibodies stay for at least 60 days for Covid-19What is an antibody?An antibody, also known as the immunoglobulin, is mainly produced by plasma cells which are used by the immune system to neutralise pathogens such as pathogenic bacteria and viruses. While RT-PCR or rapid antigen detection kits detect antigen which indicate the presence of the virus, antibodies prove that the body is fighting the antigens and the virus or has fought in the past.Thyrocare Technologies Limited has tested about 4,116 reports in Pune metropolitan region (PMR). Out of the 4,123 samples collected, antibodies were found in 16.95%People who opt for the test want to know if they were asymptomatic and were ever exposed to the virus or also for plasma donation. Anyone can test and no prescription is needed to test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-over-4-000-samples-covid-antibodies-found-in-close-to-17-private-lab/story-cheAYVV0WESsTc1rxHN6PP.html
12-08-2020||Pune||Two more sero surveys to cover Pune||The city administration will have two more serological surveillance studies conducted by DY Patil medical college and National Institute of Virology (NIV) to assess the presence of antibodies in people, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said. The findings of first sero survey, conducted by Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) along with Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), will be out by this week. Besides IISER, BJ Medical college, which is attached with government-run Sassoon General Hospital, has sought approval from Rao for another sero survey in the city. While the DY Patil study will cover Pimpri-Chinchwad area, the area of focus for sero survey to be conducted by NIV is yet to be finalised, said Rao. “Four surveys will cover Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. First survey by IISER is almost over. The remaining three, one each by DY Patil college, NIV and Sassoon hospital will be done in the coming days,” told Rao to reporters in Pune through video conferencing on Tuesday. As part of sero survey, ISSER has joined hands with SPPU and has collected random blood samples from 1,550 persons from slum and non-slum pockets from five wards. The community-based sero survey helps identify presence of antibodies among vulnerable population. The presence of antibodies indicates that the infected person has developed resistance to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-sero-surveys-to-cover-pune/story-6KtnH9Bz3FLUhMXY7k0g4L.html
12-08-2020||Pune||Kingpin, five members of Akkya gang booked under Mcoca in PCMC||The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC ) police booked the kingpin of a criminal gang and five of his accomplices, including two minors, under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (Mcoca) for spreading fear and terror in Chikhali area. The gang, known as Akkya Bond Gang in police and crime circles, has 18 criminal cases lodged against them in different police stations.The criminals booked have been identified as Pandurang Mohol alias Sumit alias Akkya (19), a resident of Mahalaxmi Housing Society in Chikhali; Vikas alias Pangya Dhondiram Jadhav (22), a resident of Jijamata Housing Society; Shoaib Israel Shaikh (19), a resident of Saikrupa Society; Vishal Ramdhan Kharat (20), a resident of Otta Scheme and two minors.Police inspector Rajkumar Shinde said that Akkya and the other criminals have been booked under Mcoca. A Mcoca proposal against the accused was moved by Chikhali police station incharge Satish Mane to DCP Vinayak Dhakane. “There are eighteen serious offences lodged against them at different police stations and the accused were involved in threatening citizens and disturbing law and order situation in the area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/kingpin-five-members-of-akkya-gang-booked-under-mcoca-in-pcmc/story-m417E4d5GAPuQVZ4nKTDuL.html
