13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Storm sewer line to be installed to stop water accumulation on railway station road||: With an aim to stop water accumulation at railway station road (old GT road), starting from Rekhi cinema chowk to clock tower, the municipal corporation (MC) has decided to lay a new storm sewer line which will dump the accumulated water into the internal drain moving behind Bhadaur house.Area councillor Rakesh Prashar said, “An estimated Rs 35 lakh has been approved and tenders have been floated for the project. Bids will be opened on August 17, following which word order will be issued. This will bring huge relief to the shopkeepers, who are troubled due to water logging.” Area councillor Prashar and shopkeepers of the stretch have been raising the issue for a long time, but the MC has failed to find a solution for the water logging. The district headquarters of Congress and BJP are also situated on the road.Water accumulates on the stretch even after a short spells of rain causing vehicles to develop snags. Earlier, a proposal was made to install the line under Smart City Mission, but higher authorities rejected the proposal due to technical issues. The project is now being funded out of the councillor quota funds. The accumulated water also enters shops and shopkeepers rued that water logging also takes a toll on the business.One of the shopkeepers, Sukhpreet Singh said, “The water accumulation has been inconveniencing shopkeepers and commuters for a long time. No action has been taken by the MC despite several complaints. The shopkeepers have to keep some temporary structures handy to stop the water from entering their establishments.”Another shopkeeper, Ashok Kumar, said, “Water logging takes a toll on our business as it becomes difficult to cross the road even on vehicles after it rains.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-storm-sewer-line-to-be-installed-to-stop-water-accumulation-on-railway-station-road/story-GIEhoZGYqGqn2EG1jHzr8L.html
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ferozepur rly division registers 45% increase in revenue between April and July||Ferozepur railway division has earned Rs 881 crore between April 1 to July 30 2020, against Rs 610 crore last year, registering an increase of about 45%. Overall, the division’s revenue is lesser by about 18% compared to last year, till date. Railway officials said efforts are on to close the gap. Rajesh Agarwal, divisional railway manager, Ferozepur, held an online press conference on Thursday and said efforts are being taken to generate revenue despite coaching operations coming to a standstill amid the Covid-19 outbreak. On an average, Ferozepur division earned approximately 45% of its revenue from coaching operation, which they have tried to make up through goods earning. Agarwal emphasised on timely delivery and vigorous monitoring of railway projects and activities.He added that Since May 1, Ferozezur division in association with Punjab government has run 369 Shramik Special trains for migrant labourers, a highest in Northern Railway divisions and second in Indian Railway. He said that to maintain social distancing norms, the division has deployed ex-servicemen in Ludhiana and Jalandhar.“Covid-19 is being used as an opportunity to improve all-round efficiency and performance and infrastructure is being revamped. To facilitate tractor loadings from Nasrala, a dedicated line with loading platform has been constructed by the divison. Approval of the chief safety commissioner (CRS) has been obtained for running passenger trains from Delhi to Ludhiana,” Agarwal said.He added that as there was no traffic during the lockdown, tracks of all busy gates of Ferozepur division were repaired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ferozepur-rly-division-registers-45-increase-in-revenue-between-april-and-july/story-MJ1wJ6g6m4qtzJI5OFSRQP.html
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: SCD Govt College, Govt College for Girls conduct online counselling||Government College for Girls (GCG) conducted online counselling for BSc (non-medical) and SCD Government College for BBA and BA courses on Thursday. GCG admitted 140 students with cut off at 93.11% for general category and 85.78% for SC category. The remaining seats would be filed by August 22. As many as of 466 candidates applied against 160 seats in the course. SCD Government College admitted 38 students for BBA against 40 available seats. As many as 763 students applied for the seats under different categories including general, SC category and riot victims. All 480 seats for BA first semester were filled. Cut off for the general category was 85.8% and for SC category it was 77.56%.Principal of SCD government college, Dharam Singh said, “Online counselling is on for different courses and the selected students have been told to submit the fee within 48 hours failing which allotment will be cancelled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-scd-govt-college-govt-college-for-girls-conduct-online-counselling/story-ege3eNIg1J0wLIW4cHSQCJ.html
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||NGT committee reviews status of Buddha Nullah cleaning project||: The monitoring committee of National Green Tribunal (NGT) led by Justice Jasbir Singh through video conferencing on Thursday conducted a review meeting of the proposed Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project. Officials were told to expedite projects and start the work to clean the nullah on ground level at the earliest. As per information, the monitoring committee is expected to visit the city next week to review the status of Buddha Nullah pollution and solid waste management among other issues.Committee members observed that the proposed Rs 650-crore project of cleaning the nullah is getting delayed and authorities are now expected to open the tender bids for the project on August 20.Member of the committee and environmentalist, Balbir Sigh Seechewal said, “Not much could be discussed regarding Buddha Nullah pollution on Thursday as officials of water supply and sewerage board were not present at the meeting. However, authorities have been told to expedite the project and start the work on ground level at the earliest. A detailed meeting regarding different aspects including Buddha Nullah and solid waste management will be held next week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ngt-committee-reviews-status-of-buddha-nullah-cleaning-project/story-IJ4XOxpv2ybRoTXm3Ot3IL.html
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man commits suicide after conversation with fiancé||A 26-year-old resident of Gandhi Nagar committed suicide by hanging himself on Thursday after a phone conversation with his fiancé, police said.The victim owned a mobile phone repairing shop and was in a relationship with a Haibowal woman for the past year.The victim’s family alleged that the woman abetted his suicide and staged a protest outside division number 4 police station demanding that a case be registered against her.According to victim’s father, his son had an hour long conversation with his fiancé and after disconnecting, he locked himself in his room and hung himself from the ceiling fan. Inspector Pramod Kumar, station house officer at division number 4 police station said inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of CrPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-man-commits-suicide-after-conversation-with-fiance/story-eEgneVbrHbbAAzy2T1lEhO.html
13-08-2020||Patna||Testing scaled up as Bihar set to cross 1-lakh mark||Bihar scaled up the testing to more than 1 lakh even as the Covid-19 positive cases paced fast, close to reach the 1-lakh mark on Thursday. With addition of 3,906 cases, the cumulative tally to 94,459, while the testing in last 24 hours was 1,04,452. Seeing the spike in cases, the state government has given permission to open plasma bank in Jayaprabha Hospital, Paras HMRI Hospital, Patna, Mahavir Cancer Sansthan and JLNMCH, Bhagalpur. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had been stressing to increase the testing to 1 lakh per day, which was achieved on Thursday. Fourteen days back (July 31), Bihar was conducting just 22,742 tests in 24 hours. At least 10 deaths were also reported in past 24 hours pushing the toll to 484. Besides this, nine deaths were reported from NMCH and AIIMS-Patna, said their respective nodal officers. Patna remains prone to both maximum number of positive cases as well as deaths. With addition of 399 positive cases Thursday, the cumulative cases in the capital rose to 15,381, while the total deaths were 91. The next highest case of 3,855 were reported from Bhagalpur followed by 3,848 in Muzaffarpur. Briefing mediapersons on Covid-19, health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said in past 24 hours 2,439 patients had recovered, while till now 62,507 people had walked with negative report pushing the recovery rate to 66.17%. He said there were 31,467 active patients in the state. So far Bihar has conducted 13,77,432 tests. Giving the details of 10 deaths, Singh said while two patients died in Gaya and Rohtas, one each in Begusarai, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, East Champaran, Saran and Vaishali. Nodal officer, Covid-19, NMCH, Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, said a positive patient aged 65 years and resident of Nalanda passed away on Wednesday of cardiac arrest. Eight positive patients passed away at AIIMS-Patna, which included retired IAS officer Manoj Kumar Srivastava. Nodal officer, AIIMS-Patna, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said four patients of Patna, besides equal number of other patients from Bhojpur, Darbhanga, Sitamarhi and Muzaffarpur passed away in past 24 hours. The patients were aged between 56 and 74 years, he said. Meanwhile, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad visited PMCH, NMCH besides isolation centre set up at Patliputra indoor stadium to take first hand account of facilities provided to the patients.AIIMS doctors’ strike deferred The Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of AIIMS-Patna has deferred the strike till August 18 on the assurance of director. The RDA had urged the director to resolve the clash of joining terms for senior resident doctors who were yet to complete their residency but had qualified for the position of senior medical officer (SMO) posts in the state health department. President RDA, Dr Vinay Kumar, said the AIIMS director has sought six days to cancel the notification that led to the controversy besides including resident doctors also in the ₹50-lakh insurance coverage, as proposed by the Bihar government. “Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey has also assured that our demand will be fulfilled,” he said. District-wise details Patna reported 399 cases, followed by East Champaran 220, Katihar 200, Begusarai 197, Gaya 179, Saharsa 175, Araria 163, Madhubani 159, Sitamarhi 133, Purnia 130, Jehanabad 127, Buxar 118, Darbhanga 108, Kaimur 103, Saran 98, Rohtas 94, Muzaffarpur 88, Khagaria 86, West Champaran 79, Bhojpur 72, Aurangabad 67, Bhagalpur 66, 64 each in Arwal, Samastipur and Supaul, 62 each in Madhepura and Sheikhpura, Munger 55, 54 each in Gopalganj and Siwan, Kishanganj 51, Vaishali 50, Lakhisarai 49, 37 each in Nalanda and Nawada, Sheohar 24, Banka 23, Jamui 18, 1 each in Chandauli (sample collected in Patna), Dispur (sample collected in Patna), North Dimajpur (sample collected in Purnia), Ranchi (sample collected in Patna).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/testing-scaled-up-as-bihar-set-to-cross-1-lakh-mark/story-z9Y73piimjGWAg1uLl3ukI.html
13-08-2020||City||13 deaths, 181 new cases reported in Ludhiana||Ludhiana on Thursday reported 13 fatalities due to coronavirus, pushing the death toll to 207, while 181 new cases took the district’s infection tally to 5,948.Those who were tested positive include chairman-cum-managing director of Avon Cycles Limited and President of All India Cycle Manufacturers Association (AICMA), Omkar Singh Pahwa. His wife also tested positive for Covid-19. Both are under home quarantine. Besides, 12 undertrials, six police personnel, three pregnant women, two health workers and a domestic traveller were among those testing positive. The active cases stand at 1,710.The fatalities include a 51-year-old man from New Gagan Nagar Giaspura, an 80-year-old woman from New Upkar Nagar, a 71- year-old man from Old City, a 72-year-old man from Basant City, a 45-year-old man from Fatehgarh Mohalla, a 26-year-old woman from Dashmesh Nagar, a 65-year-old man from Vikas Nagar, a 67-year-old woman from Barrewal, a 54-year-old man from Mundian Kalan, a 57-year-old woman from Field Gunj, a 68-year-old man from Cheema village in Payal, a 34-year-old woman from Noorwala village and a 54-year-old man from Industrial Area. 21 staffers of MC chief’s office quarantinedThree days after municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal’s personal assistant, Deepak Goyal tested positive for the virus, 21 staff members of MC Chief’s office have been home quarantined.The employees have also undergone the Covid-19 test on Thursday and have been directed to stay home quarantined till Sunday. Till now, 17 MC employees including a joint commissioner have tested positive and two sweepers have succumbed to the disease. A health officer of MC has also undergone the Covid-19 test on Thursday after he developed flu-like symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-deaths-181-new-cases-reported-in-ludhiana/story-x4iJjx3du0xNcks4zXVrFK.html
13-08-2020||City||Car rams into cyclist, close shave for LIP councillor||A trader died when a speeding car hit his cycle near Loha market here on Wednesday morning, while Lok Insaaf Party councillor Swarndeep Singh Chahal who was accompanying him had a close shave. The deceased has been identified as Narinder Kumar, 55, of Vishwakarma Colony. Narinder is survived by his wife and two children. He was the lone breadwinner for the family.The occupant of the car took the victim to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), but sensing his critical condition, he fled the spot.Chahal said that as they reached near Loha market at Gill road an overspeeding Maruti Swift Dzire, in an attempt to overtake a pickup auto, hit Narinder’s cycle. The impact of the collision was so strong that he tossed in the air before falling on the road.“The accused told the hospital staff that a three-wheeler had hit the victim and he was an eyewitness to the incident,” the councillor said adding that he managed to take down the registration number of the car which he has given to the police.Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, SHO at Division Number 6 police station said that a case under Sections 279, 427 and 304-A of the IPC has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/car-rams-into-cyclist-close-shave-for-lip-councillor/story-Hzq5B2P6QEfmoGTiXWM3dI.html
13-08-2020||City||Ludhiana financier booked for raping Punjabi singer||Ludhiana A financier, Roshan Pala, has been booked for raping a Punjabi singer on August 7. A singer, Raju Mann, known to the victim, has been arrested for conspiring with and helping the accused in the crime. Pala is absconding, police said, adding that the complaint was lodged with them on Thursday. The crime took place at the financier’s office in Ghumar Mandi, the complainant has said. In her complaint, the victim has said that Mann had introduced her to Pala, with the promise that he would finance her videos. They had also performed at the birthday party of Pala a few days ago.Mann took her to Pala’s office, but left after making an excuse. Pala the raped her, threatening her into keep mum. Division number 8 SHO inspector Jarnail Singh said a case has been registered under Section 376 (rape) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. A hunt is on for Pala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-financier-booked-for-raping-punjabi-singer/story-REERgEBaEQAty5Lqi6JUPJ.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||FYJC admissions: Education department facilitates ‘zero contact’ process for quota round||In a bid to make the admission process for first-year junior college (FYJC) aspirants applying under the management, in-house and minority quotas simple, the state education department has started sharing the students’ data with colleges. This year, the entire FYJC admission process will be based on ‘zero contact’ owing to the Covid-19 situation. “We have provided data of students who have applied under various quotas to the colleges so that they can make calls to the students to seek details on an aspirant’s interest for applying to their institute. If interested, students can complete the entire process online and do not have to visit the college,” said a senior official from the department. Colleges have to complete quota admissions (also called the zero round) and update the status of admissions conducted on the portal for FYJC admissions by August 22. Students who wish to confirm their admissions will get a one-time password (OTP) on their phones, which they have to enter before securing a seat at a college. The same process would be conducted if a student wishes to cancel the admission. Once a student confirms admissions under any of the quotas, he/she will be out of the Centralised Admission Process (CAP) for general admission rounds. Meanwhile, until Thursday evening, around 70,000 students had filled Part 2 of their admission forms, which consists of their college preferences. The department started the process for filling the Part 2 forms from Wednesday. Admissions for students who are not applying under any quota will start from August 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-admissions-education-department-facilitates-zero-contact-process-for-quota-round/story-4r5IVGZVjP7OlhQBZG0vcO.html
13-08-2020||City||Fake attendance scam surfaces in Ludhiana railway department, 3 staffers chargesheeted||Fake attendance scam have surfaced in Ludhiana’s railway department. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager ( Sr DCM) Railway Ferozepur Division has issued a chargesheet to three ticket checking staffers and sought their reply into the matter. Last month, a ticket-checking official was issued a chargesheet in the scam.The chargesheet was issued following an inquiry conducted by the Ludhiana commercial inspector.Senior DCM Chetan Taneja has marked an inquiry into the case after he came to know that fake attendance was being marked by ticket checking staffer Ram Saroop Meena in connivance with chief inspector ticket Surjit Singh. During questioning, it came to light that 150 fake attendance was marked during 2018 and 2019 by Meena while he was absent from duty. Moreover, he has claimed TA/DA allowance for these 150 days, which accounts for ₹800 per day.A chargesheet has been issued against two train in-charges who have already recorded their statements with the inquiry officer.Sources said that more names will crop up during the inquiry. The scam has been running from the past many years and the ticket-checking official used to charge his share from their TA/DA allowance for the favour.Senior DCM said that he cannot share more details as the inquiry into the matter is pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-attendance-scam-surfaces-in-ludhiana-railway-department-3-staffers-chargesheeted/story-H171XaoIaFNxjU4ae7mOuN.html
13-08-2020||City||Wildlife department writes to MCG over spilling of leachate into the Aravallis||The district wildlife department earlier this week wrote to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram(MCG), warning against spillage of leachate from the Bandhwari landfill into the surrounding Aravalli forests. The department’s notice to the MCG — dated August 11, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times — urges the civic body and Ecogreen Energy, its concessionaire for waste management, to rectify the issue, failing which prosecution may be initiated as per the Wildlife Protection Act (1972).The notice also warns that the wildlife department’s no objection certificate (NOC), which had been granted for setting up a waste management plant at the site, also stands to be revoked in case of continued violations. Signed by R Dangi, district wildlife officer, Gurugram, the notice says, that the area is a well-known wildlife habitat, which is the home to leopards, hyenas, hedgehogs, monitor lizards, black partridges, peafowls, cobras, jackals and mongoose. Ecogreen Energy, however, denied any wrongdoing on its part. In a response sent via a text message on Thursday evening, a company spokesperson, referring to a recent chemical analysis of leachate samples by the HSPCB, said, “Concerned department personnel visited the plant in the July and Aug, 2020. It appeared like a rainwater and was confirmed after conducting lab test. Bhandwari plant is designed and developed in such a way that no dirty water can go out (sic).”However, after experts raised concerns over the integrity of these findings, fresh leachate samples collected from the landfill site last week have been sent for testing to the Haryana State Pollution Control Board’s headquarters in Panchkula last week, as well as to a private laboratory in Delhi. “The lab reports are expected in a day or two. We will share the results when we receive them,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, Gururgam, HSPCB. Rajesh, a junior engineer with the MCG who is currently overseeing day to day compliance at Bandhwari, said, “We have not let any leachate runoff happen this monsoon. We have built an elevation at the edge of the dump to keep leachate inside. Because of rains the water level inside the landfill is a little high, but we will also complete building the boundary wall soon, once the water level recedes. We have also lined the edges of the dump with an impermeable material so the leachate doesn’t seep into the ground.” Despite repeated attempts, HT was unable to reach Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG, on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wildlife-department-writes-to-mcg-over-spilling-of-leachate-into-the-aravallis/story-9qIH8MHItk3jq0lHZfbicL.html
13-08-2020||Gurugram||Rains bring long power cuts in many areas of Gurugram||Several residential colonies on both sides of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway witnessed long hours of power outage on Wednesday night after rain started at around 11pm. Residents of Palam Vihar, Ashok Vihar, Sector 45, Sector 40, Sushant Lok-1, Ardee City, Sector 31, Jalvayu Vihar, Sector 46 and several adjoining areas complained of unscheduled power cuts, which lasted for anywhere between six to eight hours. In some areas, residents complained, power did not come back till Thursday afternoon. Residents vented their anger on social media against the power distribution company for failing to provide them with adequate power. Many complained that the power infrastructure in the city poor, and even a light spell of rain leads to frequent power outages. Sanjeev Saxena, a resident of Sector 45 and an RWA member, said that power went off at around 11pm on Wednesday night and came back only at around 2pm on Thursday. “The DHBVN should inform the residents about such long hours of power cuts. There is no communication on the part of the distribution company and people, including Covid patients, are being left to suffer,” he said.Residents also said that the power outage hampered their work from home routine. A resident of Sector 45 said that his daughter is pursuing management studies and she could not study due to power outage. “It was only after the RWA president helped her to charge the laptop that she could appear for her virtual exam,” said Raj Bhateja.In many areas, the power supply was hampered due to faults in cables, said DHBVN officials, adding that the power was restored in the first half of the day. The residents, however, said that they had to remain without supply for almost 12 hours.The residents of Sushant Lok -1 complained that they had been facing trouble since the past several days but the power cut on Wednesday night was particularly bad. “The residents of Sushant Lok -1 suffered immensely due to the power cut that started at around 1am in the night,” said AK Nagpal, a resident.The consumers also complained that despite DHBVN repeatedly asserting that it was upgrading infrastructure across the city, the situation on the ground has improved very little. AK Munjal, a resident of Palam Vihar, wrote on Twitter, “The malaise is much older and continues, don’t know for how long. We are living in 21st century and that too in a millennium city contributing max to the state exchequer.(sic)” Chaitalee Mandhotra, a resident of Ardee City said that there was a major fault in their area, which took almost 12 hours to be fixed. “The situation was really bad and everyone, including senior citizens,suffered due to power cuts. The fall in temperature helped a bit though, she said.In response to these allegations, Joginder Hooda, superintendent engineer, DHBVN, however, said that he handles around 548 feeders in the city, out of which only 19 had suffered breakdowns on Wednesday night, due to snapping of wires because of rain and strong winds. “In the majority of the areas, electricity supply has been restored and our teams are working on the ground, trying to fix these issues since early morning. In many colonies developed by private realtors, the electricity infrastructure is less than adequate and this also the reason for the frequent disruptions in power supply. We had also carried out trimming of trees in many areas. However, during the monsoon season, tree branches fall, thereby snapping the power distribution cables,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rains-bring-long-power-cuts-in-many-areas-of-gurugram/story-PvIetbpAQPlkZvv2Mn6tLK.html
13-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s Covid count crosses 10,000, virus growth rate slows down||Gurugram’s Covid cases shot past the 10,000 mark on Thursday with 78 new cases being added to the tally on Thursday. The district breached the 10,000 mark five months after the first case was detected on March 15.As per official reports, Gurugram now has 10,016 Covid-19 cases and 128 fatalities, with one fresh death being reported in the health bulletin on Thursday. This puts the mortality rate from the virus in Gurugram at 1.27%, which is slightly higher than the state’s average of 1.14%.Gurugram’s mortality rate is also the second highest in the state after Faridabad (148 deaths), a district which currently has the highest number of active coronavirus cases (906) in Haryana. Out of the 128 deaths in Gurugram so far, 90 are due to co-morbid conditions and 38 are without any co-morbidities.Gurugram district at present only has 706 active cases. At least 9,182 people have recovered from the illness, which is 91.67%, the highest in the state. Of the active cases, 577 are home isolated, 31 in Covid care centres, and 98 are hospitalised in various private hospitals of the city.In terms of growth rate, cases in the city are increasing at 0.98% (as on Thursday). In June, the cases were surging by 12.6% , which had reduced to almost 1.7% by July’s last week. Due to increased testing in the last two-and-a-half months, the daily growth rate has seen a decline.From just 18,000 tests in May, the number of tests has increased to 130,878 on Thursday. On an average 2,000 tests are being conducted daily, which includes both gold standard RT-PCR and antigen detection tests. Gurugram currently has the highest testing rates in the state, with 91,860 tests per million population. The state testing rate is over 30,000 tests per million (till August 9), while the national testing rate is almost 18,000 per million population.The test positivity rate has also come down to 7.14%, which was almost 18% in June. Ideally, it should be around 5% as per the World Health Organisation’s ( WHO’s) recommendations.This has reduced Gurugram’s Covid-19 burden on the state. In Haryana, out of the 44,817 total Covid cases, 6,820 are active, of which 10% is from Gurugram. The number has come down from 50% in June, when the district reported more than 3,700 cases in just a month.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer said that although active cases are declining, citizens should not be complacent. “Due to continuous testing in worst-affected areas, the number of coronavirus cases have reduced. But with the festive season about to start and temples being reopened, citizens should be cautious and follow basic norms to prevent contracting the infectious virus. They should not be complacent.”Yadav said that to further lower the positivity rate, at least 70 testing camps will be organised in the next week in containment zones and areas outside it. “A testing strategy plan is being prepared to test more people,” said Yadav.The city had witnessed its first wave of Covid-19 cases from March 15 onwards, with patients having travel history to Covid-19 affected countries testing positive. Thereafter, it was Tablighi Jamaat attendees who attended a religious congregation in Nizamuddin, Delhi and then there was spread of infection among neighbouring districts. Cases in June were getting doubled as fast as in four to eight days. This has decreased to almost 104 days now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-covid-count-crosses-10-000-virus-growth-rate-slows-down/story-ntF03lWNqsFQ9rf9yHJH8H.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||Can’t reopen temples amid Covid-19 pandemic: State to HC||The Maharashtra government has refused to reopen places of worship – closed owing to the Covid-19 pandemic – the Bombay high court (HC) was informed on Thursday. Government pleader Purnima Kantharia informed the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Madhav Jamdar that Kishore Nimbalkar, the secretary of the disaster management department, has rejected the representations of two petitioners – Bhandup resident Ankit Vora and a Jain temple trust – who had requested the court to direct the state over the reopening of Jain temples on the occasion of the community’s nine-day Paryushan festival, which starts on Sunday. The two petitioners had also sought permissions for allowing members of the Shwetamber Murtipujak Jain community to perform religious functions and worship during the nine-day festive period in Jain temples. Vora contended that the central government had permitted the opening up of places of worship – by ensuring physical distancing norms are followed –and therefore, the state government should also allow religious shrines in Maharashtra to open up and come out with the necessary guidelines for the purpose. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh had then supported Vora’s claim by pointing out that the central government had permitted the opening of places of worship outside containment zones and had issued separate guidelines on July 29. Acting on the petitions by Vora and the trust, the bench had on Tuesday directed the secretary to consider their representations, with restrictions and conditions as may be imposed by the government. Nimbalkar has, however, said that the request cannot be acceded to in view of the prevailing situation in Maharashtra, which is the worst-affected state owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. In support of his claim, he has cited that until Tuesday, Maharashtra had recorded a total of 5.35 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 18,306 deaths. The secretary has also claimed that the administrative machinery has already been stressed and overburdened, and it will be impossible to monitor strict compliance of the conditions to curtail the spread of the virus, which will result in the irreversible spread of Covid-19. After his decision was communicated to the court, the lawyers for both the petitioners requested the court to consider allowing Jains to visit their temples only on the last day – considered to be the most auspicious of the nine days of Paryushan. The bench refused to consider the request. “This is a very sensitive issue. We will have to be very careful,” said the bench. The judges clarified that they had ensured that the petitioners had the opportunity to make a representation and get the state authorities decided on it. The bench said that it cannot accede to the request of the petitioners even for the limited relief, as it will open floodgates of petitions seeking similar relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/can-t-reopen-temples-amid-covid-19-pandemic-state-to-hc/story-yaykvoYF0tpU66qJGx4D1L.html
13-08-2020||Gurugram||Heavy rain lashes Gurugram; air quality improves||The city witnessed heavy rain on Wednesday night and early morning on Thursday, providing much-needed relief from a spell of humid weather for the last couple of days. As per the district administration’s report, 60mm rainfall was recorded in Gurugram up till 8:30am on Thursday. As per IMD officials, light to moderate rainfall can be expected on Friday.Officials attributed the rain to the south-westerly winds that are bringing moisture to parts of north-west India. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Delhi, said, “Rains can be expected in parts of Delhi-NCR for the next two days on account of the presence of the moisture-laden south-westerly winds.”As per IMD, a low-pressure area is also likely to develop over the northwest Bay of Bengal which will lead to the strengthening of the monsoon flow over the northern parts. It may lead to rainfall at various part of Haryana between Friday and Saturday. The maximum temperature on Thursday was recorded at 36 degrees. The minimum temperature stood at 25 degrees Celsius. Gurugram’s maximum temperature is expected to fall further and touch 31 degrees Celsius on Friday, as per IMD’s weekly forecast. The relative humidity in air on Thursday evening was 75%. The minimum temperature is expected to hover around 26 degrees on Friday, as per the forecast. As per the weekly forecast, cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers will prevail until the weekend. Air quality in the city remained ‘good’ on Thursday, recording 44 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This was an improvement from the previous day’s recording of 58 in the ‘satisfactory’ category. The improvement in air quality was largely attributed to an increase in the wind speed and rainfall. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the lower end of ‘satisfactory’ or the ‘good’ category on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/heavy-rain-lashes-gurugram-air-quality-improves/story-nBN7rd8NY1P6LIGM52YPTL.html
13-08-2020||Gurugram||Moderate rain inundates many areas in Gurugram||More than 60mm of rainfall left several stretches across the city heavily waterlogged on Thursday. The worst affected areas included the Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch, on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, IFFCO Chowk on e-way, Basai Road, and the sector 46-Bakhtawar Chowk stretch.At each of the stretches, waterlogging was so severe that at least a portion of one carriageway or the service lane could not be used by motorists altogether. Gurugram traffic police officials cautioned commuters over social media to avoid travelling on these lanes.“The road from sector 46 towards Bakhtawar Chowk was inundated. At several points, traffic police officials were diverting traffic through the opposite carriageway as one entire carriageway was filled with knee-deep rainwater. Fortunately, the affected stretch was less than 500 metres and it did not take long to clear,” said Harshit Shukla, a resident of sector 50.The city witnessed continuous rain of moderate intensity from 10.30 pm on Wednesday night till Thursday noon.As per the district administration’s rainfall report, the city recorded 60mm of rainfall till 8.30 am on Thursday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) classifies rain between 15.55mm and 64mm as “moderate.”A pedestrian subway located opposite Haldiram, near Kherki Daula was also inundated. The 100-metre subway is used extensively by residents of Sihi village and Kherki Daula/sector 76 to cross the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway.As per an official of the Millennium City Express Private Limited (MCEPL), National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) concessionaire for the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, a 10 horsepower motor pump was installed at the subway to drain out rainwater, which was finally cleared around 1 pm.“The entrance and exit side of the subway are located in low-lying areas. As a result, rainwater from highway and nearby villages used to accumulate here. To counter this, we had built a speed breaker on both sides to ensure the rainwater backflowed. However, today, the volume of rainwater was much higher and it crossed the speed breaker as well due to which the subway was flooded. With a motor pump, it took us more than two hours to clear the rainwater,” said an MCEPL official privy to the matter.The MCEPL official said that seven motor pumps, two of 60 HP, one of 20 HP, and four of 10 HP were used to drain the rainwater from the Kherki Daula-Narsinghpur stretch.“From the moment it stops raining, depending on the extent of waterlogging, it takes us a minimum of three hours and a maximum of six to drain the rainwater with motor pumps. By 4pm, after nearly five hours of continuous use, rainwater was cleared from the stretch,” said the official.Many arterial stretches located in sectors 27, 28, 33, 43, 46, 47, 49, 50 DLF Phases 1-2, South City 1-2, Palam Vihar, Himgiri Chowk, Bristol Chowk, Gurudwara Road, Old-Delhi-Gurgaon Road, Sohna Road, also reported heavy waterlogging.Raman Sharma, chief engineer of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said that at all these points tractor-mounted motor pumps were deployed by the civic body to drain out rainwater.“Overall, more than 25 motor pumps of ours were positioned at different points across the city to drain out rainwater. In most areas by 2pm, rainwater had receded but there were a few low-lying areas where we are expecting rainwater to clear by 8 pm,” said Sharma.Waterlogging is an annual problem across the city during the monsoon season. Despite many measures, civic bodies have not been able to find a permanent solution to tackle it.VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) said that they were caught up dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. The 68-day national lockdown obstructed work on cleaning the drains, affecting monsoon preparations.“This year, our objective was very straightforward. At whichever area we found heavy rainwater accumulation following rains, we subsequently initiated draining procedures there so that it does not create a problem for a long duration. This is how we have approached tackling waterlogging this monsoon season. Until we start work towards long-term solutions, waterlogging will remain a recurring issue,” said Kundu.Kundu said that this year both GMDA and MCG had come up with various long-term solutions for waterlogging-prone areas, however, they weren’t able to execute it, this year due to the coronavirus crisis.“All of these long-term measures require months of continuous, manpower-intensive work. We are aiming to ensure that these can be implemented prior to the 2021 monsoon season,” said Kundu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/moderate-rain-inundates-many-areas-in-gurugram/story-7vtc8RHfQZMDs5BLjR45gL.html
13-08-2020||Gurugram||Rents in local markets drop by at least 25%; grocers, chemists least affected||With the exception of pharmacies, grocery stores and general stores, most of the other commercial establishments at city marketplaces are operating at reduced rents due to the economic crisis unleashed by the Covid-19 pandemic, said multiple stakeholders, including shopkeepers, tenants and brokers. Heads of various market associations across Gurugram estimated that the rents have dipped by at least 25% across most of the locations in the city. Tej Singh, head of the Vyapar Kendra market association in Sushant Lok-1, said that of the 200 odd shops in the market, almost all have resumed their business, with nearly half of them having negotiated lower rents. “Only 20 or 25 shops are still shut. Mainly pharmacies, general stores and even a few path labs remained open during the lockdown. The rent amount for such establishments has not changed much, since they continued to do good business during the lockdown,” Singh said.However, for businesses that were more affected — bakeries, salons, coaching centres and suchlike — landlords have agreed to reduce rents. Ankit, who runs a cosmetics store at Sushant Lok Vyapar Kendra, said, “I have been here for many years. The landlord and I have a good relationship. During lockdown, I paid only half the rent, now I am paying 70% till October. We are hoping that business will pick up around Diwali.” Singh clarified that, in most instances, negotiations between stakeholders have been smooth, with landlords recognising that footfall continues to be less than before. “Most of the establishments in the sector markets are old. Most people have been doing business with each other for years, so there is also an obligation to compromise on rent,” he explained. However, Singh added that the market association has, in some cases, intervened directly. “If a shopkeeper or landlord brings a complaint to us, we mediate for fairer terms depending on the person’s need. If someone’s business has not suffered during lockdown, we don’t get involved,” he said. This also appeared to be the situation in other commercial hubs in the city, such as South City-1 market, Sector 31 market, Huda market in Sector 14, and Palam Vihar Vyapar Kendra. Most shopkeepers, barring grocers and chemists, said that they have actively been seeking lower rents. Prakash Khatri, who runs who runs a brokerage firm out of South City Arcade in Sector 42, and is a member of the local shopkeeper’s association, said, “Most of the shops here are either chemists or grocery stores, which have done good business even during the lockdown. For eateries, electronic stores and suchlike, rents are definitely at least 20 to 30% lower. Even if business is picking up slowly, people would still prefer to pay a slightly lower rent because they are unsure of the future.” In South City arcade there are least 150 shops on rent which have negotiated lower rent. Harinder Rana, a shop owner and president of the Palam Vihar Vyapar Kendra market association, gave a nearly identical account. “Business is not happening at the pace as before. No owner wants to lose a tenant, and tenants also want to hold on to their space. In Palam Vihar too, most landlords have lowered rents, or deferred a portion of the rent for a later date,” Rana said, adding that this benefits both parties. “Not many people are looking to rent new commercial spaces right now,” he said.There are approximately 700 shops in Palam Vihar. About 300 are shut currently. Of the remaining, 200 are with owners and the rest with tenants. The tenanted properties have all reduced rents by at least 25%. Bablu Gupta, president of the Sadar Bazar market association, however, claimed that the locality has seen a sharper drop in rental rates than other markets, owing to the diversity of businesses it houses across retail and wholesale categories. As per Gupta, a larger number of businesses have been impacted in Sadar, as opposed to sector markets. “In Sadar, there are jewellery stores, handloom stores, furniture makers. Such businesses have suffered more businesses in sector markets, which are slowly bouncing back. Wholesalers are a little worse off than retailers. So a larger number of shopkeepers here are seeking lowered rents,” he said. Gupta claimed that in case of certain businesses, landlords have agreed to slash rents by as much as 50%. “I have intervened in a few matters where owners have not agreed to lower the price. Market associations are clear that they will only take up cases where a party has been badly affected. Any proprietor who was doing business in April and May is paying mostly the same rent as before,” Gupta said.In Sadar Bazaar, there are at least 500 shops which have renegotiated rent, from over 1,200 in total.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rents-in-local-markets-drop-by-at-least-25-grocers-chemists-least-affected/story-mw8oZzRg2djlCBX2mrytoK.html
13-08-2020||City||Shops in Thane allowed to stay open on all days from August 15||All shops within the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) limits, barring those in hot spots, will be allowed to remain open on all days from August 15, in lieu of the current odd and even system. Those do not include shops in malls or market areas. The civic body released an unlock order on Thursday, after a meeting with traders within the city.As per the new order, shops can remain open from 9am to 7pm.Dr Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner, said, “The traders cited that they were facing losses as shops were open based on the odd-even plan. As the number of positive cases is declining within Thane, the unlock order for August 15 was released. Shops have to strictly maintain social distancing norms and only standalone establishments have been permitted to open.”However, those in hot spot areas, malls and market paces will not be given permission to open. Shopkeepers in the city are happy with this decision. “We are delighted with this decision from the civic body and want to get back to business soon. Due to this odd and even concept, we were able to do business for only 15 days in a month. The strict lockdown and the current rules have had a deep impact on our business,” said Rasik Chedda, chairman, Ram Maruti Road Shopkeepers Association. Earlier in the day, in a special meeting of civic officials, guardian minister for Thane Eknath Shinde asked the civic body to consider the request from traders. “As per state government norms, shops can remain open all day, however, the rule was not implemented in Thane keeping in mind the increased number of cases in the city. Now that the situation is in control, the civic body can decide on shops being open for more hours,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-in-thane-allowed-to-stay-open-on-all-days-from-august-15/story-546gKSjReUyNsFGMhkXiEJ.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai airport implements revised quarantine rules for international passengers||Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Thursday announced that it has started to implement the revised quarantine rules for international passengers arriving in the city. The Central government revised the guidelines last week. According to concessions on quarantine regulations made for international passengers, those who have undertaken an RT-PCR test within 96 hours prior to their journey will have to fill the self-declaration form online at least 72 hours before their scheduled travel in order to be exempted from institutional quarantine. A statement from the airport operator read, “An initiative undertaken by the Ministry of Civil Aviation allows international passengers arriving at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) to skip the compulsory institutional quarantine. Concessions on quarantine regulations have been made for international passengers traveling due to emergency and those who have undertaken an RT-PCR test within 96 hours prior to their planned journey. The initiative enables arriving passengers to fill the self-declaration form online at least 72 hours before their scheduled travel in order to be exempted from institutional quarantine as mandated by the state of Maharashtra; it helps in reducing the passenger processing time substantially on arrivals.” Previously, all international passengers arriving at the airport had to undergo two stages of quarantine — first they had to observe a mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine and then a seven-day home quarantine. However, as per the revised guidelines, passengers will be able to bypass the institutional quarantine by filling in the self-declaration form that is available online on the portal www.newdelhiairport.in 72 hours before their planned travel. On this portal, passengers will also have to upload proof of the negative RT-PCR test undertaken within 96 hours before the scheduled journey. Spokesperson of airport operator Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) said that CSMIA, along with APHO (airport health organisation) team, has created a green channel for all arriving passengers who have pre-filled the applications. In the absence of an emergency or timely submission of the negative RT-PCR test on the portal, passengers will be subjected to the previous quarantine rules of the state. However, MIAL clarified that all arriving international and domestic passengers will have to undergo thermal screening at the airport without exemption. It also mentioned that the rules for domestic passengers remain the same and travellers intending to leave the city within seven days can produce their travel ticket confirming their return/onward journey to be exempted from home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-implements-revised-quarantine-rules-for-international-passengers/story-hIYUEsxvJP8itNThRAlJWJ.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC: Ready to handle rise in Covid-19 cases||RWith the city lifting several relaxations, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is expecting daily Covid-19 cases to increase to nearly 2,000 from the present average of 1,000 to 1,200 cases. However, civic officials said that BMC is equipped to handle this surge. Currently, the city witnesses 1,000-1,200 daily positive cases on average, of which nearly 85% are asymptomatic cases. Arrangements for hospital beds have been made for the remaining 15%. The requirements for daily beds may go up if the cases increase. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “There could be a possible hike as more people are stepping out of their homes and there is more traffic on the roads. Three things are important to handle a rise in cases – bed capacity, medical equipment and sufficient manpower. To tackle this, we have set up Covid centres, dedicated hospitals, and additional manpower. As of today, we have thousands of beds lying vacant; 20% of the ICU beds are vacant, and 50% of oxygen beds are vacant.” Kakani added that even if the number of symptomatic patients goes up, Covid facilities are well-equipped to handle the rise. As of August 13, the total hospital-bed capacity for Covid patients in the city was 23,166, of which 10,513 are vacant. BMC has an additional 23,477 beds in CCC2 facilities and 49,409 beds in CCC1 facilities. Meanwhile, on Thursday, Mumbai recorded 1,200 Covid-19 cases and 48 deaths. The total number of infected cases in the city has reached 127,566, and the total death toll is 6,991, according to the state health department data. As per BMC’s data, of the 48 deaths reported on Thursday, four were of patients below 40 years of age; 35 were of patients above 60 years, and nine patients were between 40 to 60 years of age. The data further states that 885 patients recovered and were discharged on Thursday. A total of 100,954 patients have been treated and discharged until now. The total number of active patients in the city is 19,314. The recovery rate of the city is at 79%. Further, a total of 6.29 lakh Covid tests were done till Wednesday. The doubling rate of the city has gone up to 87 days. Meanwhile, Dharavi reported six new cases on Thursday, taking the area’s total to 2,649.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-ready-to-handle-rise-in-covid-19-cases/story-HFxgjn0cyFa8OkROsS4AkM.html
13-08-2020||Gurugram||Three held with 331 kg of marijuana worth over ₹30 lakh from Palwal||A special task force (STF) from Rohtak on Wednesday arrested three people and seized 331 kilograms of marijuana (ganja), estimated to be valued at over ₹30 lakh, from Palwal. The police said the accused men had hidden the contraband substance in a secret chamber installed beneath a tractor trolley. Preliminary probe has revealed that the arrested men used to procure the narcotics from Chhattisgarh and sell them in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. The accused men, identified as Vijaypal, Rishi Pal and Prawesh, all hailing from Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh, were arrested near Katesra village in Palwal, after the STF team intercepted their trolley. An STF official, requesting anonymity, said, “The accused men had hidden the narcotics in small packets which were concealed in a chamber underneath the trolley. They used to procure the consignment from a contact in Bemetra district in Chhattisgarh for ₹2,000 per kilogram and sell it for ₹10,000 per kilogram in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.” The police said the accused had paid ₹6.62 lakh for the consignment of marijuana. Among the accused, Prawesh, was arrested last year in alleged possession of 28 kilograms of marijuana from Kairana in Uttar Pradesh. STF officials said that police are questioning the suspects to trace their supplier and other people involved in the supply chain. Earlier, on June 27, the police had arrested a man in alleged possession of 112 kilograms of marijuana (ganja), estimated to be valued at least ₹50 lakh, from village Sadhrana in Sector 10, Gurugram. The accused man had purchased the narcotics for ₹5,000 per kilogram from a city-based supplier and had been peddling narcotics for at least 18 months in the Delhi-NCR region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-held-with-331-kg-of-marijuana-worth-over-30-lakh-from-palwal/story-hanL22QSQCHHIHoqzradwI.html
13-08-2020||City||Man arrested for killing wife for dowry||A 40-year-old man was arrested on charges of killing his wife in Greater Noida West three days ago. The suspect was identified as Lalit Talan, a software engineer. The couple had married six years ago and has two children, police said.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said the suspect lived with her wife and two children in a high-rise society. “A native of Tappal, Talan worked in a private company in Noida. On Monday, the suspect informed the police that his wife, Ekta, 38, ended her life after consuming a toilet cleaner. However, his statement was not coherent and appeared dubious,” he said. Talan failed to tell police the name of the doctor who attended to her and whether she was taken to any hospital for treatment. Police said the suspect was not sharing sufficient information about how the woman fell ill and died. He also was not able to tell the police what might have triggered his wife to consume toilet cleaner. Chander said the body was sent for a post-mortem examination and the medical report revealed that she had suffered head injuries. The victim’s family members came from Pune, Maharashtra, and filed a police complaint against Talan accusing him of dowry harassment. Talan was booked under Section 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), Section 304-B (dowry death), and Section 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act 1961. “The suspect was on the run since the incident. On Thursday, police arrested him from Greater Noida West. He was produced before the court and later sent to jail,” Chander said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-killing-wife-for-dowry/story-WEmrnPsUsBPq144u0hJdOI.html
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Baljit Singh Daduwal elected president of Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee||Karnal: In a major turn of events in Haryana’s gurdwara politics, Baljit Singh Daduwal, the parallel jathedar of Takht Damdama Sahib, was elected president of the Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (ad hoc) on Thursday. Daduwal’s election at Gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin and Nauvin at Cheeka in Kaithal district assumes significance as he has been among the pro-Khalistan leaders in neighbouring Punjab. Soon after his election, Daduwal announced his decision to resign from the post of the Damdama Sahib jathedar “to continue the fight of Haryanvi Sikhs for the formation of an independent Sikh body to govern the management of gurdwaras in Haryana”. Daduwal was backed by former HSGMC senior vice-president Didar Singh Nalvi and defeated Jagbir Singh Khalsa of former president Jagdish Singh Jhinda’s group by a narrow margin of two votes. According to election officer Darshan Singh Barari, all 36 members of the HSGMC exercised their franchise. Earlier, there were three candidates in the fray but it was a straight fight between the groups led by Jhinda and Nalvi after Swaran Singh of Ratia backed the Nalvi group. “Daduwalji has been elected after he got 19 out of 36 polled votes, Nalvi said. On his controversial background, he said, “He has announced that he will resign from Damdama Sahib and work for Sikhs of Haryana. He is a Haryanvi Sikh and belongs to Daduwal village in Sirsa district.” Daduwal along with other pro-Khalistan leaders such as Dhian Singh Mand and Amrik Singh Ajnala led a week-long protest against the Haryana BJP government in March 2018, over the cremation of former militant Gurbaksh Singh Khalsa, who died after jumping off a high-rise water tank. In 2014, the outgoing Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government had constituted a 41-member ad hoc HSGMC team to manage, supervise and take over the assets of cash-rich gurdwaras in Haryana, giving a boost to the demand of a separate Sikh body in the state. The committee, constituted under the Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Act, 2014, was passed by the state assembly. While Jhinda was appointed president of the Haryana Sikh body, Nalvi was given the senior vice-president’s post. But later the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) approached the Supreme Court and challenged the formation of a separate Sikh body in Haryana. Reacting to Daduwal’s election, Joga Singh, a former general secretary and supporter of the Jhinda group, said that Khalsa was defeated as some people changed their mind at the last moment and voted for Daduwal. “But we will sit in the opposition and will strongly and jointly back our case for the formation of a separate Sikh body for Haryana as the case is pending in the Supreme Court,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baljit-singh-daduwal-elected-president-of-haryana-sikh-gurdwara-management-committee/story-uUmxqHdh0V8ZodLBpD1qwL.html
13-08-2020||City||Kotkapura firingSIT files charge-sheet against former Kotkapura DSP, ex-SHO in 2015 FIR||Faridkot A Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) probing 2015 police firing incidents on Thursday filed a charge-sheet in the FIR registered on October 14, 2015, in connection with the Kotkapura firing incident. The SIT has named the then Kotkapura DSP Baljit Singh and former Kotkapura SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher as accused in the charge-sheet, filed in the court of duty magistrate Ekta Uppal.On June 25, the SIT had arrested Pandher by adding Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) and 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc) of the IPC in the 2015 FIR registered on Pandher’s complaint, against the protesters. Presently, Pandher is under judicial custody in Bathinda. The SIT summoned Baljit for questioning on a couple of occasions, but he had failed to appear. Fearing arrest, he moved an anticipatory bail petition in the district and sessions court. This bail plea was dismissed. Later, the court issued his arrest warrant on the SIT’s plea. However, the Punjab and Haryana high court granted interim bail to Baljit on July 27.Both were also named as an accused in another FIR registered in connection with the Kotkapura firing episode, but were granted bail in this case, registered on August 7, 2018. This case was registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder); 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the IPC and the Arms Act against unidentified cops. Later, the SIT added more sections to the FIR.Sources said the SIT is likely to file a supplementary charge-sheet in the Behbal Kalan police firing incident soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kotkapura-firingsit-files-charge-sheet-against-former-kotkapura-dsp-ex-sho-in-2015-fir/story-RAWJP2yvOLVKU7POj5GAgL.html
13-08-2020||Noida||Robbers decamp with ATM having ₹4 lakh cash||Unidentified robbers decamped with an ATM that had ₹4 lakh cash in it, according to bank records, from a kiosk in Gijhore village, located under the Sector 24 police jurisdiction on Wednesday night.The incident came to light around 7am on Thursday when the police were informed about the missing machine of a private bank.“The machine had been cut off from the kiosk using a sharp blade. We informed the bank officials about it. There was no security guard posted at the kiosk and even the hard-disk of the CCTV cameras was missing,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.Police investigation are on in the case“Generally, organised criminals and gangs are behind such incidents. We have a solid lead in the case and will nab the suspects soon,” said the DCP.A forensic team also visited the spot after the incident. Police suspect that the burglary may have taken place between 2am and 3am, though it is unclear at the moment how many people were involved.A senior police official, on condition of anonymity, said the incident may be connected to another money dispensing machine robbery attempted in Mamura village around 1.30am on Thursday. The same gang may be behind this robbery after they failed in Mamura village.“We got a call at 1.56am from the bank itself whose alarm had gone off when the machine was tampered with. From the footage, one man can be seen but he is completely covered. However, the case is being worked out,” said Amit Kumar Singh, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.In the Gijhore incident, police are yet to receive an official complaint from the bank after which a case will be registered. However, a search is on for the robbers and efforts are on to recover the machine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/robbers-decamp-with-atm-having-4-lakh-cash/story-DNOqCrCmUrTwTMxpApGsjN.html
13-08-2020||City||Bulandshahr police verify 350 motorcycles to find culprits in Sudeeksha Bhati case||The Bulandshahr special investigation team (SIT) formed to investigate the Sudeeksha Bhati’s death case have been verifying the details of over 350 Royal Enfield motorcycles registered in the neighbourhood of the accident site.The 19-year-old died in an accident on August 10 after the motorcycle she was riding pillion met with an accident in Bulandshahr. While her family alleged that she was harassed by two persons on a Royal Enfield motorcycle, the police had termed it as an accident and that there was no harassment.Her family had also claimed that the motorcycle of her harassers had the words “JAAT” written on it.Diksha Singh, Circle Officer, Bulandshahr, who is heading the SIT, said that there were around 10,000 Royal Enfield motorcycles registered in the district. “We have scanned over 350 such motorcycles from nearby villages and other areas. We have also questioned the owners of these motorcycles. We are hopeful to make breakthrough in a day or two,” she said. The team on Thursday visited Sudeeksha Bhati’s home in Greater Noida and recorded her family’s statements. Jitendra Bhati, Sudeeksha’s father, termed the interaction as “good”. “They assured us that they were working to catch the real culprit and deliver justice. They have scanned several motorcycles in the neighbouring area. I also told the investigating officials that this was a case of harassment which led to accident and my daughter’s death. I urged them to press charges of harassment too. They talked to us for half-an-hour,” he said. Bhati said that he had not yet met the Noida district magistrate or commissioner. “We will protest if the criminals are not arrested soon,” he said. A team from Greater Noida’s Badalpur police station was also present at Sudeeksha’s home. Patneesh Kumar, station house officer, Badalpur police station, said Greater Noida police had no role in the investigation since the accident took place in Bulandshahr. Sudeeksha was pursuing a graduate degree in the United States. Her death and the family’s claim of harassment had triggered a political slugfest with many questioning the Uttar Pradesh government’s policy on crime.Bulandshahr police had registered a case of rash driving and death due to negligence in Sudeeksha Bhati’s death. Local people demanded arrest of suspects, Rs 1 crore compensation to the victim’s family and an academic institution in the name of Sudeeksha.A local outfit Akhil Bhartiya Veer Gurjar Mahasabha has also announced to place a statue of Sudeeksha Bhati in her Deri Skaner village in Dadri, Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bulandshahr-police-verify-350-motorcycles-to-find-culprits-in-sudeeksha-bhati-case/story-WOBkGTo1MuoYQEHAp72eRI.html
13-08-2020||Noida||Noida University offers scholarship to wards of corona front-line workers||In a gesture to honour their services of corona warriors who are working on the front line as the pandemic continues to rage, a city-based varsity has announced a scholarship for their wards.Noida International University (NIU) has announced a 20 percent scholarship on fees for all courses and batches for the children of front line workers such as police officers, doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, bankers, among others.“This is the least we can do, as the entire nation is grateful for the services of corona warriors. We have decided to provide a 20 percent scholarship to their wards for all courses. The scholarship would include waivers on tuition fees, boarding fees, etc, and is meant for children on corona warriors be it the police, para-medical staff, railway staff, or anyone else who has contributed towards fighting the pandemic,” said Dr Vikram Singh, chancellor of NIU.He said the scholarship would be introduced in the upcoming session and will continue till the end of the course for a ward if (s)he secures a minimum of 60 %. For first-year students, the scholarship would be extended towards the second year and further based on the merit of the student. “The scholarship provided shall continue for the rest of the course if the student secures 60%marks. Other than this, the university also offers various scholarships as well,” Singh added.Located along the Yamuna expressway, the NIU is a private university and has over 4,000 students from 29 nations enrolled in around 150 courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-university-offers-scholarship-to-wards-of-corona-front-line-workers/story-kTQCdbyeQWQRjQv7wd2jlO.html
13-08-2020||Noida||Rain in Noida and Ghaziabad pulls down mercury by 7 degrees, more in store, says weatherman||Noida: and adjoining Ghaziabad saw a decent amount of rainfall since Wednesday night, bringing a day-long relief from warm and humid days as mercury fell by over seven degrees over the past 24-hours.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Noida saw an estimated rainfall of 6.3 mm, Greater Noida saw 7.6 mm while Ghaziabad saw 26.5 mm rainfall. The rainfall below 15mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5mm is heavy. The rain deprived cities are, however, continuing to see rainfall deficits. The IMD predicts that rain will continue for a few days. “We can categorise the rainfall as good for overall NCR. There were chances of high rainfall recently due to favourable weather conditions but that has passed. Yet, the region will see moderate to light rainfall for three to four days and the mercury will remain under the season’s average as well. The rains will, however, will be patchy and not regular or uniform as it was on Thursday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. He added that the monsoon line of trough – a low pressure line that causes rains – is currently passing over Haryana and is around 150 kms from south of Delhi-NCR, making weather favourable for moderate rainfall in Noida and Ghaziabad for next three days. “The region will see rain but no heavy rains are predicted for this week. Temperatures will hover around 30-32 degrees Celsius for next three-four days and humidity will remain high around 80-90%,” Srivastava added. On Thursday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 28.9 degrees Celsius, five notches below the season’s average, against 36.8 degrees a day earlier. The minimum temperature was recorded at 24.5 degrees Celsius against 27.4 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The day also saw high humidity which oscillated between 00 to 94%, dropping slightly as the day folded.A few places in the city also saw water logging as well but no major snarls were reported. Water logging was seen at certain areas including the cut towards Delhi at DND expressway, parts of Bhangel in Noida during morning hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/rain-in-noida-and-ghaziabad-pulls-down-mercury-by-7-degrees-more-in-store-says-weatherman/story-c34SYNblz4g09r8CIqr6GL.html
13-08-2020||City||New CNG vehicles rot in stockyard, corporation prefers private vehicles||A member of Ghaziabad corporation board has written to the city mayor and sought her intervention in roping in around 100 new CNG vehicles that were purchased for transportation of solid waste but are lying unused at a stockyard in Govindpuram.Ajay Sharma, who is councillor from Sanjay Nagar and also member of the corporation’s executive-committee, in his letter to the mayor, Asha Sharma, has alleged that despite the corporation having new CNG vehicles, the vehicles of private contractors are being used for door to door collection of daily solid waste. “There are about 50 four wheelers and similar number of e-rickshaws, besides other equipment, which are lying unused for past one and half months. Instead, the vehicles of private contractors are being used which is causing unnecessary financial burden on the corporation. It seems that the new vehicles are not being used just to favour the contractors,” councillor Ajay Sharma said. Sharma added that the hiring of private vehicles was causing an additional financial burden of Rs 40 lakh per month for the corporation. In response to Sharma’s letter, mayor Asha Sharma has written to city health officer Dr Mithlesh Kumar and directed him to ensure that the new CNG vehicles are deployed at the earliest. According to officials, the new vehicles were procured through funds received under the fourteenth finance commission under infrastructure development head. “Earlier we had about 68 vehicles hired from private contractors. But many of these were old and resulted in spilling of solid waste. We also had to provide fuel to these vehicles for daily operations. Thereafter, about 50 of these were replaced by corporation vehicles for door-to-door collection of solid waste from residential wards. At present, we have about 18 such vehicles of contractors and they will also be replaced,” mayor Asha Sharma, said. “As for the new vehicles, we are yet to get the insurance done for them. This will be expedited in another 3-4 days. The new e-rickshaws will be roped in for areas having smaller lanes while other bigger vehicles will be given to wards having bigger roads,” she added. City health officer Dr Mithlesh Kumar said that he has already written a letter to several officials of the corporation for deployment of the CNG vehicles. “I had written on July 9 for deployment of vehicles and the letter was addressed to several senior officers. We are probing as to why despite my letter the new vehicles were not roped in. The work will be expedited,” he added. Municipal commissioner Dinesh Chandra, on his part, said that some of the new vehicles have been roped in while others will be deployed in next 3-4 days. “There was some issue with the drivers which has been sorted out. The rest of the new vehicles will be deployed in another 3 to 4 days . However, it will not be correct to say that all the private vehicles will be replaced as our requirement is rising,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-cng-vehicles-rot-in-stockyard-corporation-prefers-private-vehicles/story-kLGTd4tdsPrvxIcf4NMLTP.html
13-08-2020||City||Three Covid deaths in 4 days, Ghaziabad to step up surveillance, monitoring||Ghaziabad officials are alarmed over the three Covid-related deaths which took place in the past four days and have formed a strategy to step up surveillance in the district and also referrals to Meerut. According to officials, a 62-year-old Covid-positive man died in Meerut on Wednesday and overall, 33 deaths out of total referrals have taken place at Meerut since April. During the past four days, a 37-year-old man died after five days of treatment at the L3 hospital in Ghaziabad while a 30-year-old woman from here, who was referred to an L3 hospital in Meerut, died on the night of August 10. Meanwhile, another 62-year-old man died on August 12 after he went on his own for treatment to Meerut. Going by state records, the 37-year-old’s death was the first Covid-related fatality in the district in 19 days, the previous one having taken place on July 21.“All the three patients had tested positive for Covid-19. The 62-year-old man from Muradnagar suffered from uncontrolled diabetes and went on his own to Meerut for treatment. He succumbed on August 12. With the three deaths, the total tally of fatalities in Ghaziabad has gone up to 67 till August 13. Since Delhi hospitals are closer and have started admitting our patients, we will be trying that all complicated case referrals be made to hospitals in Delhi,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.District officials had raised the issue of referral and admission of patients from Ghaziabad to hospitals in the National Capital during a meeting held earlier with a team of officials led by Dr VK Paul, member of the Niti Aayog.The issue was reiterated on July 27 during a video-conferencing held with the officials of the Delhi government, led by the Delhi chief secretary. According to official figures, about 155 patients (Covid and non-Covid) have so far been referred from hospitals (MMG Hospital, District Women Hospital and L2 hospital at Sanjay Nagar) in Ghaziabad to Meerut and 33 fatalities have taken place. Of the 67 Covid-19 related deaths, 33 have taken place in Meerut, 30 in Ghaziabad and two each in Delhi and Noida, officials said. “During a review meeting on Thursday, we directed that supervision and distribution of prophylactics to close contacts of Covid-19 patients should be monitored by senior officials. We are distributing hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin through our surveillance teams deployed in containment zones. The distribution will now be strictly monitored by senior administrative officials to ensure that prevention measures yield results and no complications result in bad health status,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.In a government order on August 6, the state health department has recommended use of Ivermectin tablets as prophylactic for close contacts of Covid-19 patients and also for health workers, besides treatment of positive cases (in asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients along with doxycycline). “Further, we will also be focussing on immediate testing of patients who are to give birth or have comorbidities. The surveillance teams have also been directed to trace all pregnant women and get them tested, irrespective of whether they are from containment or non-containment zones. The district already has sufficient Covid and ICU beds and we are focussing on qualitative treatment to each patient,” he added.According to the records of the health department upto August 13, the district has 576 beds available in two L2 hospitals at ESIC Sahibabad (earlier L1 hospital and now converted to L2 hospital) and Sanjay Nagar, besides those in L3 hospital of Santosh Medical. The L2 hospitals have 13 while the L3 has 20 ICU beds. Further, the three hospitals also have 3, 12 and 21 ventilators, respectively. Together, the three hospitals have 387 beds which are equipped with oxygen supplies. As regards the fatalities, four deaths took place till May 31 while next 51 took place in the month of June. Another nine took place in July while three have taken place so far in the month of August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-covid-deaths-in-4-days-ghaziabad-to-step-up-surveillance-monitoring/story-TR4sMf1JlZJR1u2FKVF5iM.html
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Lt Gen Yogendra Dimri takes over as Western Command chief of staff||Lieutenant General Yogendra Dimri has taken over as the Chief of Staff, Western Command. On Thursday, he visited the ‘Veer Smriti’ in Chandimandir and paid homage to the martyrs.The general officer was commissioned into the Corps of Engineers (The Bombay Sappers) on December 17, 1983. A recipient of the President’s Gold Medal for having passed out first in order of merit from IMA, Dehradun, the general officer has an illustrious military career spanning over 36 years, during which he has tenanted important command, staff and instructional appointments in varied sensitive and operational sectors and difficult terrain.He has commanded an Infantry Brigade on the Line of Control, a Counter Insurgency Force in J&K and the prestigious Sudarshan Chakra Strike Corps prior to assumption of the present appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lt-gen-yogendra-dimri-takes-over-as-western-command-chief-of-staff/story-GaTrv5ENkdIj8JM1ld6CkI.html
13-08-2020||City||Denied a pet kitten, 14-year-old kills self in Ghaziabad||A 14-year-old boy was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his residence at a highrise under the jurisdiction of Indirapuram police station area on Thursday morning. Police said the boy had killed himself as he wanted to adopt/buy a kitten,to which his mother did not agree. The police said that the boy was found hanging in his room after his mother and his gym trainer opened the door on Thursday morning. “For the past 2-3 days he had been asking his mother to buy him a pet kitten. His mother had told him that she would get him a pet once his father arrives from China, where he is presently working. The boy, however, insisted that he wanted a pet immediately and was angry at having been turned down. Later, he went to his room on Wednesday evening and that was the last time anyone ever saw him. Since, he had a habit of confining himself to his room, his mother did not think much of it in the beginning,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram). “However, when the mother opened the room on Thursday morning, she found him hanging from the ceiling fan . The boy studied in a Delhi school and had come to his parents during the lockdown,” Jain added. The police said that they boy was a student of Class 10 and stayed at the hostel of his school in Delhi.They added that the family so far has not given any written complaint in the incident. Ghaziabad does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/denied-a-pet-kitten-14-year-old-kills-self-in-ghaziabad/story-uG9T0xdnkMADpArDmJa59I.html
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Hooch tragedy: Punjab CM flays Majithia for targeting DGP||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said that SAD’s targeted attack against a senior and highly-professional officer of the Punjab Police is a “shameful attempt by them to exploit the unfortunate hooch tragedy” to push their own political agenda with eye on the next assembly polls in state.Reacting to Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia’s statement accusing Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta of ‘shielding’ SSP Amritsar Rural over the latter’s alleged failure to act on complaint against the liquor mafia, Captain said there is no need of `shielding’ an officer who had an unblemished track record including war on drug and illicit liquor smugglers and traders.He said SSP Dhruv Dahiya had been on his personal security team. “A person with links with the mafia, as was suggested by the SAD, can hardly be trusted with the CM’s security,” he quipped.Stating that all SSPs and DCs were appointed directly by him, the CM said that the DGP or CS cannot be held responsible for their actions in any case. He said that contrary to what Majithia is falsely claiming, the SSP had received no specific complaint from any citizen regarding manufacturing of hooch.“If there had been even a suspicion of the SSP protecting or conniving with liquor smugglers, I would have been the first to take action against the officer as was done against five others immediately after the tragedy came to light,” he said.Expressing shock at SAD’s “continued attempts to seize the major tragedy for promoting their own vested interests”, Amarinder said, “it reflects the appalling low that SAD has touched in its desperation to connect with the people.”The CM said, “Small-scale manufacturing of illicit liquor had been going on for years, but police busting several modules in recent months and the covid-induced lockdown had spiked demand for liquor. Some liquor smugglers saw this as an opportunity to make a quick buck and started using chemicals in manufacturing hooch, leading to the tragedy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooch-tragedy-punjab-cm-flays-majithia-for-targeting-dgp/story-I9UUQrvYZoeT1IZtoH5nqL.html
13-08-2020||City||PAU announces entrance exam dates for admission to UG courses||In an unprecedented move, Punjab Agricultural University has announced the dates for Common Entrance Test (CET) and Agriculture Aptitude Test (AAT) for admission to its various academic courses. Earlier on July 31, the university had cancelled the entrance exams for admission to undergraduate programmes for the academic session 2020-21 in view of Covid-19 pandemic Giving details, PAU registrar, Rajinder Singh Sidhu said that the dates were announced after the Punjab government issued guidelines on the conduct of entrance exams for admission to colleges and universities. The AAT exam will be held on August 31 and CET exam on September 9, however, students are advised to visit the PAU website regularly for the latest updates. Vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon said that in view of Covid-19 pandemic, it has been decided that the entrance examination will be decentralised. “Instead of conducting it at one center, the examination will now be held at various centers including Ludhiana, Bathinda, Amritsar, and Gurdaspur,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-announces-entrance-exam-dates-for-admission-to-ug-courses/story-nhfo1xvWkvAuEnw9wkl17J.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt ties up with philanthropy group for road safety initiatives||The Delhi government’s transport department on Thursday tied up with Bloomberg Philanthropies to develop road safety initiatives, senior government officials said.The transport department has signed a memorandum of understanding with the philanthropy group, said the office of transport minister Kailash Gahlot.“Under the tie-up, the Delhi government will receive support from global experts on road safety, receive funding to engage experts in road safety initiatives, technical assistance, training, help in conducting periodic road user behaviour surveys, help in generating mass media campaign content on road safety and developing road injury surveillance systems,” said a senior government official in the transport department, requesting anonymity.A document concerning the tie-up, which HT has seen, read that Delhi is one of the cities chosen by the philanthropy group to join the 2020-25 initiative for global road safety. The city government was chosen for “outstanding work in advancing public health and road safety”, read the document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-ties-up-with-philanthropy-group-for-road-safety-initiatives/story-FIDKQvi8Qf6jCamNWqEgWM.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||Depts of school and higher education need to work closely to send every child to college: Sisodia||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday urged the departments of school education and higher education to work closely together so that they are able to send each and every child to college in the coming years.The minister said this while welcoming the new director of school education Udit Prakash Rai and the new director of higher education Azimul Haque. “Every year, around 2.5 lakh students graduate from schools. Our responsibility is to ensure that every student gets admitted to college. For this, both our departments need to work closely together. Earlier, only 90,000 students graduating from schools could get into colleges. But with the efforts we made over the past few years, 1.3 lakh children are now being admitted to colleges. We are hopeful that, soon, we will bridge the gap with the inauguration of the skills and sports university,” Sisodia said.While Rai has taken over school education from Binay Bhushan, Haque has replaced SS Gill in higher education. Sisodia said both outgoing officials had made significant contributions to the education sector in Delhi, including revamping schools and increasing seats in colleges. “We have seen seamless coordination between the DoE and the higher education department and we expect the same in the future as well. The director of higher education should be aware of the number of children in the first grade today so that accordingly, (s)he can plan for 12 years hence -- how many seats will be needed in higher education,” Sisodia said. Emphasising the importance of education, the minister said, “Education is not something that most people may want but it is something that they need. One of the biggest mistakes of our nation is not to focus on the education sector. The moment we came in power, in the first budget itself, we dedicated 25% of our budget for education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/depts-of-school-and-higher-education-need-to-work-closely-to-send-every-child-to-college-sisodia/story-CEteoJjOmIv4MXCKKlMM6M.html
13-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: GND Nagar residents complain of contaminated water, choked sewers||As the civic authorities failed miserably to address the issue of choked sewers, residents of street number 7 in Guru Nanak Dev Nagar are having a hard time for the past two months. Expressing disappointment over the working of the municipal corporation (MC) and area councillor Ashwani Sharma, residents said that they are forced to drink contaminated water and people in the area have typhoid, allergies and various sicknesses due to dirty water.They said that repeated complaints to the MC on their plight had fallen on deaf ears.Himanshu, a resident of the area, said, “The sewer lines are choked for a long time, which also leads to water contamination in the area. I have sent my children to their grandparents’ house as the health of residents is deteriorating due to dirty water. Several complaints have been given to the authorities, but to no avail.” Another resident Parveen Kumar said, “The residents are facing a lot of trouble due to clogged sewer lines. The population and industrial activity in the area have increased in the past due to which the old sewer lines are not able to take the pressure and remain choked. The authorities must replace them.”Councillor Ashwani Sharma visited the spot after the residents raised hue and cry over the issue.Despite attempts, Sharma could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-gnd-nagar-residents-complain-of-contaminated-water-choked-sewers/story-fF3ub3bIHwvTvxfHELuZ4N.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||Water logging: AAP, BJP play blame game||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson Dilip Pandey on Thursday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations in the city for the water logging situation and raised concerns about alleged corruption.“The water logging situation in Delhi reflects the corruption in the BJP-led municipal corporations. The three municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) have failed in their responsibility of de-silting and clearing drains. Around 98% of drains in the city are under the MCDs. A proper budget is allocated for de-silting of drains but nobody knows where the money goes. The MCDs under the BJP are in the most inefficient condition and they (the BJP) shall get an answer in the next municipal elections in 2022,” Pandey said in a press conference at the party office in central Delhi.Several localities and arterial roads in the Capital were waterlogged after heavy showers lashed Delhi over the last couple of days, leading to severe traffic snarls and causing massive inconvenience to residents of the city.Adesh Gupta, the BJP’s Delhi unit president, however, blamed the PWD for not de-silting the drains under its jurisdiction and said that’s what led to the water logging. He said the Delhi government had claimed to spend ₹100 crore on cleaning of drains but this claim was “washed away in the water”.“Despite having the Drainage Master Plan approved, the Delhi government has not implemented it yet, due to which Delhi gets waterlogged even with little rain. The PWD, under the Delhi government, did not complete even 50% of silt removal from the drains before the monsoon. Arvind Kejriwal talks about making Delhi London, but due to the negligence and poor policies of his government, Delhi is now flooded in rain.” he said.CORRUPTION CHARGESIn the same press conference, Durgesh Pathak, in charge of municipal corporation affairs, demanded that the building surveys by the MCDs be probed and those found guilty of corruption be given strict punishment.“The MCDs are supposed to survey buildings every year. The North MCD, under mayor Jai Prakash, had submitted its report last month which stated that around two out of 800,000 buildings surveyed are in a vulnerable state and could collapse any time. In the last 24 hours, two buildings have collapsed in the northern municipal zone. This raises concerns about the survey and suggests corruption. We demand that this be probed and those found guilty be given strict punishment,” Pathak said.A police officer died and another was injured after a building in North Delhi collapsed on Wednesday.Responding to Pathak’s allegations, Jai Prakash, mayor of the north corporation, said, “Allegations levelled against me are absolutely baseless. I inspected the location where the building collapsed yesterday and have ordered a probe into the matter. I will also send a legal notice to Pathak for making false allegations and tarnishing my image.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/water-logging-aap-bjp-play-blame-game/story-lAlH5Ow4OEIzLRdxh5I9KP.html
13-08-2020||City||After highest 24-hr spell in August since 2013, Delhi can expect light showers for 2-3 days||New Delhi: Delhi will continue to get light to moderate showers over the next two to three days owing to moisture incursion from the Arabian Sea and the monsoon trough (a line of low pressure) passing near the national capital.Delhi’s Safdarjung station recorded the highest rain for August in 24 hours since 2013 on Wednesday evening and Thursday night. Between 5.30pm on Wednesday and 2.30pm on Thursday, the station recorded 83.8mm of rain, the highest since 95.2mm on August 21, 2013.Delhi’s rain deficiency (since June 1) fell from 35% on Wednesday to 10% on Thursday, considered to be in the “normal” category for monsoon. The Palam station recorded 99.9mm, while Lodhi Road recorded 84mm and Ridge recorded 98 mm. Most of the rain was recorded in two intense spells between 11.30pm on Wednesday and 2.30am on Thursday and another between 2.30am and 5.30am, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi.“We can expect more rain. NCR (National Capital Region) may record moderate category rains while Delhi will continue to record light to moderate rains. The monsoon trough is passing along Ferozepur, Narnaul, Gwalior, Satna, Ambikapur and Chaibasa towards the low pressure area over Bay of Bengal. There is also a cyclonic circulation over south Haryana. So rains will continue for two to three days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.“Palam recorded a very heavy spell by 5am on Thursday and then parts of central Delhi recorded a spell after some time. South Delhi got the highest share because moisture incursion is from the south now, from the Arabian Sea. We may not see such intense spells from Friday in Delhi-NCR, but 5 to 7cm rain can be expected. The heavy spells are dependent on convection and monsoon winds,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.Extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) was recorded in Himachal Pradesh and heavy to very heavy rains were recorded over east Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Konkan, Goa and Telangana.There is a low pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal off north Odisha and West Bengal coasts. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and become more organized during the next 2-3 days according to India Meteorological Department’s Thursday bulletin. The monsoon trough is active and lies near its normal position (Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal.) it is likely to be in the active phase during the next 4-5 days. High convergence of strong southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and monsoon trough at lower levels is likely over northwest and central India during next 4-5 days, the bulletin said.These favourable conditions are likely to bring widespread and very heavy rain over major parts of northwest India (Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh) during next 2 days and decrease thereafter.Widespread and heavy rain is also very likely over Gujarat, Konkan, Goa, ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra, east Rajasthan and parts of central India during next 4-5 days. Extremely heavy rain is likely in Gujarat and east Rajasthan. Moderate to severe thunderstorm accompanied with lightning is likely over Uttarakhand, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, east Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh during next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-highest-24-hr-spell-in-august-since-2013-delhi-can-expect-light-showers-for-2-3-days/story-SgDKD9PsOWudL2EwbWg5MK.html
13-08-2020||City||Ambala: Congress protests over ‘series of scams unearthed during Khattar regime’||As part of the state-level protests, the Congress workers on Thursday staged a protest near Mini Secretariat in Ambala against the BJP-JJP government over the series of scams unearthed during the Manohar Lal Khattar regime. The protests were led by Mullana MLA Varun Chaudhary along with Naraingarh MLA Shally Chaudhary, state treasurer Rohit Jain, former MLA Ramkishan Gujjar, and other party leaders.Raising anti-government slogans, the party workers said that the state government was looting people which had been revealed through registry and liquor scams. Party workers later submitted a memorandum to the deputy commissioner.Addressing media persons, MLA Varun said that the government took this pandemic as an opportunity to loot the state through different “scams.”“There have been discrepancies in nearly 30,000 registries and the special enquiry team (SET) in the liquor scam has said in its report that bureaucrats were not cooperating in the inquiry. If they would have cooperated with the team, what could have come to the fore can’t be imagined? So, Congress has demanded an investigation into all the scams during this pandemic and before by a sitting high court judge,” the MLA said.Rohit Jain alleged that instead of forming a special investigation team in the liquor scam, as promised by home minister Anil Vij, the government constituted an SET that was totally powerless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-congress-protests-over-series-of-scams-unearthed-during-khattar-regime/story-TDJaBTOA4x6NAwdZMdk09N.html
13-08-2020||City||Brother of Ambala-based RTI activist gets threat||RTI activist Anoop Singh Rana of Preet Nagar alleged that his brother Yashpal Singh is being threatened by one Bunty to withdraw his complaint regarding irregularities in the construction of a shopping centre.The police lodged an FIR into the matter on Wednesday evening.Anoop Singh has filed an RTI petition on irregularities in the construction of a shopping centre on national highway 44. Anoop told the police that his brother received a threat call on Whatsapp from one Bunty Kaushal on Wednesday and alleged that the caller threatened his elder brother of dire consequences if the RTIs and complaints are not withdrawn by him.Rana alleged that the owner of a prominent shopping centre on the National Highway-44 and others against whom he had made complaints to the administration “had made the threat call.”SP Abhishek Jorwal said that an FIR was lodged under Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at the Baldev Nagar police station and an investigation has been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/brother-of-ambala-based-rti-activist-gets-threat/story-tcxB2WC1mTu8e2FnK0LyrL.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||Lab technician arrested for raping minor girl on RML hospital premises||A 22-year-old lab technician of Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in central Delhi allegedly raped a minor girl on the hospital premises on Sunday after luring her to the campus on the pretext of offering her a job, the Delhi Police said on Thursday. The hospital employee was arrested on Tuesday, soon after the rape survivor approached the police with a complaint, said Eish Singhal, deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi). The officer said the lab technician has been booked for rape and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The RML hospital authorities refused to comment on the incidentThe suspect lives in Ghaziabad and was introduced to the girl by a common woman friend a couple of weeks ago. “The suspect offered to help her bag a job in the same laboratory where he worked,” said another investigating officer who wished not to be named. “On Sunday, the man brought the minor girl to the hospital on his scooter and led her to an isolated spot on the third floor of the building, on the pretext of showing her his workplace,” the officer quoted above said. It was there that the man allegedly sexually assaulted the girl, the officer said. The girl returned home and later told her family about the sexual assault. “On Tuesday, the girl went to the North Avenue police station and told the police of the crime after which we registered a first information report (FIR) and arrested the suspect,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lab-technician-arrested-for-raping-minor-girl-on-rml-hospital-premises/story-vvsearnSGcsUROTOlNlWhJ.html
13-08-2020||City||Property tax: No coercive action against Delhi airport operator, high court tells cantonment board||New DelhiThe Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB) not to take any coercive action against Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL), which operates the IGI Airport, in connection with the Rs 2,600 crore property tax demand sent by the authority for the 2016-19 period.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued the direction after DCB sought one more week to file its response to DIAL’s plea challenging the property tax demand. It noted that both the Centre and the DCB were yet to file their replies and wanted more time to do so.“Time, as sought, is granted to file the replies. Meanwhile, no coercive action be taken against the petitioner (DIAL) till the next date of hearing,” the bench said and listed the matter on September 14.Besides seeking quashing of the June 15 order demanding over Rs 2,589 crore, the plea sought a declaration that the land on which the airport is located is not a cantonment and, therefore, does not fall in DCB’s jurisdiction.The petition sought setting aside of the past letters of DCB seeking payment of varying amounts of property tax in respect of a certain portion of the airport land that purchased in 1940 by the International Airport Authority of India from the Defence Estate Authorities (presently DCB) for a consideration of Rs 4.61 crore.According to the petition, part of the airport land falls in the jurisdiction of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation for which DIAL pays property tax to the civic body. For the remaining portion, DCB has been demanding property tax.DIAL has contended that instead of explaining how it arrived at the earlier amount, DCB “completely revised the amount and sought to impose a completely arbitrary and exorbitant amount”. DIAL also said if such a huge amount is levied on it, it would be constrained to recover it through the tariff charged at the airport, which would ultimately be transferred to the passengers as an undue financial burden. No immediate comment was available from DIAL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/property-tax-no-coercive-action-against-delhi-airport-operator-high-court-tells-cantonment-board/story-JmbZrsbrhqh2x6CjJq9rgK.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||DDA challenges Rs 50 lakh fine in HC, says did not pollute stormwater drain||The Delhi high court has directed the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to deposit ₹50 lakh with the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) as a fine for the alleged water contamination of stormwater drains on the Samalkha-Dwarka Road in south-west Delhi.Justice Navin Chawla directed the DDA to deposit the amount with the DPCC within two weeks of August 10 and added that the deposit would be subject to the outcome of the plea moved by DDA against the environmental damage compensation fee imposed on it.The DDA had filed a plea challenging the DPCC’s July 10 decision to impose the environment damage compensation fee of ₹50 lakh on it for allegedly spoiling the water quality in the stormwater drain.The DDA has contended that the July 10 order of DPCC was “illegal, arbitrary and unreasonable” as it does not have the jurisdiction to take such a decision.The petition has contended that unless there is a specific provision in the statute enabling the authority (DPCC) to levy a penalty, it cannot levy any penalty or damages with reference to the general powers provided under the Environment Protection Act.The DDA has also claimed that it has no control over the area in question — the Samalkha T-Point to Bharthal road also knows as the Urban Extension Road (UER-II).“The primary responsibility of disposal of the waste/surplus sewage flow discharge beyond the boundary wall of each complex on the road is with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation and the Delhi Jal Board,” the petition has said.The DDA has also claimed that in compliance with earlier directions issued by the National Green Tribunal, the DDA, in December 2019, had closed all rainwater harvesting systems installed in stormwater drains on Samalkha-Dwarka Road.While issuing a notice on the plea, the court posted the matter for further hearing on November 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-challenges-50-lakh-fine-in-hc-says-did-not-pollute-stormwater-drain/story-z14joMOAuWJR19henTsLWK.html
13-08-2020||City||Remove wall round 300-year-old banyan tree, Delhi high court tells authorities||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Thursday expressed its displeasure with the Delhi government over the failure of its tree officer to remove wall around a banyan tree, believed to be 300 years old, which was damaged due to illegal construction at Nai Sadak in Old Delhi, while asking the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to look after several such old trees in the vicinity and preserve them.On August 6, HT had reported that Justice Najmi Waziri, while hearing a plea regarding illegal construction in the Chandni Chowk area, had directed the authorities to work on a war footing to restore the “grand old tree”, which he said is nothing less than a “heritage”. The plea was filed through advocate RK Kapoor by a resident, Nitin Gupta.The judge had said the photographs shown to him reflect the “horrific” condition of the “grand old tree, which has seen the unfolding of the city, and that it existed from a time when the Britishers could not have even thought of coming to our country”. The judge was astonished at the condition of the tree, whose aerial roots were chopped and also damaged by cement and stones. On Thursday, the court was informed by advocate Gautam Narayan, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, that the stones and rods had been removed. However, the court said the wall surrounding the roots of the tree was still there. He sought to know the reason from the counsel and expressed displeasure that the orders had not been followed. It noted that even though some stones had been removed, the tree officer did not observe two glaring obstructions -- a wall around three sides of the tree and another structure.“I am appalled with the non-compliance of my order on the removal of concrete…….The tree officer should have taken note of it as it prevents the growth of the roots. There is another structure around the tree, which needs to be removed. Let an affidavit be filed as to why this was not addressed by the tree officer,” the court said in its oral order. Senior advocate Salman Khurshid, appearing for the builder, told the court that they had accepted the mistake and were ready to comply with any orders passed by the court and the authorities.Advocate Ajay Arora, standing counsel for the North DMC, told the court that construction had completely stopped and the builder was issued a show cause notice, asking why his sanction not be revoked as they had not mentioned the presence of the tree while seeking permission for the building plan. Asora said the commissioner had directed an enquiry against erring officers.In compliance with the earlier order, Arora told the court that a tree census had been conducted in the area and altogether there were 1,700 trees.The court, noting these submissions, asked the civic body’s counsel to look into after the banyan trees near Subhash Marg, Urdu Bazaar and other adjoining places and preserve them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/remove-wall-round-300-year-old-banyan-tree-delhi-high-court-tells-authorities/story-qwTbesblpGCJDGo93utw0K.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||Man thrashed to death, two held||A 50-year-old man was killed after being allegedly thrashed by his daughter’s neighbours in north Delhi’s Burari on Wednesday night. Police said the fight started over the man’s daughter allegedly leaving her dog unleashed outside their house, to which the neighbours had objected. Police have arrested two men for the murder.The police, around midnight on Wednesday, received a call reporting a fight between two groups over a woman leaving her dog unleashed in the area.“When a police team reached the spot, they were informed that a 50-year-old man who was injured in the brawl has been taken to Babu Jagjeevan Ram Memorial hospital. The injured man was identified as Kuldeep Katyal, a resident of Sant Nagar, Burari,” said a police officer. The officer said during the preliminary enquiry, Kuldeep’s son Shambhu, 25, who runs a mobile phone repair shop at home, said around 11.45pm on Wednesday his nephew came running and said that his father had got into a fight. “Shambhu and his father Kuldeep rushed to his sister’s house in the same locality. There, two neighbours, Deepak, 25 and his uncle Vakul, 30, were thrashing Kuldeep’s son-in-law Ashok. When he intervened, the duo hit him on the head with a bat and he collapsed,” the police officer said. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said the police have registered a case based on Shambhu’s statement to probe the assault. “On Thursday morning we received information that Kuldeep’s condition deteriorated and he was moved to Safdarjung Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. A case of murder was then registered and Deepak and Vakul were arrested,” Bhardwaj said. The DCP said Kuldeep’s daughter has also alleged that one of their neighbours gestured lewdly towards her but she didn’t report this earlier. “We are probing this and adequate action will be taken,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-thrashed-to-death-two-held/story-o96TUT5dsxntPLEkT910GO.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||Two-month-old girl, sold by her father for Rs 40,000, rescued by DCW||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Thursday said it has rescued a two-and-a-half month-old baby girl, who was allegedly trafficked and changed hands multiple times. The DCW said it received information from its mahila panchayat on Wednesday that the infant had been sold by her father to traffickers for Rs 40,000.The commission, with the help of the Delhi Police, searched several places on Wednesday night and rescued the infant, it said in a statement. “On Wednesday night, the commission received information from its mahila panchayat that a two-and-a-half-month-old girl has been trafficked by her own father for ₹40,000. The infant’s father was taken to the police station where he admitted that he already had two daughters and did not want a third girl child. “During interrogation, the baby’s father revealed a location in Madipur where the infant may be found. The DCW team, together with the Delhi Police, and the man reached the location where they met a woman, who allegedly told the police that she had sold the infant to another woman in Shakurpur,” the DCW statement said. “The team reached Shakurpur and the woman there said she had given the baby to her sister in Chawri Bazaar. The team reached Chawri Bazaar where another woman informed us that she had handed over the infant to her acquaintance in Trilokpuri. Finally, the baby was rescued from Hauz Qazi on Thursday morning,” the DCW said. An FIR in the matter was registered at the Burari police station. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bharadwaj said,“The infant’s father has been arrested for trafficking the child. He had two daughters, both of whom suffer disabilities. The family was living in poverty. He gave the child away for ₹40,000 and finally the infant was given to a man for ₹80,000. The police conducted multiple raids and rescued the child from Hauz Qazi area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-month-old-girl-sold-by-her-father-for-40-000-rescued-by-dcw/story-x0aSdXTkk3HCrkeOe4ckgL.html
13-08-2020||City||Class 10, 12 compartment exams likely in September||New Delhi: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday said it might conduct the compartment exams for students, who had appeared in Class 10 and 12 board exams earlier this year, in September. The board had to cancel some exams of both the classes in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, following which the students were evaluated on the basis of the average of marks they got in appeared exams.In a circular issued on Thursday, CBSE controller exam Sanyam Bhardwaj, said, “Compartment examinations are proposed to be conducted in September, 2020. The date will be announced soon.” All the CBSE-affiliated schools have been asked to submit the details of students placed in the compartment this year.According to the circular, candidates of classes 10 and 12 who have appeared for the examinations in February and March as regular candidates and whose result has been declared as ‘compartment’, can approach their schools for the exam. Candidates of Class 12 who had applied for improvement of performance as regular candidates in the subjects for which examination was scheduled from July 1, 2020 to July 15, 2020 and their result has been declared as ‘NC’ in the subject concerned will also have to contact their schools.“Schools will be informed about the date of downloading of the admit cards later on. In case of any discrepancy in the admit card, schools should contact the concerned regional office of the board,” the circular added.CBSE had declared the result of Class 12 on July 13 and Class 10 on July 15. The board had to cancel 12 papers of Class 12 in India and abroad in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In Class 10, exams of all major subjects were held before the lockdown was enforced to control the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/class-10-12-compartment-exams-likely-in-september/story-8rWuDTeEuIBGiyF3EsavgM.html
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Can’t bear 14-day quarantine, won’t attend son’s wedding, suspended SHO informs court||Accused in a Rs 5 lakh graft case, suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur on Thursday filed another application in court stating that she didn’t want to attend her son’s wedding on August 14 in police custody.In her two applications, one addressed to the court and another to the jail superintendent, Kaur stated that she did not want to attend the event due to Covid-19. She stated that she was taking “heart pills” and was “mentally depressed”, so she did not want to bear quarantine for 14 days.“In view of the above said reasons, accused Jaswinder Kaur will not be sent to attend her son’s marriage ceremony under police custody on August 14,” the jail superintendent submitted before a special CBI court.On August 6, Kaur had applied for an interim bail from August 13 to 15 for her son’s wedding in Chandigarh.The special CBI court had partly allowed the interim bail on August 11, while directing her to attend the ceremony from 9am to 4pm in police custody and allowing police to handcuff her.“The police authorities will be at liberty to handcuff the accused if deemed necessary and the jail superintendent is also directed to take all precautionary measures of Covid-19 before taking the applicant to the marriage ceremony of her son and reverting back to judicial lock-up,” the order by Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI, had stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/can-t-bear-14-day-quarantine-won-t-attend-son-s-wedding-suspended-sho-informs-court/story-OOjyrkRqEsE0gDmG1DBy1L.html
13-08-2020||City||Jalandhar admn to do covid testing of 35,000 symptomatic persons with co-morbidities||To initiate early treatment of symptomatic persons and those suffering from co-morbidities to minimise loss of lives due to Covid-19, the district administration is all set to conduct covid test of all 35,000 symptomatic persons in district with co-morbidities.In a video conference chaired by Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh to review covid preparedness in districts, DC Ghanshyam Thori said after surge in positive cases, they plan to intensify sampling for tests for early detection of patients.Officials said that during door-to-door survey by health teams, 35,000 people had pre-existing diseases and samples of all these persons will be collected.The district has witnessed 91 deaths, of which, 85 were of people with co-morbidities. To complete testing soon, sampling teams have been doubled.Thori said healthcare infrastructure is continually being ramped up in district besides ensuring availability of beds for level-2 and 3 patients round-the-clock.Commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said drive against people not wearing masks or not maintaining social distancing has also been intensified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-admn-to-do-covid-testing-of-35-000-symptomatic-persons-with-co-morbidities/story-uIYsgErhyCSPIVHqsdsOeP.html
13-08-2020||City||For 1st time in 61 years, no spectators at Independence Day function at Attari||Amritsar The Independence Day ceremony at the joint check post (JCP) of the Attari-Wagah border will be held without spectators for the first time since it started in 1959 this year. The Border Security Force (BSF) is holding low-key functions on August 14 and August 15, in view of the coronavirus pandemic. In addition to organising a band display on August 14 (Friday evening), BSF personnel will hold a parade on August 15 evening. “BSF’s director general Surjeet Singh Deswal, along with other senior officials, will be present during the parade on August 15. No visitor will be allowed to visit the JCP due to the pandemic. Only men in uniform, wearing masks and gloves will be there,” said a senior BSF official, who didn’t wish to be named.He said, “It will be the first time in the history of the JCP that the Independence Day functions will be organised without spectators. The ceremonial drill might have been suspended after the 1971 War, but not on Independence Day.”In the first week of March, the BSF restricted the entry of visitors at the JCP to witness the Beating the Retreat Ceremony, a daily drill performed by the BSF and the Pakistan Rangers. With the infection not abating, only flag lowering ceremony is being observed at the border on a daily basis. NO SWEETS WILL BE DISTRIBUTED The BSF official added, “Due to the coronavirus, neither our force nor they (Rangers) will distribute sweets on the occasion of Pakistan and India’s Independence Days.” Forces on both sides had been following the tradition of exchanging sweets and gifts on festivals like Diwali and Eid, as well as on Independence Day and Republic Day functions. The troops have also not been exchanging sweets on special occasions at the border since India abrogated Article 370, which granted special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019. The troops at Attari-Wagah border had exchanged sweets on Eid-ul-Fitr and on India’s Republic Day in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-1st-time-in-61-years-no-spectators-at-independence-day-function-at-attari/story-1CYEyUtLZYx56d4Z9mZarL.html
13-08-2020||City||Developed disinfectant against coronavirus: IIT Ropar||Rupnagar Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, claims to have developed a room disinfectant based on ultraviolet rays, called Ultra Violet Germicidal Radiations and has named it as UVSAFE. This indigenous device harnesses the germicidal effects of UV-C radiations to inactivate all bacteria and viruses, including coronavirus. Tested for its efficacy in New Delhi, the device has been conceptualised and designed at IIT-Ropar by Khushboo Rakha, assistant professor, department of metallurgical and materials engineering; Naresh Rakha, senior scientific officer with technical support from Shahriar Reza (design consultant). The design has been patented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/developed-disinfectant-against-coronavirus-iit-ropar/story-NsRTVXS0r9UM5uwCjJk90L.html
13-08-2020||Bangalore||Russia not world’s first to develop coronavirus vaccine: Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw||Biotechnology industry veteran Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw has questioned Russian claims of developing the world’s first safe coronavirus vaccine, citing absence of data on clinical trials and “more advanced” programmes elsewhere.The world has not seen any data on Phase 1 or 2 clinical trials conducted by Moscow-based Gamaleya Research Institute, the Executive Chairperson of Bengaluru-headquartered Biocon Ltd said.“If launching a vaccine prior to completion of Phase 3 trials is acceptable to Russia, well so be it,” Mazumdar-Shaw told PTI.“But it doesn’t make them the world’s first vaccine as several other vaccine programmes are even more advanced,” she added.Russia announced on Tuesday it had become the first country to grant regulatory approval to a Covid-19 vaccine.The first dose of the vaccine-Sputnik-V, developed by the Gamaleya National Research Center for Epidemiology and Microbiology of the Russian Healthcare Ministry, was administered to Russian President Vladimir Putin’s daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/russia-not-world-s-first-to-develop-coronavirus-vaccine-kiran-mazumdar-shaw/story-9qoJjpALvIupXG8G98Ux2I.html
13-08-2020||City||Several parts of Mohali see waterlogging after downpour||Thursday morning’s downpour left several parts of Mohali waterlogged, with Phase 4, 5, 3B1, 3B2, Sector 76 and 77 remaining the worst hit. At many places, residents had to call the fire tenders to pump out water from the streets. Former Congress councillor Kuljit Singh Bedi said he used the water pumping system to drain out water from the streets and parks in his area. “Every time there is heavy rain, residents get terrified and start ringing us. They suffered massive losses during the 2017 flooding. This time, we installed water pumping sets at key points to drain the water.”Surinder Singh, another former councillor of Mohali, said, “In some areas of Sector 76 and 77, waterlogging was up to three-feet high. At some places, rainwater entered houses but as the downpour was not prolonged, residents were saved from heavy losses.” Even in Aerocity, waterlogging was witnessed on vacant plots.Vinod Sharma, president of the Aerocity Welfare Society, said, “On one hand GMADA is fining people for non-construction, on the other hand, it is carrying out any maintenance. Water can be seen accumulated on most vacant plots here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/several-parts-of-mohali-see-waterlogging-after-downpour/story-wzl1OqqcY349pDId4JBzYN.html
13-08-2020||City||Pak court allows Sikh girl to go with her Muslim husband or place of her choice||Lahore The Lahore High Court on Wednesday allowed Jagit Kaur of Nankana Sahib, who married one Mohammad Hassan in September last against the will of her family, to go with her husband or any place of her choice, saying she was not a ‘minor’.Since September 2019, Kaur has been living in Darul Aman (shelter house) in Lahore following her family’s allegation that she was kidnapped by Hassan who forcibly married her.India had voiced its concern with Pakistan over the alleged abduction and forced marriage of the Sikh girl and sought “immediate remedial action” from the Pakistan government.LHC justice Chaudhry Shehram Sarwar gave the ruling on the petition of Hassan, seeking custody of ‘his wife’ Kaur whom he gave Muslim name Ayesha.Police brought the Sikh girl to the court amid tight security. Her brother and other family members were also present in the court who expressed their dismay over the decision.Representing the Sikh family, Khalil Tahir Sindhu, argued that the school-leaving certificate was enough to prove that the girl is minor. He challenged the record of the National Database and Registration Authority (Nadra) regarding her age. Sindhu also informed the court that as per a settlement reached by Punjab governor Muhammad Sarwar between the two parties, the girl is supposed to be handed over to her family. “Emotions of the Sikh community will be hurt if the girl is allowed to go with the Muslim man,” he contended.Counsel for the petitioner Sultan Sheikh told the court that as per the record of Nadra, the girl was 19. He said a medical board previously constituted by the court had already declared the girl a major.The judge rejected the arguments of Sindhu, saying only the documents of Nadra were valid to establish the age of a person. Justice Sarwar further observed that the high court had nothing to do with any decision made by the governor in a private capacity.“The Constitution of the country safeguards the rights of Kaur and she is free to live with a person of her own choice,” the judge said. The judge also ordered the police to provide “foolproof” security to Kaur.At the previous hearing, Kaur told the court that she married the petitioner with her free will, after converting to Islam, and did not want to go back to her family.Tension between Sikh and Muslim communities in Nankana Sahib has risen following the court decision. Nankana police have been put on alert, officials said. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pak-court-allows-sikh-girl-to-go-with-her-muslim-husband-or-place-of-her-choice/story-QLJzDT8z913mnZtUPhJbiL.html
13-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s organ donation numbers in 2020 less than half of the previous year||With three months of complete lockdown, the number of organ donations in the Pune region has reduced significantly in comparison to the corresponding period last year. Since January to August, only 21 donations have taken place in Pune region this year, while during the corresponding period of 2019 the number was 63. This was mainly due to fewer transplants during the lockdown from March till August, which saw only nine organ donations in the Pune region. The Pune region includes Satara, Nashik, Sangli, Kolhapur, Solapur, Dhule and Jalgaon districts. “With elective surgeries pertaining to organ donation not allowed in the first phase of the lockdown, we have seen fall in numbers. There were strict standard operating procedures (SOP) and since travelling was banned we could not call people for a donation from the other cities,” said Aarti Gokhale, central coordinator of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC) Pune region. Pune was the first city to restart the transplant surgeries in the state from May and till July it conducted 7 donations and 16 people were benefited from the transplant. “People are scared of donation due to the Covid pandemic and even, there are still strict SOP’s from the government which need to be followed,” added Gokhale. The SOPs said if the risk of death within 6 months without organ transplant is more than 50 per cent, which is much higher than the risk of contracting Covid-19, then that patient should get the benefit of organ transplantation. Renal patients who require urgent transplantations are included in this high priority group. If there is no suitable recipient in these super urgent categories the SOPs recommends that the organs are allocated to other recipients on the waiting list so that there is no wastage of organs. “Last year there were 160 deceased donors who gave 456 patients a new lease of life. This year we’ve already crossed the halfway mark, and there have been only 50 deceased donors” said Dr Astrid Lobo Gajiwala, director, regional/state organ and tissue transplant organisation, west Maharashtra. “The poor donation rate is bad news for the 5,514 people waiting for a kidney. The worst is that 1,097 patients waiting for a liver, 74 for a heart and 16 for lungs. Kidney failure patients have the option of dialysis. Patients waiting for a liver, heart or lungs, have no option but for a transplant. For these patients, organ transplant is a life -saving intervention,” added Gajiwala. Dr. Gaurav Chaubal, director, transplant surgery Jupiter hospital, Baner said, “It is highly important for people to understand the need for organ donation. The burden of patients suffering from organ failure is huge. Around 2.5 lakh patients die every year of liver failure, while only 2,000 patients end up getting a transplant.” “The ratio of people donating organs in India is around 0.8 persons per million population. The donation rates have dropped by 70 per cent during this pandemic,” said Chaubal. Box Organ Donation January 1 to August 10 in Pune region 2020: 21 2019: 63 Organ Donation January 1 - August 10 in Maharashtra 2020: 50 2019: 160 ===============A life-saverPatients waiting for kidney: 5,514 Patients waiting for a liver: 1,097Patients waiting for a heart: 74 Patients waiting for lungs: 16 Around 2.5 lakh patients die every year of liver failure, while only 2,000 patients end up getting a transplant==================||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-s-organ-donation-numbers-in-2020-less-than-half-as-compared-to-2019/story-p2ito7fDJZFJNuD0Ye7T7M.html
13-08-2020||City||16-year-old girl goes missing from Balongi||Police lodged a wrongful confinement case after a 16-year-old girl went missing from her house in Balongi. The girl’s father said she left home three days ago without informing anyone. Investigating officer Bahadar Singh said the father does not suspect any outsider’s hand in this but police are not ruling out anything. “At present, we don’t know if it’s an abduction or not. We are checking the call details of the victim’s phone. The mobile phone, she took with her, is switched off currently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-year-old-girl-goes-missing-from-balongi/story-UD0L5OwZ6teI5EyBmQdIkK.html
13-08-2020||Pune||Police foil robbery attempt at PNG jewellers, arrest seven-member gang||The Hadapsar police on Tuesday foiled a robbery attempt at PNG Jewellers showroom in the area and arrested seven members of a gang for planning the act. The police have recovered weapons, including a pistol and a revolver. A car has also been seized, said an official. The arrested have been identified as Vishal alias Janglya Shyam Satpute (30), a resident of Ghorpadi peth; Akash Rajendra Sapkal (28), a resident of Sukhsagarnagar; Pankaj Sadashiv Gaikwad (34), a resident of Haveli; Raju Shirish Shivsharan (26), a resident of Haveli; Ganesh Maruti Kunjir (27) and Ramesh Balasaheb Kajale (33), a resident of Wadgaonsheri. According to the crime branch officials, the accused were found planning a major robbery at the PNG jewellery outlet in the area and had arms like a pistol, revolver, rifle, a car and mobile phones in order to carry out the act near Daffodils Society near Magarpatta on Tuesday. Assistant police inspector Kiran Adagale, who is the investigating officer, said that the accused were planning to rob the jewellery store in Hadapsar and the crime branch sleuths foiled their bid and arrested them.The police have also invoked sections of Disaster Management Act and Covid-19 Management Act against the accused along with Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity) and 402 (assembling for the purpose of committing dacoity) and Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-foil-robbery-attempt-at-png-jewellers-arrest-seven-member-gang/story-MXnNO44EFfTegZz9aAhi7J.html
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Supreme Court orders status quo on Faridkot royal property worth ₹20,000 crore||Faridkot: The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered status quo on the ₹20,000-crore worth properties of the last ruler of the erstwhile princely state of Faridkot, Maharaja Harinder Singh Brar, which means the trust will continue as caretaker till further orders. The double bench of justice Uday Umesh Lalit and justice Vineet Saran issued notices to the respondents, including Brar’s younger daughter Amrit Kaur, and the next hearing is scheduled on October 6. The court order came on a plea by the Maharawal Khewaji Trust that challenged the recent order of the Punjab and Haryana high court declaring his will in favour of the trust forged. Trust chief executive officer Jagir Singh Sran said, “We will continue to take care of all royal properties as per the Maharaja’s will, which is real and correct. The order comes as a relief as the Maharaja’s daughter Amrit Kaur’s men were trying to take possession of the royal properties illegally. Now this matter is in the court’s knowledge.” On June 1, the high court had upheld a Chandigarh court’s order, awarding majority share in the ₹20,000-crore property of Brar to his daughters Amrit Kaur, who challenged the will in 1992, and Deepinder Kaur. The court held that descendants of Manjit Inder Singh, the last ruler’s brother, would get their mother Mohinder Kaur’s share. On the will in dispute, the court observed that trustees conspired to create the will to take over the property. “The will is proved to be forged, fictitious, fabricated and shrouded with suspicious circumstances,” the court order said. In 2013, the Chandigarh district court had declared the will, which had entitled the Maharawal Khewaji Trust as the caretaker of the properties, as illegal and void and granted inheritance to Amrit and Deepinder. FARIDKOT ROYAL DISPUTE Crowned maharaja at the age of three in 1918, Harinder Singh Brar was the last ruler of the Faridkot estate and was married to Narinder Kaur. The royal couple had three daughters, Amrit Kaur, Deepinder Kaur and Maheepinder Kaur and a son, Harmohinder Singh. The son died in a road accident in 1981. One of the rulers of the seven Sikh princely states, Harinder died in 1989 and left behind prime properties in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana and Chandigarh. Maheepinder Kaur died a spinster, while Deepinder died while the legal battle was on. Amrit Kaur lives in Chandigarh. The property dispute started soon after Harinder Singh Brar died in October 1989 after a will surfaced in which he had bequeathed his properties to the Maharwal Khewaji Trust, with his daughter Deepinder as its head. The property dispute reached the high court in 2018 after a Chandigarh court declared the trust void and gave property to the daughters. In June this year, the high court upheld the Chandigarh court’s order. WHAT’S AT STAKE The royal riches include movable and immovable assets in four states (Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana) and Chandigarh. Rajmahal, Faridkot: Spread over 14 acres, it was constructed in 1885 as the royal residence. Now, a 150-bed charitable hospital stands on a portion of the palace ground.Qila Mubarak, Faridkot: Built by Raja Mokulsi and reconstructed by Raja Hamir Singh around 1775, it is spread over 10 acres. The present main building was built around 1890.Faridkot House, New Delhi: Located on a huge piece of prime land on Copernicus Marg, it is currently leased out to Central government at a monthly rent of ₹17.50 lakh. It was valued at ₹1,200 crore nine years ago. Manimajra Fort, Chandigarh: The 300-year-old fort is spread over four acres.Faridkot House, Mashobra (Shimla): A 260-bigha estate, it had five residences, three of which, including the Sherwood House, were destroyed in a fire. 18 vintage cars: A 1929 model Rolls Royce, 1929 model Graham, 1940 model Bentley, Jaguar, Daimler, Packard among others and all of them in working condition. Aerodrome, Faridkot: Used by the civil administration and army, it is spread over 200 acres. Gold and jewels: Valued at ₹1,000 crore, they are in Standard Chartered Bank’s custody in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/supreme-court-orders-status-quo-on-faridkot-royal-property-worth-20-000-crore/story-SEjyBaBzXx5HDUuiIyBYIO.html
13-08-2020||Dehradun||Over 45 dead, 127 injured in Uttarakhand in rain-related incidents in July||More than 45 people died in rain-related incidents in Uttarakhand in the month of July, an official said on Thursday as parts of the Himalayan state continued to be lashed by heavy rainfall.State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) official Praveen Alok said, “Just in the month of July, 45 people died and 127 were injured in rain-related incidents while 61 rescue operations were conducted.” In July 2019, thirty six people had died in similar incidents and 71 people were injured in 46 rescue operations. On Wednesday, two women died in Rudraprayag district after an SUV plunged into a gorge as the driver lost control of the vehicle in heavy rain. According to SDRF officials, one person was also injured in the accident and search is underway for a fourth passenger.With continuous heavy rainfall, landslides and flash flood incidents have been reported from many parts of the state. The downpour has resulted in rising water levels of various rivers as well.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places in the state in the next 2-3 days. Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological department in Dehradun, said in the hills, even 50 mm to 60 mm hourly rainfall can cause harm as water levels in streams rises, leading to flash floods. According to the MeT department, Uttarakhand has already received 655.4mm of rainfall from June to August 12 compared to 750.7 mm (the normal range) for these months. Bageshwar district has received the maximum rainfall with a 168% departure from normal rainfall limit. The state is in an overall 13% rainfall deficit. Piyoosh Rautela, executive director of Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre in Uttarakhand, said, “In the hills, the catchment area of even small streams is very large. These streams can be seasonal also, but during monsoons with heavy rainfall the water spills. This heavy rainfall leads to flash floods or rain-induced disasters.” He also said that due to the topographical conditions, the likelihood of cloudbursts or flash floods happening in the hills is more compared to plains. “The physiography or geomorphic conditions of the mountains is such that the wind gets a sudden upward thrust which leads to cloud formation. But due to the topography of mountains or valleys, in particular, the winds rise to form clouds and then rainfall occurs in a small area or the clouds get trapped in a valley amid mountains as the monsoon winds are not able to cross the topographic barriers (mountains). Due to this, the rainfall recorded in those areas is high leading to disasters,” said Rautela. The incessant rainfall has resulted in landslides in some areas of the state leading to blocking of roads. Authorities have moved people to safer places in many parts while all district magistrates have been directed to take precautionary measures to avoid any untoward incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/over-45-dead-127-injured-in-uttarakhand-in-rain-related-incidents-in-july/story-U192lbNPPIYnq9mYewEQSN.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||Heavy rains lead to waterlogging in several areas of Delhi||Several areas of Delhi saw waterlogging on Thursday after heavy rains lashed the national capital.Over 40 locations in north Delhi got inundated due to the downpour, including areas in Mukherjee Nagar, Fateh Puri, Burari, Rohini, Narela and West Patel Nagar, according to the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC).The monsoon report shared by the NDMC mentioned that waterlogging took place at 41 locations.Besides, parts of buildings collapsed at eight places and trees fell at seven locations, it said.In south Delhi, parts of Okhla and Malviya Nagar saw waterlogging after the overnight rains.In east Delhi, Laxmi Nagar and many other areas reported waterlogging.Delhi witnessed the heaviest spell of rains this monsoon season on Thursday.The weather department said most parts of the city witnessed rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/heavy-rains-lead-to-waterlogging-in-several-areas-of-delhi/story-xepL7fXkxoKo9cVj4pQzAI.html
13-08-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru violence: Sec 144 extended in DJ Halli, KG Halli police station limits till 6 am on Aug 15||Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) has been extended in areas under DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits till 6 am on August 15. Section 144, which prohibits the gathering of four or more people at a place, had been imposed in the entire city on Wednesday after violence broke out in some parts of the city over a derogatory social media post. Bengaluru Commissioner of Police Kamal Pant had on Wednesday announced that the imposition of Section 144 of CrPC in areas under DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits has been extended till 6 am on August 15.FIR has been filed against 17 main accused in violence that took place on August 11.Earlier on Wednesday, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that a district magistrate will hold an inquiry into Tuesday’s violence in Bengaluru and said so far 146 people have been arrested.The arrested persons have been accused of arson, stone-pelting and assault on the police. The police said that accused Naveen has been arrested allegedly for posting “derogatory” material on social media.Residence of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy was also attacked after the violence broke out. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-violence-sec-144-extended-in-dj-halli-kg-halli-police-station-limits-till-6-am-on-aug-15/story-iI7EWtnxEVeWVT2e8R0X7I.html
13-08-2020||Jaipur||Need to forgive, forget misunderstandings occured in last one month, says Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said whatever misunderstanding occurred within the Congress party in the last one month, need to be forgiven and forgotten in the interest of the country, state, people and in the interest of democracy.“The struggle of Congress party is to #SaveDemocracy under leadership of Smt #SoniaGandhi ji & #RahulGandhi ji. Whatever misunderstanding occurred in the party in last one month, we need to forgive & forget in the interest of country, state, people & in the interest of democracy,” Gehlot said in a tweet.“We have to put all our energies in this fight to save democracy with the spirit of forgive & forget and move forward,” he asserted.Gehlot further said saving democracy should be the priority with the spirit of “forgive and forget”.“#SaveDemocracy should be our priority with the spirit of forgive and forget. The conspiracy that is going on to topple elected governments one by one in the country, the way governments were toppled in the states of Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh & other states,” he emphasised.“How ED, CBI, Income Tax, Judiciary have been misused, it is a very dangerous game that is going on to undermine democracy,” he added in the subsequent tweet.The development comes as the Rajasthan Assembly session is scheduled to begin from Friday.The political crisis in Rajasthan began after differences between Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot came out in the open.Last month, Sachin Pilot was removed as Deputy Chief Minister and Rajasthan Congress chief after his differences with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot came out in open triggering a political crisis in the state. Pilot was reportedly miffed after the SOG sent him a notice to record his statement in a case of alleged poaching of Congress MLAs in the state.However, this apparently seems to have ended now as Pilot has agreed to work for the party after a meeting with the Congress top leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/need-to-forgive-forget-misunderstandings-occured-in-last-one-month-says-gehlot/story-lojqaPkJAmqcgB6Gs5tASP.html
13-08-2020||Pune||Pune district records 2,997 new Covid-19 cases, tally goes past 1.15 L||Pune district reported 2,997 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking its case count to 1,15,128, a health official said on Wednesday.The death toll in the district reached 2,619 with 67 patients succumbing to the infection.“Of 2,997 cases, 1,584 are from the Pune Municipal Corporation limits, which has recorded 69,235 patients.However, 1,449 patients were also discharged from the hospitals,” the official said.With 1,024 cases in Pimpri Chinchwad, the Covid-19 tally there rose to 31,643.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-records-2-997-new-covid-19-cases-tally-goes-past-1-15-l/story-S6qDH4B7F0yYaPJ6zGeO0I.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||Independence Day special: An online cultural gig to help Covid relief work||This Independence Day, Umeed Project is conducting a week of Hindustani music, poetry, dastangoi, talks and more for covid-19 relief. Shayarana Umeed, an e-mehfil is a fundraiser which will see participation by a host of theatre artistes, singers, poets among others. The project, a collaborative effort, has already helped over 4.5 lakh people with emergency food resources, thousands of PPE kits, and have been distributing 3,000 meals and over 100 ration kits daily. An amount as basic as ₹500 is enough to feed a family of four people for one week. The ticketed events will be streamed live on Skillbox between August 11 and 16.   Shayarana Umeed Day 2! Book your tickets at link in bio! Funds raised help feed vulnerable families. Rhyming with Tiwari from 7 PM — today Rakesh Tiwari (@the_rhyming_tiwari ) is waiting to surprise his audience with some heartfelt poetry and an intimate Q & A session, moderated by @sabikaness Day pass: Rs. 299 6-days pass: Rs. 999 Funds raised will help feed vulnerable families through Umeed Project that has helped more than 4.5lacs people till now. Link to tickets in bio!A post shared by  UMEED project (@umeedproject) on Aug 11, 2020 at 10:48pm PDTRakesh Tiwari, spoken word Hindi poet believes that art is humanity’s last refuge. “Whenever there has been a crisis, war or a pandemic, people have sought refuge in art. This is the reason online gigs are thriving. Everyone needs closure when they are troubled; art helps plant the seed for change,” he says.Read: The future of celebrations: How will weddings, events and gigs look in the new normalFor ghazal singer Oshin Bhatia, no deed is small when it comes to helping others. “It feels good to be associated with this cause because people have suffered and lost a lot. If I can help even one person, then I would achieve my purpose. I hope for a better future where people value what they have,” she says.  Shayarana Umeed Day 3! Book your tickets at link in bio! Funds raised help feed vulnerable families. Shooting Stars from 8 PM — today Meet the "lover boy" of the poetry circuit - @yahyabootwala - for a scintillating performance and an interview hosted by @vrindahayaatvaid Day pass: Rs. 299 Funds raised will help feed vulnerable families through Umeed Project that has helped more than 4.5lacs people till now. Link to tickets in bio!A post shared by  UMEED project (@umeedproject) on Aug 12, 2020 at 11:41pm PDTLike other artistes participating in this project, poet and storyteller Yahya Bootwala believes that no contribution is small. “Log yeh sochte hain ki ek fundraiser se kitni hi help hojayegi, but I truly believe that contributing for one person is still a bigger help than no contribution at all,” he says, hoping that the pandemic teaches us something positive. “We should not take the world for granted again. We must learn from our mistakes and become sympathetic towards nature and fellow humans,” he adds. Read: First-ever online music concert by Kashmiri artists amid coronavirus pandemic Musician and songwriter Barbie Rajput feels that art should be used to help uplift people in difficult times. “It is about the joy of giving. As artistes, this is the least we can do. When you are given something which has the power to make a change, it should be shared with people, and this event is a great opportunity to contribute to society,” she says.  Book your tickets at link in bio! Funds raised help feed vulnerable families. Qissebaazi - A Dastangoi Performance on Aug 11 7 PM - 8 PM Join the E-Mehfil in just about 6 hours with @dan.husain and be captivated by his Qissebaazi, a Dastangoi performance, hosted by @vrindahayaatvaid Don't miss it! Day pass: Rs. 299 6-days pass: Rs. 999 Funds raised will help feed vulnerable families through Umeed Project that has helped more than 4.5lacs people till now. Link to tickets in bio! #ghazal #hindustani #hindustanimusic #nazm #mehfil #shayari #covid19 #covid19relief #fundraiser #poetry #poet #dastangoi #storytelling #journey #donate #poetsofinstagram #poetrycommunity #folk #folkart #folkmusicA post shared by  UMEED project (@umeedproject) on Aug 11, 2020 at 12:16am PDTThe series also aims at bringing back some indelible aspects of Indian culture, including dastangoi, or storytelling. Actor and dastango Danish Husain, who recited excerpts from the Persian epic Dastan-e-Amir Hamza and took some questions from the audience believes that there is a need for cultural reconditioning. “It is for the civil societies to understand as to why people like us have to step in for relief work,” he says. Husain adds that though online gigs reach far and wide, they are a Catch-22 situation. “While more people are waking up to online gigs, the onus is on the performer to make it more compelling in order to hold the audience. Offline gigs still had a sense of formality, but online gigs are like a carnival where people come and go as they please,” he says. Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/independence-day-special-an-online-cultural-gig-to-help-covid-relief-work/story-8HVCUs9naLWhDhJlHnUtiN.html
13-08-2020||Noida||Greater Noida residents to soon get Ganga water, 50 villages to get STPs||Residents in Uttar Pradesh’s Greater Noida will soon get Ganga water at their homes as the local development authority has expedited work on the drinking water project, officials said. Also, 50 villages in Greater Noida will be soon connected with sewage treatment plants (STPs) for better waste management, they said. The Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) had in its 119 Board Meeting taken a decision on these matters, the officials said. “The planning department has been directed to complete the civil work on the 85 cu sec Ganga water project by this September,” a GNIDA official said, adding the authority is hoping to ensure supply of Ganga water to the residents at the earliest. The board meeting was held on Saturday and chaired by Alok Tandon, commissioner of infrastructure and industrial development. GNIDA CEO Narendra Bhooshon, Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari, among others, were present in the meeting. “The planning department was also directed to complete the plan for connecting 50 villages with STPs within two months and ensure quick execution of the project,” the official said. In absence of fresh river water, the residents of the city depend on groundwater which has a high quantity of salt in it. The Ganga water project was envisioned almost 10 years ago at an estimated cost of around Rs 290 crore, according to the official. The GNIDA also decided to extend till September 30 the date for getting building maps approved for plots for IT projects during the meeting. In another key decision, the board granted “industry status” to warehouses and logistics’ businesses as per the Uttar Pradesh Warehouses and Logistics Rules, 2018. The move is expected to encourage setting up of industries and attract investment to fuel growth in this region, according to GNIDA. It also increased the floor area ratio (FAR) norms from existing 1.5 per cent to 2+1 per cent for industrial sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/geater-noida-residents-to-soon-get-ganga-water-50-villages-to-get-stps/story-WssMdST9iQn0lBT6W6IX1N.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rain in parts of Mumbai; IMD predicts more showers||Heavy to very heavy rains lashed isolated parts of Mumbai and neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts in the last 24 hours, the MeT department said on Thursday.It predicted more showers in the Konkan region and some areas of central Maharashtra over the next one day.Some isolated places in Mumbai received heavy downpour in the range of 70 mm to 100 mm during the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am on Thursday, a senior India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said.Besides, some isolated areas of Thane experienced very heavy rainfall of more than 120 mm, while the observatory at Matheran hill town in Raigad reported 161.4 mm rain during the same period, the IMD said.“Mumbai recd isol hvy RF, 70-100 mm in last 24 hrs.Thane as expected recd very hvy falls (>120 mm) at isol places. Rest was mod to hvy,” IMD Mumbai centre’s deputy director general K S Hosalikar tweeted.“As per model guidance, there could be increase in RF over Konkan & Ghat areas of Madhya Mah in nxt 24 hrs.Nandurbar Dhule possible intense spells,” he added.According to the IMD, the Dahanu weather station in coastal Palghar reported 90.1 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, while the Thane Belapur Industries Association observatory recorded 57.2 mm rain.The Santacruz weather bureau, representative of Mumbais suburbs, recorded 42 mm downpour, while the Colaba observatory in south Mumbai reported 17.8 mm rainfall.Jalgaon district in north Maharashtra received 25.5 mm rainfall and Parbhani district in Marathwada region saw 20 mm showers, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-in-parts-of-mumbai-imd-predicts-more-showers/story-R4YQT1XrYqWhzNkJG3NiiL.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||AAP suspends ex-MLA Jarnail Singh over ‘objectionable’ Facebook post||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday suspended former MLA Jarnail Singh from the primary membership of the party over his alleged comments on Hindu goddesses. However, Singh claimed the post was accidentally copy-pasted by his son who was handling his phone during an online class.The decision to suspend the former Rajouri Garden legislator was taken in the party’s Political Affairs Committee on August 11, said AAP’s Tilak Nagar MLA who is also named Jarnail Singh, in a Facebook post. “Jarnail Singh (former MLA, Rajouri Garden) has been suspended from the primary membership of the party by Aam Aadmi Party. The decision has been taken in the meeting of the Aam Aadmi Party’s PAC while taking disciplinary action on the use of wrong dictionary about Hindu goddesses on day 11.08.2020 by Jarnail Singh (former MLA Rajouri Garden). The party has issued a reason notice to them why they should be dismissed from the primary membership of the party for this disgraceful act,” read the post by the party’ Punjab incharge.  Saying that the AAP is a secular party, the Tilak Nagar MLA said that there is no place in the party for anyone who disrespects any religion.“The Sikh community is also very sad with their statement because such misfortune against any community is also against the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev Ji. Aam Aadmi Party is a secular party and has no place in the party of anyone who disrespects any religion. Aam Aadmi Party strongly condemns this statement by Jarnail Singh (former MLA, Rajouri Garden) and is suspended from the basic membership of the party with immediate effect,” said Singh. However, the former Rajouri Garden MLA, denied the charge and said that his son had accidentally pasted a post using the phone for online classes. “Yesterday I had my phone with my little son for online class. He pasted a post copy and post. What I had deleted. I respect all the names of God Ram, Gobind, Keshav, Sadashiv and follow the principles of Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib,” he said in a Facebook Post on August 12.    The former legislator shot to limelight in 2009 after hurling a shoe at former finance minister P Chidambaram. In 2014, he unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha elections from West Delhi, losing to BJP’s Parvesh Verma. A prominent Sikh face of AAP, Jarnail Singh was later elected to the Delhi Assembly from Rajouri Garden in 2015. He resigned in 2017 to contest the Punjab assembly polls from Lambi constituency -- against former CM Parkash Singh Badal and Congress stalwart (and current CM) Amarinder Singh. Jarnail Singh lost the polls. He is currently active in the Punjab unit of the AAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-suspends-ex-mla-jarnail-singh-over-objectionable-facebook-post/story-KUhtisbNwci6f67r4qUy0L.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||Heavy overnight, early morning rains in Delhi bring relief from sultry weather||Heavy overnight and early morning rains in Delhi brought the much-needed relief from humid weather on Thursday with the weather bureau predicting ‘generally cloudy sky with heavy rain’ in the national capital during the day.India Meteorological Department (IMD) has also predicted ‘light to moderate intensity rain’ for several areas adjoining Delhi including Noida, Greater Noida, Gurugram and Ghaziabad. “Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of most places of entire Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida, Rohtak, Jind, Narwana, Meham, Gurugram, Manesar, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Palwal, Hodal, Bulandshahar, Gulothi,” the IMD tweeted early on Thursday morning. 13-08-2020; 0610 IST; Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur (continue to occur) over and adjoining areas of Most places of Entire Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida, Rohtak, Meham, Gurugram, Manesar, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Palwal, Hodal, Panipat, Karnal,The downpour caused waterlogging in many areas of Delhi. Though dark clouds had hovered over Delhi during the day on Wednesday, yet it started raining around 6 pm and continued intermittently throughout the night, continuing on Thursday morning. It started raining in different parts of the city around 6pm when light to moderate category (2.5 to 35.5 mm) rain was recorded. However, around 10pm an intense spell of rain was recorded at Lodhi Road, Safdarjung and Palam stations, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre Delhi.According to Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, heavy rains are expected in parts of NCR for the next two days.“We can expect heavy rains in parts of NCR for the next two days. But in Delhi there will be light to moderate rains. The monsoon trough is running close to Delhi and southwesterly winds are bringing moisture to the region,” Srivastava said on Wednesday.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, has recorded just 31.1 mm rainfall in August so far against the normal of 109.6 mm, a deficiency of 72 per cent, reports news agency PTI.Palam and Lodhi Road weather stations have recorded 51 per cent and 77 percent less rains this month. In July, Delhi had gauged 236.9 mm precipitation, which was 12 per cent more than the normal of 210.6 mm.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/heavy-overnight-rains-in-delhi-bring-relief-from-sultry-weather-cause-waterlogging/story-qCM6HvqPnvB1Fe8TMppbsL.html
13-08-2020||Lucknow||Centre approves urban mobility plan of 13 cities in UP||Decks have been cleared for revolutionary changes in the urban transportation system of UP after the central government’s approval to the urban mobility plan of 13 cities, including Lucknow.Now, things like bus rapid transport corridor on city roads, flyovers , underpasses, cycle pathways, walking pathways, intelligent transport system and goods transportation management would be a reality in the state.“The centre has approved our proposal, now we are going to make a comprehensive plan for urban mobility in the state capital and other 12 cities of state. People require other means of transport besides Metro rail. Under the Urban Mobility India Plan, the central government will provide 80% money for the projects while state will have to bear 20% of the cost,” said Deepak Kumar, principal secretary, urban development. He added, “Transport planning is a regular exercise. Our department makes policies and strategies that give a direction to transportation planning for overall urban planning.”Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said, “There are many other aspects to a city’s sustainability. While preparing a plan for a city like Lucknow ,we will have to think about clean air, safe and open urban spaces to walk at the same time commute with safety.”Authorities are thinking about public bike sharing system, pathways for walkers, maximum utilisation of roads with hybrid and electric buses .The only thing worrying officials is that most cities of the state don’t have a strong network of buses or roads wide enough to accommodate buses under BRTS.An official of urban development department said, “You can adopt BRTS but from where will you bring wide roads like Mumbai , Ahmedabad, Vadodara or Surat. Here, most of roads are not that wide. Moreover, they are heavily encroached and vendors occupy a major part of road. For example, which type of BRTS would be planned for areas like Aminabad, Alambagh, Chowk and Thakurganj where even pedestrians struggle to walk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/centre-approves-urban-mobility-plan-of-13-cities-in-up/story-IvdAYIYXX503TPTu50RC5O.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Meet the E-block wonder||One of the most beautiful things in Connaught Place, Delhi’s colonial-era shopping district, cannot be purchased. It’s a tree in E-block: semal, or bombax ceiba.The towering deciduous tree clashes with the harmonic series of white columns that line the Inner Circle corridor. One ought to see this as nature’s polite intrusion. Although there are many trees in Connaught Place, this particular semal—its trunk draped with dainty vines— offers a most fantastic sight.Semal is one of the 252 species of trees found in Delhi. Its branches grow in tiers. They radiate from the trunk like the ribs of an umbrella—as described in the website of Delhi government’s forest department. The best place to see the tree in great numbers is in the diplomatic avenue of central Delhi’s Neeti Marg, which is almost totally wooded with semal. Two huge trees on the front lawns of Teen Murti Bhawan are also worth a view. Another grand semal stands tall in Jor Bagh market. But this lone semal in E-block has a most unique perspective: it stands against a backdrop of showrooms; here’s a lone wood making a quiet statement against a cluster of commercial concrete.With greens vines crawling about the trunk, with insects spreading out on the vine leaves, this is a one-tree wildlife sanctuary. Upwards, the trunk ends voluptuously in a dense foliage of branches. Beyond lies the infinity, the blue sky (these days at least).This semal is like a homage to the vanished wilderness of Connaught Place, which was a babool forest before the British destroyed it to make a market. Sadly, this tree is barely noticed by pedestrians. In the pre-corona era, when Connaught Place tended to be super-crowded, insensitive shoppers threw empty ice cream cups around the trunk. Beggar children played around it. When idle, tourist guides—for some reason most of them working in Connaught Place are from Kashmir—sat on a nearby bench and stared blankly at the tree.Semal, as any observant Delhiite will tell you, plays out the poetry of seasons extravagantly. Its leaves start falling in January. In February, it is bare. By March, red fleshy flowers appear that fall on the ground making a soft plopping sound, covering the roadside like a battlefield stained with martyrs’ blood. This is that brief period in the year when semal catches the attention of the thrill-seeking masses, if at all. Squirrels feed on these flowers. In May, fruits—sort of woody capsules—ripen and break open to release masses of silky fibres that are collected to stuff pillows and quilts. (In fact, a shoeshine boy walking by doesn’t know this tree’s name but he does know that it gives cotton.) While the bark and roots of semal are said to find use as a tonic and stimulant, the stem is used to prepare an aphrodisiac, according to Pradip Krishen’s book Trees of Delhi: A Field Guide.But semal is more than its utilities—this one especially is a phenomenon, and not just during its flowering time. The more you crane your neck to trace the upward progress of the tree here in E-block, the faster you escape from the claustrophobia of this bustling metropolis, and enter into a space peaceful and meditative. To make cities, trees are cut for houses, rivers are dammed for power. And so we citizens drift further from the nature. But this semal, surviving so joyfully in the heart of the Capital’, is a civilising influence on the metropolis. It has made Delhi a little more loveable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwala-meet-the-e-block-wonder/story-iCAtYlC67jqywCQy84FeBN.html
13-08-2020||Arts||Ebrahim Alkazi: A guru who was a father figure, say NSD alumni||An eminent theatre actor and drama teacher whose name is forever etched in the world of theatre, Ebrahim Alkazi, passed away on August 4, at the age of 94. The legend was an institution who groomed his students into becoming his masterpieces. These students have been emotional since the news of Alkazi’s demise broke. Actor-singer Ila Arun, who did a short term course at the National School of Drama (NSD) — with which Alkazi was associated as a director for about 15 years — says, “It’s a great loss. I still remember the time when I was in NSD, and performed in King Oedipus under the guidance of Alkazi sa’ab and it became a life long bond. I was always in touch with him and his family. All his teaching will be with me, forever. He was like a father to me. He made a difference to all those who came in his touch. Humare liye it’s the end of an era, an institution. His disciples must be feeling like orphans today.” Known to be one of the greatest teachers of his time, Alkazi believed in living with his students. Actor-director Satish Kaushik says, “He was a man who made personalities; one of the greatest teachers. The kind of status we have achieved today, he deserves kudos for that. Our training under him was not just about becoming an actor, but he also taught us how to walk in real life, and on the stage. He carved out personalities from us. All great actors, be it late Manohar Singh, Anupam Kher, Naseer bhai (Naseeruddin Shah), and late Om Puri, all learnt under him. I’m blessed that he taught us.”   A treasured photograph, of a very precious time. Early 1987. Just the day after the NSD silver jubilee celebration week, Mr E.Alkazi invited us, (the two batches still studying and our just graduated senior batch) to his farm house for a picnic. He had seen out recent play Kalidasa's Abhignana Shakuntalam in which I had played Shakuntala. He would ask me a lot of questions about what I had studied in these 3 years at NSD. ..and listen carefully to my answers... We were truly lucky to have been given this time by him..what a wonderful, brilliant and affectionate person..and such an elevating presence. A few weeks later he personally invited me to his home for dinner with him and his lovely wife, and our discussions continued....I was too wonderfully naive to be nervous, (and so passionate about NSD, so was not tongue tied in his presence) ...and we chatted the entire evening.He pulled out books on paintings to illustrate something we were discussing... Blessed indeed was I, by the great Guru himself!! #nsddelhi #ebrahimalkazi #actorslifeA post shared by  mita vasisht (@mitavasisht) on Aug 9, 2020 at 9:51am PDTActor KK Raina also becomes emotional while talking about his guru. He recollects, “I came from a small town in Kashmir and knew nothing when I entered NSD. He was my father; that one person who taught me how to eat with cutlery on the table. I was like a child, and he taught me everything. It’s difficult to speak now because honestly I have no words. I shared a very personal and spiritual bond with him. Whenever I’m in confusion and have to deal with a trouble, I remember him, take his name and the problem gets solved. It’s a tragic loss for me.”Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/art-and-culture/ebrahim-alkazi-a-guru-who-was-a-father-figure-say-nsd-alumni/story-aJGQHvnSW2xQrcOWyobfrL.html
13-08-2020||City||Drug peddlers’ gang busted in Amritsar, 5 held with ₹22 lakh||Police on Wednesday busted a gang involved in supplying narcotics from Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) in Punjab with the arrest of five of its members and recovery of ₹22 lakh from their possession.The accused have been identified as Sawinderpal Singh of Naushehra Dhala village in Tarn Taran district, Jagdeep Singh of Sultanwind village, Karamjit Singh of Loharka Kalan village, Paramjit Singh of Chahowali village and Rajwinder Singh of Nawan Pind in Amritsar district. The mastermind of the gang, according to police, Dharminder Singh of Patti in Tarn Taran district, is absconding.The police also impounded a truck (PB-02-DZ-7813), a Maruti WagonR car (PB-01-B-5087) and a Tata Indigo car (PB-02-AT-0066) used by the accused in drugs smuggling. Police said the accused had been smuggling heroin, smack and opium from J&K to Punjab under the guise of supplying vegetables.“Following a tip-off, a checkpoint was set up at the Verka bypass on Tuesday night and the accused were arrested while they were on their way to Jammu in a truck,” said sub-inspector Nishan Singh, in-charge of the Verka police station.“When searched, ₹22.5 lakh was recovered from the truck. During interrogation, the accused said they were on their way to J&K to purchase narcotics,” he said.”A case under Sections 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 414 (assisting in concealment of stolen property) of the Indian penal code (IPC), 27-A, 28, 29 of the NDPS Act, and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drug-peddlers-gang-busted-in-amritsar-5-held-with-22-lakh/story-6K8wbZNWeiGecWAhDZXYRN.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||Shock for others, but solar consumers get ‘0’ power bills||Though inflated electricity bills for June came as a shock for most city consumers, those who use rooftop solar power have had net-zero electricity bills over the past three months. A net-zero electricity bill means the consumer has to pay only basic charges or metre cost to the electricity distributor. KG Mittal College of Arts and Commerce in Malad, Maharashtra College of Arts, Science and Commerce (MCASC) in Nagpada, two residential bungalows in Versova, and the Noorani Masjid in Pathanwadi all shared with HT copies of their net zero bills for April, May and June. All these buildings have managed their power consumption through rooftop solar projects, which have provided the consumers with a free source of renewable energy that does not cause pollution and instead reduces carbon emissions. “After our installation last year, we have reduced 21.1 tons of carbon emissions in environmental benefits while saving 9,500 units of electricity using solar power. That amounts to Rs 45,000 surplus, which is adjusted against our monthly bills. This was a major reason for a net zero bill,” said Dr SB Arya, director, KG Mittal College, which has a 45 kilowatt-power (kWp) project with 71 panels. Dr. Siraj Chougle, principal, MCASC said, “Initial cost to set up solar may be high but once installed, their lifespan is 25 years. Basic installation cost can be recovered within five years and the remaining benefits, including being cost-effective and environmentally beneficial, serves for at least 20 years.” With an 84.5 kWp project with 250 solar panels across 2,000 sq. foot rooftop area, MCASC estimates savings of 56 tons of CO2 annually. Projects at residential duplex bungalows at Yari Road were much smaller (8.5 kWp and 4.2 kWp). Prior to installing solar panels, the electricity bills were very high, said residents. “It is unimaginable that we are paying almost nothing against summer bills of Rs. 15,000 per month prior to installation,” said Alok Khandelwal, a resident. The centrally-airconditioned Noorani Masjid with its 60 ton AC units has a 25 kWp solar power plant made up of 72 panels, which caters to the common areas that see 5,000 devotees per day. “Units saved during summer will ensure bills remain net zero even during monsoon,” said Rashim Gulam Rasul Maredia, chairman of the trust that runs the mosque. In June, citizens reported sharp increases in their electricity bills, with some being charged almost three times the monthly average. The lockdown imposed at the end of March led to Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission directing electricity distributors to suspend meter readings and charge consumers based on average readings for the winter months (December, January and February) in April and May. However, actual electricity consumption was higher and the adjusted amounts for April and May combined with actual meter readings, resulted in higher bills. Solar power distributors said awareness was key to enhancing Mumbai’s rooftop solar capacity. “Citizens are opting for the zero-energy model. However, there is a need for more awareness to understand environmental benefits for shifting from burning coal, gas and oil for electricity generation,” said Rizwan Chunawala, head of department (business development), MSS Renewtech, a solar energy company. Experts said rooftop solar projects were gaining popularity but Mumbai has tapped less than 5% of its potential. “The city can scale such projects to achieve a 1,000 megawatt (MW) rooftop solar target against its present capacity of 45-50 MW. The state needs to come up with its own policy to promote enhanced solar use, and convince citizens through incentives,” said SP Gon Chaudhuri, energy expert and chairman, International Solar Innovation Council. “Cost of such projects is expected to rise since trade relations with China have taken a hit. This, however, means more opportunity for India to develop its own equipment but at a slightly increased cost for end consumers,” said Chaudhuri. Prashant Badgeri, deputy secretary (renewable energy) in the Maharashtra government said, following the Centre’s announcement of a revised rooftop solar scheme, both private and government electricity distributors can scale such projects in their jurisdiction. “This will bridge the gap for citizens to approach multiple agencies for installations, and also acts an incentive for distributors to garner Centre’s subsidies,” said Badgeri admitting that Maharashtra was lagging behind Gujarat in terms of solar capacity and projects. “Awareness can come from understanding the viability of each project. For Mumbai, the feasibility of having enough rooftop space is a concern, and it is essential citizens study requirements before adopting such projects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shock-for-others-but-solar-consumers-get-0-power-bills/story-MBXG3yZUQjhlj33ChkwiXM.html
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Not begging from Punjab, demanding only rightful space in assembly building: Haryana speaker||Reiterating that Punjab is yet to give Haryana its rightful share of space in the common assembly building for the two states, Haryana speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Wednesday asserted that he is not begging but claiming the state’s right. Gupta made the claim citing provisions of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, which, he said, provides for 40% of the space in the assembly building to the Haryana, which, however, has got only 27% of the space till now. At least 20 rooms of the Haryana share in assembly building is in the possession of Punjab, he added.“We are not begging, but demanding only our rightful share. We are asking for what is our rightful share in the assembly building,” Gupta said.Punjab assembly speaker Rana KP Singh, however, had earlier claimed that “not an inch was due” to Haryana in the assembly building.Gupta said earlier when he had met his Punjab counterpart, he had agreed to have a meeting arranged between the secretaries of the two assemblies on the issue.“He had said the two secretaries would meet and discuss the issue. Later, I do not know what happened and he went back on his word. The meeting never took place. Now, without the two sides having any meeting or discussion, the Punjab speaker has been saying that not an inch is due (to Haryana),” Gupta told reporters here.He said he has also raised the issue with Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore, who is also the administrator of Chandigarh.Gupta said he would urge Badnore to intervene in the issue. “Fifty-three years have passed since Haryana was carved out of Punjab. We are only asking for our due share in the assembly building in Chandigarh (which serves as the common capital of both the states,” he said.Since Haryana came into existence on November 1, 1966, both states are having common buildings for their secretariats and assemblies besides having a common high court.Gupta had also said if given their share, Haryana officials would get enough space for work, further improving the functioning of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/not-begging-from-punjab-demanding-only-rightful-space-in-assembly-building-haryana-speaker/story-sNXzLR9iUHE7SsEJdCU0YP.html
13-08-2020||City||Highest single-day spike of 39 Covid-19 deaths in Punjab||Punjab on Wednesday witnessed record 39 fatalities due to Covid-19 pushing the death toll to 675, while 1,020 cases took the state’s infection tally to 26,909.Thirteen fatalities were reported in Ludhiana, six in Hoshiarpur, four in Patiala, three each in Amritsar and Jalandhar, two each in Mohali, Gurdaspur and Pathankot and one each in Barnala, Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib and Sangrur, according to the bulletin released by the state government.Among the districts which reported new cases included Ludhiana 229, Jalandhar 130, Mohali 104, Amritsar 85, Patiala 70, Barnala 62, Gurdaspur 39 and Faridkot 36.As many as 422 patients have been cured. So far, 17,212 people have recovered from the disease and there are 9,022 active cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/highest-single-day-spike-of-39-covid-19-deaths-in-punjab/story-uQ0tnoiHENmf4gNVIPeCBO.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||Maha’s foster care scheme: Take care of kids for 1-3 yrs||The state government is launching a foster care scheme under which citizens can parent children from state-run child care institutions for a limited period of one to three years. The scheme is being implemented as a pilot project in five districts including Mumbai suburban. The government has invited applications from interested parents. Maharashtra has about 450 government-run institutes that house thousands of children who are either orphaned or whose parents are unable to raise them. Children living in these child-care institutions and between the ages of 7 to 18 may be placed with families under the foster care scheme. “The basic principle of the Juvenile Justice Act is non-institutional parenting of children. Besides the adoption scheme, this is an opportunity for the children to live with the unrelated families albeit for a limited period. Their stay in the families will help them their qualitative growth,” said Manisha Birasis, program manager of the integrated child protection scheme and assistant commissioner, department of women and child development. Birasis said district-level committees comprising district women and child welfare officers, child protection officers, members of the child welfare committee and protection officers of non-institutional care will look into the background of the family who apply to foster children. “There will be strict monitoring every 15-30 days by us with the help of interaction with the principals of the schools, neighbours of the family and with the child itself. Children in conflict with the law, those living in observation homes and those in the age group of zero to six years are excluded from the scheme. The first category is excluded for security reasons, while children younger than six years have prospects of permanent adoption, which is our top priority. Children from child care institutes and in the age group of six-18 years are being placed in this scheme, among which our first preference will be the children between six-10 years,” she said. Explaining the difference between adoption and foster care, Birasis said adoption gives parents the rights of biological parents while foster care is temporary and the parents have no legal rights over the child. “The Juvenile Justice Act of 2015 emphasises non-institutional parenting of children and foster care is the scheme launched to fulfill the principle. The selection of a family, monitoring the parenting and follow-up are the crucial things that will have to be followed rigorously by authorities. They will have to ensure the children are not misused. Not only the children in the government institutes, but those from poor families who cannot take care of their children can be given out temporarily to families willing to take on the onus of parenting,” said Santosh Shinde, child rights expert. Child-care institutes house children who have been abandoned or whose parents cannot raise them. For the pilot project, 40 children from each of the five districts – Mumbai suburban, Pune, Palghar, Solapur and Amravaiti – are being placed in non-institutional parenting, with financial assistance of Rs 2,000 a month to the family that takes in the child from the institution. Hrishikesh Yashod, commissioner, women and child development, said the scheme has scope for revision and expansion depending on its success in the first phase. “We will expand it to other districts and the number of children placed can also be revised. The success of the scheme largely depends on selection of the families in which the children are placed for caring. We have a robust mechanism and broad-based committee for such selection. We have been implementing Bal Sangopan Yojana (BSY) for years in which children are placed in extended families if the biological family is not able to take care of their children due to financial crisis. In BSY, we give monthly financial assistance of Rs 425 to the family in which the child is placed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-s-foster-care-scheme-take-care-of-kids-for-1-3-yrs/story-iA7R07iIKiIEDseEVOdNHJ.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||Pawar calls Parth immature for demanding CBI probe in Rajput case||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was irked with his grandnephew Parth for demanding a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and publicly ridiculed him. Parth is the son of his nephew and state deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. “We give no importance to what my grand-nephew says. He is immature,” Pawar told media persons at YB Chavan Centre on Wednesday.Significantly, Pawar also said that he is not opposed to CBI probe in the matter, which has been demanded by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. CBI has filed a case against Rhea Chakraborty and her family members after the Centre approved its probe in the matter.Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai apartment on June 14. He allegedly committed suicide.Responding to media queries on Wednesday, Pawar said farmers also commit suicide but media does not take note of that. “The suicide by the actor is unfortunate, but the way it is being discussed in the media is surprising. In my district, 20 farmers have committed suicide but no media has taken note of it,” he said.Pawar said he has been watching the Mumbai Police for five decades and is confident that they would handle the probe well. “Maharashtra and Mumbai Police are capable and I have 100% faith in them. If someone still wants a probe by CBI or any other agency, then there is no reason to oppose it,” he said, taking a cautious stand.On July 27, Parth had met state home minister Anil Deshmukh and demanded a CBI investigation in the Rajput death case. Parth’s demand was contrary to the stand taken by Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi coalition government, in which NCP is one of the partners along with the Shiv Sena and the Congress. The state government has been in favour of a probe by the Mumbai Police.“With the whole country, especially youth, seeking a proper investigation into the death of late Sushant Singh Rajput, I urged Anil Deshmukh to take national emotions into consideration and initiate a CBI investigation,” Parth had tweeted, in which he had also tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah.Pawar’s statement, however, has sparked speculations about differences within the Pawar clan which had seen open a revolt by Ajit and a few other NCP lawmakers last November when they got together with the BJP to form a government. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had sworn in as chief minister with Ajit Pawar as deputy chief minister. Ajit, however, returned to the party fold after the government lasted only 80 hours as most NCP legislators refused to side with the rebel faction. A month later, Ajit Pawar was sworn-in again on the same position in the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government.Meanwhile, few hours after Pawar’s comment on Parth, Ajit reached Silver Oak, residence of the NCP chief in south Mumbai, and held a meeting where Supriya Sule, Pawar’s daughter and state NCP chief Jayant Patil were also present.Patil, however, tried to downplay the matter and denied any differences in the Pawar family. He also refused having any discussion on Parth’s statements in the meeting.“It was a scheduled meeting. We had discussion on several issues. The party allows everyone to express their views. He (Parth) may have said something that I’m not aware of. There was no discussion on Parth’s statements, also no clarification will be sought from him,” Patil said while responding to the queries after the meeting. NCP insiders said Parth had already met Pawar and Supriya Sule on Tuesday evening on the issue and tried to explain his side. But the NCP chief public comment indicates that things have not yet resolved, said a party insider.Parth had contested last year’s Lok Sabha election from Maval constituency in Maharashtra against the wishes of the NCP chief, and lost to sitting Shiv Sena MP Shrirang Barne. Recently, Parth also tweeted a letter saying that Shri Ram, who embodies the faith and cultural identity of India, will finally be home in peace on August 5, the day of the bhoomipujan of Ram Temple at Ayodhya took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pawar-calls-parth-immature-for-demanding-cbi-probe-in-rajput-case/story-KcloWXNaNcVjaMmTgPLraK.html
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Capt govt distributes free smartphones to Class 12 students||The Capt Amarinder Singh government rolled out the much-awaited smartphone scheme in the state on Wednesday by distributing free mobile handsets to Class 12 students of government schools.The ₹92 crore ‘Punjab Smart Connect Scheme’ saw light of the day more than three years after the Congress came to power in the state. The CM personally handed over handsets to six students.At 26 different places, the ministers and MLAs distributed 20 smartphones each to mark the launch of the scheme, which marked the fulfilment of another major poll promise of the Congress government in the state. The scheme, for which ₹100 crore was allocated in the state budget for 2017-18, will benefit 1,74,015 Class 12 students of government schools in the first phase, to be completed by November 2020. Of these, 87,395 are boys and 86,620 girls, with majority in the OBC and SC/ST categories – thus bridging a major divide that was obstructing these students from affordable access to online/digital education. The bulk of the students – 111857, are from rural areas, and the remaining in urban government schools. Amarinder, who launched the scheme on the auspicious occasion of Janmashtami and International Youth Day through video conferencing at the secretariat this afternoon, said people believe in the promises listed in the election manifesto and it was, thus, his duty to ensure the implementation of each one of them. When the Congress listed smartphones as a poll promise, it was to provide global connectivity and empower the poor youth who could not afford them, said Amarinder, adding that in the present pandemic situation, these phones had assumed a bigger importance as they had become a necessity for education continuity. The CM said he wanted Punjab’s students to be abreast with the latest technology which they can use effectively for their education, which leverages technology in a big way today. Gone are the days of chalks and boards, he said, adding that the Government schools, which had seen a major transformation over the past couple of years, needed to be supported through technological initiatives by the state government. State Congress president Sunil Jakhar said the scheme would break the barriers of poverty, with even SC/ST and OBC students getting access to online education. Smartphones have become a necessity in these pandemic times, he said, adding that making youngsters tech-savvy was also a major step towards making them employable. The SAD-BJP government of the past had promised computers, laptops, tablets etc but had failed to deliver on its promise, as had the BJP-led government at the Centre, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capt-govt-distributes-free-smartphones-to-class-12-students/story-Yr7PTyGvlGQKsTh5UiTfWJ.html
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||797 new Covid-19 cases reported in Haryana, 100 from Sirsa alone||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases rose sharply in Sirsa on Wednesday with 100 new infections recorded in this district even though 797 fresh cases were detected in 17 districts of Haryana in last 24 hours. According to the state health bulletin, two patients in Faridabad and one in Gurugram also succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll to 503. The number of fatalities in Faridabad has risen to 146 while in Gurugram, 127 people have died of the contagion. However, it was Sirsa district from where the unsettling trend of the infection spread emanated, a day after the district had logged zero Covid-19 case on Tuesday. Now, Sirsa has 675 cumulative cases, 328 of which are active. As per the data, the recovery rate of Sirsa district, where so far 340 patients have been cured, is 50.37%. The Wednesday’s addition of 797 cases pushed the state’s patients’ tally to 44,024. The number of active patients on Wednesday rose to 6,827, up from 6,645 on Tuesday. There were 612 patients who recovered on Wednesday, taking the number of those cured of Covid to 36,694. In Haryana, the tests per million figure on Wednesday stood at 31,039 and the fatality rate was 1.14%. Again, Faridabad recorded the highest 113 new cases, followed by Gurugram (98), Sonepat (31), Rewari (57), Ambala (65), Rohtak (49), Panchkula (36), Mahendergarh (60), Jhajjar (28), Bhiwani (27), Nuh (6), Kurukshetra (33), Yamunanagar (36), Fatehabad (40), Kaithal (15), Jind (3). In Ambala, chief medical officer Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “Eight cases were reported from Police Lines, six from SP’s office and one each from CMO office and central jail. 50 patients were discharged from hospitals today.” Though the health bulletin didn’t mention these deaths, Panipat chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said three people succumbed to the virus in the district on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 30. Karnal gets plasma bank Karnal on Wednesday got its first plasma bank which was inaugurated by deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital. He also honoured a man, who was the first to donate plasma, and urged the recovered patients to come forward. Medical college director Dr Jagdish Dureja said the bank has the capacity of storing 400 units of plasma. “It can be stored for one year. The plasma therapy would be provided free of cost to all serious patients,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/797-new-covid-cases-reported-in-haryana-100-from-sirsa-alone/story-a0J4tsM3soIltqwO20zRiO.html
13-08-2020||City||Haryana DIPRO aspirants miss exam, allege HPSC ‘failed’ to notify date||Over hundreds of aspirants alleged that they missed the entrance exam for ten posts of district information and public relation officer (DIPRO) in Haryana on Tuesday as the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) did not inform them about the exam date by sending an email or text message.The HPSC had conducted the examination for the ten posts on Tuesday.One such candidate Surender Dalal from Narnaul said he had applied for the DIPRO post in 2015, but the government re-advertised the posts two years ago.“I had sent my documents to the HPSC, but they did not send any message about the exam date on my mobile number and email. When I talked to a few HPSC officials, they told me that they had released roll numbers on their official website. I am surprised to hear that as to why they did not tell us about the same,” he added. An official, who wished to remain anonymous, said over 1,000 candidates had applied for ten posts of DIPRO, of which over 250 were shortlisted for the examination.“More than 150 candidates remained absent in the exam,” he added.Rohit Kumar, another aspirant from Hisar, said he had been preparing for the written examination for the last two years, but the HPSC failed to issue any notification about the exam date properly.“On the one hand, the government is claiming to recruit people in a transparent and fair manner and on the other, it has failed to send information about the exam date to candidates. The forms for the posts were filled two years ago and the HPSC had released roll numbers only on its website. It didn’t send an alert message to us about the exam date,” he added.When contacted, HPSC chairman Ranjit Kumar Pachnanda said he would respond to this issue after an important meeting he was attending. However, his response wasn’t received till the filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-dipro-aspirants-miss-exam-allege-hpsc-failed-to-notify-date/story-MLq1nQFRDQk2UzGjw6NCSK.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||State to pay fees of 112 medical, dental students hit by EWS, SEBC quotas||The Maharashtra government has decided to pay fees of 112 medical and dental students affected by the implementation of Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) and Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quotas last year. These students could not get admission in government colleges for graduation and postgraduation courses as the number of seats for general category reduced due to the implementation of SEBC and EWS quota, and hence had to opt for private education institutions.The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday.The state government enacted SEBC Act granting 16% reservation in government jobs and education to Maratha community in November 2018 while the Central government enacted EWS Act granting 10% reservation to those coming from economically weaker section. As a result, the number of seats for open category students was reduced.“These 112 medical and dental students also had to pay high fees to pursue education at private colleges. Considering this, the state government decided to pay their fees,” said a senior government official.The decision will bring a financial burden of ₹33.06 crore on the state exchequer.Meanwhile, the state government has also decided to increase the stipend of medical and dental students by around ₹10,000 per month. The decision, which will come into effect from this month, was taken considering the service of junior and senior resident doctors in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic, officials said.According to the state cabinet decision, all the resident medical students will get ₹71,247 as stipend whereas postgraduate dental students will get ₹55,258 as stipend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-to-pay-fees-of-medical-dental-students-affected-by-sebc-ews-quota/story-qOY9SkvNWl7wSXxtSfJjdJ.html
13-08-2020||City||Thane dahi handi mandals busy with social work this year||The sky-high human pyramids synonymous with dahi handi celebrations were missing in Thane this year as most organisers cancelled the festival in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Instead, the city took part in organising health camps, Covid testing camps, blood and plasma donation centres on Wednesday.Dahi handi celebrations in Thane have entered the Guinness Book of World Record for making the tallest human pyramid. Spectators throng the festivals in huge number every year, but this year few organisations merely broke a symbolic handi with minimum participants. Instead of the usual celebrations, Thanecha Raja Mitra Mandal at Panchpakhadi organised a special Covid testing facilities this year. “We are testing everyone at Namdev Wadi area with pulse oximeter and thermal scanner. If doctors notice any Covid-19 symptoms or low oxygen levels, they will suggest an antigen test. We are following all social distancing norms at this camp,” said Prathamesh More, a member. Meanwhile, Shiv Sai Govinda Mandal in Kopri took to spreading the message of not using plastic products. Mayuresh Kolhatkar, president, said, “It is a difficult year for us as we will not be able to make human pyramids amid cheering from the crowd. We are ensuring that all our volunteers spread out the message of maintaining hygiene, cleanliness and wearing masks. We are also collecting plastic which will be recycled.” Sanskruti Yuva Prathishtan spearheaded by MLA Pratap Sarnaik, distributed sanitiser, masks and portable oxygen cylinder. “The entire amount we usually spent as prize money will now be used to help those affected by the virus. We have made arrangements for oxygen cylinders and delivered them to those in need. We also distributed sanitisers and masks to the poor and spread awareness regarding the virus,” Sarnaik said. MLC Ravi Phatak’s Sankalp Prathisthan conducted blood and Plasma donation drives and also distributed food for the deprived. Meanwhile, MP Rajan Vichare, who organises dahi handi celebrations at Talaopali junction every year, conducted a symbolic dahi handi on Wednesday. “This is the second consecutive year that we had to cancel our celebrations. Last year it was the floods in various parts of the country and this year we are ensuring social distancing rules. It would be inappropriate to celebrate in such a time. We have made use of the reward prize money and organisation cost in relief work,” said Vichare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-dahi-handi-mandals-busy-with-social-work-this-year/story-cFfdoyxBYT6fEk1EFO4PKO.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai gets 1,000mm surplus rain till August 12||Heavy rain spells have given the city around 1,000mm surplus rain by August 12, compared to last year. The weather bureau has also issued a yellow alert for the city for Thursday, with the possibility of moderate to heavy rain and gusty winds reaching 45-55kmph occasionally. From June 1 to August 12, the Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, has received 2,474.7mm rain, an excess of 1,004mm (70%) than the average. During the same time, Santacruz has received 2,561.8mm rain, 964.3mm (60%) more than the average. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted conditions similar to the city for Thane and Sindhudurg, while an orange alert for heavy to very heavy rain has been issued for Palghar, Raigad and Ratnagiri districts. “More rain intensity has been witnessed towards the northwestern suburbs of Mumbai over the past 24 hours, and the trend is likely to continue. Radar and satellite images have indicated dense cloud cover over the north Konkan coast increasing the possibility of heavy showers for Mumbai Metropolitan Region and surrounding areas as well as ghats over the next 48 hours,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Moderate showers with isolated intense spells were recorded across the city and suburbs through the day on Wednesday. While the suburbs recorded 38.6mm rain, 8.4mm rain was recorded in south Mumbai between 8.30am and 5.30pm. However, heavy rain was recorded towards the northwestern suburbs, parts of the eastern suburbs, and surrounding areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Dombivli recorded maximum rain at 95.9mm, followed by Borivli at 92mm, Dahisar 82mm, Thane 74.8mm, and Navi Mumbai 32.2mm. Bandra recorded maximum rain at 82.2mm in the central suburbs, while 21.8mm rain was recorded in Mazagaon, highest in south Mumbai. Moderate to heavy rain was also recorded across seven lakes supplying water to Mumbai. Tansa recorded 73mm, Tulsi 66mm, Bhatsa and Vihar 60mm each, Upper Vaitarna 39mm, Modak Sagar 32mm, and Middle Vaitarna 31mm. The combined water stock has reached 55.5% of the required quantum against 91.7% this time last year. Meanwhile, over 24 hours (between 8.30am on Tuesday and 8.30am on Wednesday), the suburbs recorded 30.7mm rain and south Mumbai recorded 16.7mm. IMD classifies 15.6-64.4mm as moderate, while 64.5-115.5mm rain is heavy. Across the state, between 8.30am on Tuesday and 8.30am on Wednesday, Matheran recorded maximum rain at 72.2mm, followed by Mahabaleshwar (58.6mm), Dahanu (43mm), Thane (37mm) and Mumbai 30 mm. So far this season, from June 1 to August 12, Maharashtra has recorded 8% excess rain with 713.1mm against the average for the period at 657.3mm. Marathwada recorded 32% excess rain, central Maharashtra 15% excess, while Vidarbha remained 13% deficient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-gets-1-000mm-surplus-rain-till-august-12/story-aWCCQGnz9aOXKhcCE2VBZO.html
13-08-2020||City||Faridkot royal property case: Caretaker trust challenges HC verdict in SC, hearing today||The Maharawal Khewaji Trust that manages the ₹20,000-crore worth properties of the last ruler of erstwhile princely state of Faridkot, Maharaja Harinder Singh Brar, has moved the Supreme Court against the Punjab and Haryana high court order declaring as forged his (Brar’s) will dated June 1, 1982, in its favour.The trust has filed a special leave petition in the apex court and the matter has been listed for August 13.The high court had upheld a Chandigarh court’s order on June 1, awarding majority share in the ₹20,000-crore property of Brar to his two daughters — Amrit Kaur, who challenged the will in 1992, and Deepinder Kaur. The court held that descendants of Manjit Inder Singh, the last ruler’s brother, would get their mother Mohinder Kaur’s share.As of the will in dispute, the court observed, trustees conspired to create the will to take over the property. “The will is proved to be forged, fictitious, fabricated and shrouded with suspicious circumstances,” the court order said.In 2013, the Chandigarh district court had declared the will, which had entitled Maharawal Khewaji Trust as the caretaker of the properties, as illegal and void and granted inheritance to Brar’s two daughters— Amrit and Deepinder.Trust CEO Jagir Singh Sran said the will was “real” and they have challenged the high court verdict. “It’s a registered will and there are proofs of its authenticity. Our counsels have included some new facts in the petition. On July 10, on directions of Maharaja’s daughter Amrit Kaur, some men had made an attempt to take possession of the Faridkot Raj Mahal illegally and the police are investigating the matter. We will also bring this matter to the notice of the apex court. We will also seek stay on the FIR registered against the trust members on Amrit Kaur’s complaint,” he said. In July, a case of fraud was also registered against 23 trust members on the complaint of Amrit Kaur. Those named in the FIR include trust chairman Jai Chand Mehtab, who is also the son of complaint’s elder sister Deepinder Kaur, and his (Mehtab’s) sister Nisha D Kehr, who is vice-chairperson of the trust. A special investigation team (SIT) led by SP Bhupinder Singh Sidhu is probing the case.WHAT’S AT STAKEThe royal riches include movable and immovable assets in four states (Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana) and Chandigarh.Rajmahal, Faridkot: Spread over 14 acres, it was constructed in 1885 as the royal residence. Now, a 150-bed charitable hospital stands on a portion of the palace ground.Qila Mubarak, Faridkot: Built by Raja Mokulsi and reconstructed by Raja Hamir Singh around 1775, it is spread over 10 acres. The present main building was built around 1890.Faridkot House, New Delhi: Located on a huge piece of prime land on Copernicus Marg, it is currently leased out to Central government at a monthly rent of ₹17.50 lakh. It was valued at ₹1,200 crore nine years ago. Manimajra Fort, Chandigarh: The three-century old fort is spread over four acres.Faridkot House, Mashobra (Shimla): A 260-bigha estate, it had five residences, three of which, including the Sherwood House, were destroyed in a fire.18 vintage cars: A 1929 model Rolls Royce, 1929 model Graham, 1940 model Bentley, Jaguar, Damler, Packard among others and all of them in working condition.Aerodrome, Faridkot: Used by the civil administration and army, it is spread over 200 acres.Gold and jewels: Valued at ₹1,000 crore, they are in Standard Chartered Bank’s custody in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridkot-royal-property-case-caretaker-trust-challenges-hc-verdict-in-sc-hearing-today/story-xQ34du49MdGlRGJz8WfHYL.html
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||To contain Covid spike, Punjab to go for mass antigen tests on Delhi lines||Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to 10 worst hit states to adopt National Capital Region (NCR) model in their fight against Covid-19, Punjab has decided to make antigen testing its key weapon in the coming days and make the contact tracing fool-proof. The NCR, especially Delhi, used antigen testing as the key tool in bringing per day caseload and fatalities down, besides strengthening containment of the hotspots, an area where Punjab has fared poorly. In Delhi, as per information procured from daily health bulletins of the Delhi government, it conducted 4,98,214 rapid antigen tests and 2,64,717 RT-PCR tests between June 30 and August 8, after a period when the capital witnessed maximum number of daily cases across the country. This plateaued the fresh infection graph in the national capital. Punjab, on the other hand during the same period conducted 3,71,454 tests, including around 14,000 antigen. Now, Punjab will go for mass rapid antigen test that gives result for the infection in half an hour, thus helping in early treatment and contact tracing. Till now, Punjab’s focus has been on RT-PCR tests which take around 24 hours to get the result. “Antigen test is the key to controlling the virus and Delhi has emerged as a model in using this successfully to control the spread of the virus. Now, we have ordered 2 lakh antigen testing kits and our focus will be on achieving 30,000 tests per day by September first week,” said Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. However, the only concern with antigen testing is that it can give a false negative report and a person has to go for the RT-PCR test if he/she develops symptom. Punjab lags in contact tracingIn the NCR model, more focus was given on tracing all the contacts of a positive person within 72 hours. As per a senior Punjab health department functionary, contact tracing has been poor in Punjab — six per positive person — as compared to ICMR recommendation of tracing at least 10 direct and indirect contacts of an infected person. “People lie or hide information during the contact tracing and the problem is more in villages. There have been instances of attack on teams going to take samples of the direct contacts. In past one week, we have focused more on containment strategy,” said the nodal officer. As per a senior doctor involved in Covid-19 duties in Patiala district, the stigma attached with Covid has been the biggest hurdle in contact tracing. Close watch on hotspots Punjab has also faltered on containment of Covid hotspots. Only last week, there were fresh instructions to fully lock the containment and micro-containment zones. The nodal officer said the state was already following the NCR model and Punjab was the first state to demarcate containment and micro-containment zones on Delhi lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-contain-covid-spike-punjab-to-go-for-mass-antigen-tests-on-delhi-lines/story-BaC3qgKG8OBJFKLy6eHYcN.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||State to table bill to change Mhada Act to ease redevelopment||State cabinet on Wednesday decided to make changes in the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) Act, 1976 to pave way for the redevelopment of the 14,227 cessed buildings in the island city. The amendment will empower the state authorities to forcibly acquire the cessed buildings for redevelopment if the owners and societies fail to redevelop them within a year of notification. The decision has been taken in the wake of collapses of cessed buildings during monsoon. The bill for the amendment is expected to be tabled in the monsoon session next month.The state has also made a provision of paying transit rent to the tenants vacating the dilapidated buildings. Redevelopments of many buildings have been stalled owing to the disputes and litigations while some are stuck due to lack of agreement between tenants and landowners.“Cessed buildings have been divided into three categories — those constructed prior to 1940 in A, constructed between 1940 and 1950 in B, and constructed before 1969 in C. Most of these buildings are in dilapidated conditions and need urgent redevelopment. The amendment empowers Mhada to acquire buildings by giving six months to the landowners and six more months to the society for the redevelopment. If they fail to do so, Mhada will take over the redevelopment and complete it within three years for the old tenants. Mhada can also tie up with private builders for the same,” an official from the housing department said. According to the amendment proposed, landlords will be compensated with 25% of the land cost as per the ready reckoner rate or they can opt for 15% housing stock from the saleable component in the redeveloped buildings. “In most of the cases, landlords were not giving no objection certificates for the redevelopment, leaving the tenants to live in dilapidated buildings. A fourth of the population of the island city live in cessed buildings which are in dire need of the redevelopment,” said housing minister Jitendra Awhad. Fadnavis government had, in August 2019, taken the decision of issuing an ordinance in this respect but could not go ahead with it because of the change in the government. It had also announced cluster redevelopment of cessed and non-cessed dilapidated buildings in the island city. The decision taken on Wednesday has no provision for cluster redevelopment as Mhada is still preparing records of non-cessed buildings in the city. State to give compensation to kin of dead Maratha quota protestersState cabinet on Wednesday decided to give ex-gratia of ₹10 lakh to the families of the youths who lost lives during the Maratha reservation protests in August 2016. One eligible member of the family will also get a job in Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation. Urban development minister Eknath Shinde said the government decided to fulfil the announcement made by the previous government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cabinet-proposes-change-in-mhada-act-for-ease-of-redevelopment-of-cessed-buildings/story-qSAgyIfNEQEgl8vklaTMXL.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||HC upholds life sentence of a widow for killing her newborn||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday upheld the conviction and life sentence of a widow who killed her new born daughter, purportedly to hide her relationship with a man which resulted in the pregnancy.The division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice Surendra Tavade upheld the conviction of Kamlabai Gharat after finding that the prosecution had proved the chain of circumstances against her beyond the shadow of reasonable doubt. There was nobody else except the appellant / accused to commit murder of the said child.The bench has directed Alibag sessions court to secure her presence and remand her in prison for serving the remainder prison term.According to the prosecution, on November 10, 1993, a resident of Nhava Sheva in Uran found a newborn girl abandoned near Sheva bus stand and took the infant to his house.The family then reported the matter to local police, who arrested Kamlabai after finding that she was pregnant. Police then took Kamlabai and the infant to the rural hospital in Uran, but later shifted them to Alibag Civil Hospital. However, Kamlabai strangled the girl in the hospital.In 1995, the sessions court convicted Kamlabai for murder and sentenced her to life. She was, however, acquitted of the charge of abandoning the child.The widow then moved the high court challenging the conviction.The bench on Tuesday dismissed the appeal and concluded that the prosecution had proved all the circumstances against the woman which include abandonment of the child, the physical condition of the child before the murder, the fact that the newborn was with the woman in both the hospitals.The bench held that the prosecution has proven the homicidal death of the child and the fact that no one was around when the infant was killed except the convict. It also found that the woman had motive to commit the crime as she wanted to hide her relationship and the pregnancy which took place eight years after the death of her husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-upholds-life-sentence-of-a-widow-for-killing-her-newborn/story-4NW6G55fB0p7K8qblWz3rL.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||Art teacher arrested for leaking exam papers||Azad Maidan police on Wednesday arrested an art teacher of a Chembur-based school who allegedly leaked intermediate papers on WhatsApp in September 2019. The police registered a first information report (FIR) against two art teachers, Amit Pore and Gangadhar Sawant, in July this year after an investigation report was submitted by the education department. “Amit Pore was arrested after his anticipatory bail plea was rejected by session court and the high court recently. He was produced in the court and remanded in police custody till August 12,” said senior inspector Vidyasagar Kalkundre, Azad Maidan police station. Sawant has not been arrested yet. The mobile phones of the suspects have been given to the forensic department in Kalina forensic science laboratory to gather evidence, said Kalkundre. The intermediate drawing exams were scheduled to be held from September 26 to September 29, 2019 and the papers were leaked on September 24, two days before the exam. Following this, the concerned department of Directorate of Art of Maharashtra government cancelled the exams, said a police officer. The department then informed all the centres to return the sealed bunch of question papers to the examination centre. “The Art department formed a committee and during an inquiry, they found that the seal of one bunch of question papers, sent by the Chembur-based school, was tampered with,” said police. The inquiry further found the involvement of Pore and Sawant, who were the art teachers of the school and in-charge of the question papers. A written complaint regarding the matter was filed by the controller in September last year. “The police conducted an inquiry and found them to be involved. A case has been registered against both for breach of trust and under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act in the second of July, this year. Pore had first approached the sessions court and then the high court seeking anticipatory bail, but his plea was rejected. However, he surrendered in the metropolitan court on Monday and was arrested thereafter,” said Kalkundre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/art-teacher-arrested-for-leaking-exam-papers/story-awdv9JMFDpwYGZp9waz1rN.html
13-08-2020||City||9.5 cm tumour removed from man’s jaw||A 9.5 cm tumour was extracted from the jaw of a 42-year-old man, a courier delivery executive hailing from Palghar, last week and the patient was discharged from hospital on Tuesday. Dr Sheetal Radia, head and neck cancer surgeon in Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road led the bilateral neck dissection surgery. The patient has been discharged from the hospital and can eat, swallow and speak properly now.The patient had developed swelling on the right side of his lower jaw around two months ago and consulted local doctors but nothing helped the pain. However, as he started having difficulty in chewing food and also faced difficulty to open his mouth, he was later admitted at Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road.Dr Atul Narayankar, consultant medical oncologist at the hospital said the patient had swelling and pain in the lower right jaw for two months. A CT scan and biopsy confirmed that he was suffering from stage 4 cancer which includes cancer in the buccal mucosa throat, lips, mouth, nose, and salivary gland. The patient used to consume tobacco and gutkha and also had a human papillomavirus (HPV) infection which increased the risk of head and neck cancer, the doctor said. As the tumour was large and had spread to the nodes in the neck, the doctors suggested two chemotherapy sessions to shrink the tumour before surgery. The patient completed the chemotherapy sessions in April and May, and as the patient responded well to the therapy, the surgery was undertaken last week. In a five-hour surgery, more than half the lower jaw with cancerous lymph nodes in the neck was removed along with the upper bone, buccal mucosa muscle, and the skin, and it was replaced with the flap from thigh muscle (anterolateral thigh flap), Dr Radia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-5-cm-tumour-removed-from-man-s-jaw/story-UXAmvwMHmv8JEVFsQQmpHI.html
13-08-2020||City||Matka king murder: Cops arrest two accused||Thane Police’s crime branch arrested the two accused in the murder of businessman and alleged matka King Jignesh Thakkar, 43, which took place on July 31 in Kalyan, on Wednesday. One of the two arrested accused, Dharmesh Shah, 43, was the main shooter in the incident who shot at Thakkar over financial rift between the two. the other accused has been identified as Sunil Gajanan Narvekar, 35. The crime branch has arrested six people in the murder so far. Jignesh Thakkar was shot dead by four people on two bikes in Suyash Plaza building compound around 10pm. Senior inspector N Bankar of Mahatma Phule police station said, “We have arrested all the five persons responsible for the murder of Thakkar. Dharmesh was arrested by Thane crime branch on Wednesday from Gujarat. We will take him into police custody on Thursday. All are arrested have been booked under section 302 for murder.” According to Mahatma Phule police, crime branch earlier arrested Jaipal Bhalsingh Dulgaj alias Jaypal, who fired a gun along with Dharmesh. Later, police arrested two more accused, Amjad Pathan, 32, who has a history of cases under narcotics act, and Dhanraj Shah, Dharmesh’s younger brother who is wanted in five to six cases of attempt to murder. Mahatma Phule police also arrested Chetan Patel, 40, Dharmesh’s friend, who was the reason behind the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/matka-king-murder-cops-arrest-two-accused/story-EZH3VpDxqfrOFhiIRmJQBM.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||Decision on relief for high power bills in next meeting: Shinde||Urban development minister Eknath Shinde on Wednesday said that the decision on giving relief to consumers who received inflated electricity bills during lockdown will be taken in the next cabinet meeting. The state government has already approached the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) on the issue and a relief of 20%-30% is expected to be announced soon.Shinde, who spoke about inflated bills, requested the state cabinet for a speedy decision over the issue saying that people’s sentiments on the issue were high, and immediate relief needed to be extended. Energy minister Nitin Raut said his department is working on the solution. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had, two weeks ago, held a meeting with officials from various departments over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/decision-on-relief-for-high-power-bills-in-next-meeting-shinde/story-IVsJwBQRiR7Bs5FB1YrIRP.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||Staff entitled to a switch in post if disabled during employment period: HC||Every employee who acquires a disability during the course of his employment is entitled to be shifted to another suitable post, irrespective the percentage of his disability, the Bombay high court said, on Wednesday A single judge bench of justice Milind Jadhav on Wednesday rejected argument advanced on behalf Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking that it was not bound to accommodate a bus conductor Sadashiv Gaikwad on another suitable post, after he acquired disability of a lower limb, since the percentage of his disability was less than 40℅. The judge also rejected BEST’s contention that Gailwad was not entitled to the benefit of shifting to another suitable post after his accident, as contemplated under section 47 of the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995, and that the civic undertaking was justified in terminating his services. Justice Jadhav held that for claiming the benefit of section 47 a person does not have to be certified as a “person with a disability” - a person with 40℅ or more disability. The judge clarified that section 47 envisages that if an employee acquires a disability during the course of his employment and becomes unsuitable for the post held by him, the employee should accommodate him on another suitable post, with same service benefits, and if no other suitable post is available, he should be posted on a supernumerary post till the time such a post becomes available. “That is the mandate of section 47,” said the judge. “There is nothing to suggest that for applying this mandate, the employee must be shown to be a ‘person with disability’ within the meaning of section 2(t), that is to say, a person suffering from not less than 40% of any disability as certified by a medical authority.” HC said the interpretation sought to put by BEST on section 47 could not be accepted, as it would lead to an absurdity, in as much as, such reading of the benevolent provision would allow employers to terminate services of employees, if the percentage of disability acquired by them is less than 40℅. “That would be a travesty of justice and no sensible legislature could have ever intended such result,” said the court. Gaikwad was appointed as a bus conductor in September 1993 and was attached to Malvani depot. On May 3, 2011, he met with an accident in Pune district and suffered a serious injury to his left knee. After lengthy treatment, when he went to resume duty in January 2012, for some period he was accommodated on other posts with light duties, but eventually his services were terminated on September 1, 2015, on the ground that it was not possible to accommodate him anymore further on any post having light duty. In between, the bus conductor was referred by his employer to various public hospitals in the city, one of which evaluated the percentage of his disability at 17℅ and was also refused disability certificate as the disability was less than 40℅. Gaikwad then moved an appeal before the commissioner and competent authority for welfare of persons with disabilities, who on October 8, 2018 ordered his employer to reinstate him in service, pay him back wages and accommodate him on a suitable post. BEST had then approached HC challenging the October 2018 order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/staff-entitled-to-a-switch-in-post-if-disabled-during-employment-period-hc/story-cvs1WqhY5Wevxce297KP9M.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||Whale shark found cut into pieces for sale; 2 detained||The carcass of a 20-foot-long dead female whale shark was caught by a fishing boat which was brought to Sassoon Dock in Colaba, on Wednesday morning. The shark was cut into pieces in an attempt to sell the protected species to a distributor. Two people have been detained in the matter and further investigation is underway by the fisheries and forest department.Whale sharks (Rhincodon typus) are protected under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, and listed as ‘endangered’ species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). They are the largest species of any fish that can reach a maximum length of 40-feet.On Wednesday morning, Sassoon Dock fishers informed the police about the presence of the whale shark, forest officers said. “The fishermen who caught the protected species left it at the dock and fled, but as we were reaching the site for further investigation, a trader cut up the 20-foot marine animal into pieces, and intended to sell it,” said Suresh Warak, range forest officer (mangrove cell).“By the time we reached the site, the trader had fled, but we managed to detain the buyer, Jan Bahadur Yadav, 50, and tempo driver, Sham Rajaram Dhar, 35, under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Based on their statements, arrests will be made and they will be presented before a district court on Thursday,” said Warak. Warak said a punchnama had been filed. “Interrogations are underway to identify the trader responsible for desecrating the shark, and further course of action will be taken including arrests for offences under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972,” he said.Meanwhile, the fisheries department said they were investigating the boat responsible for catching the whale shark. “With help from Mumbai Port Trust, we have got a list of boats that arrived at Sassoon Dock on Wednesday for landings, and have identified a few that could be responsible for this incident,” said Sanjay Wategaonkar, assistant commissioner of fisheries. “They have already been informed to report to us at the earliest. On completing our investigations, we will hand over our findings to the mangrove cell for further action. In the meantime, we will be cancelling the license of the boat under the Maharashtra Marine Fishing Regulation Act, 1981, responsible for this.”The incident comes eight days after the fisheries department initiated an investigation and called for action regarding unauthorised fishing practices affecting rare and endangered marine species along Maharashtra. “An incident like this has not happened along the Mumbai coast wherein the body parts are cut up. The fishing community treats the whale shark as a god and are also aware that they are entitled to a compensation of up to Rs. 25,000 for safe rescue of protected marine species,” said Rajendra Jadhav, joint commissioner (fisheries).The remains of the shark were transported to Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Centre in Airoli on Wednesday evening. “We will try to conduct a post mortem and the remains will be buried on Thursday after completing all formalities since it is a serious offence case,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell).Recent report warned about unsustainable fishing practicesMarine biologists from the Mangrove Foundation, under the state mangrove cell, had recently documented unsustainable fishing practices, excessive juvenile bycatch and illegal shark fin trade across seven landing centres along the state’s coastline including Sassoon Dock. They found that rampant fishing practices were leading to a rapid decline of threatened, vulnerable, and critically endangered sharks and allied species, the report had pointed out. Besides whale sharks, tiger sharks, white sharks, and speartooth sharks; other elasmobranch species such as hammerhead sharks, pointed sawfish, largetooth sawfish, longcomb sawfish, and guitarfish are also protected under the WPA, 1972.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/whale-shark-found-cut-into-pieces-for-sale-2-detained/story-4ZWVPinrH8Lkv2tyzH4IhK.html
13-08-2020||Gurugram||Places of worship reopen after 5 months in Gurugram, Covid-19 scare keeps footfall low||Places of religious worship in the city reopened their doors for the first time in nearly five months on Wednesday, with strict administrative protocols in place to prevent crowding to check the spread of Covid-19.As per district administration’s Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), prasad (offerings) cannot be distributed to worshippers, deities cannot be touched, holy books cannot be brought to the respective religious institution and entry was to be permitted to only those wearing masks. Large gatherings were also prohibited, among other guidelines. With Janmashtami celebrations on Wednesday, Sheetla Mata Mandir reopened with extensive safety protocols in place, but the turnout of worshippers remained low on the first day. One gate was used for entry of worshippers while the second gate, located next to it, was for exit. The path between the two gates had been cordoned off with ropes, with around 80 temple workers and 40 police officers present to ensure that social distancing was maintained. Worshippers were allowed entry only after their temperature was checked with thermal scanners. The administration also ensured that everyone who gained access to the temple premises were wearing masks.“To ensure there is not a huge gathering of worshippers, we were allowing 5-10 people to enter after a corresponding number of people were seen leaving the premises. At several points, our workers had been deployed with hand sanitizers. They ensured sanitization and social distancing measures are properly followed,” said Yugdutt Sharma, temple officer, Sheetla Mata Mandir Shrine Board.At the Hanuman Mandir at Bristol Chowk, Shiv Mandir in Sikanderpur and Chintpurni temple in sector 5, only the temple priests were present, who said there was little to no footfall throughout the day.“Less than 10 people came to the temple today. I am not expecting a large footfall until the next month as most people wouldn’t be aware that places of religious worship had reopened. Regardless, boards have been erected outside informing worshippers to maintain social distance and that they will be allowed entry only if they are wearing masks,” said Sanjay Shastri, the head priest at Hanuman Mandir.Daman Rodgers, pastor of Epiphany church in Civil Lines, said that all 12 major churches in the city remained closed on Tuesday. However, he said that disinfection and sanitization measures were undertaken at all the churches.“There are two main reasons we didn’t open our churches today. Firstly, we were a little confused with the district administration’s guidelines, as it specified that no large gatherings are allowed but they did not specify a definite number. We have written to the administration for clarification on the same. In addition, we are also waiting for directions from our bishop, who oversees all churches in Northern India, on reopening,” said Rodgers. Rodgers further said that all churches have started working strategies to ensure social distancing is maintained and are keeping an upper limit of allowing in only 50 worshippers at a time.Jan Mohammad, imam of Sadar Bazaar mosque, said all 13 major mosques across the city reopened on Tuesday amid strict restrictions, but he added that there was virtually no footfall on the first day.“Through the loudspeakers in our mosques, we kept announcing that worshippers exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19 should not venture outside and stay indoors. We also told our followers to ensure senior citizens and children stayed indoors preferably. At all entry points, we had placed hand sanitizers and thermal scanners, and worshippers were allowed entry only if their temperature was within the permissible limit,” said Jan Mohammad.He further said that a total of only 20-25 worshippers came to the mosque on the first day, and adhered to the administration’s guidelines to not allow religious texts inside. A few worshippers who had carried Quran with them were asked to leave them back at their respective houses and subsequently return to the mosque.“Gurdwaras reopened across the city on Wednesday after all necessary sanitisation and disinfecting measures were undertaken. Around 15 worshippers came to the gurdwara today. Their temperatures were checked with thermal scanners and hands sanitised before entry. They were only allowed to bow their head before the holy book and leave the premises immediately,” said Baljeet Singh, committee member, South City 1, Gurudwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/places-of-worship-reopen-after-5-months-but-virus-scare-keeps-footfall-low/story-83obVgnlo6bbdKRJq5aLrL.html
13-08-2020||City||Veterinarian booked for sexually assaulting minor||Gurugram: A veterinarian was booked for allegedly kidnapping and sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl in Farrukhnagar area. Police said a friend of the veterinarian too was named by the complainant, the minor’s father, and both were absconding. According to the police, the incident took place in May but was reported to the police on Monday after the girl confided in her mother. The family then approached the women’s police station in Manesar. The minor’s father complained: “Two people lured my daughter into their car on the pretext of discussing something and one of them sexually assaulted her. They also threatened her that if she revealed the incident to anyone, they would kill her and her family.” Police said since the incident, the accused men had been harassing the girl through repeated phone calls. Since she was scared of the threat, she had kept it to herself till Monday. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “Police is conducting raids to arrest them.” A case was registered against the accused men under sections 363 (kidnapping), 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/veterinarian-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-minor/story-Yvb4smXCbpUERHM8X8Bs3M.html
13-08-2020||Gurugram||Woman kills self, leaves behind note blaming partner||A 28-year-old lawyer in the city allegedly killed herself on Monday night at her paying guest accommodation in Sector 38, after a man she was in a relationship with allegedly refused to marry her. The suspect is now on the run after being charged with abetment to suicide, police said. According to the police, they recovered a diary from the woman’s room in which she wrote that the suspect had raped her on the pretext of marrying her and later told her that he was already married. “Six months ago, the suspect promised her that he would leave his wife and marry her. But recently had started harassing her and refused to get married. On Monday she tried to speak to him but he spurned her again, prompting her to take the extreme step,” said Dinesh Kumar, station house officer, Sadar police station. According to the police, the woman had known the suspect for the last two years. The police said the control room received a call on Tuesday morning that a woman had allegedly killed herself, following which a team from the police station rushed to the spot and took the woman to a hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead,” said the SHO. A case was registered under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code against the suspect, after the woman’s father filed a complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-kills-self-leaves-behind-note-blaming-partner/story-4V8pRN0xfUU0l3UDdTvqEJ.html
13-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram conducts over 91,000 Covid tests per mn population, highest in the state||The Gurugram health department has conducted the highest number of tests per million population among all districts in the state, indicating the wide testing net cast for detecting Covid-19 infections, officials said. With a total of 129,075 samples tested so far for SARS-CoV-2 virus, the tests per million for Gurugram has reached 91,860, health officials added. Experts say higher number of tests per million is helpful in monitoring the infection and reducing the overall positivity rate. Data also shows that Gurugram’s tests per million is higher than Delhi’s 64,412 (on Tuesday) but less than Goa which stands at 94,773. At the state level, Faridabad — which has the highest number of coronavirus cases — has done over 50,000 tests per million population and stands second in terms of testing on the list.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Within a week’s time, Gurugram will be crossing 100,000 tests per million, the highest among all the districts in the state, and probably across the country.” Experts too dubbed the feat as remarkable for Gurugram. Dr Rajib Dasgupta, chairperson, Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said, “The tests per million indicate how widely Covid-19 tests are being made accessible to the masses. It highlights the overall capacity of testing. Going by the data, Gurugram tests per million population is five times more than the national average.” To closely monitor the epidemic, the testing data should have details as to where the tests have been widely conducted. “Scientifically, the tests per million comprise testing of samples collected from hospitals, containment zones and overall general population. The data on tests per million population is useful in monitoring the prevalence of infection if it gives details on these three aspects,” said Dasgupta. Otherwise, these are just cumulative numbers which are least helpful, added Dr Sanjay K Rai, professor, centre for community medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. “Tests per million population has nothing to do with the overall population of any district or state. But it is significant only when looked from a broader perspective by taking positivity rate or total number of positive cases detected into account,” said Rai.“To see the progression of the disease, weekly data on tests per million and positivity rate has to analysed to derive conclusions instead of the cumulative numbers,” said Rai. According to him, Gurugram and Delhi are almost at the same pace in terms of positivity rate. Currently, Delhi’s positivity rate is 5.7%, while Gurugram stands at 7.5%. “The tests per million will continue to rise as testing is increasing. By simply doing random tests, numbers will keep on adding. The impact can be seen only if positivity rate declines,” said Rai. On this CMO Yadav, said, “Until the current test positivity rate of 7.5% reduces to 5% — the international standard set by the World Health Organisation for keeping Covid-19 infection under control — the department will continue to do more than 2,000 tests per day.” Gurugram is conducting both antigen detection and gold-standard RT-PCR based testing to identify new cases.He added that only after the positivity reduces to less than 5%, the number of tests conducted in a day will slow down to 700. “If the positivity rate is further reduced to 3% then only those people who are reporting of symptoms or others who need to be tested, only their samples will be taken,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-conducts-over-91-000-tests-per-million-population-highest-in-the-state/story-KYT0uerF2GTTzMWOzDSdHK.html
13-08-2020||Gurugram||Home buyers lodge police complaint as landowner takes over 21-acre plot||Home buyers of Today Homes Canary Greens project in sector 73 complained to the police on Wednesday that the landowners had illegally taken over the plot spread over 21 acres. They alleged that the landowner had a dispute with the developer, Today Homes & Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd (THIPL) and on Monday sent his men and forced the security team deployed at the site to leave. The daily wage labourers too were not allowed to enter, the complainant said. The landowner on his part said the developer owed him ₹50 crore since the last many years.Canary Greens project was launched by the THIPL in 2010, and possession was slated for 2014. The company had entered into insolvency proceedings with the National Company Law Tribunal since October last year. Buyers said 60% of the work had been completed.Nilesh Sharma, a resolution professional looking into the Canary Green project, in his complaint said four persons barged inside the project site on Monday. “These miscreants halted cleaning work undertaken by the labourers and threatened the security guards deployed for the security of the site,” wrote Sharma and asked police to take action against them. When asked about the matter, a spokesperson of THIPL said that the company has gone into insolvency because cases were filed by contractors and some of the buyers. “We are trying to get the project work started as per the rules, however, the landowners have taken over the project site illegally,” said a spokesperson of the company.Landowner Siddarth Yadav admitted that he had taken over the plot after he was not paid the ₹50 crore as cost of the land nor had the developer given him possession of a promised property in the project. “The title of the land has not been changed and neither has the payment been paid. The external development charges and infrastructure development charge (EDC/IDC) in crores is pending with the government. The project is under dispute and that is the reason work has been stopped,” said Yadav.The police, meanwhile, said that a complaint has been received in this regard and the matter will be probed.Rajeev Goel, president of the Canary Greens Buyers Welfare Association, said that the realtor failed to deliver the apartments and no action was taken by authorities to ensure the completion and delivery of the project. “THIPL has been undergoing insolvency proceedings in National Company Law Tribunal since October 31 last year. The buyers association, in collaboration with resolution professional, is trying to work out a solution by collecting money and completing the project somehow. There is pendency in the form of EDC/ IDC amount, Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority certification and the company is in dispute with the land owners with regards to the financials,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/home-buyers-lodge-police-complaint-as-landowner-takes-over-21-acre-plot/story-SMFtUqbpzfnUWlIuOLeTWJ.html
13-08-2020||Gurugram||Cattle trader assault: Victim shifted to Safdarjung hospital as family demands justice, action||A 30-year-old cattle trader, Nasir, who along with his minor brother, was assaulted with sticks by at least two men in Begumpur Khatola , was referred to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on Wednesday afternoon, where his condition is stated to be stable.Nasir, who hails from Ghasera village in Nuh, and his brother had been called to Begumpur Khatola by the suspects on the pretext of selling a buffalo on Tuesday. The two suspects, identified as Adesh and Dilbag, from Begumpur Khatola, were arrested and released on bail, said police. The victims have alleged that the two men had assaulted them after accusing them of ‘framing people from their community in cases’, making a reference to an incident on July 31 in Badshahpur, where Lukman, a driver from Ghasera in Nuh, was beaten up with sticks and a hammer on the suspicion of transporting beef. In a video clip, allegedly recorded on Tuesday, Nasir, said, “For three days, the suspects had been calling us to Begumpur Khatola to sell a buffalo. They said ‘tum wo ghasera wale ho, hamara khaate ho and hum par mukadma karte ho’ (You are from Ghasera, you trade with us and then file cases against us). They said you are from Lukman’s village.” “After the assault, the villagers rescued us. We were taken to the police chauki. I did not record any statement to the police as I was not conscious at the time,” added Nasir in the clip. Police said that the suspects were arrested on Tuesday but have so far strongly denied that they had any links to the men involved in the attack on Lukman on July 31. Subash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “These allegations are false. The FIR was lodged on the basis of the complaint of the victims.” The victims and their families on Wednesday urged the police to book the arrested duo under stringent sections of the Indian Penal Code. Nasir’s father, Shahabuddin, said, “The incident took place between noon and 1pm. After my sons were rescued by the villagers, the police took them to the police station and an FIR was registered only at 6.30 pm. Two more people were involved in the attack. Police should add stringent charges of attempt to murder and conspiracy to the FIR as this was a preplanned attack. The accused have been booked under bailable offences.” Sandeep Malik, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Sohna, said, “The sections in the FIR are based on the nature of injuries and medical opinion is sought for the same and accordingly the investigation is conducted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cattle-trader-assault-victim-shifted-to-safdarjung-hospital-as-family-demands-justice-action/story-GgQKXw53RJoSUVHA72r0sN.html
13-08-2020||City||Greater Noida: Animal activists rescue puppy by cutting elevator floor||Noida In over an hour-long rescue operation by the activists and shopkeepers, a stray puppy stuck under an elevator was rescued by cutting it open. The rescue operation was held around 11pm on Tuesday at a shopping plaza near Jagat Farms in Greater Noida. According to the shopkeepers, a 30-day-old puppy had fallen under a defunct elevator through an opening duct. The pup was stuck under the lift for around seven hours while its mother, which is fed and taken care of by the shopkeepers of the shopping complex, was persistently barking near the duct which moved the shopkeepers into numerous unsuccessful rescue attempts. “There are around ten community dogs around our plaza and we take care of them. This one was a puppy that’s why it fell through the duct. We tried to rescue it ourselves, but could not succeed and sought help from the NGO. They came immediately and the animal was saved late night. Now, we have covered the duct,” said Abhay Kasana, a shopkeeper at Jagat Plaza-3, who googled the rescue team and called them for help. The NGO named Smart Sanctuary had to cut open the steel flooring of the lift using a metal grinder. “The puppy had fallen under the defunct lift through a small opening. The duct through which it had fallen was so small that there was no other way but to cut the duct open. We cut open a small portion of the lift,” said Yash Raj, founder trustee of Smart Sanctuary. “The pup was alive but distressed. The compassion of the shopkeepers is commendable. They were all very helpful with the rescue operation. A young local boy also helped us by getting through the opening to rescue the animal,” said Kaveri Rana, managing trustee of the NGO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-animal-activists-rescue-puppy-by-cutting-elevator-floor/story-ZySyBU90GrklfIHduk7W2M.html
13-08-2020||Gurugram||Education officers told to crackdown against tests, screening by private schools for Classes 1 to 8||The state education department has directed all its district elementary education officers to ensure that private schools do not conduct tests as a screening mechanism for students in class 1 to 8. The department said that it had received complaints about some private schools in the state had been conducting tests in contravention of RTE rules and hence had decided to crackdown. In a letter shared with district education officers last Thursday, the department said that it had received complaints from various parents about non-government schools that were holding screening tests for admission in classes 1 to 8 and charging them for the tests. “Apart from conducting the tests, parents also being charged for appearing in such tests. This is a violation of section 13(1) and 13(2) of the RTE Act,” stated the letter. Further, the department has asked district education officers to ensure that all screening tests are stopped immediately and appropriate action taken against the defaulters. As per the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act 2009, children between the ages of six to 14 years cannot be subjected to any form of screening. Contacted, district elementary education officer Premlata Yadav said that the department had issued directions at the block level to curb screening tests being conducted by schools. Yadav said that parents could file complaints against the erring schools and necessary action would be initiated. “These tests are not allowed and continue to be invalid. Screening through tests is a violation of the RTE Act. Some schools, however, continue to test students before granting admission. This is a violation of the rules in place and we will take strict action against such violations,” said Yadav. She added that even as the department takes action against erring schools, parents on their part should remain vigilant and file complaints if they find schools flouting norms.Kailash Sharma, general secretary of Haryana Abhibhavak Ekta Manch, a parents’ body, said that many schools were continuing with screenings through different forms. “The screening works at various levels. Apart from taking written tests and long interviews, some schools also filter children by giving admission forms to only graduate parents. These screening mechanisms are against set laws but due to lax implementation, such practices continue to take place,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/education-officers-told-to-crackdown-against-tests-screening-by-private-schools-for-classes-1-to-8/story-WK1mA8d2RnzPBzpSlpxrZP.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||‘We fear for our lives’: Residents, workers in complex complain of apathy, neglect||“I have been working here since 2005 and whenever any train passes by, one can feel the walls of the building shudder. The building is old and in a precarious state, but people continue to make alterations to the structure. None of the authorities concerned took note of the state of the building and construction,” said Ram Niwas (50), who works at one of the factories in the complex, in which a portion of a building collapsed on Wednesday, killing a police officer, and injuring another.Built before 1922, the complex is located barely 40m away from railway tracks and spans a 5,000-square yard area in Ram Bagh near Azad Market in north Delhi. HT visited the spot on Wednesday, and the building was visibly run down. Most of the walls were cracked, the cement had peeled off the walls, and balconies hung precariously on rusted, exposed metal beams.In the records of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s records, Azad market comes under the walled city area, which also includes areas such as Chandni Chowk, Jama Masjid, and other parts of Old Delhi. A senior official of the north corporation’s building department said, “No fresh construction or addition of floors are allowed in old buildings in the walled city area. In some cases, if there are renovations required, or the building has become so dangerous that a new construction is needed, the property owner has to seek permission from the civic body before starting any such work.”On Wednesday afternoon, mayor of the north corporation, Jai Prakash inspected the area and ordered a probe. “It is a case of illegal construction. The building is very old, and no permission was sought for constructions here. We are already conducting a survey of dangerous buildings in the north civic body’s area. In the survey we have found that there are 125 old and dangerous buildings in the old city area. The survey is still underway, but I have ordered officials to check if this building features in the list of dangerous buildings,” Jai Prakash, north corporation mayor said.After a building is found dangerous, the civic body issues notice to the owner to either repair the property or demolish the portion of the building deemed “unsafe”.Sections of the complex are owned by a number of traders. The building also houses offices of real estate agents and godowns.According to local traders, the building used to be a biscuit factory as far back as 1922. But it was shifted in 1970, and the property was bought by a local businessman, Shiv Shankar Gupta, who still owns a few portions of the property.According to people working in the area, the building was dangerous. Gupta said the building portion which collapsed was purchased by a businessman in 2002. He said the businessman was making constructions on the upper floors. “The building is very old, and some portions have become perilous. Authorities concerned were informed about the poor condition of the building, to no avail. Not even a single official of the civic body ever came here for an inspection, and no notice was served,” Gupta said.Labourers working at these factories also live in portions of the building complex. “We live in constant fear for our lives. Officials should make efforts to restore such old buildings,” Roshan Sahu, a labourer at a factory in the building, said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/we-fear-for-our-lives-residents-of-complex-complain-of-apathy-neglect/story-ILT7q3GDweOPb7aGxfMiEI.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||ASI dead, constable hurt after portion of building collapses in north Delhi||A 49-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) died and a constable injured when an under-construction portion of a two-storey building collapsed in north Delhi’s Azad Market on Wednesday morning. The two officers were in the building for verification of the tenants, officials said. Police and municipal officials said a third floor was being constructed in the run-down building, but no permissions had been sought for the same. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “The information we have received is that illegal constructions were being done in the building. I have ordered an enquiry into the matter to probe how and why the construction was happening. Any official found responsible for the laxity in the incident will not be spared.” Also read| ‘We fear for our lives’: Residents, workers in complex complain of apathy, neglectThe complex in which the building is located used to house a biscuit factory earlier, and is spread over nearly 5,000 square yards. The rooms in the building are owned by different persons. One of the occupants of the building said the rooms inside are used as toy assembling factories or godowns.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said that in the wake of the forthcoming Independence Day celebration, the deceased ASI Zakir Hussain along with constable Debu Singh of the Bara Hindu Rao police station had gone to Azad Market for checking tenants living in the area. Around 10.30am, Bhardwaj said, the two policemen reached Gupta Building at Ram Bagh Road and while verifying tenants living there, noticed illegal constructions being done on the third floor of the building. “The ASI and the constable went to the third floor to note details and take photographs of the illegal construction to send to the municipal corporation. The floor collapsed, and Hussain fell outside the building, while the constable fell on the second floor,” Bhardwaj said. A police officer associated with the investigation, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said Hussain was standing on the edge of the third floor terrace, while the constable was near the staircase when the floor caved in. “Hussain fell almost 40-feet onto a cemented floor outside the building. Some portion of the collapsed wall also fell on his body, causing multiple injuries to his head and other body parts. His bike parked outside was also damaged,” the officer said, quoting eyewitnesses. The officer said the injured constable, with the help of some locals, rushed Hussain to Aruna Asaf Ali hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. The constable was also admitted there and is undergoing treatment. Officials said he is out of danger. “A case under sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered in connection with the mishap,” Bhardwaj said. She said that the portion of the building where the mishap took place is owned by a Civil Lines resident, while the contractor who was carrying out the illegal construction has also been identified. “They will be questioned about the illegal construction,” Bhardwaj added. Police said the building’s ground and second floors are used as storehouses. Around four labourers who work in nearby factories and storehouses live on the first floor as tenants, while two kiosks that sell tobacco and groceries are located on the ground floor. Hussain joined the Delhi Police in 1993 as a constable. Survived by his parents, brother, wife, a daughter and two sons, he was the sole bread-earner in the family. His wife and children live in Wazirabad village, Hussain’s parents and brother live in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut. His brother, Shahid Hussain said, “My brother left home for work around 8.30am, and in less than three hours we received a call from the Bara Hindu Road police station regarding the mishap and his death. We have lost the only earning member of our family. He wanted to see his two sons crack the MBBS and civil service exams and daughter become a teacher. All his dreams are shattered with his demise.” Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled north body over the collapse.Senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak alleged that the building collapse was a result of “corruption” in the civic body. “Such illegal constructions in Ram Bagh, which is in Sadar Bazar area, cannot take place without the connivance of the local councillor Jai Prakash, who is also the mayor of the north corporation. An FIR should be registered against Jai Prakash for corruption and allowing illegal construction in the area,” Pathak said.Hitting back, Prakash said he would resort to legal action against Pathak for levelling “baseless” allegations against him. “These allegations are absolutely false and baseless. It is an attempt to malign my image. I will send a legal notice to Pathak for making false allegations and tarnishing my image,” Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asi-dead-constable-hurt-after-portion-of-building-collapses-in-north-delhi/story-ojbXH1dvVjBcz8felb04qK.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal to mark I-Day from Secretariat in view of Covid; guest list limited||This Independence Day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will hoist the tricolour and deliver his speech from the Delhi Secretariat, which will be telecast live via the government’s social media handles, in the light of Covid-19 lockdown norms that prohibit gatherings.This would mark a break from the traditional celebrations at North Delhi’s Chhatrasal Stadium where the chief minister participates in a parade —a tribute to the freedom fighters —followed by a flag-hoisting ceremony and a speech, in the presence of thousands of people. Most of the galleries are often occupied by school children.In his speech this year, a senior official in the chief minister’s office (CMO) said, Kejriwal will focus on Delhi’s fight against Covid-19—including a vote of thanks addressing all doctors, health care workers, sanitation workers, plasma donors and all “Covid warriors”. He will not, in all likelihood, announce any new scheme or policy.At Chhatrasal Stadium last year, Kejriwal had announced the government’s scheme of providing free rides to women in Delhi buses—which was implemented from September 29.“The guest list this year will be limited to 100. The flag will be hoisted in the outdoor area of the Secretariat. The chief minister is likely to give his speech from his office on the third floor. We are also considering using the open plazas on the first and second floors. A final call on that is yet to be taken. But there will be no parade or other celebrations, the CMO official said.Cabinet minister Gopal Rai said, “Keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic, the Delhi government has decided to cancel the mega cultural programme celebrating Independence Day at Chhatrasal Stadium. However, a small programme will take place at the Delhi Secretariat. The chief minister and all the Cabinet ministers will be present.”Among other invitees are all seven Lok Sabha MPs of Delhi, all three Rajya Sabha MPs, all MLAs, the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court, mayors of the three municipal corporations, bureaucrats working with the Delhi government and officials of the Tihar central jail, Rai added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-to-mark-i-day-from-secretariat-in-view-of-covid-guest-list-limited/story-grfG3bibwp0ELJoBhvz58K.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi: 64-year-old man with five comorbidities fights Covid||A 64-year-old man coronavirus disease patient with at least four chronic illnesses -- cancer, kidney failure, heart disease and tuberculosis -- in addition to suffering a bout of pneumonia, all diagnosed in the past three months, was thought to have beaten Covid-19 and was discharged from Lok Nayak Hospital on Sunday, only to test positive for the virus again on Tuesday at a private hospital.His family is perplexed by what doctors say could be a false negative or a false positive result, or simply a case of the second test picking up non-infective residual fragments of the viral genetic material from the past infection.The patient, Raj Dev Dixit, is a retired professor who lives in outer Delhi’s Najafgarh, where he runs an NGO called Garima that works for the welfare of women and children.According to his son Amit Kumar, Dixit had no diagnosed illness and appeared healthy until three months ago. “He had none of the ailments he was diagnosed with in the past three months. He used to walk 10km every day,” Kumar, who is an assistant director at the ministry of Ayush in Kolkata.Kumar said that on May 18, Dixit was suddenly takenl ill and lost his appetite, which prompted his family to move him to a hospital where he was diagnosed with one failed kidney. “Over the next few weeks, he was diagnosed with myeloma (a cancer of the plasma cells) and his heart was found working at 20% of its capacity,” Kumar said, adding that they got him admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Hospital in Rohini where he received chemotherapy and dialysis.“As he grew weaker, we were told that he had developed tuberculosis and later, pneumonia, “ Kumar said.On July 17, Dixit tested positive for Covid-19 at the cancer hospital.Dixit was admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital on July 18 where he got plasma therapy for the coronavirus disease, and dialysis treatment every alternate day.Dr Suresh Kumar, director of Lok Nayak Hospital, said this was a “rare” case of a man with four chronic illnesses, plus pneumonia, also contracting Covid-19. “So far, we have admitted 7,600 Covid patients here, but only 60 of them had multiple comorbidities. While the others had a maximum of three comorbid conditions, Dixit’s is a rare case of a man with five other diseases,” Dr Kumar said. “Dixit had a very low chance of survival. In such cases, usually, if one disease is treated, another starts causing trouble,” he said.But on Saturday, when the patient was tested for Covid for the fifth time at Lok Nayak Hospital, the results came negative and he was discharged on Sunday.“We were so encouraged by this particular result that we decided that this case should feature in all leading international medical journals,” the doctor said.On Monday, Dixit was admitted for dialysis in Venkateshwar Hospital in Dwarka, where he was tested again for Covid-19 and the result showed him to be positive for the viral disease.A doctor of Venkateshwar Hospital, who didn’t want to be identified, said the hospital used the approved Genexpert test which turned up positive and the patient was recommended an RT-PCR (reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction) for reconfirmation. “He is stable now,” the doctor said on Wednesday afternoon. The RT-PCR repeat test is yet to take place.Dr Kumar said recovered patients can test positive again. “Sometimes, the dead virus in the nostrils of patients is picked up in the swab and that gives a false positive result. We’ll need to see the results of a repeat test,” Dr Kumar said, offering to treat him again at Lok Nayak Hospital, if needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-64-year-old-man-with-five-comorbidities-fights-covid/story-AfjvZiqXGSv2UrCZLDf1vM.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||ITO: Delhi govt to commission study on reducing snarls||The Delhi government has decided to commission a feasibility study aimed at reducing vehicular congestion in the chaotic ITO area in central Delhi. The study will propose ways to redesign the junction, if needed, said a senior government official on Wednesday. The government, on Tuesday, floated a tender in connection with the study and the bids shall close on August 24. HT has seen the tender document. Once the work order is issued, the study is supposed to be completed within five months. The objective of the study is to propose changes in road designs, prepare a road map to implement the proposed changes, and survey traffic volume and pedestrian volume in different points of time, read the tender document. The study is supposed to include a road inventory analysis under which shops, parking areas, etc. will be identified and re-organised. For instance, on-street and off-street parking areas will be designated and properly marked with signages, said a senior official in the public works department, who did not wish to be identified. The official further said the study would delve deep into components such as arterial roads, service roads, footpaths, bus stops, location of public amenities, street furniture, drainage and landscaping. Traffic from six major stretches—Mathura Road, Tilak Marg, Sikandra Road, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and Indraprastha Marg—converges at the ITO junction. The junction is one of the busiest in the city at any time of the day. Elaborating on the scope of the feasibility study, the tender document which pegged the cost of the project at ₹30 lakh—said that it should provide a “comprehensive solution” that addresses the needs of vehicles, ensures safe movement of pedestrians and seamless traffic flow at the junction. A PWD official, requesting anonymity, said that a skywalk had come up in the area in 2018 and it helped the traffic situation to some extent. “The traffic volume count during peak hours will be a major component of the proposed study. Another survey would be needed to identify patterns of traffic directions (in terms of origin and destination) at different points in time,” the PWD official said. The official further said, “The study will also help to ascertain how traffic is affected by VIP movements, sport events and protests. It is expected to cover an area of 4km. The outcome of the ITO decongestion plan, along with the ongoing Pragati Maidan redevelopment project, which includes a traffic circulation plan around Mathura Road, Purana Qila Road, Bhairon Marg and the Ring Road, will result in holistically decongesting all these stretches.” Considered one of the busiest intersections in the national capital, the ITO area witnesses snarls regularly. The peak hours are worse. “We have been taking measures to regulate traffic in the area. A government-sanctioned traffic study from 2017 suggests that nearly 4.5 lakh vehicles pass the junction throughout the day, but that study does not provide exact data about traffic flow at different tim,” said S Velmurugan, chief scientist at the traffic engineering and safety division in the Central Road Research Institute (CRRI). He further said, “The study should also consider pedestrian issues in the area. Measures such as the construction of a 1.2km-long tunnel between Purana Qila Road and Ring Road along with six underground U-turns on Mathura Road, Bhairon Marg and Ring Road will decongest the ITO crossing and W-point near Pragati Maidan. These measures should come up at the earliest. Delay only aggravates the problem.” Since 2003, the Delhi government and several agencies such as the traffic police, Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre, and CRRI, have conducted several studies and proposed numerous plans to decongest the ITO junction. The latest attempt comes around two months after the Delhi Police is learnt to have urged the government’s public work department to do a holistic study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ito-delhi-govt-to-commission-study-on-reducing-snarls/story-uG7XHT2FExW5vYMpaWRwTJ.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||OBE exams: Colleges get answer scripts of ‘unknown’ students, DU says will sort them out||Several Delhi University (DU) colleges have received answer scripts of “unknown” students during the first two days of the ongoing online open-book examination (OBE), raising concerns that these answer scripts could be “misplaced” and thus lead to “utter chaos” during the evaluation process. The OBE exams, being held as a one-time measure this year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, began on Monday and will continue till August 31. Around 2,40,000 final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students of DU are taking the exams. During the OBE exams, students can either upload their answer copies on the university’s online examination portal or email them to their colleges or departments.After two days of exams, a few colleges said they have received answer copies of students who are not registered with them. For instance, Indraprastha College (IP) for Women has received nearly 50 answer copies of students not o their rolls on Monday. College principal Babli Moitra Saraf said, “We have received around 50 answer copies from students who are not registered with our college. We could not identify the name of the colleges of those students. We have kept these answer scripts in a separate folder and have informed the university administration about them. We have to wait for either the student or the respective college to come forward and clear up the confusion.”Around 40 such answer scripts reached Kirori Mal College (KMC) on Tuesday. College principal Vibha Singh Chauhan said, “We have also received answer scripts of students from other colleges. Following this, we have put up a notice on our website requesting students to send their answer copies to their respective colleges only. We have forwarded the 40 answer scripts to the university administration with a note that they are not of our students.”Manoj Sinha, principal of Aryabhatta College, said, “On Monday, we had also received a few answer sheets of students who are not registered with our college. We immediately forwarded them to the university administration.”Several faculty members raised concerns about this. Rajesh Jha, a member of DU’s executive council (EC), said, “The colleges will have a harrowing time collecting and compiling the answer copies for evaluation. Colleges will have to send such papers to the DU’s exam branch, where there a possible breach of student privacy may take place. Who will take the responsibility if these answer copies get misplaced?”Despite several attempts, DU dean of examination Vinay Gupta did not respond to calls and texts seeking is comment. Sanjeev Singh, head of computer centre, DU, said, “Colleges have informed the examination branch about them getting answer scripts of students from other colleges. The colleges will send such answer scripts to the exam branch. The branch will segregate these answer copies on the basis of roll numbers. It will not be an issue. When the colleges have designated email IDs, students should refrain from sending answer scripts on other email addresses.” Abha Dev Habib, treasurer of DU Teachers’ University (DUTA), said, “The university’s exam branch is going to have nightmares while compiling answer scripts as several students are submitting them multiple times. How will the university decide which script, from among the multiple submissions, will be treated as the final script for evaluation?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/obe-exams-colleges-get-answer-scripts-of-unknown-students-du-says-will-sort-them-out/story-ySMry9oY9QW8AaXlzfTECM.html
13-08-2020||Delhi||Second sero survey results in another week: Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the result of the second sero survey in Delhi is likely to be ready in another week. “The sample collection was done between August 1 and 7. We expect that the result will be ready in another week,” Jain said. On July 21, the first sero survey conducted by the Delhi government, conducted on Union home minister Amit Shah’s recommendation, showed that 23% of the 21,387 samples collected between June 27 and July 10 had a prevalence of antibodies, suggesting the individuals had contracted the Sars-Cov-2 virus and recovered. The next day, Jain announced that sero surveys would be conducted in Delhi on a monthly basis, with samples collected on the first five days of a month starting August. Between August 1 and 7, teams of district health officials collected more than 15,000 samples for the second sero survey. Sero survey is an epidemiological survey covering a representative population – the number of people, where they reside, their age and gender is meant to reflect the city’s demographics and who the outbreak affects. The highest number of samples for the second sero survey were collected from the north-west, west and central revenue districts in Delhi. On Wednesday, Jain said nearly one-third beds in Covid hospitals in Delhi were presently occupied by patients from other states. On June 7, when cases of Covid had started to peak in the Capital, the chief minister had issued an order, saying hospitals under the Delhi government as well as private ones should only be accessible to local residents until the situation subsided. The order was struck down by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-sero-survey-results-in-another-week-jain/story-OyXgk5humW190shplSv91M.html
13-08-2020||City||Students held for protesting at DU’s arts faculty||Six student activists from Delhi University were booked for unlawful protests and not following social distancing norms on Wednesday by holding a demonstration at Delhi University’s Faculty of Arts while demanding the release of DU professor Hany Babu who was arrested last month in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon violence case.Babu, a 54-year-old associate professor of English, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency in Mumbai on July 28.“Students’ Federation of India (SFI) along with other progressive organisations protested at Arts Faculty, Delhi University demanding the release of Professor Hany Babu.The peaceful protest was met with severe hostility by Delhi Police. Students are being curbed from exercising their democratic right to protest,” SFI said in a statement.But police said around 10-12 students gathered at Arts Faculty on Wednesday afternoon to protest and were told that this was not allowed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.“The students kept on protesting despite several requests and have been apprehended for violation of order under section 144 CrPC. A case under section 188 of Indian Penal Code, 3 Epidemic Disease Act and 51/57 DM Act is being registered against them,” deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-held-for-protesting-at-du-s-arts-faculty/story-M5NRGWh1Aops1w0pLaXADI.html
13-08-2020||Pune||Number of Covid-19 patients in Pune on oxygen support up by 327 in August||As the Covid-19 positive cases surge there has been a rise in the number of patients on oxygen support and critical patients. In August 327 more Covid-19 positive patients have been admitted to various city hospitals who need oxygen support, with 97 more in critical condition.The reason doctors say silent hypoxia, in this case, is the symptoms to kick in late which is causing patients to land up at the hospitals at the last minute when they require oxygen.The number of Covid-19 positive patients who require oxygen treatment has gone up from 2,153 as of August 1 to 2,480 as of August 11.Along with the number of people who need oxygen the number of critical patients has also risen substantially with 638 critical patients as of August 1 to 735 as of August 11.As of Tuesday, 3,215 out of 14,705 or 21.86 per cent of the Covid-19 active patients are either critical in ICU (intensive care unit) or need oxygen treatment.Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director from Sahyadri hospital said, “It is true that we are seeing an increase in number of people who require oxygen. While earlier people saw symptoms in the first week itself, now due to hypoxia the symptoms kick in late like on the seventh or eighth day when the person requires oxygen.”“Also most people are now isolated at home and so when they come in the symptoms are severe that they need oxygen treatment. It could be because the virus has mutated and the strain prevalent in the city or country is causing these changes,” he said.“There is no particular age which requires oxygen treatment, we are seeing patients as young as 20 or 30-year-old who require oxygen, it is more related to their immunity,” he said.Dr Parikshit Prayag, Covid-19 consultant, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said, “It is true that people are coming at a time when they need oxygen and that the symptoms are seen late nowadays. This could be an indicator of the change in virulence of the virus but more needs to be studied.”“Drop in oxygen saturation is the first indicator and so everyone should check their oxygen saturation through a pulse oximeter which can be checked regularly and has to be maintained above 93. Patients come to us when their saturation levels have dropped below 80 sometimes when they need oxygen treatment,” he said.Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, nodal officer Covid19, said, “People are coming late to the hospital or are being detected late. For those who are isolated at home who have observed symptoms like fever, cold or cough take off the counter medicines which subsides the symptoms which later come back.”“We have also observed a similar pattern and there could be two reasons either the virus is mutating which is causing such changes, this need to be studied further, or that the patients are being detected late as the symptoms develop later,” he said.“Also, the period between seven to ten days after the virus has entered the body is when the cytokine storm kicks in and needs to be monitored carefully. Even those in home isolation, need to monitor their pulse oximeter and temperature and get in touch with the consulting doctor as soon as they notice any variation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/number-of-covid-19-patients-on-oxygen-support-up-by-327-in-august/story-VUyx9oreUvV4vrJnwCEGGP.html
13-08-2020||Pune||Active monsoon fills up Pune dams to 68.9 per cent||The city is forecast to receive moderate rain for the next 10 days, while the ghat and catchment areas will continue to receive heavy rainfall, according to the India Meteorological Department, Pune. “On August 13-14, ghat and catchment areas will receive isolated heavy to very heavy rain, while from August 15-18, heavy rain will continue in ghat and catchment areas,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of IMD, Pune. With the monsoon active in the city and surrounding areas on Wednesday – water storage at all four dams is 68.95%, with Khadakwasla filled 100 per cent, while Panshet is at 71.62%; Warasgaon at 58.58%; and Temghar at 45.78%, respectively. With Khadakwasla at 100 per cent, the irrigation department is expected to begin releasing water anytime soon. “Basically, Westerly winds over Arabian sea are getting moderately stronger. There is also a chance of formation of low pressure areas over the Bay of Bengal. This will trigger rainfall activity over Konkan-Goa and Central Maharashtra,” added Kashyapi. Till 5.30 pm on Wednesday, the city received 6mm rainfall in Pune and Lohegaon respectively, while in Pashan it rained 1mm. As of August 12, the city has received 477.8mm of rainfall, against the normal average of 375.0mm. “Water stock in all four dams will improve massively with heavy rains expected in the next 10 days, in the catchment areas,” added Kashyapi. The maximum temperature on Wednesday was 25.8 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature was 22.6 degrees Celsius. Forecast August 13: Moderate rain very likely (heavy to heavy rain in ghat areas) August 14: Moderate rain very likely (heavy to heavy rain in ghat areas) August 15: Moderate rain very likely (heavy to heavy rain in ghat areas) August 16: Light to moderate rain very likely (isolated heavy rains in ghat areas) August 17: Moderate rain very likely (isolated heavy rain in ghat areas) August 18: Light to moderate rain very likely (isolated heavy rain in ghat areas) Dams; water storage Panshet: 71.62% Warasgaon: 58.58% Kahadakwasla: 100% Temghar: 45.78% Water stock in four dams is 68.995%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/active-monsoon-puts-dam-storage-at-68-9-per-cent/story-vZGBjiKSV3qzESnaggSkzI.html
13-08-2020||Pune||Ahmednagar civic chief promises action after bodies of 12 deceased Covid patients crammed into ambulance||Ahmednagar Municipal Corporation has promised action against its staff involved in taking bodies of 12 Covid patients crammed together in a hearse van, piled up on top of each other for conducting the last rites to a crematorium, on Sunday.Shrikant Michaelwar, municipal commissioner, has issued show-cause notice to a class IV employee responsible for carrying Covid bodies, an issue brought to light by Shiv Sena corporator, leading to outrage at the local level.“It is a serious incident and we have issued the show-cause notice to the concerned employee. The matter will be investigated,” Michaelwar said.According to local corporator Balasaheb Borate 12 bodies were crammed in the ambulance owned by Ahmednagar municipal corporation. “Bodies of four women and eight men placed on each other. They were taken to Amardham for final rites which is two-kilometre away from the civil hospital,” said Borate adding that if need be, he will file a police case against the municipal commissioner.Ahmednagar Municipal Corporation has only one hearse van to carry the bodies. Till August 12, total of 112 patients succumbed to Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection in the city. “The civic body should increase the number of ambulances. As relatives are not coming to perform final rites, the municipal authorities are neglecting this work,” said Borate.Another class IV employee, responsible for carrying Covid bodies on condition of anonymity said, “ We have been carrying out this work for last four months, but no one asked whether we are getting proper personal protection kits while performing our duties. If we are suspended at least will get relief from this work.”Guidelines for handling Covid-19 bodies· Body has to be secured in a body bag, the exterior of which is decontaminated.· Personnel handling the body may follow standard precautionsof hand hygiene, use of masks and gloves· Vehicle, after the transfer of the body to cremation/ burial staff, will be decontaminated with 1 per cent sodium hypochlorite.-Crematorium/ burial ground staff should be sensitised that Covid-19 does not pose additional risk.· Viewing of the dead body by unzipping the face end of the body bag (by the staff using standard precautions) may be allowed, for the relatives to see the body for one last time.· Religious rituals such as reading from religious scripts, sprinkling holy water and any other last rites that do not require touching of the body can be allowed.· Bathing, hugging of the body is not allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahmednagar-civic-chief-promises-action-after-bodies-of-12-deceased-covid-patients-crammed-into-ambulance/story-l2hGhh1kkj4oyiaslxlIXL.html
13-08-2020||Pune||Street food vendors, mess and hostel owners face the heat as students skip Pune||Street food vendors, food canteen businesses and hostel owners are facing a grim future as they slowly resume their operations after the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown is lifted. Their businesses, mostly located in central Peth areas in Pune, primarily focussed on consumers who were outstation students who had moved to the education hub for studies. Amit Khillare runs a small snacks centre in Shukrwar peth area and he resumed his operations a few weeks ago, however, he said that his finances are abysmally low, consumer numbers not picking up and there are added maintenance costs . “Earlier, I used to start our snacks centre at 7am and my business would continue till 4pm. My daily income ranged between Rs 7,000 and Rs 8,000 and the main reason behind it were the outstation students who had come to study here and needed quick bites. Now with students not coming back from their hometowns, there is no business here and my daily income has gone down to Rs 1,500,” said Khillare. Hundreds of other small snack centres, who operate through carts in the city lanes, are also facing a similar bleak future. Specifically in the old Peth areas, there are thousands of such street food vendors and food canteen businesses who depend on outstation students for their daily earnings. “Before the pandemic, there was a waiting list of students wanting to register at our food mess. Our mess provides quality food at reasonable rates and hence, students would want our services to fulfil their daily food needs. Now the business is very dull and we have to search for customers and can’t afford to run the mess. Earlier, we provided daily lunch and dinner to 300 students, but now the number hardly goes up to 100 daily,” said Shankar Deshpande, owner of Gurukrupa mess in Narayan peth. Apart from the food business, hostel owners are facing the heat too. When students from across the country come to Pune for studying, they look for accommodation and Peth areas have various old wadas converted into PG hostels. One such owner of a PG hostel in Sadashiv peth is Ulhas Tumne. “I had 18 students living at our PG hostel and only four of them have returned till now. Due to the pandemic, no student wants to return to Pune as it is one of the Covid-19 hotspots. We also cannot force them to come back or give us rent as this is an extraordinary situation. We need to support and help each other, however, we are suffering huge financial losses as maintenance of the hostel is an ongoing process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/street-food-vendors-mess-and-hostel-owners-face-the-heat-as-students-skip-pune/story-ewJIvlvcgOW60gErEFOw8J.html
13-08-2020||Mumbai||IITs opt for virtual convocation ceremonies||Graduating students of the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) will miss out on the experience of walking up a stage to get their degrees or the ceremonial tossing of hats in the air this year, as the institutes have opted for virtual convocation ceremonies in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.The 58th convocation ceremony of IIT-Bombay (IIT-B) will be held virtually on August 23, keeping in mind the safety of students, announced director Subhasis Chaudhuri. “We will have two very distinguished guests of honour. The chief guests for the event are Stephen Schwarzman, founder and chief executive officer of Blackstone Group, and Duncan Haldane, professor at Princeton University and 2016 Nobel laureate in Physics,” he said.While Schwarzman will deliver the commencement speech, Haldane will deliver the chief guest’s speech. Graduating students will participate via video conferencing, and the entire event will be webcast for public viewing.This is the first time IIT-B will hold a virtual convocation ceremony, with over 2,100 students graduating in various programmes, said P Sunthar, co-convenor of the convocation committee.“Since the convocation will be held online, we are currently working out ways to make the event a memorable one for all graduates, despite not being present on campus. Meanwhile, we do understand that all our graduates want to have a gala end-of-school bash, and we will organise a special get-together for the entire batch once the pandemic is over,” said Chaudhuri.IIT-Madras will also conduct an online convocation ceremony. “IIT-Madras has already decided that the convocation this year will be held online, keeping in mind the current Covid-19 situation. The dates, however, are yet to be determined. Tentatively, the ceremony will be held sometime in September 2020,” said a spokesperson for IIT-Madras.IIT-Gandhinagar, too, will hold its ninth annual convocation ceremony online on August 23. In an invitation sent to all students, the institute clarified that owing to the current situation, the ceremony will be streamed live on the institute’s homepage, their YouTube channel and Facebook page.“Nandan Nilekani, chairman and co-founder of Infosys Limited will be our chief guest, and we invite all our well-wishers to be with us,” said Sudhir Jain, director of the institute.Meanwhile, several IITs are still mulling on how their convocation ceremonies will be held. Spokespersons for both IIT-Delhi and IIT-Roorkee clarified that the institutes were yet to confirm the status of their convocation ceremonies.While IIT Guwahati has decided that the convocation ceremony will be held online in the month of September, no formal date has been announced as yet. Similarly, the administration of IIT Mandi told HT that they are still accessing the Covid-19 situation and yet finalise a date for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iits-opt-for-virtual-convocation-ceremonies/story-BCU436uuSM77OiGhO0Sx7J.html
