14-08-2020||Dehradun||Notices to 3 ex-Uttarakhand CMs over non-compliance of pending dues order||Three former Uttarakhand chief ministers - Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Vijay Bahuguna and Bhuvan Chand Khanduri - were sent show cause notices by the state high court over non-compliance of an earlier court order regarding the non-payment of their dues.The former CMs have been directed to submit their replies within three weeks.On June 9, the high court had declared several provisions of ‘Uttarakhand Former Chief Minister Facility (Residential and other facilities) Act 2019’ as ultra vires (beyond one’s legal power or authority), paving way for the recovery of dues.On May 3, the HC had directed ex-CMs to pay the market rent amounting to Rs 2.8 crore for the buildings occupied by them as ex-chief ministers within six months. It had also directed that all amount due and payable towards amenities such as electricity, water, petrol, oil and lubricants etc be recalculated within four months and same be intimated to ex-CMs who shall within six months pay the said amount to the state government.The HC had delivered the order after hearing the PIL filed by Dehradun-based NGO - Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK) - challenging free residence, car, security and other perks to the former chief ministers in 2010.Kartikey Hari Gupta, counsel of the petitioner, said as the former CMs didn’t comply with the HC directions, the petitioner RLEK filed a contempt petition against them on Thursday.“The contempt petition was heard on Friday by the court of Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma. After hearing the matter, the court issued show-cause notices to three former CMs to file replies within three weeks as to why the order has not been complied with,” he said. The case has been listed for hearing after four weeks. In January this year, RLEK had filed a PIL challenging the constitutional validity of the Act passed by the state government in the winter session of state legislative assembly in December last year.Gupta said the court in its June 9 landmark judgment had ruled that Section 4 A and Section 4 C of the Act are in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. He said the HC pointed out that “any attempt by the state legislature to enact a law only to overrule a judicial decision violates the doctrine of the separation of powers which is entrenched in the Constitution of India” The state government on January 15 had issued a gazette notification regarding implementation of the Uttarakhand Former Chief Minister Facility (Residential and other facilities) Act 2019, which was passed by the state legislative assembly in December and assented to by the governor on January 13. According to the notification, the appropriate rent of the government residences allotted to the ex-CMs would be recovered from the allottee from the date of allotment. However, the notification added, the facilities provided to the ex-CMs by the state government like vehicle along with driver, maintenance of vehicles, personal assistant/officer on special duty/public relation officer, fourth class employee, watchman, gardened, telephone, attendant, security guard, as determined by the government, would be free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/notices-to-3-ex-uttarakhand-cms-over-non-compliance-of-pending-dues-order/story-T7HXNOg1osm4BFDjBI7QuJ.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 recoveries cross 400,000 in Maharashtra, tests top three million||Maharashtra recorded 12,608 Covid-19 cases, third highest single-day spike, as its tally rose to 572,734 on Friday, with the number of active cases at 151,555. The state’s toll went up to 19,427 with an addition of 364 fatalities. However, according to the state health department, of the 364 deaths, 277 were from the past 48 hours, 46 from the past week and 41 from the period before that.Maharashtra also went past 3,000,000 tests, after 68,995 tests conducted on Friday took the tally up to 3,045,085.The state, meanwhile, crossed the 400,000 recoveries milestone, after 10,484 patients recovered from Covid-19 on Friday. The number of recoveries in Maharashtra stood at 401,442, with August 9 recording the highest single-day recoveries at 13,348.In the past fortnight (since August 1), the number of recoveries have been 145,284, marginally lower than new infections — 150,616. The state crossed 400,000-mark of recoveries in nine days after it went past 300,000 recoveries on August 5. It took the state 11 days to go from 200,000 to 300,000 on July 25; 23 days from 100,000 to 200,000; and 116 days for the first lakh patients to recover. The state’s recovery rate has improved and stand at 70.09% from 67.26% on August 8 and 55.67% on July 14. The national rate is 71.17%.However, the number of fresh infections being recorded in the state every day for the past week has remained high. In the past seven days, the state reported more than 12,000 cases on four days, with 12,822 infections on August 8 being the highest so far since the first case was reported on March 9. “Numbers [cases] are definitely high, but the rise in daily cases is in proportion with the number of tests. Due to more tests, we are getting more cases,” said a senior official from the public health department. “More importantly, active cases are around 27% of the total cases detected so far. Of them, 96% patients are asymptomatic, which means they are completely stable. Another one per cent patients need oxygen support and only 3% patients are in critical condition.”Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health expert, said the rise in cases is certainly because of more number of tests, but the spread in cases should not extend geographically. “It is a fact that increased number of tests will increase the output, but the spread in cases should not extend geographically in new areas and localities, which is currently happening,” said Dr Pattiwar, adding that 95% patients will recover. “The problem is of 3%-5% patients who are critical and the government is falling short of highly skilled doctors and kind of health infrastructure needed to deal with such a situation,” he said.Mumbai, meanwhile, maintained its average daily case count, as it recorded 979 infections on Friday. The city’s tally stands at 128,535, of which 19,337 are active cases. Mumbai had reported its highest single-day spike of 2,077 cases on June 27.The city’s toll, however, crossed the7,000-mark after 47 fatalities were reported on Friday, taking the death count to 7,038.There was a projection that cases will rise in August, which is proving right for Maharashtra. State health minister Rajesh Tope, too, had said cases will rise till mid-August after which the state will hit a plateau. “In my view, the peak has arrived and the cases will continue to rise by another 15 days. We are expecting plateau or flattening of the curve somewhere around August 15. Once we hit the plateau, cases will start declining,” Tope had said.Pune City, meanwhile, continue to contribute maximum infections in the state’s daily caseload as it recorded 1,192 cases on Friday. Its tally stands at 76,645. Pimpri-Chinchwad, a satellite city of the Pune Metropolitan Region, recorded 906 cases, third highest rise in the state.The high fatalities is also a cause for concern for Maharashtra, as the state has recorded 4,433 deaths in the past 14 days as against 6,988 deaths in July, 5,638 in June, 2,286 deaths in May, 449 in April and 10 deaths in March. Maharashtra has highest number of Covid-19 deaths across in the country.The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state stands at 3.39% (on Friday), second highest in the country after Gujarat, where the CFR was 3.62% with 2,731 deaths (75,408 cases) till Thursday, according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-recoveries-cross-400-000-in-maharashtra-tests-top-three-million/story-4V60KJMHGaDufF9Wxbf9lI.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to have cloudy weather with chance of light rain||Amid cloudy weather, Chandigarh is likely to receive light rain on Saturday.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the city will likely receive rain up to 20mm on Saturday morning and moderate rain on Sunday.“Moderate rain up to 50mm can be expected in the city from Sunday onwards and it is likely to continue for the next two to three days in the region,” said an IMD official.Maximum temperature also saw a 4-degree jump on Friday, after dropping down due to 72mm of rain on Thursday.The maximum temperature went up from 29.3°C on Thursday to 33.6°C on Friday, the minimum temperature went up from 24.7°C on Thursday to 26.7°C on Friday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 32°C and 33°C while the minimum temperature will remain between 27°C and 28°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-have-cloudy-weather-with-chance-of-light-rain/story-e69luY7mezDtZ9C7sTaO4K.html
14-08-2020||Education||Extra C begins registration for global crossword contest from August 15||Patna-based organisation ‘Extra C’ is set to host global crossword contest through online mode, registration for which begins on Saturday (August 15).Participants can check details and register themselves free of cost through official website www.crypticsingh.com.There will be a total of 10 online weekly rounds on every Sunday. The first online weekly round will begin on August 23 while grand finale will be held offline in Bengaluru.Amitabh Ranjan, chief operating officer of Extra C, said, “The contest which was open to Indians across the world till now, has been thrown open to foreigners from this year. We are expecting surge in the number of participants owing to lockdown.”He said, “Online weekly rounds will be hosted on the official website. After final result declaration of weekly rounds, the grand finale date will be decided later and intimated to qualifiers.”The winner of the Grand Finale lifts the National Crossword Champion trophy. Mohsin Ahmed, a former ISRO scientist, is the reigning champion. He won the last year’s grand finale in a neck-and-neck fight. Ramki Krishnan, an IT professional from Chennai, has won the contest four times in the last seven editions.Started in 2013, this is the eight edition of the Indian Crossword League. The contest has been acknowledged as one-of-its-kind event by the Limca Book of Records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/extra-c-begins-registration-for-global-crossword-contest-from-august-15/story-uUadDtGaNdENCIBQcgNxCM.html
14-08-2020||City||500 boxes of smuggled liquor seized from truck in Kharar, driver held||Kharar police on Friday said they have confiscated 50 boxes of Chandigarh-made liquor, which was being smuggled in a truck laden with rice sacks.The liquor was being smuggled from Chandigarh to Punjab. The driver of the truck, identified as Ranjit Singh Yadav, 27, a resident of Haryana, was arrested by the police.Kharar deputy superintendent of police, Pal Singh said, “In view of Independence Day, a checkpoint was set up by Kharar police near Sunny Enclave. The police intercepted a truck bearing Haryana registration number (HR45 A-6899) and on checking, 500 boxes of whiskey, hidden inside rice sacks were recovered.” As per the police, the accused was all set to supply the liquor in Punjab. The truck has been impounded by the police.A case has been registered against the accused under sections of the Excise Act at City Kharar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/500-boxes-of-smuggled-liquor-seized-from-truck-in-kharar-driver-held/story-WinEx8yMFRNffaz0feaJzJ.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown effect: Chandigarh administration extends validity of CTU bus passes||The UT administration on Thursday extended the validity of Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) bus passes from 30 days to 60 days. The decision has been taken in view of the lockdown and closure of the CTU bus services from March 22 to May 20.An order issued by the administration states, the bus passes with validity up to April 30 have been extended from August 17 to September 16. Passes with bus validity up to May 30 have been extended from August 17 to October 16. There is no extension for bus passes which expired on March 31.For applicants who could not collect bus passes due to sudden closure of the Sampark Centres due to the lockdown and passes which were still pending for printing would be printed with a new validity period as per the fee deposited by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-effect-chandigarh-administration-extends-validity-of-ctu-bus-passes/story-4V42OW52bm4YngOiXT0sFJ.html
14-08-2020||City||Forest minister kicks off 1200 acre eco-restoration project around Faridabad’s Badkal lake||The forest department’s Badkal eco-restoration project, in which over 2,25,000 native species of vegetation is proposed to be planted in Faridabad’s Aravalli forests, kicked off on Friday in a 1200-acre catchment area around Badkal lake. The plantation drive inaugurated by Haryana forest minister Kanwar Pal will last for two monsoon seasons, with around 1,25,000 native saplings to be planted this year itself, department officials said. Forest department officials said that the Badkal eco-restoration project is part of two such major efforts being planned in south Haryana. The other project is scheduled to kick-off over the weekend in Gurugram’s Kasan village, under the afforestation component of the Centre’s Jal Shakti Abhiyan . “This is basically an exercise in compensatory afforestation to make up for green cover that has been diverted for non-forestry purposes in other parts of the state. The Badkal catchment area is an extremely important groundwater recharge zone, and so we have picked this place to carry out our most ambitious plantation drive in recent year,” said Raj Kumar, district forest officer, Faridabad.The Badkal catchment area is currently notified under special sections four and five of the Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900, which gives the land legal ‘forest’ status, with attendant protection under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. In recent years, rampant mining activity has degraded the local ecology, severely impacting groundwater levels and leaving the nearby Badkal lake bed bone dry for most of the year. “This plantation drive will cover 31 villages in Faridabad, where local communities have been engaged in protecting the regions biodiversity. In this arid climate, the forest department will work with them to nurture these saplings and water supply will be provided. Going ahead, we will be restoring mining pits in the area and creating ponds and johads, so that the forest can be irrigated self-sufficiently,” said Pal. In addition to Badkal in Faridabad and Kasan in Gurugram, there are least two other eco-restoration projects in the pipeline in the region — in Sakatpur near Gairatpur Bas in Kukrola village and around Damdama lake. “These are still in a planing stage, or have been held up due to minor issues. Plantation work in these regions has begun, but they are ambitious projects that require time,” said Jai Kumar, district forest officer, Gurugram. --||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/forest-minister-kicks-off-1200-acre-eco-restoration-project-around-faridabad-s-badkal-lake/story-WgU3tje169US5LHiCv4GcL.html
14-08-2020||Gurugram||DTCP to inspect condominiums regularly, resolve construction, upkeep issues||Abhishek Behl To resolve the issues being faced by residents of group housing societies across the city, officials of town and country planning department (DTCP) have decided to visit individual condominiums and take up issues relating to poor quality of construction material, structural defects, inadequate infrastructure, and poor maintenance. A decision in this regard was taken after several residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), particularly those in the developing sectors, raised these issues with the department, said DTCP officials. The department has also decided to take action against structural engineers of those projects, in which issues of leakage of water, seepage and other defects have been reported. “We have already issued a notice to developers in this regard but now the action would also be initiated against the structural engineers, who have certified the construction quality,” said RS Bhath, district town planner. The residents of condominiums, meanwhile, said that DTCP officials should visit the project sites and see for themselves the plight of residents. Ripudaman Singh, a resident of Raheja Atharva project in Sector 109, said that quality of construction was poor, there was seepage in the basement and in flats and the sewage treatment plant remained non-functional for a long time. “The plaster of the building often falls, which can prove to be fatal. The balconies are in poor shape, while the quality of the fittings is also below average,” he said. Residents also complained that, despite repeated requests to the authorities, they have not been able to get relief. In another newly developed colony in Sector 37 D, the RWA alleged that the club, gym and other common facilities have not been created. “The construction of more that 50% flats has been delayed. The maintenance charges are high but facilities are lacking. Lifts breakdown frequently and electricity tripping is a routine matter,” said Atanu Bhattacharya, a resident. At Sare Homes, a group housing society in Sector 92, the residents said that infrastructure to pump out rainwater from basement is not adequate. “The electricity infrastructure is also not complete as the developer has not set a 33KVA substation for power distribution. There are several such issues and we want the DTCP to resolve them. Ashok Tops, secretary, Atharva RWA said that it was for the first time in January 2020 that an independent RWA has come into existence. “The earlier RWA was nominated by developer. What we want is resolution of problems faced by us such as poor condition of facade, cracks and seepage,” he said. Similar problems abound in majority of the condominiums in the city but DTCP officials said that these problems can easily be resolved if all stakeholders work together. Ravi Sihag, senior town planner (STP), Gurugram said that they have issued notice to Raheja Developers to resolve the issues pertaining to seepage, cracks on building, dumping of waste and non-functional sewerage treatment plant. “We have directed them to take corrective action and warned them of penalty, “ said Sihag. Bhath, who conducted the inspection, said that they will recommend registration of FIRs if developers, maintenance agencies and even RWAs violate rules and don’t take corrective action to mitigate problems being faced by residents “We will be inspecting condominiums regularly. Next week, the team will conduct an inspection of Mapsko Casabela,” he said. When asked about the matter, a spokesperson of Raheja Developers said that occupation certificates were received almost six years ago and maintenance has been handed over to RWAs. “It is up to the RWA to keep basement pumps in working condition specially during the rainy season so that no water can collect. We are helping them to repair the pumps and leakage points”, he said. A spokesperson of Sare Homes, on the other hand, said that the project was facing litigation for last one-and-a-half years. “A mitigation plan has been submitted to Haryana-Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera) and we have requested the authority to release funds so that a power substation and related infrastructure can be made. However, due to Covid-19, things have been moving very slow,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-to-inspect-condominiums-regularly-resolve-construction-upkeep-issues/story-GMQS6N7NGpjSmZjowZ3xzO.html
14-08-2020||Gurugram||Buses in Gurugram to allow full capacity from today||The Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited on Friday decided to allow full occupancy in all its 68 Gurugaman buses that are currently plying in the city. Buses so far had been restricted to carrying not more than 18 passengers at a time, with alternate seating arrangements to ensure social distancing. However, all vehicles will now be allowed to carry a maximum of 36 passengers. The revised policy was to be implemented a week ago, from August 8. However, it was rolled back at the last minute after senior officials in the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the district administration raised concerns over whether it was too early to relax social distancing norms . At the time, VS Kundu, CEO, GMDA, had said, “Physical distancing on all GMCBL buses will continue to be enforced.” However, taking a cue from the state-run Haryana Roadways, which has been running buses at full occupancy across the state for the past week, GMCBL officials on Friday said that restrictions on occupancy will be lifted in Gurugram as well. “We were initially apprehensive about allowing people to sit next to each other, but Haryana Roadways buses have been operating at 100 percent seating without any problems, across the state. Moreover, the number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram is extremely low. So, we have assessed the risk and found it suitable to allow more occupancy,” said Vanita Akhaury, spokesperson, GMCBL. A statement issued to the press on Friday evening, GMCBL CEO Anju Chaudhury said that the decision to lift seating restrictions “will end the pain point of travellers who had to wait at bus stops because the buses were allowing only 18 passengers following the Covid-19 safety rules. Passengers used to complain of getting late for office work and other jobs... This decision has been taken to provide commute relief to passengers travelling in Gurugram.” Vishnu Kumar, 29, who frequently travels from Gurugram to Sohna using Gurugaman’s route number 218, said, “The decision is a relief, because I will be able to save a lot of time. I usually take the bus from Subash Chowk, but I have to wait for one or two buses to pass before I can get a seat which sometimes takes up to 30 mins.” Asked whether he is worried about relaxing social distancing norms in view of the Covid-19 epidemic, Kumar said, “Yes, but the chances of ending up in hospital are very little. If I was older I would perhaps be more worried.” A doctor with the district health department, seeking anonymity, said, “This decision goes against conventional wisdom, but the spread of the virus has slowed down, so the risk is less now. If cases start rising again, we will advise that social distancing norms be put back in place. Meanwhile, all commuters should wear masks and sanitise themselves before entering the bus. These are part of the standard operating procedure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/buses-in-gurugram-to-allow-full-capacity-from-today/story-DtURQJvQ9xxWErjnbJOJKJ.html
14-08-2020||Gurugram||Fine for not wearing masks in public increased to Rs 2500||People not wearing masks in public areas are now liable to be fined up to Rs 2500 , as per the new revised Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) rules that were released on Friday. The fine amount till now was Rs 500.As per MCG officials, during a two-day drive, on Monday and Tuesday, they had found more than 3,000 people violating the compulsory wearing of masks rule. As per MCG officials, till August 1, more than 18,000 people had been fined for mask violations by officials by the civic body, which has realised a fine amount of Rs 90 lakh. Besides the MCG, till July 25, Gurugram police had also fined 13,000 people for mask violations and recovered Rs 64 lakh in penalties. Officials said that through the drive they realised that violations were rampant and a higher fine amount was needed as a deterrent. During the drive, which was carried out on the directions of Haryana government, MCG did not fine a single violator. Instead they just apprised the violators of the rules and the importance of wearing a mask in limiting the spread of Covid-19 and letting them go. Bijendra Sharma, senior sanitary inspector, MCG said that depending on the laxity of the violator, he or she will be fined a minimum of Rs 1,000 and a maximum of Rs 2,500.“Our main objective right from the start has been to implement and introduce various measures that can help in limiting the spread of Covid-19. We realised that Rs 500 was too small a penalty amount for some, and wasn’t necessarily causing a deterrence in people . Hence, we have hiked the penalty amount significantly, with the hope that people realise the importance in wearing of masks during these crucial times,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.In May, MCG had started fining people Rs 500 per violation for not wearing masks in public places. Since mid-July, MCG officials also started handing over five cotton masks to every violator at the time of issuing a fine. Officials said the practice will continue along with the revised penalty rates.At MCG’s sector 42 central store, where all Covid-related items are stored, the civic body has a stock of over 153,000 masks, including 30,000 cloth masks, as of August 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fine-for-not-wearing-masks-in-public-increased-to-rs-2500/story-qWYq7VdKzlhKd5h3gWfXNL.html
14-08-2020||Gurugram||Government schools to have separate entry and exit points for students||In a move aimed at ramping up the school infrastructure to facilitate social distancing measures, the district secondary education department on Thursday directed all its education officers to share details about the government middle and senior secondary schools that do not have separate entry and exit gates on their premises. In a letter shared on Thursday, the department said that adequate arrangements were needed for schools to be reopened in line with directions from the ministry of human resource development (MHRD, recently renamed ministry of education). In order to avoid overcrowding in schools and enforce social distancing, the department was undertaking the construction of separate entry and exit gates in schools that do not already have the facilities, said the department. Schools across the country have been shut since March, when the country went into a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. Elementary education department director and special secretary, school education, Pardeep Kumar said that while the timeline and modalities of reopening would be decided by the MHRD, the state was undertaking preparatory steps. “We are working on ramping up the infrastructure so that every school has more than two gates. We plan to have separate entry and exit gates so that crowding can be avoided whenever schools reopen. There shouldn’t be any congestion,” said Kumar. He added that the department wanted to be prepared with adequate infrastructure before directions are issued by the Centre regarding the reopening of schools. All districts in the state have been asked to share the necessary details by Monday. Ritu Chowdhary, district project coordinator, said that the department was preparing ahead keeping in view the changing circumstances even as guidelines were awaited. “Schools need to have some facilities to ensure that students stay safe during the pandemic. Physical distancing has become extremely crucial and creating infrastructure to meet the new demands will take time. We are planning beforehand,” said Chowdhary. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said,“We have been asked to share details about the existing facilities so that adequate preparations can be done before schools reopen. All these efforts are aimed at complying with physical distancing norms,” said Sharma. The school has only one gate currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/government-schools-to-have-separate-entry-and-exit-points-for-students/story-aEXMTXEhop25y5Bz6A3iXI.html
14-08-2020||Gurugram||1,200 policemen deputed across Gurugram ahead of Independence Day||Security was tightened ahead of Independence Day celebrations with over 1,200 policemen being deployed across the city. A three-tier security system was put in place on Friday with an increased police presence in the areas bordering the city.The police said checkpoints had been set up on all the approach roads leading to Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 38, where, Dushyant Chautala, deputy chief minister of Haryana, will preside over a ceremony as the chief guest on Saturday. Police vigil was also stepped up at all 11 points that connect Gurugram with Delhi. A full dress rehearsal of the parade by policemen was conducted on Friday under the supervision of police commissioner K K Rao.A senior police official, requesting anonymity, said, “Two major routes of the city connecting the venue will have a heavy police presence, including personnel from CID, CIA and police stations across the city. At least 1,200 police personnel have been deployed across the city. Traffic will be diverted in case of any bottleneck.”The police also said that in light of traffic restrictions in Delhi, heavy vehicles coming from the Jaipur side of National Highway-48 will be diverted at Pachgaon on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway and heavy vehicles from Gurugram will be diverted to alternate routes across six locations, including Givo cut, Kherki Daula toll plaza, Shankar Chowk, Dhankot T-point, Garhi Harsaru Chowk and Bajghera border. These restrictions will stay in place from 9pm on Friday to 2pm on Saturday.Policemen including 30 CID officers, teams from crime investigation agency (CIA), traffic police, home guard officials and PCR vans would be stationed at strategic points on these routes.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The security personnel shall work in close coordination with one another. All the police personnel on duty shall comply with social distancing norms and take necessary precautions to prevent potential spread of Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/1-200-policemen-deputed-across-gurugram-ahead-of-independence-day/story-G80qh8JWjjANaAQpXlBJNO.html
14-08-2020||City||20-year-old youth becomes Chandigarh’s 28th Covid fatality||A 20-year-old youth from Sector 47 became the 28th Covid-19 casualty in Chandigarh, as 86 more people, including a senior health official and a councillor, tested positive for the virus on Friday.The deceased had a spinal cord injury and suffered cardiac arrest on August 11. He was sampled after death. Dr Upendrajeet Singh Gill, who is the assistant director malaria and state surveillance officer, integrated disease surveillance programme, has been found infected. He is involved in contact tracing and Covid-19 management in the city. Dalip Sharma, a councillor in the Chandigarh municipal corporation, has also tested positive. The total has reached 1, 928, with 807 cases still active.The new cases have been reported from 36 sectors besides peripheral areas.Meanwhile, 15 patients were discharged, taking the number of those cured to 1,091. 97-yr-old dies, 78 test +ve in MohaliThe number of Covid fatalities rose to 31 in Mohali district after a 97-year-old man from Aerocity succumbed to the disease at a private hospital on Friday.A patient of diabetes and hypertension with history of stroke, he was hospitalised a week back, said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, adding that his last rites have been performed as per the protocol. As many as 12 people have died of Covid in the past five days in the district. Meanwhile, with 78 fresh cases, the district’s total reached 1,683, of which 768 remain active. Among the new cases, 35 were from Mohali subdivision, 22 from Dera Bassi and 21 from Kharar.Also, 25 patients were discharged, taking the number of those cured to 884.26 fresh cases in PanchkulaTwenty-six new cases were reported in Panchkula district on Friday, taking the total to 1,125.There are 13 males and females each who have tested positive.While seven cases have surfaced in Kalla, four were reported from Surajpur and three each from Sectors 15,18 and 21. One person each tested positive in Sectors 9, 16 and 20 besides Garhi Kotaha village, Nanakpur and Pinjore.There are 402 active cases in the district, with 719 patients being cured and four succumbing to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-year-old-youth-becomes-chandigarh-s-28th-covid-fatality/story-MrCBKK5J9fvwBrASWAex9K.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Weekend closure to continue at Chandigarh’s Sukhna Lake||Sukhna Lake will continue to remain closed for visitors on weekends. Amid the rising number of Covid cases, the Chandigarh administration on Friday decided to extend the entry ban at the lake on Saturdays and Sundays till further orders.Similarly, the odd-even formula at 11 congested markets of the city has been extended by 10 days. According to orders issued by UT adviser Manoj Parida, odd- and even-numbered shops will be opened alternately in these markets from August 15 to August 24.The electronics market in Sector 18 has also been added to the list. The other markets are Sector 8’s internal market, Patel Market in Sector 15, Palika Bazar and Sadar Market in Sector 19, Azad Market and Palace Market in Sector 20, Booth Market in Sector 21, Shastri Market in Sector 22, Janta Market in Sector 27, Krishna Market in Sector 41 and market area near the old PNB Bank/Bihari Garment, Burail Chowk Some relaxations have been introduced at the mobile market in Sector 22. According to the previous order, five SCOs were shut down. However, the latest order pertains to the closure of only basements in some SCOs — 1010-11, 1030-31, 1004 and 1003-04 — for 10 days.The order states, “The rest of the buildings, where chambers or cabins are located, would remain closed on odd-even basis, as per the plan finalised by the local SDMs in consultation with owners of the shops.”The scooter repair market in Sector 43 will also continue to remain closed on Sundays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/weekend-closure-to-continue-at-chandigarh-s-sukhna-lake/story-SqSsXcKqF0NzWXeZbDhTRJ.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||HT Readers’ Take: We would rather be safe than visit Sukhna Lake on weekends||“Sometimes, the most productive thing that you can do is to step outside and do nothing... relax and enjoy nature.” This is a magnificent quote by Melanie Charlene, an author whose appreciation for the simple beautiful things are authentically expressed through her words. However, by closing the Sukhna during weekends is just a step to save us from the pandemic. Our responsibility at this time is to agree with the government and take all precautionary measures as it’s only for our good. Anybody badly missing greenery should start planting trees and saplings in any space near their homes and enjoy nature’s bounty.Ankita TiwaryIt’s time for implementing smart ideas at the Sukhna lake. Temperature checks should be conducted and social distancing and other SOPs should be put in place. Rapid testing for the virus can also be done outside the lake. Number of visitors can be regulated by issuing digital tokens to visitors. Lists of precautionary measures against Covid-19 can be displayed at the lake and sanitisers also made available.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhSukhna Lake should not be only closed for weekends, but it should be closed permanently along with other tourist places, till the pandemic situation normalises, as leisure and pleasure can only be enjoyed when we are healthy and wealthy and free from any fear of contracting the infection. Though there is no evidence of anyone getting infected while visiting, but even a single case if positive can have serious repercussions on the visitors and infect a large number of people. Thus the old saying: “Prevention is better than cure,” has to be followed by the UT administration.SK Khosla, ChandigarhThe administration is concerned about people’s safety and that is why it has taken the decision to close the lake on weekends. If people need fresh air they can do yoga in their balconies and terraces or go to the parks around the city which do not attract as many people as the lake does. It is now our responsibility to keep ourselves and our families fit by not going out of our homes. Ishita NaraClosing the lake area for 48 hours on the weekends is a good way to have no human footprint in the area for some time and prevent the infection from multiplying, but it isn’t the best approach. People are fed up of being confined at home during the lockdown and want to do anything to exercise. Therefore, the Chandigarh administration should limit lake timings, monitor the number of people in the premises by keeping a count and expect the public to cooperate in return. Temperature checks aren’t sufficient to tackle the problem. A proper head count should be taken, minimum number of people should be allowed and issuing of tokens should start. Maintaining the code of normalcy along with protective measures is a challenge for the administration for sure, but that’s the new normal, isn’t it? Madhav Bansal, ChandigarhThe decision to keep the lake area closed is unlikely to serve any useful purpose since shopping malls, multiplexes, city parks, gardens and other public hotspots are open to the public. In this hour of global distress, the Sukhna offers some breathing space for those who are currently confined at home. The decision would amount to depriving people of their right to enjoy some time in Sukhna’s scenic surroundings. The administration should roll back its decision.Ramesh K Dhiman, Chandigarh Of course it cannot be denied that people need some space for exercise, but at the same time it has to be understood that allowing crowds to gather at the lake would mean increased risk levels. I myself have seen people walking and sitting by the lake without masks and it is for the welfare of the whole tricity that the administration has taken this step. I totally second this decision and will optimistically wait for everything to get back to normal and then enjoy my weekends at my favourite Sukhna lake.Amit SharmaBanning walking in the Sukhna region is in violation of the Fit India movement launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The area around Sukhna should be beautified with more facilities added to make it more attractive. Water reservoirs should be built to make boating and rowing possible throughout the year. Walkers should be allowed here during the day or night without any restrictions. A morning walk as per doctors is like medicine because the body gets extra oxygen which boosts immunity. Corona can be controlled if morning walk is encouraged and not restricted.Col SK Aggarwal (retd), PanchkulaThese are difficult times;we may have to adjust with the virus for a long period of time. However, the joy of watching the calm waters of the lake and enjoying the happiness of the people out boating must not be denied by the administration. It can take measures to regulate the crowds by issuing tokens, ensuring strict checks for masks and gloves and making sanitisers available at the spot.Usha Verma, ChandigarhNot allowing crowds at the Lake is not a bad step and will definitely stop the transmission of Covid-19. The administration can also charge a nominal entry fee at the Sukjna and another public places. This money can be used for emergency services and to sanitise those areas .Avinash Goyal, Chandigarh Closing down the Sukhna Lake area to public on weekends due to the corona scare is akin to shutting down factories and vehicular traffic to reduce accidents. Nonetheless, people get what they deserve and self-regulation is the best regulation. But when people violate safety rules and don’t wear masks or observe hygiene or sanitisation, forced curbs and compliance are inevitable though this reflects poorly on regulators. Unlockdowns aim at public ease, activity and liberty but the corona-threat persists unabated. The public does not have to be totally deprived of fresh air or the scenic environs of Sukhna, but preventions and precautions should be strictly enforced. While playing light music, intermittent reminders on public address system should be aired to make visitors alert to the dangers of the virus.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaThe lake area should remain open on all seven days of the week with some riders and conditions. Tokens for visits should be generated online with slot booking. A nominal fee covering the cost of mask and sanitiser may be taken while booking the slot, which can be provided to visitors at entry points of the lake. This will prevent overcrowding which will further contribute to stemming the daily rise in coronavirus cases. Security marshals should be deputed in the area to watch and advise the visitors on safety measures.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhIn my opinion, we all are part of the administration as good citizens but many people are not following the rules to stop the spread of coronavirus. We are not maintaining social distance or even bothering to wear our masks properly. Observing safety will help us recover quickly from the Covid situation.Gunwant Singh For a healthier mindAmid the pandemic when the masses have spent such a long time period locked at home because of which their mental health could have been affected, the administration should keep Sukhna Lake open to rejuvenate their minds. The entry and exit points of the lake should have kiosks where people should be checked for Covid symptoms. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliNo one is safeLet’s get this straight: When a doctor covered entirely from head to toe in PPE can contract the virus, no one is safe. A vaccine/herd immunity is the only solution going forward and closing the iconic lake is not the solution. Outdoor spaces are great for relaxation and peace of mind in these trying times and so the administration must reconsider and re-evaluate its decision. Avik Seth, Zirakpur No one without masks, sanitisers should be allowedSome rules should be in place if people are to be allowed at Sukhna lake1. People wearing masks, having sanitizers, free of cough, cold and with normal temperature should be allowed to enter.2. Boating should not be allowed for some more time.3. Identity proof at gates is a must so immediate action can be taken if any person shows symptoms of infection.4. Temperatures should be checked at entry levelPrabhjot Nagpal, ZirakpurWhy bother now?Maximum relaxation in/during the lockdown has been allowed. Markets have/ had been reopened under the influence of powerful leaders when the coronavirus was peaking. Many people are refusing to follow safety measure like wearing masks, gloves or sanitizing hands. So closing Sukhna on weekends does not make sense. The administration should take strict and strong action/ steps against those who do not follow the guidelines. T. Everyone is equal before law. People must wear face-masks, gloves and maintain social distance. The administration should arrange for a proper health checkup when the citizens go for walks at the Sukhna. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliNot a good move for senior citizensOne visits Sukhna Lake to get fresh air while walking and enjoying the views of the Shivaliks, which is good for one’s physical and mental health, especially senior citizens. Denying them this facility on weekends will force them to stay at home, which could lead to all sorts of health problems. However, visitors should be advised to strictly wear masks, maintain social distancing and sanitise their hands before entering the lake areaCol TBS Bedi(Retd), MohaliPlants and animals need a weekend off tooWill the heavens fall if Sukhna is closed on weekends? Only very few people living close by in nearby VIP sectors visit Sukhna Lake, can’t they cope with the weekend closure? When people go to Sukhna for walk they take their pets with them, can’t they go to parks instead? We have seen people care two hoots for Covid precautions such as masks and social distancing . Besides, excessive activities in and around Sukhna Lake has affected its flora and fauna and aquatic life. These silent creatures also require a break from humans to sustain life. Corona or no corona, Sukhna Lake should also have weekends off – like human beings do. Capt Amar Jeet Kumar (retd).Govt needs to step up confidence building measuresA weekend lockdown serves no purpose. It has to be clearly understood that unless we isolate an infected person for a continuous period of 14 days they will continue to infect others. That is the nature of the Covid-19 virus. The fight against it cannot be won based on perceptions. Hard decisions need to be taken. Lockdowns, anyhow, serve only a limited purpose. The government needs to step-up confidence building measures and ensure that the public does not live under a shadow of fear. Keeping the lake open while observing safety measures is a way out. Rajiv Boolchand Jain, Zirakpur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-readers-take-we-would-rather-be-safe-than-visit-sukhna-lake-on-weekends/story-gN8YKmT9mQua9ImTp3NKgL.html
14-08-2020||City||Expert group has made unrealistic suggestions, claim power engineers||Patiala Engineers in the power sector across the state have termed the recommendations of group of experts led by economist Montek Singh Ahluwalia as disastrous and unrealistic for the power sector. PSEB Engineers Association (PSEBEA) general secretary Ajay Pal Singh said, “It is surprising that experts from the power sector were not included in the expert group. The group has reiterated the same old recommendations regarding closure/privatisation without understanding the issues affecting the power sector.”He added, “It seems that the group is unaware of basic facts. Non-payment of subsidy bills by the state government is impacting the finances of the PSPCL, but the expert group has avoided any comment on ensuring timely payment of subsidy bills by the state government to the PSPCL. The expert group has also avoided any comment on the very serious issue of expensive power being procured from Punjab based private power plant.”The expert group has also ignored the loss of revenue to the power corporations resulting from avoidable breakdowns due to acute shortage of staff, which leads to poor maintenance of equipment and poor service to consumers, a source claimed.The association also demanded that such a prestigious group assigned with such an important task of devising an economic strategy for Punjab must include experts from the power sector, otherwise such recommendations can be disastrous for the power sector and economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/expert-group-has-made-unrealistic-suggestions-claim-power-engineers/story-yacoLQo1JHLd9s3QQAOyzN.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Returning migrants to be tested for Covid in centres at Delhi’s borders||The Delhi government has set up a rapid antigen test centre at the interstate bus terminal (ISBT) in Anand Vihar in light of migrant workers returning to the capital with the slow revival of the economy and gradual lifting of curbs that were imposed to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The move comes at a time when the daily reported cases have come down in the national capital, while they have gone up in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar -- the two states from where the maximum number of migrants are trickling into Delhi. Delhi recorded 1,192 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, against 3,947 – the highest single day spike in the capital – on June 23. Uttar Pradesh, meanwhile, recorded 4,512 fresh covid cases on Friday against 605 recorded on June 23. Bihar recorded 3,906 fresh Covid cases on Friday against 206 on June 23.   The rapid antigen test centre was set up on Thursday, said a senior official of the Delhi government. He said till Friday evening, around 450 people were tested at the centre and only six were fund to be Covid-19 positive.Although the interstate road transport is yet to be allowed, many are reaching Delhi by walking across the border lines that Delhi shares with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. “In the next two weeks, the government will set up several such test centres at crucial locations in the city’s border areas. Revenue district officials have been entrusted with identifying such locations,” the official said.Millions of migrant workers had left Delhi in the days following the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to arrest the spread of Covid-19. The state government had also set up thousands of centres to provide food and shelter to migrant workers who lost their livelihoods until arrangements were made to send them back to their villages on trains and buses. Thousands of them also set off on arduous journeys back home, covering hundreds of miles, by foot.“Since mid-July, we have seen a large number of workers returning to the city. While it is easier to keep a tab on those arriving by trains, it is difficult to track those coming by foot,” said another senior government official, on condition of anonymity.Currently, interstate road transport is prohibited under the lockdown norms drafted by the central government. But, road transport within states is allowed.The second official said most of the migrants take buses from their respective districts and arrive at Kaushambi – a township in Ghaziabad, on the Uttar Pradesh side of the border. From there, they walk to Anand Vihar, covering a distance of about 4km by foot. From Anand Vihar, which is in Delhi, they take local buses and go to other areas within the national capital, the official quoted above said.He further said most individuals who have so far been tested at the Anand Vihar centre are factory workers, construction workers, and self-employed people such as plumbers, electricians, painters, and carpenters, among others. Several of them have also crossed from Bihar to Uttar Pradesh in a similar fashion, before reaching Delhi eventually, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/returning-migrants-to-be-tested-for-covid-in-centres-at-delhi-s-borders/story-UBhb2Qc5RTQIQY3h3THwvM.html
14-08-2020||City||Capt says no withdrawal of free power, as Montek panel faces flak||Chandigarh As the recommendations of the group of experts led by economist Montek Singh Ahluwalia evoked sharp reactions from political parties, including the Congress, and farm leaders, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday said there is no question of withdrawing free power to farmers in the state. Amarinder said free power to tubewells will continue as long as he is leading the government. His government will not consider any recommendation on withdrawal of free power by any expert, he added. The 21-member expert panel, set up by the state government in April to formulate Punjab’s post-covid revival strategy, has proposed wide-ranging changes across sectors for revival of the state’s covid-hit economy, on free power, paddy procurement and increased role of private sector in agriculture.Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar said he had not seen the interim report, but disagrees with the recommendations based on whatever he has come to know. “This is the problem when people give suggestions on agriculture sitting in air-conditioned rooms. Agriculture is the only sector which has performed across the country even during the covid period with all the restrictions. In Punjab, we had a bumper crop,” he said, without mincing words. Questioning the lack of representation of the farming community, he said it would have been more appropriate if the committee giving proposals on farm sector also included representatives from farm organisations or people with farming background. “We are already opposing the centre’s ordinances and will not accept anything that hurts the interests of farmers,” he said. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, whose party’s government introduced the free power facility, warned the CM of a mass movement if any step was taken to withdraw it. He also rejected the panel’s advice to “slow down the procurement of paddy” in the state. Leader of opposition from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Harpal Singh Cheema said the views and recommendations of the Montek panel on free power and private sector are on the same lines as the World Bank. “The farming sector is reeling under stress, but the Congress government has no agriculture policy. If implemented, these suggestions will ruin it further,” he said, terming the report as “anti-farmer”. PANEL MADE WRONG ASSUMPTIONS: FARMERSThe concerns of farm leaders, who have also rejected the recommendations, are more basic. Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), while panning the panel’s criticism of the free power policy, said their suggestions are based on wrong assumptions as 86% farmers in Punjab have land holding of less than five acre and get only one direct subsidy in free power.“The farmers are “soft targets” who are blamed for everything from the state’s financial crisis to pollution and depleting water level,” he said, dismissing the suggestion to follow ‘Haryana model’ of cash incentive to reduce area under paddy. He branded the model as “just a declaration with practically zero result”. Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, another BKU faction, said the report is a copy of the centre’s script for promoting private sector in agriculture. “They are silent on paying remunerative rates for our produce. If they want to wean us away from paddy, they need to first ensure assured marketing and price of alternative crops,” he said. The naysayers have also questioned the feasibility of the suggestion to reduce paddy procurement from “extremely water stressed areas”. Of 138 blocks in the state, 109 are in over-exploited category, seven are critical or semi-critical and only 22 are safe as per last year’s official data. The expert committee has, in its first report, strongly disapproved of the free power policy for its financial and environmental consequences and suggested reduction of paddy procurement from water-stressed areas, incentives for shifting out of paddy and saving water, and opening up agricultural marketing beyond APMCs. REPORT NOT ANTI-FARMER: MONTEKHowever, Montek clarified during a videoconference with the CM that the report was not “anti-farmer” and had suggested diversification as the only hope for Punjab agriculture.“Diversification implies a reduction in area under rice and modernisation of marketing, which in turn implies a much larger role for the private sector,” he said. The Montek panel is not the first to voice its concerns over free power and continuous groundwater depletion. The draft farmers’ policy prepared by the Punjab State Farmers and Farm Workers Commission (PSFFWC) more than a year-and-a-half ago had proposed cutting down on agriculture power subsidy to farmers owning more than four hectare of land, direct benefit transfer and cap on paddy crop. The fund-starved government first sat on its own state commission’s report for months and then set up a cabinet sub-committee in July 2019, but there has been little forward movement. The reasons for this lack of urgency are not hard to fathom. Farmers constitute a powerful bloc in the state and successive governments have been wary of taking steps that may have a political cost. The expert panel, which said its ideas are “skeletal” and will be spelt out in detail after these are accepted “in principle”, will submit its report in December this year and the state polls (due in March 2022) will be just a little more than a year away by that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capt-says-no-withdrawal-of-free-power-as-montek-panel-faces-flak/story-I5UDxMrZ0SpLdttg16uzaJ.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Slain Batla House inspector among 215 selected for President’s gallantry medals||Delhi Police inspector Mohan Chand Sharma, who died in the 2008 Batla House encounter, was awarded the gallantry medal posthumously for his role in a 2007 operation against members of terror group Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), officials privy to the development said on condition of anonymity. Sharma had worked with the Delhi Police’s special cell and was among the few decorated officers tasked with anti-terror work.The Union home ministry on Friday released the list of police personnel who have been awarded medals on the occasion of Independence Day. While 215 personnel have been given the medal for gallantry, 80 were awarded the President’s medal for distinguished service and 631 for meritorious service.Sharma, then 44, had suffered three gunshot wounds when he went to capture five suspected terrorists hiding in south Delhi’s Batla House on September 19, 2008. He later succumbed to injuries at the hospital.He had joined Delhi Police as a sub-inspector in 1989 and received an out-of-turn promotion that made him an inspector in 1995. Usually, it takes a sub-inspector around 13 to 15 years to be promoted to the rank of inspector. The citation for Sharma, which mentions the act of bravery of the award winner, has not been released as yet. But officials privy to the development said Sharma was given the gallantry award for his bravery in a 2007 encounter against JeM members. In the shoot-out in Janipur in Jammu on August 11, 2007, Sharma and his team had shot dead Asif alias Qari, a Pakistani citizen, who was then the divisional commander of JeM (Jammu region). Qari’s accomplice Zafar Iqbal was arrested after the shoot-out. The two were involved in the attack on the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh. Qari, police said, was later convicted of the crime in 2019. Other members of Sharma’s team -- inspectors Kailash Bisht and Dharender Kumar, sub-inspector Devender Singh, and assistant sub-inspectors Nissar Ahmed Shaik and Pravesh Rathi -- have also been awarded the gallantry medals.Sharma was also awarded the Ashok Chakra in 2009. This was Sharma’s seventh gallantry medal.Sanjeev Yadav, deputy police commissioner, special cell, who was Sharma’s senior in 2008,said, “ At the special cell, we are happy that the government has recognised the team’s work.”Other special cell officers DCP Manishi Chandra, inspectors Ravinder Joshi and Vinod Badola, along with sub-inspector Banay Singh have also received the gallantry medal for the shoot-out that led to the death of Delhi gangster Surender Malik alias Neetu Dabodhia. Until his death, Dabodhia was one of the most wanted men in the national capital. This year, the gallantry awards’ list is topped by the police personnel from Jammu and Kashmir -- they won 81 medals, followed by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) with 51 medals.The home ministry officials familiar with the selection process said a majority of gallantry medals went to these two forces due to their counter-insurgency operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/slain-batla-house-inspector-among-215-selected-for-president-s-gallantry-medals/story-w3XUO8dmnePUv8XzEr6OdO.html
14-08-2020||City||Congmen running illicit liquor trade in Punjab: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday said the Congressmen were running the illicit liquor trade in Punjab and were causing a loss of Rs 5,600 crore in excise revenue. Staging a dharna along with his party workers against an illegal distillery at Bahomajra, he said from Rs 5,000 crore during the SAD-BJP tenure, the excise revenue went down to Rs 3,500 crore during the Congress rule. “Why there is no money to run the social welfare schemes? Ration under the atta-daal scheme is not being provided and social welfare outlays were not being released,” the SAD chief said. Speaking on the occasion, senior Akali leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal demanded investigation into the role of Congress MLA Gurkirat Kotli in the illegal distillery case. “The Khanna police were deliberately going slow in the probe into the case,” he added. Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said while action was taken against a station house officer (SHO and deputy superintendent of police (DSP) in Tarn Taran in the wake of the hooch tragedy, SSP Dhruv Dahiya was rewarded as he was posted in the same capacity in Amritsar (rural). Charanjit Singh Atwal, Hira Singh Gabadia, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, Santa Singh Umedpuri and Gurpreet Singh Raju Khanna also spoke on the occasion. Social distancing norms were violated by the SAD workers at the Khanna rally. CONDOLES SLAIN YAD LEADER’S FAMILY Later, Sukhbir along with Majithia and other party leader visited Seh village in Samrala to express condolences to the family of Ravinder Sigh Sonu, a Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leader who was shot dead on Tuesday. The SAD leaders condemned the Congress government for encouraging criminals and gangsters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congmen-running-illicit-liquor-trade-in-punjab-sukhbir/story-WEydFTMQSV5P34X5OiwYeN.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Our reshuffle of grievance panel not infringement of rights: High Court to Delhi University||The Delhi High Court on Friday came down heavily on Delhi University (DU) for filing a plea challenging the reconstitution of the Grievance Redressal Committee by the single judge of the same court. The court said the reconstitution does not infringe on DU’s rights or reflects badly on the university.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad, however, allowed one member, Professor SC Rai, of the university’s choice to the newly constituted committee after DU filed an appeal, saying the reconstitution casts aspersions on the eminence of the varsity.On August 7, Justice Pratibha M Singh, while allowing DU to conduct the Open-Book Examination, had reconstituted the Grievance Redressal Committee to “ensure fairness and transparency”.The reconstituted five-member committee comprises Justice Pratibha Rani (Retd. Judge, Delhi High Court) as chairperson, Professor K S Rao, department of Botany as deputy chairperson, and Professor Kavita Sharma, department of commerce, B B Gupta, senior advocate and Kamal Gupta, advocate, as members.The court had said the committee will deal with all grievances related to the downloading of question papers, uploading of answer sheets, technical glitches, etc., faced by students during the online examinations.On Friday, senior advocate Sachin Datta, appearing for DU, told the court that there is an implicit assumption that the old committee of DU would not be transparent. He said DU is a university of eminence where the President of India is a visitor and the Chief justice of Delhi High Court is the pro-vice chancellor.Datta said it is the question of the integrity of the varsity and it should be allowed to function. He said people who are not even associated with DU are a part of the committee.“Let my old committee to operate otherwise it would prevent the university to discharge its duties,” he said.To this, the court replied, “Don’t take it amiss. There is no ego battle. The new members would be adding value to the committee”. “Why are you worried if a retired judge is helping you? Why are you fighting shy to have this grievance cell which it also has your members?“Why are you feeling threatened? Did you let the committee work even for a day? It took you seven days to approach the court….Things have not gone properly for many students and we are forced to say this. Is it correct that during the examinations one of the email ids on which students were to mail answer scripts was not working?The DU counsel said there was a problem but it was rectified immediately. He said all queries to the committee were not complaints.“We have much to say about your examinations. Your preparedness has been questioned thrice and it is only after that you have been able to manage to take the exams…You have not been able to satisfy in the preparedness,” the court said.After the arguments, the court proposed that it would allow one member of DU’s choice, who was a part of the erstwhile committee, to be part of the present one. The counsel took Professor Ajay Arora’s name.The court rejected this proposal and said asked him to choose someone who is not a part of tier one of the Grievance Cell. The university then chose Prof SC Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/our-reshuffle-of-grievance-panel-not-infringement-of-rights-high-court-to-delhi-university/story-kRV1D2CQKvtHy868DcmCLN.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||30% of St Stephen’s students yet to clear their hostel rooms, have to pay ‘room rent’||Nearly three weeks after St. Stephen’s College announced that students residing in its hostels needed to clear their belongings by August 7, failing which a room rent would be levied, around 30% of the students are yet to collect their belongings.Principal John Varghese said that of the approximately 400 residents, around 120 are yet to clear their belongings. “They are mostly final-year students and have been given multiple options. Residents can either get in touch with the Dean’s office and come and take it themselves. If they can’t do that, they can authorise a family member, relative, guardian, or friend to do the same. They can authorise the dean himself to remove the belongings because we need to prepare the rooms for the next academic year.”Students can approach the Dean’s office with their queries and issues, Varghese added.On July 25, the college had issued a notice stating that students who were unable to clear their belongings by August 7 could retain their rooms “with a modest room rent of ₹100 per day starting from August 7.” The college’s Students’ Union Society has written multiple times to college authorities explaining that many students would find it difficult to return to the campus as the Covid-19 crisis has created a lot of travel restrictions.“States have varied Covid-19 guidelines across the country. For instance, if I come to Delhi, I would be quarantined for a week. If I go back, I would be quarantined for 28 days, of which two weeks would be paid institutional quarantine. States like West Bengal have random two-day lockdowns which will affect the travel schedule arbitrarily. Such students can’t come and collect their belongings,” said a final-year undergraduate student, requesting anonymity.Many students also said that authorising others to clear their belongings would not be a feasible option. “Not all students have local guardians in Delhi. Even if they do, the guardian or friends might not be willing to put themselves in danger and go to college to retrieve our belongings. This is also because Delhi has seen a high number of Covid cases,” added the student.A first-year undergraduate student from a southern state said that the notice would pose more difficulty for students who do not live in neighbouring states of Delhi. “My parents were not keen on me coming to Delhi to clear my room. Apart from the health crisis, there are financial concerns. Travelling via train would take too much time and plane tickets are very expensive,” said the student who could not clear her room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/30-of-st-stephen-s-students-yet-to-clear-their-hostel-rooms-have-to-pay-room-rent/story-QJmrKSI6fqdSpaBwcOMWXK.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Seven Covid warriors to attend I-Day event at Delhi secretariat||A revenue official, a doctor, a nursing officer, a police constable, an ambulance driver, a civil defence volunteer and a sanitation worker are among the VIPs who have been invited to the Delhi Secretariat on Saturday for the Independence Day programme to be organised by the AAP government.At least three of them had contracted the Sars-Cov-2 virus while on duty.This year, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will hoist a flag and deliver a speech in Delhi Secretariat instead of Chhatrasal Stadium – the traditional venue for the event – in the light of restrictions on gatherings under Covid-19 lockdown guidelines.There will be no parade and the total guest list has been limited within 100 -- which includes all 70 MLAs, seven Lok Sabha MPs, all three Rajya Sabha MPs, mayors of all thee municipal corporations, the chief justice of the Delhi High Court, bureaucrats heading different government departments, and the seven special invitees identified as “Covid warriors”.“All Covid warriors working in different sectors have helped those infected by the disease by risking their own lives. We have sent a special invitation to seven of them, which includes Rajeev Singh Parihar, ADM central Delhi; Dr Hirdesh Kumar, medical officer at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital; Sonu, a nursing officer in Lok Nayak Hospital; Pradeep Chauhan, a Delhi Police Constable; Tej Bahadur, a CATS ambulance driver; Dina Nath Yadav, a civil defence volunteer; and Ashok Kumar, a sanitation worker.”The special invitees have worked in different roles, which include directly helping patients, cleaning bio-medical waste, imposing lockdown rules, manning containment zones, distribution of food and helping migrants return home in trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-covid-warriors-to-attend-i-day-event-at-delhi-secretariat/story-eyTj3CHZVudod8oF4bEzVP.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||MVC awardee Air Marshal PP Singh dies||Air Marshal PP Singh (retd), 92, who was conferred with Maha Vir Chakra, the country’s second-highest war gallantry medal, died after a brief illness at the Command Hospital in Chandimandir on Thursday.Commissioned in the Indian Air Force on April 15, 1950, he had an illustrious career spanning 38 years. He was the commanding officer of No.5 ‘Tuskers’ Squadron that undertook night airstrikes deep into Pakistani territory during the 1965 Indo-Pak war, for which he was conferred with Maha Vir Chakra on September 6, 1965. He also coordinated air warfare operations during the 1971 war, and was awarded Ati Vishisht Seva Medal and Param Vishisht Seva Medal in 1972 and 1985, respectively.A keen and passionate sportsman, he was also the chairman of the Services Sports Control Board and member of the Asian Games Special Organising Committee. For his leadership and administrative skills, he was awarded the Asiad Vishisht Jyoti by the President of India.After holding various senior and sensitive positions, he was appointed as the Air Officer Commanding in Chief of the South Western Air Command in 1986 and held that position until his retirement in February 1987.Upon retirement, he stayed with family in Mohali. He is survived by a son and a daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mvc-awardee-air-marshal-pp-singh-dies/story-q8FC4Vadvak46WPQd3aNgJ.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||DIG Omvir Singh gets President’s Police Medal||Deputy inspector general (DIG), Chandigarh, Omvir Singh, who is also the IG, prisons, has been awarded the President’s Police Medal for Distinguish Service. He will receive the award from the President of India during the Independence Day function. As the DIG, he has been instrumental in setting up first-of-its-kind Emergency Response Support System Dial 112 and e-Beat Book System at the Chandigarh Police Control Room for the convenience of citizens. As IG, prisons, he is credited with streamlining overall functioning of the Model Jail, Sector 51, also known as Burail Jail. Some of the major projects, such as prison management system and inclusion of latest technology to strengthen the security system at this high security jail, are the outcome of his efforts. Setting up of correctional administration in the jail and rehabilitation of inmates after their release are also some of major initiatives carried out by him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dig-omvir-singh-gets-president-s-police-medal/story-6aICCjZCSMHcm8o1RrftCM.html
14-08-2020||City||21-yr-old youth killed in Zirakpur accident||A 21-year-old year youth was killed while his friend was injured after a car moving on the wrong side hit their scooter near Sohi Banquet Hall on the Zirakpur-Panchkula road, police said on Friday. The victim has been identified as Narinder Singh, a resident of Baltana in Zirakpur. The accident took place late on Thursday evening when he was riding an Activa with his friend Ritashu. A case of rash driving and causing death by negligence has been registered against the unknown driver at the Dhakoli police station. Narinder’s body was handed over to his family after postmortem. The search for the car driver is on, said investigating officer Deepak Rana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-yr-old-youth-killed-in-zirakpur-accident/story-uizmtQfAuPMiYoKd1lxXsM.html
14-08-2020||City||Owners unwilling to turn hotels into Covid isolation facilities in Ludhiana||The project to provide isolation facilities to asymptomatic Covid positive patients has run into rough weather as no hotel has given consent to the administration for allowing positive patients into their establishments.The authorities said that earlier a hotel owner had accepted the proposal, but he, too, withdrew his name citing losses and impact on other visitors.Senior medical officer (SMO) Hatinder Kaur said, “A hotel owner gave consent and a patient was also sent into isolation at the hotel. Later, however, the hotel owner refused to provide the facility citing losses among other reasons.”One of the employees of the health department, requesting anonymity, said requests for availing isolation facilities were pouring in, but there were no rooms available. A few hotels were providing quarantine facilities to suspected and asymptomatic patients at their own level and were also fixing rent on their own, the official said, adding that many residents were also opting for home isolation.Executive member of the hotel and restaurant association, Amarjit Singh, said, “Only big hotels can provide isolation facilities for positive asymptomatic patients as they can dedicate a whole space/floor for them. However, the impact of the presence of such patients on other visitors is also stopping hotel owners. At a time when hotels are receiving tepid responses due to Covid-19 restrictions and fear, no one would want to push away customers. There is a shortage of labour as well.”Additional chief administrator (ACA), Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority, Bhupinder Singh, said, “The administration is making regular efforts to rope in hoteliers for providing isolation facilities. But no hotelier has given consent till now.”Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma had on July 21 formed a committee and deputed three nodal officers including ACA, GLADA, Bhupinder Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Sachin Gupta, and SMO Hatinder Kaur for coordinating with willing hoteliers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/owners-unwilling-to-turn-hotels-in-covid-isolation-facilities-in-ludhiana/story-RGDwudgqnXp6lEK4E6HVhK.html
14-08-2020||City||Residents complain of mosquito menace, inadequate fogging exercise||Noida Amid the ongoing monsoon season that is favourable for mosquito breeding, residents from several areas of the city have complained of mosquito menace which can cause diseases like malaria and dengue. The residents have asked for a large-scale remedial drive to check the menace. Pointing out a number of spots with stagnant water either in open fields or the drains, the residents of sectors 27, 46, 50, 76, 77, among others, said that the mosquito breeding is evident and the fogging being done by the apartment associations is simply not enough. The residents alleged that despite a number of complaints, the Noida authority did not conduct fogging or cleaned up the vacated plots. “The mosquito breeding has increased. We have been complaining about it to the Noida authority since the last week. We have tweeted the pictures of choked drains with larvae and also dialled up the helpline numbers, but still waiting for a response. Drains are choked due to which water gets stagnant. Besides, a large vacant plot is also to be cleaned. As a result, mosquitoes have started causing problems to everyone,” said Amit Gupta, a resident of Prateek Wisteria in Sector 77. Gupta said that while the apartment owners association has its own fogging machines and holds regular fogging, the high-density breeding outside the high-rise makes their efforts futile. The issue of the stagnant drains was not limited to certain pockets only, as residents fear health hazard due to lack of remedial steps to control the breeding. “We had written a letter to the authority a few days ago, complaining about the stagnant water in the drains as well as in the unlevelled open fields and vacant plots. But we have not got any response from the authority,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Association (NOFAA) According to the residents, the fogging or anti-larvae spray is not adequate in several sectors. “There is fogging going on, but that is not enough as mosquito breeding is at its peak. For an area as big as Arun Vihar, if the fogging or anti-larvae is sprayed only twice a month, then it is clearly not up to the mark. We all are forced to face the mosquito menace,” said Colonel (retd) Shashi Vaid, chairman of Arun Vihar RWA, which include sectors 27,28 and 37. It is an open secret that the malaria mosquito Anopheles breeds from July through October, and the one that causes dengue comes after August. According to official figures, the Gautam Budh Nagar district saw over 400 cases of malaria last year. When asked, officials of the Noida authority said that they are working to intensify the anti-larvae drives and fogging across the city. “We have already prepared the rosters to cover areas as much as possible for anti-larvae spray in stagnant water and fogging in the open areas. The rosters are also being shared with the RWAs. We are working on intensifying the same by increasing the number of anti-mosquito drives in each area,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty (health), Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-complain-of-mosquito-menace-inadequate-fogging-exercise/story-E34fac45rNxcLm3NH0RJGI.html
14-08-2020||City||Man arrested for molesting teen daughter||A man in his early forties was arrested by the Dadri police for allegedly molesting and assaulting his 14-year-old daughter on Wednesday night.The girl, a class 9th student, lived with the her siblings in the same house as her father — the suspect in the case . The suspect is estranged from his wife, police said. According to investigators, the incident came to light on Thursday when the girl’s mother approached them and filed a complaint.“Once the initial probe was done, the suspect was taken into custody while the girl was sent for a medical examination,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3.In the complaint, the girl’s mother has alleged that the man tried to disrobe her daughter. When she resisted, he assaulted her first and then threatened her not to inform anyone about the incident. However, the girl locked herself in a separate room and called her mother, who came and took her to the police. Based on the complaint, a case was registered against the suspect under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 354A (molestation) of the Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences act.The man was arrested on Friday morning, produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.In another incident, a 25-year-old man was arrested by the Noida police on Friday for allegedly raping his 22-year-old colleague.“The suspect and the victim work at the same telecommunication company. According to the woman, a group of them had gone to a hotel for a party on Thursday. The woman said that the suspect raped her under the influence of alcohol. A medical examination has been ordered for her,” said additional DCP, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.The suspect, identified as Prithvi, is a resident of sector 4 and was booked by the sector 20 police under section 376 (punishment for rape) of the IPC. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-molesting-teen-daughter/story-o5eppTBqaqiCGb7Irz94LM.html
14-08-2020||City||Police file charge sheet against 10 suspects in journalist’s murder case||A charge sheet has been filed against 10 suspects in the murder of journalist Vikram Joshi, the police said on Friday. The police have also charge-sheeted three of the 10 suspects who were named in another case related to the harassment of Joshi’s niece. “We have filed a charge sheet in connection with the murder case against 10 suspects, all of whom were nabbed. We have also initiated action against them under the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act. A charge sheet is also filed against three suspects in connection with the case of harassment of his niece. Both the charge sheets have been sent to the appropriate court,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, Ghaziabad. On the night of July 20, 35-year-old Joshi, who was on a motorcycle with his two minor daughters, was cornered by a group of men and one of them allegedly shot him in head. Joshi had succumbed to head injuries on July 21. It is alleged that the incident resulted from a fight between Joshi’s family and the group of suspects on July 16 over the harassment of Joshi’s niece. The family alleged that the police did not lodge Joshi’s complaint in which he had accused the suspects of harassing his niece. An FIR on this complaint was registered under IPC sections 354 (outraging modesty of woman), 323 (causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult) at Vijay Nagar police station only the day after Joshi was shot. The two cases were later transferred from Vijay Nagar police station to Kotwali police station. The 10 suspects arrested in connection with the murder case have been identified as Ravi Kumar, Akash Bihari, Shahnoor alias Chotu (who goes by a single name and is the man who allegedly fired at Joshi), Mohit Kumar, Dalvir Singh, Akash Nath, Yogendra Singh, Abhishek Kant, Abhishek Mota and Mohammad Shakir. Three suspects – Ravi Kumar, Akash Bihari and Shahnoor alias Chotu – are further chargesheeted in the second case related to harassment of Joshi’s niece, the police said. The SSP had suspended the local police post in-charge for not filing family’s complaint on July 16, and two days later also suspended the SHO of Vijay Nagar police station on account of lax supervision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-file-charge-sheet-against-10-suspects-in-journalist-s-murder-case/story-WEYvqkYBjwDEIuEoelv9zO.html
14-08-2020||City||19-year-old boy solemnises marriage in Ludhiana, court orders FIR against witnesses, priest||Appealing the Punjab and Haryana high court to provide security after solemnising love marriage against the will of his family has cost a 19-year-old teenager dearly after the court ordered an FIR under the Child Marriage Act against the witnesses and the gurdwara priest.The accused were identified as Inderjit Singh of Gurdwara Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib, Jail Road, and two witnesses, Bittu Kumar of Gopal Nagar, Haibowal, and Rajinder Kumar of Mahavir Colony, Haibowal.ASI Amarjeet Kumar said Sumit, 19, of Indra Colony had met Simranjit Kaur, 21, of Batala on Facebook a few months ago. The duo had eloped on July 23 and solemnised their marriage the same day in a gurdwara.Thereafter, when the couple approached HC for protection, the court found that the boy was underage. A case under sections 10 and 11 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act was lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-year-old-boy-solemnises-marriage-in-ludhiana-court-orders-fir-against-witnesses-priest/story-SuIPulrcylYMctpYx5RpWL.html
14-08-2020||City||Districts allowed to hire specialist doctors temporarily to deal with rising Covid cases||In wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the National Health Mission has allowed all districts in Uttar Pradesh to appoint specialist doctors for their L2(for mild cases) and L3 facilities(for severe cases) on a temporary basis till the end of this year. With the NHM’s nod, the Ghaziabad health department will now hire anaesthetists and physicians for its two L2 hospitals said officials.The officials of the Ghaziabad health department said they need at least six anaesthetists (doctors who are responsible for providing anaesthesia to patients and give intensive care and help in pain management) and two physicians for their L2 hospital at ESIC, Sahibabad and another six anaesthetists for the L2 facility at Sanjay Nagar for now.In a letter issued on Thursday to all district magistrates and chief medical officers, state director, NHM (Uttar Pradesh), Aparna U said that medical specialists can be hired on a temporary basis till December 31, 2020, either through selections made via walk-in interviews or through bidding in case the interview fails to draw applicants.“Committee comprising district magistrate, chief medical officer and chief medical superintendent will be formed to select the candidates. The district committee will initially select candidates through walk-in (interview) method and will appoint the selected candidates. In case, the specialists are not available through walk-in interviews, a bidding process should be taken up and the applicants should be selected on the basis of lowest bid made (those who ask for lowest monthly remuneration,” the letter stated. The bidding process will be held with the help of an online bidding model developed by an agency selected by the Central government.With the letter the Ghaziabad health department hopes to appoint at least 14 specialists for now. “We have given one high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC)—an advanced oxygen-supplying equipment—and four bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) systems—a non-invasive ventilation mechanism—to ESIC Hospital, while six BiPAP systems are given to the Sanjay Nagar L2 hospital. These equipments are helpful in tackling respiratory issues and breathing difficulties in patients. We need more anaesthetists for the operation of such equipment and the ventilator in our hospitals apart from two physicians needed at ESIC Hospital,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.“Now that the hiring of specialists is allowed, we will be able to appoint specialists in order to give better care to Covid-19 patients. We have also provided three HFNCs to our L3 hospital. This is proving helpful in dealing with patients who face respiratory issues,” he added.The Ghaziabad district has reported 6,309 cases of the coronavirus disease so far.According to the latest records of the health department, the district, at present, has 576 beds available in the two L2 hospitals at ESIC Sahibabad—an L1 hospital (for asymptomatic cases) earlier now converted to an L2 hospital and the Sanjay Nagar hospital, besides beds in the only L3 hospital at Santosh Medical College. The L2 hospitals have 13 ICU beds, while the L3 has 20 ICU beds. The three hospitals also have three, 12 and 21 ventilators, respectively. Together, the three hospitals have 387 beds which are equipped with oxygen supplies.“The L3 hospital enough specialist doctors available for now, while more specialists are available with the 10 private hospitals which have been roped in to provide paid Covid treatment to positive patients. The new order will enable us to rope in more workforce required to deal with Covid-19,” Dr Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/districts-allowed-to-hire-specialist-doctors-temporarily-to-deal-with-rising-covid-cases/story-cTExEjbYsJkPJGkjFiFYMP.html
14-08-2020||City||Frontline warriors form 7% of Punjab’s covid-19 patients||Amritsar Over 2,000 frontline staffers, including doctors, nurses, police personnel, administrative workers and other staffers on covid-19 related duties have tested positive for the infection in Punjab to date. This is 7% of the state’s total covid-19 cases of just over 29,000 to date, meaning that every 14th patient has been a frontline warrior against the disease, data with the state health department shows. A further break-up shows that of these 2,000, over 600 are health care staffers, including doctors, nurses and accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers, who were assigned duties in hospitals and containment zones and were in direct contact of patients. Around 1,200 members from the state police and BSF personnel (combined) have also tested positive. Over a 100 district administration employees tested positive. The rest of infected were sanitation workers and people who had to be on covid duty for one reason or another.“We had been testing only symptomatic doctors and cops, but now we are regularly testing frontline warriors. One Punjab government minister and four MLAs were also infected. The frontline warriors are getting infected because they come in direct contact of a large number of people. In Punjab, almost 75% of covid-19 patients are asymptomatic,” said state covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.“The state provides PPE kits and we are paying special attention to their safety. Infected warriors must be diagnosed early to stop further spread of infection,” he added. After a spike of cases at BSF camps in Punjab, 2,500 BSF personnel in Khasa camp, Amritsar, and 1,018 in Hoshiarpur camp, have been isolated in containment zones.“Recently, four doctors of GMCH , Amritsar, were tested positive for the virus, even as they always wore the safety gear. This is a major concern. OPDs at government hospitals see a large crowd daily, without maintaining social distancing. Safety of frontline warriors has to be paramount,” said Dr Jaspinder Pratap Singh, president, Resident Doctors’ Association of Punjab (RDAP).Deputy commissioner of police (law and order Amritsar), Jagmohan Singh, who was infected with covid-19, and has recovered, said, “Police personnel are given PPE kits, but only cops in at stations can wear them. Those on field duty cannot wear PPEs all the time. Symptomatic people should isolate themselves and consult doctors at the right time to avoid spreading the disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/frontline-warriors-form-7-of-punjab-s-covid-19-patients/story-c57RF8JdazArhkn7b7T9AK.html
14-08-2020||City||Senior citizen falls into lift shaft , dies; three from developers’ firm booked||The family members of a 76-year-old retired official, who died after falling into the shaft of an elevator at Moti Residency highrise near Raj Nagar Extension, have filed a police complaint against three officials of the developers’ firm of the highrise. The officials of the Ghaziabad police said that they have registered an FIR against three persons under IPC section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder). Police identified the victim as Kedarnath Gaur who retired as executive engineer from the electricity department and was residing with his family in the third floor flat of tower ‘A’ of the highrise. According to initial investigations, the incident took place when Gaur was stepping out for some work and had pressed the button of the lift. The lift came to the third floor and the door opened. “As soon as the door opened, the victim stepped in but the lift cab was not there. As a result he fell into the shaft and fell to minus one floor, sustaining injuries, to which he succumbed. The family launched a search and after a lot of efforts they could trace him. He was rushed to a hospital but declared dead. On the basis of a complaint given by the family, we have registered an FIR under IPC section 304 against three officials of the developers’ firm. Further investigations is underway,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). The highrise is located behind the Raj Nagar Extension in Morta (adjacent to Delhi Meerut Road) and falls under jurisdiction of the Muradnagar police station. “There have been lot of complaints in the highrise about the lifts, but the developer has not taken any steps to address them. On August 13 my father met with an incident which resulted in his death. The incident took place due to improper maintenance of the lift. He pressed the button of the lift and the door opened. But the lift cab was not there. As a result my father fell from the third floor and died,” victim’s son Rajesh Gaur said in his police complaint. Vishwanath Agrawal, the managing director of the builder’s firm, did not respond to repeated calls and queries sent to him for his response over the issue. He is named in the FIR along with two other officials. However, the developer firm in a statement late on Friday night said, “We express deep sorrow and share concerns with the family. Our company has given maintenance contract to a renowned elevators’ company which is also the manufacturer. We have all the related documents of yearly maintenance contract with the company. We have shared information of the incident with the maintenance company and sought explanation as how this incident took place. We will be able to give our full response once we receive explanation from the maintenance company.”“The incident is very unfortunate and should not have happened. The developers must make sure that the quality of equipment installed is top class and maintenance is done through the original equipment manufacturer. In this case, a detailed investigation should take place and responsibility should be fixed,” said Gaurav Gupta, president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India , Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-citizen-falls-into-lift-shaft-dies-three-from-developers-firm-booked/story-IFQrlzC00i2LKwHUzjARVK.html
14-08-2020||City||Ludhiana’s Covid toll climbs to 214 with seven deaths; 228 test positive||The district’s Covid-19 toll rose to 214 on Friday with reports of seven patients succumbing to the virus.Ludhiana’s tally of Covid-19 cases also soared to 6,176 after 228 people tested positive. As many as 1,807 cases are still active. The deceased include five males and two females.The male patients include a 60-year-old from Noorwala Road, another 60-year-old from Sahrali Rahon village, a 35-year-old from Goh village in Khanna, a 33-year-old from Shimlapuri and a 27-year-old for Haibowal.The female deceased are a 70-year-old from Hasi Kalan village and a 60-year-old from Laxman Nagar.The fresh cases have been reported from across the district. These include 12 undertrials, five cops, five pregnant women, three health workers and 81 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, the department of extension education at PAU has been closed till August 23 after a female clerk tested positive.Notices to nine healthcare workersThe health department has served show-cause notices to nine healthcare staff, including Dr Neelam Gill and Dr Shikha Chadha and seven staff nurses, for remaining absent from Covid-19 duty. They have been asked to reply within two days as to why action should not be taken against them under the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-covid-toll-climbs-to-214-with-seven-deaths-228-test-positive/story-eC1GeE1Yu2tMoOYmFmFj5H.html
14-08-2020||City||Three friends of youth who died of drug overdose held after kin stage protest in Ludhiana||After the family members of 22-year-old Sahil Singla of Jain Colony, who was found dead in Gurpal Nagar of Sherpur, staged a protest at Sherpur Chowk on the Ludhiana-Delhi National Highway on Friday afternoon, the police lodged a case of culpable homicide against four accused and arrested three of them.The victim’s family had accused Sahil’s four friends—Mani, Johny, Rita and Malwinder—of administering to him an overdose of intravenous drugs. They had demanded registration of a murder case against the four.Sahil had gone missing on the night of August 12 and was found unconscious in a vacant plot in Gurpal Nagar the next day. He was rushed to the hospital where he died on August 13.Rajesh Kumar, father of the deceased, said that Sahil had left the house without saying anything. After he died, the police suspected death due to drug overdose. Kumar added that while scanning CCTV footage, Sahil was seen with his four friends.He alleged that the police did not lodge any case against the suspects following which they were forced to stage a protest. The protest continued for 30 minutes after which the police pacified the protestors and booked the four.Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar said that Sahil and the accused had injected drugs. When Sahil had lost consciousness, the accused assumed he was dead, dragged him to the bushes and fled.He added that the police have registered a case against all four accused under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Malwinder, Mani and Johny had been arrested, while Rita was on the run, the cop added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-friends-of-youth-who-died-of-drug-overdose-held-after-kin-stage-protest-in-ludhiana/story-rZU51QB2iw7HiaKasX202I.html
14-08-2020||City||Deadly August: 59% of Ludhiana Covid fatalities in just two weeks||The district is witnessing a steady rise in Covid-19 fatalities with the number of those dead due to the virus multiplying over twofold in just two weeks of August.From 88 deaths between March 29 and July 31, the Covid toll has risen to 214 with 126 (59%) fatalities in August alone.Worse, over half of total fatalities at 109 were reported in just 12 days between August 3 and 14. During this period, at least 10 deaths were reported per day for four consecutive days and nine deaths on five days – an average of nine deaths every day. August 13 witnessed the highest fatalities so far with 13 people succumbing to the virus. Besides 126 deaths, the Covid-19 cases have spiralled from 3,246 on July 31 to 6,176 on August 14 – a nearly twofold rise again.Among these, 1,807 cases are still active. POST LOCKDOWN AFTERMATHNotably, the mortality rate spiked majorly after the curfew restrictions were lifted on June 8. A whopping 95% deaths of all Covid deaths occurred post lockdown. Before June 8, 11 people had died since March 29 (70 days).March had recorded one death, followed by three in April and five in May. As the borders reopened and curfew restrictions were eased in June, allowing public to venture out and businesses to reopen, the Covid positive cases shot up and fatalities rose to 12 in a month. The situation worsened in July that saw 67 deaths. The fatalities touched the century mark on August 2 and took just 11 more days for the toll to cross the 200 mark on August 13. Dr Bishav Mohan, a member of the Covid-19 task force set up by the state government, stressed that patients with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and influenza like illness (ILI) should reach the hospital at an early stage for timely treatment. “There is a strong misconception that treatment for Covid-19 is not available in hospitals, which is false. Knowledge exchange is taking place at a global scale. With the right kind of treatment, doctors across the world have been able to bring down the mortality rate from 18% to 3% or less. I urge patients to reach the hospital at an early stage,” Dr Mohan said. Dr Hitinder Kaur Sohal, senior medical officer (SMO)-cum-nodal officer for Covid-19 at Ludhiana civil hospital, said a large number of patients feared social stigma due to Covid-19 and therefore reached the hospital only when their condition worsened. “Besides timely treatment, residents also need to observe precautions by avoiding crowded areas, social gatherings and wearing mask and maintaining social distancing in public,” Dr Sohal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deadly-august-59-of-ludhiana-covid-fatalities-in-just-two-weeks/story-UVrJlqRkoDoMj6HEsa4WfO.html
14-08-2020||City||Punjab Agricultural University prepares resource to uplift farmers of India||In view of the unprecedented Covid situation, the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has prepared a resilience resource for the farmers of the country called ‘I the farmer of India’.Prepared by professor Sarabjeet Singh, head of the Department of Agricultural Journalism, Languages and Culture, and Vasundhra, counsellor, Department of Human Development & Family Studies, the resource highlights the five T’s of mental health—talking, teaching, training, tools and taking care.The resource aims to build respect for farmers in the society and asserts that farming is the most noble, the most useful, the most mindful and the most healthful profession. “When lockdown was announced, no one rushed to buy gold, land, car, or expensive phones, but everyone rushed for fruits, vegetables, milk and bread,” said Dr Sarabjeet.“The pandemic led to many direct and indirect impacts on farmers. The farmers, especially the vegetable growers, suffered losses. The farmers also saw their children sitting idle at home while the schools and colleges were shut. Such issues were enough to drive farmers into depression. So keeping in view all these issues, we designed the programme that will be launched by all the agriculture universities to support farmers in distress,” he added.Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon, vice-chancellor of PAU, while sending the resource in soft format to all the agricultural universities and institutes of the country, remarked that he hoped for translation of the resource into local languages of the country to boost the morale of the farming community.The university is running a programme ‘Talking is Healing’ wherein farmers can avail counselling by reaching the PAU helpline number 8360684948.PAU CELEBRATES NATIONAL HANDLOOM WEEKThe Department of Apparel and Textile Science, College of Community Science, PAU, celebrated the National Handloom Week from August 7-14. An exhibition put up by the faculty members showcased the traditional handloom textiles including sarees, durries, carpets and other household products. Students were made aware of the importance of handlooms through online lectures and a TV talk was delivered on National Handloom Day by Dr Surabhi Mahajan, assistant professor of the department.PAU TO IMPART TRAINING TO RURAL YOUTHS IN PROCESSING TECHNIQUESThe experts of PAU will apprise the rural youths of the importance of agro-industrial complexes in Punjab, machinery for grading of fruit and vegetables, machinery for processing of rice, and machinery for making poultry and dairy feed during a three-month online training programme on ‘Integrated Crop Production’ which is underway at the PAU Skill Development Centre.Dr TS Riar, associate director, skill development, said the trainees will be imparted knowledge on machinery for processing of chillies and turmeric, sugar and jaggery, wheat, oilseeds and potato. In addition, experts will explain post-harvest management of fruit and vegetables, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-agriculture-university-prepares-resource-to-uplift-farmers-of-india/story-XTa9eOc6a8rKhLA52g8qcP.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Policeman who survived Delhi building collapse spotted cracks, alerted senior||The illegally constructed third floor of a building in north Delhi’s Azad Market that collapsed on Wednesday, killing 49-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Zakir Hussain, had cracks in the roof and crumbled soon after the officer climbed onto it, said constable Debu Singh, who survived the mishap and is recuperating at home. Constable Singh said that he had asked ASI Hussain to come down immediately after he spotted the cracks in the roof while climbing the stairs to take pictures and videos of the illegal construction work that was going on in the nearly 100-year-old building. “I was barely two-three metres behind ASI Hussain on the staircase when I saw the cracks. I screamed and asked him to come down, but the floor collapsed. Before falling on the second floor along with the debris, I saw Hussain sir try to get a grip on the wall and fall outside the building,” said constable Singh, adding that four-five persons were working on the other end of the floor’s terrace when it caved in.Constable Singh, however, said that he was unaware of what happened to the people working on the terrace. On the day of the mishap, a police officer who visited the site said on condition of anonymity that according to locals, one more injured person had come out of the building.“But neither was that person identified nor was anyone admitted to the nearby government or private hospitals,” said the officer, adding that despite his injuries, the constable rushed outside the building and with locals’ help rushed ASI Hussain to Aruna Asaf Ali hospital, where doctors declared him dead on arrival.According to Singh, someone informed ASI Hussain about the illegal construction in the building on Tuesday evening. Around 8.30pm, Hussain asked Singh to accompany him to the building the next morning. As part of the Independence Day security audit drive, the duo also planned to verify the antecedents of the building’s tenants.“We first conducted the verification process for five-six labourers working in a toy factory who live on the first floor. A few minutes later, Hussain sir asked me to accompany him to the third-floor terrace where illegal construction was going on. As he reached the terrace, the floor collapsed, and he fell off the building. There were construction materials in large quantity on the terrace which probably led to the collapse,” he said.Meanwhile, the police said they have identified the owner of the portion of the building that collapsed and the contractor who was constructing the floor. “We are verifying the documents submitted by the original owner. Our probe is on,” the deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said.An officer associated with the probe said, “We will send separate notices to the owner and the contractor asking them to join the probe and explain why and with whose permission they were carrying out the construction.”The North Delhi Municipal Corporation is also probing how and why the illegal construction was taking place. “The inquiry is still in progress,” an official of North MCD said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/policeman-who-survived-delhi-building-collapse-spotted-cracks-alerted-senior/story-iau9awIIJ1uX26f4JFXDgJ.html
14-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s new emblem unveiled to depict ‘real glimpses’ of state||Jharkhand Governor Droupadi Murmu and chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday unveiled state’s new emblem, which represents the state’s progress, culture, flora and fauna. It was unveiled at Ranchi’s Aryabhatta Auditorium in the presence of assembly speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto, Rajya Sabha MP Shibu Soren and other dignitaries. Murmu said the new logo is associated with the identity and self-respect of the state. “It represents the state’s culture and natural resources,” she said.The new circle-shape emblem will come into effect from Saturday on the occasion of Independence Day.The chief minister said, “The circle-shape emblem exhibits the state’s culture, tradition and progress. It represents every corner of the state and reflects the real spirit of Jharkhand, which were somehow missing in the past logo. The emblem is such an identity of the state, which gives a feeling of being proud.”The logo is encircled with green colour, which depicts the greenery of the state and symbolizes happiness and prosperity. The national Ashoka emblem at the centre is representing cooperative federalism. The second ring in the logo depicts white elephants, which symbolizes the natural wealth and prosperity of the state. The elephant is also Jharkhand’s state animal.The third ring showcases state flower Palash, reflecting the beauty of Jharkhand. Besides, the red colour in the flower is also a symbol of revolution, which reflects the struggle of people of the state.The fourth ring exhibits motifs of dance to showcase the state’s rich cultural heritage and the indelible imprint of centuries-old tradition, instruments, songs and dance. Jharkhand prepares for Independence Day celebration Ranchi’s Morabadi ground decked up for state function of Independence Day celebration amid Covid-19 pandemic. Chief minister Hemant Soren will unfurl the tri-colour at the ground at 9am on Saturday.This would be for the first occasion when common people are not be invited to the event. The decision was taken in view of the Covid-19 spread in Ranchi as well as other parts of the state.However, Corona warriors including doctors, policemen, health workers and people who have defeated the highly contagious Covid-19 disease will grace the occasion as special guests. More than 500 Corona warriors and survivors have been invited for the programme.As many as 13 platoons would take part in the parade. The parade rehearsal of mixed contingents of Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP), Railway Protection Force (RPF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Jharkhand Jaguar, Home Guard (rural), cadets of Scout & Guides and others concluded on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-new-emblem-unveiled-to-depict-real-glimpses-of-state/story-4pk8mPxKLEshw6LvOBGKLP.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Special cell gets time till Sept 17 to file conspiracy charge sheet||A Delhi court granted time till September 17 to the special cell of the Delhi Police to file the charge sheet in an FIR they have registered to prove the conspiracy behind the riots in north-east Delhi.The court also stated that it was satisfied with the investigation so far. The special cell had named 10 people, including students, social activists and a local ward councillor, as the main accused persons in the case.Some of them are Ishrat Jahan, Khalid Saifi, Safoora Zargar, Gufisha Fatima, Meeran Haider, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Shafa ur Rehman and Tahir Hussain who have been arrested under the Unlawful Activity Prevention Act (UAPA) and are currently lodged in jail. The police, in the FIR, had also named former JNU student Umar Khalid. However, he has not been arrested till now and Khalid has denied all charges.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said the investigation is still going on regarding the conspiracy which is “deep-rooted, large scale, and multilayered” and all the different aspects pertaining to different accused persons, including their links, are being investigated.The police had approached the court seeking time till September 17, saying they would require more time to file the charge sheet. Earlier, on June 17, the court had granted them two months to file the charge sheet.While in general cases, the charge sheet is filed within 90 days, in cases related to UAPA, the final report can be filed within 180 days of the arrest of the accused, subject to the permission of the court.According to the special cell submissions in the court, Khalid along with the accused had hatched a conspiracy to orchestrate riots just before the visit of the US President Donald Trump on February 24-25. Besides the case by the special cell, the crime branch and the local police have already filed nearly 100 charge sheets in connection with the February riots that left 53 dead and scores injured.On Thursday, while granting time, the court said compelling reasons with respect to each of the 10 accused has been borne out from the application and records. The judge said a number of witnesses have been examined and even statement of witnesses, including protected ones, have been recorded which points to a conspiracy.“The role of different organisations, involving different accused persons and groups, is being investigated. The role of other persons, having links to accused persons, who may be involved in the conspiracy has also come out during the investigation. The huge electronic data and evidence is being examined. The money trail/suspicious funding for riots is also being investigated,” the judge said.“The new facts that have emerged during the investigation have to be confronted. The different dimension of conspiracy including different organizations, Whatsapp groups and different accused persons and their inter-linkages along with the electronic records among other things are being investigated,” the judge said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-special-cell-gets-time-till-sept-17-to-file-conspiracy-charge-sheet/story-iMJiuNcbnvA61ThObKzDXK.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Mask violations in Ludhiana: Standing punishment brings little change||Stricter punishment for not wearing a face mask in public seems to have had little effect on violators, even as Covid-19 cases and fatalities continue to soar in Ludhiana.Following verbal orders by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, police on August 9 had started punishing the violators by making them stand in a corner for up to an hour, besides the usual Rs 500 fine. Going a step ahead, police are also distributing free reusable masks among the violators.Yet, in the past five days, police have issued 4,269 challans, collecting Rs 21.34 lakh in fine – an average of 853 challans a day. The number of violators, before the punishment was increased, was also nearly 900 a day. According to the police, not only the youth, but people of middle age and senior citizens were also not wearing masks, and had weird excuses for the violation.Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO, Division Number 8 police station, said several people argued that they lived at a short distance and hence did not need to wear a mask. A 34-year-old man, who was stopped near Rakhbagh, said he had come out for fresh air, so there was no point wearing a mask.Another 27-year-old man at Mall Road argued that he stepped out only to buy medicines, but failed to produce any prescription. Both were fined and made to stand for up to an hour.Police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal said they had issued over 50,000 challans for mask violations since the pandemic started and had collected nearly Rs 2.5 crore in fine from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mask-violations-in-ludhiana-standing-punishment-brings-little-change/story-SmS6ItHVjDYG7jVNttg5rO.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||North Delhi mayor visits collapsed landfill, orders flattening of mounds||A day after a portion of the Bhalswa landfill in north Delhi collapsed after rains overnight and injuring three waste-pickers, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash and senior officials inspected the site on Friday and directed the mounds be flattened at the earliest.Prakash directed the corporation’s engineering department to check for vulnerable portions of the landfill that could crumble in the event of heavy rain. “Being prepared in advance is the only way we can avert any possible damage,” he said. “I have also asked officials to clean up the area abutting the slums so that residents are safe and live in hygienic conditions,” he said.On Thursday the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led opposition had blamed the political wing of the BJP-led corporation for the accident in which three people were injured and two-three livestock was trapped in the debris. A small portion of 15 metres in length at the back of the landfill had collapsed in the wee hours. Prakash also said that he has instructed the officials to erect a boundary wall near the slum clusters so that residents from the clusters engaged in rag-picking work are not able to climb up the landfill without permission. “At present the entire area is open and waste-pickers keep venturing onto the landfill throughout the day, which could put their lives in danger. We will erect a wall and will have it manned so that a record can be kept and will also help in maintaining a vigil,” the mayor said. In September 2017, a large portion of the Ghazipur landfill in East Delhi had collapsed that swept motorists on the road in a nearby canal and claimed two lives while leaving many injured. The Bhalswa landfill site is an open dumping ground near GT-Karnal road. Created in 1984, it is spread over 70 acres. Till October 2019, the landfill had attained a height of 65 metres, eight metres less than that of Qutub MinarThe civic body had last month claimed to have reduced the height of the landfill by 12 metres by processing legacy waste with the help of 15 trommel machines that are in operation at the site. According to officials, nearly 5.8 lakh tonnes of legacy waste had been segregated and processed till July 2020.The landfill that had reached its saturation point in 2006 still receives about 2000-2500 metric tonnes of mixed waste every day. More than 80 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste (old solid waste material) is dumped here giving it the shape of a waste mountain. Prakash said that the 15 trommel machines segregate and process 4,500 metric tonnes legacy waste on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-delhi-mayor-visits-collapsed-landfill-orders-flattening-of-mounds/story-gDvnwQ2OflPpzJbCHgNI4N.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||OBE glitches: DU students receive two question papers for one exam||There were glitches during online the open-book examination (OBE) conducted by Delhi University on Friday as students complained of receiving the wrong question paper. The university began its first OBE exam on August 10 for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students as a one-time measure due to the Covid-19 crisis amid resistance from teachers and students.“At around 11am, we got an email from DU which had the question paper…it was sent as “sample question paper for mock test”. We were confused and decided to wait till 11.30am to check whether there was any difference in the question paper uploaded only on the OBE portal. By 11.30am, we found the same question paper on the OBE site and started writing,” said Sneha Shaji, an undergraduate student from Kerala, who wrote her Political Science exam on Friday. Apart from the university’s exam portal, students can also access the question paper sent to them over e-mail.“I didn’t know when the second question paper was uploaded by the administration and saw it only after completing my exam and sending the answer sheets via email,” she said, adding that only students who checked WhatsApp groups between the exam got access to the correct question paper.Seema Swami, an undergraduate student at the varsity’s School of Open Learning, said she also received the wrong question paper on Friday morning. “I was supposed to appear for my History exam at 7.30am. But when I opened my e-mail, I saw the Political Science paper instead. I wrote the exam and sent it. It was only when my friend told me of the glitch that I realised that they wrote their History paper, unlike me,” she said.Rajesh Jha, who teaches Political Science at Rajdhani College, said, “This is mental torture for students and it is akin to playing with their career. They spent half their time answering a set of questions and then were told that they would have to answer another set of questions. What about the time that was lost? These papers must be cancelled.”Officials from the varsity’s Computer Centre refused to comment saying the exam branch would be able to shed more light on the matter. Despite repeated calls and messages Dean (Exams) Vinay Gupta did not respond to the queries till Friday evening. DU Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said, “Students can send their queries to the grievance cell and their case can be considered later if they faced an issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/obe-glitches-du-students-receive-two-question-papers-for-one-exam/story-mON2dqlg09IsdLGh4AnsvI.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Government College for Girls holds online counselling for BA 1 course, cut off soars at 92.67%||Despite Government College for Girls (GCG) conducting counselling online amid the Covid-19 pandemic, many students and their parents gathered outside the college to inquire about the process. The college authorities conducted the counselling for bachelor of arts I course on Friday in which 1,634 candidates applied online against 480 seats. As many as 422 seats were filled, 40 are pending as candidates have not uploaded the required documents and 18 are vacant. In general category, 231 students got admission and the cut off went as high as 92.67%. Last year, in the same category, the cut off was 85.5%. In SC category, 103 seats were filled with the cut off at 85.1% while in other backward classes category, 37 students have been admitted with an 88% cut off. The counselling process for this course will continue on August 17 and 18. Associate professor Pawan Kumar from GCG, said “This year, the cut off was higher by 7.17% in general category. We have informed candidates to upload the required documents as many of them have not upload affidavits due to which many admissions have been kept pending.” The students have been given two-day time to deposit the fee online and if seats are left vacant, these will be allotted to the next candidate as per rank list.Simranpreet Kaur, a student who scored 90.8% in Class 12 said, “I was expecting a seat in GCG, but when I contacted the authorities, they said the cut off in general category went up to 92.67%. I was shocked that even after scoring above 90% in Class 12, I was not able to grab a seat in BA.”Satish Chander Dhawan Government College conducted the online counselling process for BSc non-medical I course on Friday. As many as 625 students registered online against 210 available seats. As many as 179 seats were filled in six hours and the remaining will be filled before August 22 which is the last date for admission. In general category, the cut off was 92.67% with 106 students getting admission, while in SC Category, 52 students grabbed seats and the cut off was 83.33%. In other backward classes category, 21 students got admission and the cut off was 87.11%. The rest of the seats were allotted to students of other reserve categories.In BA I evening course, 225 of the 320 seats have been filled. In general category, 158 students got admission and the cut off was 75.4%, while in SC category, 46 students grabbed a seat with 62% cut off. In other backward classes category, 18 students have been admitted with 64.22%. Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal of SCD government college said, “The students will get 48 hours to submit the fee online and message has been sent to them regarding the seat allotted today. We will conduct the online counseling process for government college, Ludhiana east, on August 17.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gcg-holds-online-counselling-for-ba-i-cut-off-soars-at-92-67/story-Ci2dd1aYCFtcJHYJVkqVWM.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||SDMC won’t penalise vehicles for not having RFID tags till October 15||In a major relief to commercial vehicles, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Friday waived the penalty imposed on motorists for not having RFID (radio-frequency identification) tags or not having recharged their tags, till October 15, 2020. The South corporation is the nodal agency for the implementation of the RFID project in the national capital. The RFID system was introduced to decongest city borders, smoothen traffic movement and thus bring down air pollution. Once RFID tag is pasted on commercial vehicles, the environment compensation charge (ECC) and toll tax are automatically deducted at the 13 toll plazasAccording to officials, the decision was taken in a review meeting of the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority and senior officials of the SDMC. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the penalty, of charging double the amount from commercial vehicles not having RFID tags or not having adequate balance in the tag, will be waived till October 15. Besides, all vehicles taking monthly passes will have to make online payments for the same or at the RFID system installed at the 13 city toll plazas,” a statement from the SDMC said. During the meeting, officials also said that at present, the RFID system is installed at 13 toll plazas while the installation of the system at the remaining 111 toll points will be completed by January 31, 2021. “Till such time, all toll plazas will have to get hand-held devices by November 2020, for enforcement during the winter,” the SDMC statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sdmc-won-t-penalise-vehicles-for-not-having-rfid-tags-till-october-15/story-ILT8kIQzFCcRuvfMDTkl7H.html
14-08-2020||City||Man, accomplice held for duping employer of ₹2.5L||New Delhi: A 31-year-old man was arrested along with his brother-in-law on Thursday for allegedly cooking up a robbery story to embezzle ₹2.5 lakh from his employer, the police said on Friday.The arrested man, Mumtaz Alam, worked as an accountant in a footwear store, and had invested ₹3.5 lakh he had borrowed to start a business. However, that venture allegedly racked up losses and eventually shut, throwing Alam into debt. He thereafter got work in the footwear showroom in northwest Delhi’s Keshavpuram. To repay the money lender, Alam hatched a fake robbery plot with his brother-in-law, Mohammad Wasim Akram, 36, senior police officers associated with the case said.As per their plan, Alam on Thursday around 4pm, called the police control room and said two bike-borne robbers intercepted his bike near Zakhira flyover and robbed him, at gunpoint, of a bag containing ₹2.5 lakh he had collected from Chandni Chowk area on his employer’s instructions. Since the call was about a daylight armed robbery, senior officers reached the spot, apart from the local Moti Nagar police personnel, said deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit. Multiple teams were formed to nab the suspects. Teams scanned footage from CCTV cameras on the routes Alam had taken while returning from Chandni Chowk. Police said that footage from one camera showed Alam riding his bike on the service lane but not carrying a bag, as he had claimed. Another piece of footage confirmed that he had used a different route, Purohit said.“We confronted Alam with the video footage, and he responded with multiple contradictory statements, which made us more suspicious. When Alam was interrogated, he broke down and confessed to cooking up the robbery story and told us about the loan he had to repay,” he added.Alam told the police that while returning from Chandni Chowk, he gave the bag of cash to his brother-in-law and travelled a spot near the Zakhira flyover, from where he made the call about the fake robbery. He led the police to his brother-in-law, from whose possession the police recovered the ₹2.5 lakh. A case of criminal conspiracy and breach of trust was registered and the two were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-accomplice-held-for-duping-employer-of-2-5l/story-2CZLk9MxRATR3OQXCJcRgL.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Delay in regularisation of colonies in Ludhiana: RTI activist seeks vigilance inquiry against GLADA officials||: RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal has submitted a complaint with Punjab chief secretary and director of vigilance bureau seeking inquiry against Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) officials for not following the state government’s procedures for regularisation of colonies that came into effect in October 2018, and not recovering pending composition fees from colonies who have applied under the policy. Sabharwal alleged that applications for 559 colonies have been submitted under the policy across Punjab, but GLADA authorities have failed to recover the pending composition fee from colonies falling under its jurisdiction even after one and a half years. He added that colonies were given four-month time to submit application after the policy was floated in October 2018. It is mandatory to issue a demand notice to the applicant for submission of fee within three months after an application is submitted by authorities. But, in many cases, GLADA officials concerned have not even issued the demand notice till now and the dues have also not been recovered, the RTI activist said. As per an estimate, composition fee has not been recovered from around 50% colonies.Refuting the allegations, GLADA estate officer Sonam Chaudhary said, “No delay is being made deliberately. The process to approve colonies is lengthy as a multiple departments are involved in the process. Recovery is also being done from colonies keeping in mind the rules and process of clearing an application for regularisation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delay-in-regularisation-of-colonies-in-ludhiana-rti-activist-seeks-vigilance-inquiry-against-glada-officials/story-wXf8IqN6mlmm50pf90qKxL.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt waives parking charges on impounded vehicles||The Delhi government Friday waived the parking custody charges imposed on vehicles impounded by the transport department and the police, which could not be bailed out by owners over the past few months on account of the lockdown to contain the Covid-19 spread.Vehicles that get impounded for any violation are taken into custody and parked at impounding pits located in Burari, Dwarka and Sarai Kale Khan. Currently, according to government records, around 3,788 vehicles – ranging from private cars and motorbikes to autorickshaws, buses, ambulances and tractors -- are parked in the three pits together.If a vehicle is not bailed out within 48 hours of being impounded, the government charges a parking fee ranging between Rs 200 a day and Rs 1,500 a day, depending on the size and category of the vehicle. “In most cases, the owners have complained that they could not get the vehicles freed because of the lockdown restrictions. In some cases, the cumulative parking fee has crossed Rs 35,000,” said a senior official in the transport department, who did not wish to be identified.Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Friday announced the waiver on social media, along with a copy of the government order.The post said, “To facilitate vehicle owners during Covid-19, it is hereby ordered to waive parking/custody charges… for vehicles impounded and parked as on date and released after the issuance of this order.”The waiver, however, can be availed of up to September 30, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-waives-parking-charges-on-impounded-vehicles/story-uIQIweuQcpGMhLWaQo6wEM.html
14-08-2020||Kolkata||Security beefed up in Kolkata ahead of Independence Day||Security has been beefed up in the city and other areas of West Bengal, particularly in border areas, ahead of the 74th Independence Day on Saturday, senior police officers said.Some “added arrangements” have also been made in the wake of the militant attack in Jammu and Kashmir in which two policemen were killed on Friday, they said.“Adequate measures have been taken for the Independence Day programme tomorrow. All entry and exit points of Kolkata have been kept under surveillance. All units have been briefed on the security plan,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Establishment) Gaurav Sharma told PTI.At least three watch towers have been erected at Red Road, the venue of the official Independence Day celebrations in the city, where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will unfurl the national flag.Quick Response Teams, Heavy Radio Flying Squad vans, and members of combat forces of the city police will be present around the venue, Sharma said.“Drones will also be used to keep a vigil on proceedings in and around the city,” the officer said.All police stations have been alerted and Naka checkings throughout the city will be stringent as a part of the security arrangements, Sharma said.Keeping in mind the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, all police personnel including officers will have to wear masks and maintain physical distancing, the IPS officer said.The sitting arrangements at the Red Road venue have been made keeping in mind the physical distancing factor. The programme would be held before a “nominal” number of spectators, official sources said.Though not many travellers are coming to the city these days because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the police are keeping an eye on hotels and lodging facilities, Sharma said.“These establishments are being constantly monitored as we do not want to take any chance. We have sought details of those staying there. All vehicles coming in and going out of the city will be scrutinised. Sand bag bunkers have been set up at several key locations,” another Kolkata Police officer said.Security arrangements elsewhere in the state have also been enhanced with a focus on its international and state borders, an officer of the West Bengal Police told PTI.“Foolproof arrangements have been made throughout the state especially in the border areas to avoid any untoward incident,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/security-beefed-up-in-kolkata-ahead-of-independence-day/story-GGXit2xz9aUaR09AEY8MnO.html
14-08-2020||Kolkata||Bengal govt asks all hospitals to set up isolation ward for suspected Covid-19 patients||The health department in West Bengal has directed all hospitals to set up an isolation ward for suspected coronavirus cases, and ensure that patients are in stable condition before transferring them to a dedicated Covid-19 facility, a senior official said on Friday.The department has also said that hospitals should not discharge any Covid-19 patient in need of medical attention without getting an assurance of admission from a facility, earmarked for treating such cases.“Every hospital has been advised to arrange isolation ward for suspected Covid-19 patients. The hospitals have been asked to make sure that the patients are in stable condition before transferring them to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“All hospitals and nursing homes have been told not to discharge Covid-19 positive patients requiring medical attention without assured admission in a Covid-19 hospital,” the advisory issued by the department said.Families of Covid-19 patients in the state have complained that several medical establishments were refusing treatment upon failure to make an advance payment.“A referral case summary should be attached during the transfer of patients,” said the advisory, prepared in accordance with the suggestions of a team of experts that recently visited several Covid-19 hospitals in the state.Incidentally, the government, in an order last week, barred private hospitals from charging more than 20 per cent of the estimated cost of treatment or Rs 50,000, whichever is less, during the time of admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-govt-asks-all-hospitals-to-set-up-isolation-ward-for-suspected-covid-19-patients/story-0rMfE0YGU0bxorsEDhcVGN.html
14-08-2020||City||₹28-crore fraud: Jammu court sends accused to five-day police remand||A local court here on Friday sent a fraudster, who is also a murder accused, to five-day police remand to get more leads in the investigation of a high profile case.Involved in ₹28-crore fraud, the accused has been identified as Gurdeep Singh of Channi Himmat here.The Jammu crime branch had moved an application before the additional sessions court here to seek police remand of the notorious fraudster and prime accused, who was arrested by the crime branch from Mohali, Punjab, on August 12.The accused had been absconding for more than eight years to evade arrest in case under sections 406, 409, 420, 468, 471, 120-B of the Ranbir Penal Code registered at the Gandhi Nagar police station in Jammu.“The accused had gone into hiding along with his wife and family. During investigation, it had come to the fore that he had fled to the US and Australia in this duration after transferring a huge amount of money to these countries and had also acquired property and business there,” said an official spokesperson.Gurdeep is also involved in three different criminal cases registered at the police stations in Channi Himmat, Batote (Ramban district), besides a money laundering case, he added.The court observed that the offence attributed to the accused is heinous and non-bailable and allowed his remand to police custody for five days so that further evidence of involvement of Gurdeep and others is collected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/28-crore-fraud-jammu-court-sends-accused-to-five-day-police-remand/story-2wuRFueNLcgHRSPoTmjRwI.html
14-08-2020||City||Landslide: Jammu-Kashmir highway remains blocked for second day||The Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained closed for traffic on second consecutive day on Friday due to a massive landslide in Ramban district that left over 200 vehicles stranded, an official said.The 270-km highway, the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country, was blocked by a major landslide at Mehaar area, said national highway SSP J S Johar.The landslide occurred around 5.15pm on Thursday, he informed.Johar added that soon after the landslide, NHAI staff and machinery were pressed into service to clear the debris off the highway.“It’s a massive landslide. Around 200-metre stretch has been blocked, but 50 to 60 percent of it has been cleared. We hope that the remaining portion will be cleared by tonight,” he said.The SSP informed that vehicles have been left stranded at various places including Qazigund and Nashri. Johar said, “Around 200 trucks and other vehicles are stranded in Nashri area and some on the Qazigund side of the Jawahar Tunnel while the traffic for Kashmir was also stopped at Udhampur following the landslide.”A lighting system was also installed to carry out restoration works in the night hours, he said.Due to the intermittent rolling of stones, the debris clearing operation was started late on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/landslide-jammu-kashmir-highway-remains-blocked-for-second-day/story-cdvHHmvbIKVFA1fSsnCctJ.html
14-08-2020||City||Vaishno Devi pilgrimage to resume from Sunday: Shrine board CEO||Pilgrimage to the holy cave shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi will resume from Sunday after a hiatus of nearly five months.The pilgrimage was suspended on March 18 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.During the first week of the resumed pilgrimage, there shall be a ceiling of 2,000 pilgrims per day, including 1,900 from within Jammu and Kashmir and remaining 100 from outside the UT, said Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board CEO Ramesh Kumar.“The situation will be reviewed thereafter and decision will be taken accordingly. The pilgrims will be allowed to undertake the yatra only after online registration,” he added.The pilgrims will be required to install the Aarogya Setu App on their mobile phones before proceeding for the yatra. It will be mandatory for them to wear face masks.The children below the age of 10 years, pregnant women, persons with co-morbidities and persons above the age of 60 years have been advised to avoid the yatra in the interest of their own safety.Later as and when the situation normalises, the advisory for this group shall be revisited.The CEO added that the yatra will move in a unidirectional manner. “The traditional route from Katra to Bhawan via Banganga, Adhkuwari and Sanjichhat will be used for going up and Himkoti route-Tarakote Marg will be used for coming back from the Bhawan,” he said.The Covid test report of the pilgrims from outside J&K and red zones of J&K will be checked at the helipad and yatra entry points at Darshani Deodi, Banganga and Katra.“Only those with negative reports will be allowed to move towards the Bhawan. Ponies, pithus and palkis will not be allowed to ply on the tracks, initially,” he informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vaishno-devi-pilgrimage-to-resume-from-sunday-shrine-board-ceo/story-jNWeENs2zU1BV6jnD5tqFJ.html
14-08-2020||City||Jalandhar screening vulnerable for early intervention against covid-19||Jalandhar With the rising mortality rate of covid-19 cases in the district, the health department has started a door-to-door survey to screen people with comorbidities for early intervention. To date, over 35,000 people with comorbidities such as fever, TB and non-communicable diseases have been identified. “The focus is to examine elderly residents with comorbidities and pregnant women, the groups most susceptible to covid-19, so that treatment could be given at an early stage,” said Dr Satish Kumar of the health department.Jalandhar district is among the worst-hit with 3,627 positive cases reported till Thursday and 92 deaths so far. Twelve patients are critical and are on ventilator. The door-to-door survey is being carried out by ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) and ANM (Auxiliary Nursing Midwives) workers and they have been asked to visit at least 20 houses per day from this month. Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday directed all private hospitals, medical stores and clinics that people who attended OPD, drug stores for the treatment of fever, cough, influenza-like illness and respiratory illness to intimate frontline workers or local administration to guide them for RT-PCR test. He added that all five 35,000 people, who had been found suffering from pre-existing diseases will be tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-screening-vulnerable-for-early-intervention-against-covid-19/story-yiGLNlWYQnmbS7AJxx3r3J.html
14-08-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: New rate list for Covid-19 treatment issued for pvt hospitals||Lucknow Chief Medical Officer (CMO) RP Singh on Thursday issued rate list for treatment of Covid-19 patients at private hospitals in the city.During the meeting, a committee was also formed, which will strictly monitor hospitals that charge hefty amounts from the public.“Rs 10,000 will be charged per day for isolation beds in case of moderate sickness that includes supportive care and oxygen. The amount includes the PPE cost of Rs 1,200. For severe sickness Rs 15,000, each day will be charged for ICU without the need of ventilators. This includes Rs 2,000 for PPE kits. For very severe sickness Rs 18,000 will be charged for ICU with ventilator care this includes both invasive and non-invasive. The amount also included Rs 2,000 for PPE,” it said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The owners, managers or administrators of private owned Covid hospitals where virus patients have been admitted or are being sent to the Integrated Covid Command Center established in Lucknow under relevant arrangements, are required to issue bills of treatment in three parts, one copy of which must be forwarded to the Chief Medical Officer, Lucknow. If for any reason, specific treatment/medicine (other than Covid-19) is included in the bill, it should be mention clearly and reason must be explained,” it added.As per the notice, those found guilty of charging above prescribed rates would be punished under relevant sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-new-rate-list-for-covid-19-treatment-issued-for-pvt-hospitals/story-689eTVRmGVj5v8N8YxUA8K.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Fee issue: Chandigarh administration seeks time to respond to private school’s proposal||The Chandigarh administration on Friday sought time from the Punjab and Haryana high court on a proposal submitted by private schools on fee collection amid the pandemic outbreak.The proposal was submitted before the bench of justice GS Sandhawalia during the resumed hearing of a plea in which schools challenged UT’s decision of asking them not to hike the fee for the academic session 2020-2021, among other measures. The matter stands adjourned now for August 31.In the proposal, Independent Schools Association (ISA) has said that they be allowed to strike off the names of students who don’t clear their dues by the 15th of each month. They have agreed to charge the same fee which was applicable in 2019-20 session but want dues cleared by the mid of each month. The ISA also assured to deal with applications filed by parents in distress with a sympathetic attitude. They have also demanded that the administration should withdraw its orders regarding fee collection, citing them invalid under the Disaster Management Act and that no coercive action should be taken against any school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fee-issue-chandigarh-administration-seeks-time-to-respond-to-private-school-s-proposal/story-KYJw89jxptLScIMuYkUjuO.html
14-08-2020||City||IAS officer Ruhee Dugg is new BFUHS registrar||Faridkot In a first, an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, Ruhee Dugg, has been posted as the registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) at Faridkot. Dugg will hold additional charge as she will continue serving in her current role of additional secretary in the department of medical education and research. Medical education and research minister OP Soni said the appointment had been made to improve the functioning of the medical university, on the directions of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said the decision was taken with his consent to make the working of the varsity more transparent. “The decision has been taken in the wake of covid-19. As IAS officers has been appointed to monitor each district, we had suggested to do same for universities,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ias-officer-ruhee-dugg-is-new-bfuhs-registrar/story-uGZpUBqdzgWx8b5kDwsdCM.html
14-08-2020||City||Gambusia fish to help Mohali health department combat mosquitoes this year||In an effort to tackle vector-borne diseases during monsoon, the district health department has released Gambusia fish, which feed on larvae of mosquitoes, into various water bodies in Mohali.Senior medical officer of Boothgarh in Majri area, Dr Dilbagh Singh said, “We have released Gambusia fish into 18 water bodies in villages of Boothgarh block as killing mosquito larvae through Gambusia is an eco-friendly way of dealing with mosquito breeding. The Gambusia fish will be released in other water bodies by next week.”Dr Dilbagh said, “These biocontrol measures are a lot easier to introduce in villages. Mohali health department started breeding Gambusia fish, which is said to be effective in checking mosquito breeding. The species, which predominantly feeds on the larvae is also called ‘mosquito fish’ and is being used as a biological control measure.” He said that nearly 86 water bodies in villages and towns have been earmarked as ‘hotspots’ wherein these fish will be released in open wells and water bodies. “An adult Gambusia fish can consume nearly 150 larvae a day,” he added. The problem of mosquitoes breeding in clear water, especially Aedes aegypti mosquitoes which carry the dengue virus can be controlled through them. While the fish are bred at the office, they are fed rice husks and groundnut oil cakes said health inspector Gurtej Singh. He said that an adult mosquitofish can eat up to 150 mosquito larvae in an 8-hour period. This makes them an excellent biological tool for mosquito control because the fish consume the larvae before they have a chance to develop into adult mosquitoes. He further appealed to the public to approach the fish seed farm for collecting mosquito fish for releasing at stagnant water points to check and control mosquito breeding. The department gets Gambusia fish from Gharuan, where people have fish farms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gambusia-fish-to-help-mohali-health-department-combat-mosquitoes-this-year/story-qENfCdqpGVzVejt3cL0QXI.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Class 11 admissions: Common merit list out for Chandigarh’s govt schools||The common merit list for admission into the city’s government schools has been uploaded on the website of the Chandigarh education department and 14,726 students have been ranked as per their percentage in Class-10 board exams. The list can be accessed on http://chdeducation.gov.in/.As per the education department officials, this is not the final list, and candidates can send their objections or discrepancies up to 1pm on Saturday, following which the final school-wise and stream-wise cutoff lists will be prepared.As per the list that has been released, 7,547 students have applied for 6,420 seats in the humanities stream, 3,675 students have applied for 3,080 seats in the science stream (both medical and non-medical) and 2,257 students have applied for 1,560 seats in the commerce stream. In science, the topper has scored 98.80%, in humanities the topper has scored 98% and in commerce, the topper has scored 97.4%.Out of 14,726 students, 941 students have scored over 91%, while 79 students have scored over 96%. The list has been divided into 14 brackets as per the percentage of marks scored by the candidates. The highest number of students (1,545) have scored between 46% to 51% as per the list.10,752 apply for 17,867 seats in junior classesLaunched on July 31, the online registration for seats in pre-nursery to Class 8 of government schools also closed on Friday, and a total 10,752 students applied for a total of 17,867 seats in 115 government schools of the city.In a bid to get more students to apply, some schools, especially those in the periphery of the city, have asked teachers to prepare posters asking children to come to school. The posters are to be pasted near the schools and in the markets there. Although some seats are still vacant, the department has announced that no extension to fill the admission forms will be given and depending on the number of vacant seats in different clusters, a further decision to accommodate more students will be taken.58 apply for 74 EWS seats in private unaided schoolsThe UT education department had earlier put out a notice for 74 seats for EWS students in nine private unaided schools of the city. Parents were asked to apply between August 10 and August 14 through Google forms. As many as 58 applications were received for these 74 seats. Parents can contact the schools between August 24 and August 26 to check the status of their wards’ admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/class-11-admissions-common-merit-list-out-for-chandigarh-s-govt-schools/story-s5x2B6m5xx7zb78h0kSRoJ.html
14-08-2020||City||Gang of snatchers active during lockdown busted in Ludhiana, two held||Police claim to have busted a gang of snatchers with the arrest of its two members. With their arrest, 11 incidents of snatchings, including seven during the lockdown, have been solved. The arrested accused have been identified as Lovedeep Singh, alias Deepu, of Guru Nanak Nagar of Bhamiyan Road, and Raman Kumar of Peeru Banda, Salem Tabri. Their accomplice, Suraj Kumar of Peeru Banda, is at large.Joint commissioner of police (City) Bhagirath Singh Meena said the snatchers were arrested on Thursday while they were commuting on a motorcycle from Gurdev Nagar to Sat Paul Mittal Road. A motorcycle, 17 mobile phones and two gold chains were recovered from their possession.Giving details about their modus operandi, Meena said the gang would recce for targets in Sarabha Nagar, Model Town, Ghumar Mandi, near Domoriya Bridge, near Guru Nanak stadium, Bahadurke road and Jodhewal area.Lovedeep was already facing trial in four cases of snatching and drug peddling. He was bailed out from jail on January 22 and returned to crime. Similarly, Raman has seven cases of snatching and drug peddling lodged against him. He was released on bail on January 28.“Both accused are in their late 20s and are drug addicts. They took to crime to meet their daily fix of drugs. The motorcycle recovered from them is stolen,” the official said.A case under Sections 379 (theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Division Number 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-of-snatchers-active-during-lockdown-busted-in-ludhiana-two-held/story-IrpN5xBxFiNtU8uvaJf9wM.html
14-08-2020||City||Two women among four booked for robbing Ludhiana trader of his car, cash||Police have booked four persons, including two women, for robbing a 36-year-old man of his car and Rs 40,000 in cash in Dugri.Investigators said the victim, Kunal Dev Malhotra, 36, of Dugri Phase-3, knew the female accused, Gurdeep Kaur of Gauhala Road and Sinki.The other accused are Paramjit Singh of Islam Ganj and Surinder Kumar of Kot Alamgir.Malhotra told the police that he traded in computer software and hardware. As he was interested in selling his Honda City, Kaur had offered to help him.On July 15, Kaur called him to Dugri road, stating that someone wanted to buy his car. There, she introduced the two men as her uncles. During the test drive, the accused started thrashing him in the moving car. They drove to an isolated placed, robbed him of Rs 40,000 in cash and fled in his car after throwing him out.ASI Avtar Singh, who is investigating the case, said the victim filed the complaint on Thursday after his attempts to get the car back failed. A case under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. The ASI said they will arrest the accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-women-among-four-booked-for-robbing-ludhiana-trader-of-his-car-cash/story-WKJjFqZCN46odeLHJ8oIfO.html
14-08-2020||City||77 new ambulances to be pressed into service in Punjab: Minister Balbir Sidhu||To ensure quick emergency services for patients amid the pandemic, 77 new ambulances are being pressed into operation in the state, informed Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday.Flagging off 15 basic life support (BLS) ambulances from Mohali, the minister informed that to meet the shortage of ambulances in government hospitals, the state government has given its nod to procure 100 more ambulances.He said that in the first phase, order for 77 ambulances has been placed, out of which 17 advance life support (ALS) ambulances have already been given to the districts. These ALS ambulances are fully equipped with life-saving equipments such as ventilators, defibrillators, multi-para patient monitor, suction machine, nebulisers etc. “Today, the delivery of the 60 BLS ambulances has commenced with the first lot of 15 ambulances. The remaining will be made available by the end of August, 2020,” the minister said.The emergency ambulances reach the place within 20 minutes in urban areas and within 30 minutes in rural areas.From March to July, 2020, ambulances have handled 25,177 Covid-related cases, said the minister, adding that currently, there are 19 ALS and 223 BLS ambulances operational in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/77-new-ambulances-to-be-pressed-into-service-in-punjab-minister-balbir-sidhu/story-ErK9ny0AkIrRnJ3MZc4GfM.html
14-08-2020||City||Himachal: Pathania hits back at Agnihotri, says oppn leader stooped to new low||State forest minister Rakesh Pathania on Friday hit back at Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri over his ‘government spreading the virus’ remark.I have highest of regards for Agnihotri, but he has stooped to a new low in the Himachal politics by making such illogical allegations, Pathania said in a press conference here.The minister said the opposition leader was stating as if only BJP workers have tested positive.“Even if some BJP leaders and workers have tested positive, this is because they are working in the field and helping people in the time of crisis and not sitting idle in the confines of their homes like Congress leaders,” said Pathania.He also justified chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s field visits stating as a leader of the state he must be among the people to boost their morale.“This is the same Congress leaders who were earlier questioning the CM for not coming out in the field during the pandemic. Now, when he is among the people, they are criticising him,” said Pathania.He said this was the time to fight the virus collectively and not to play cheap politics.Pathania questioned the leader of opposition about what he has done for the people and the state during the pandemic. He also flayed the opposition leader for holding the state government responsible for the increasing number of suicides and rapes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pathania-hits-back-at-agnihotri-says-oppn-leader-stooped-to-new-low/story-yEBl7ZMm1Uy1QSrGxiGA7L.html
14-08-2020||City||AAP ex-MLA booked for hurting religious sentiments||Amritsar Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) former MLA Jarnail Singh has been booked for hurting the religious sentiments of Hindus. A local resident, Gaurav Sharma, had complained at the Cantonment police station after Jarnail shared objectionable comments against Hindu gods on his Facebook account. He was booked on Friday. After his post surfaced, the AAP suspended Jarnail, its prominent Sikh face and former MLA of Rajouri Garden segment in Delhi, on Thursday. He deleted the post after social media backlash. Later, he claimed that the image was mistakenly published by his son during an online class.“My little son had taken my phone for his online class. He posted an image which I have deleted. I respect all the names of God Ram, Gobind, Keshav, Sadashiv and follow the principles of Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib,” a rough translation of his clarification that was issued in Gurmukhi reads. “The AAP is a secular party and has no place for anyone who disrespects any religion. The Sikh community is also very sad, because such kind of action is also against the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev,” a release from the AAP stated. Station house officer Inderjit Singh Dhaliwal said an FIR has been registered against Jarnail under Sections 295-A (deliberate acts to outrage religious feelings) of the IPC and 67 of IT Act, 2000. NO APOLOGY ACCEPTABLE: MANNIn Bathinda, AAP MP Bhagwant Mann said on Friday that the party was in no mood to consider apology tendered by its senior leader Jarnail Singh over derogatory comment on Hindu gods. At a press conference, Mann said the former Delhi MLA acted in a very irresponsible manner and his conduct is beyond any negotiation.“AAP is firm that if any person is seen involved in mocking any faith or practices in any manner will not be accepted. His suspension from the primary membership is justified. His voluntary deletion of the defamatory post from his Facebook page will not make the party leadership rethink over his suspension,” said Mann.While stating that the state unit is being restructured and the rebel leaders will be roped in again, the Sangrur said the party may announce a CM face in the next assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-ex-mla-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/story-U3sn23OMtn7SrBehBpWloJ.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Kashmir Chamber of commerce and industry lashes out at govt over infinite lockdown||The Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Thursday lashed out at the government for imposing indefinite lock down in Kashmir, especially Srinagar, and termed it a serious ‘infringement’ on the rights of the business community to earn a livelihood. The business body which is amalgam of over two dozen organisations blamed officials for enjoying golf while ignoring the ground realities. Sheikh Gowhar Ali, joint secretary general and spokesman of KCCI, in a statement said that despite full cooperation extended by the general public and the business community, the administration appears to be running in circles.The KCCI blamed the officials of taking refuge by placing barbed wires around localities instead doing the hard ground work. “Here, the administration cannot be bothered to stop tweeting and identify individual houses. They simply barbwire off entire neighborhoods, if not the entire districts. Saves a lot of hard work.”The spokesman alleged that DDMA funds have been spent on purchase of barriers despite Kashmir having the highest inventory of barriers including barbed wires available. ‘’The prices of critical medical equipment, including oxygen concentrators ,has skyrocketed without any system of checks and balances in place.’’“Handpicked star restaurants, frequented to by the high and mighty, have been allowed to operate. Our students stand deprived of quality education due to the unavailability of required internet speed, which the government of Jammu and Kashmir has been opposing tooth and nail in the honourable Supreme Court of India.”The spokesperson said the Royal Springs Golf Course (RSGC), which had been closed till May. was opened up for play in June .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kashmir-chamber-of-commerce-and-industry-lash-out-at-govt-over-infinite-lockdown/story-64zllb07NViWVhKjjgNxKO.html
14-08-2020||Pune||Pune city reports 1,148 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, 48 deaths||Pune on Thursday reported 1,148 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 48 Covid-related deaths, according to data released by the state health department. This takes the progressive positive cases in the city to 75,453. However, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in its daily report, recorded 1,091 fresh positive cases taking the total number of progressive positives in the city to 70,326. According to the PMC, 35 deaths were reported, taking its virus-related death toll in the city to 1,656. Eleven deaths were reported of patients who reside outside the PMC jurisdiction, but were being treated in city hospitals. The number of patients in critical care is now at 737. Also 1,156 persons were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the total discharged count at 53,958. According to the information given by the PMC’s health department, of the 35 deaths reported on Thursday, the youngest deceased patient was a 24-year-old male from Hadapsar area admitted to Sassoon Hospital who had respiratory failure and pneumonia. While the oldest deceased patient was a 93-year-old male from Sahakarnagar, admitted to Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, who died due to pneumonia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-city-reports-1-148-fresh-covid-19-positive-cases-48-deaths/story-cdZM53VzLBqDDUnNrioJtJ.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Vaishno Devi Shrine likely to re-open on August 16||Though around a dozen Covid-19 cases have been reported from the sanctum sanctorum of the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi shrine over the last couple of days, the temple will be re-opened on Saturday after a hiatus of around five monthsThe shrine was closed on March 18 amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Reasi district commissioner, Indu Kanwal Chib, said, “Most probably the pilgrimage will resume from Sunday but a final decision is yet to be taken by the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board.” A shrine board member said,“The government’s order with a detailed standard operating procedure for re-opening religious places and shrines is out. The Covid-19 cases at the bhawan (sanctum sanctorum) have admitted to hospitals and the yatra will begin from August 16.” However, the Katra hotel association met Reasi district commissioner Indu Kanwal Chib on Thursday and urged the administration to make a couple of concessions. PROTOCOL For pilgrims from outside J&K, Covid-19 antigen testing will be mandatory. Permission to proceed beyond Katra will be accorded only when the Covid-19 results of the pilgrims comes negative.  Pilgrims from red districts will be compulsorily tested and allowed to proceed if the results are negative. Registration of pilgrims will be only done online Periodic Covid-19 antigen testing of exposed frontline staff of SMVDSB and other service providers in the area will be carried to keep a tab on the spread of the infection in Katra and its surrounding area. ‘DO AWAY WITH 500-PILGRIM CEILING’ Katra hotel association president Rakesh Wazir said, “Every individual in Katra, India and across the world welcomes the much-awaited resumption but we have requested the administration to remove the ceiling of 500 pilgrims from outside J&K and 4,500 from within J&K that is valid till September 30 because the footfall of local pilgrims during lean and peak season varies between 500 to 1500. Therefore, the rider of 500 pilgrims from outside J&K should be done away with.” “Further, the latest Covid negative test reports from native states of pilgrims from outside J&K should be considered valid for 72 hours,” he said. The J&K government on Tuesday had issued guidelines and instructions for opening of all religious places from August 16. The order clearly says that any deviation from the order will attract penal action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. “Due to the relatively large number of pilgrims visiting the shrine, additional guidelines shall be applied to this shrine and will be enforced by the shrine board’s chief executive officer and Reasi district magistrate,” the order reads. Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) facilities at multiple locations at the start of yatra route could be set up to randomly test and identify any potential carrier of infection. The shrine board and the district administration have already launched a massive cleaning and sanitisation drive at the sanctum sanctorum, twin tracks and Katra town. Sanitisation and hygiene of all toilet blocks, bathing ghats, guest houses, battery cars, helicopters, cable car shall be ensured. The shrine, which is one of the holiest places for Hindus, is located in Reasi district and is the second richest temple in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vaishno-devi-shrine-likely-to-re-open-on-august-16/story-KcLO5gDqEJtfiTevChYtzL.html
14-08-2020||Pune||PMPML to start local cargo service to boost revenue||Aimed at making up for the lost revenue amid the Covid-19 pandemic Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has decided to start goods carrier cargo or courier service within Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad cities.Four PMPML buses are converted into goods carrier buses on a trial basis and also the legal technicalities of starting this service is in process, said, officials.“We are working on various options to overcome the losses we have faced in last four to five months, one of which is cargo service,” said Rajendra Jagtap, chairman and managing director, PMPML.“The service will be provided only in the jurisdiction where we are currently providing the bus service within the Pune district. A person who wants a parcel to be delivered can drop it at our depots with proper safety precautions and it will reach its destination via our buses,” said Jagtap.“People need such services to send their couriers and parcels within the city, and as we have a vast network across both the cities it will be beneficial for residents,” he said.“We have already converted some of our buses into this courier service bus for trials, in which the seats are removed and at the backside, the shutter is installed. And we are also looking at the legal technicalities before starting this cargo service. These buses have got a nod from regional transport office (RTO) as passenger service buses,” he said.Before the lockdown, the daily average income of PMPML was at least Rs 1.5 crore which has come down to Rs 2.5 to Rs 3 lakh per day. The earlier ridership was around 11 lakh passengers daily with a fleet of more than 2,000 buses on road. Currently, only 225 buses are plying for people in essential services in both the cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmpml-to-start-local-cargo-service-to-boost-revenue/story-obDhEtNIKNTNkiW85riyMI.html
14-08-2020||Pune||Door-to-door biomedical waste collection a challenge for Pune civic body||As more number of Covid-19 patients opt for home quarantine in Pune city compared to hospitals, it is becoming challenging for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to collect biomedical waste.As of August 11 out of the 15,043 active cases, almost 7,754 are in home isolation and 7,289 are in hospital isolation.According to Dnyaneshwar Molak, head, PMC solid waste department, the city has 15 ward offices and they have given one van in each regional ward office.“As the number of Covid-19 people opting for home isolation is on a rise, it is challenging for the civic body to conduct the door-to-door collection of biomedical and solid waste,” he said.He said, “Health department is collecting the medical waste from Covid-19 positive patients at homes and other garbage is collected by the solid waste management department.”One of the PMC class four employee who is the member of garbage collection on condition of anonymity said, “People are not following the norms while handing over the garbage. Even the employees are not aware of Covid-19 positive patients who are isolated at homes. I was collecting garbage from one housing society every day and later come to know that three to four Covid positive patients are home isolated in that society.”An officer from the health department said around three to four thousand kilo biomedical waste is collected daily mainly of Covid patients which is later disposed off scientifically.Molak said, “Health department has appointed a contractor for collecting the biomedical waste. They are regularly collecting garbage from patients.”A resident from Sahakarnagar said, “I have two Covid positive patients who were isolated at home. I have put a bag in their room. PMC van comes every alternate day to collect the biomedical waste.”A Covid-19 positive patient who has opted for home isolation said, “Earlier we were not aware of the waste segregation process, but later through Swacch employee we come to know that there is a separate arrangement for collecting waste from Covid patients. We got the number of one of the elected member and he helped to arrange for collection facility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/door-to-door-biomedical-waste-collection-a-challenge-for-pune-civic-body/story-mcOcNkGLHCApoG8Iy3eTYJ.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally crosses 1.5 lakh mark with 1,192 fresh cases||Delhi has reported 1,192 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday to go past the 150,000-mark for the total number of coronavirus cases registered in the national capital since the outbreak of the disease in February this year. However, only 11,366 of these are currently infected by the disease and under medical supervision.According to the health bulletin released by the state government, 11 deaths have been reported in the past 24-hour cycle due to Covid 19 taking the death toll to 4178. 790 people have been discharged in the same period, leading to number of recoveries reaching 135,108 in the city.The city is also placed comfortably in terms of the number of beds available in Covid care facilities such as Covid hospitals, Covid care centres and Covid health centres with more than 16500 beds vacant.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe state capital currently has 523 containment zones.On the front of testing, Delhi has also conducted 5,721 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests, 9324 Rapid Antigen tests on Friday. Total number of tests conducted in the city-state has crossed 12 lakh 73 thousand. The figure for tests per million conducted in the city has also improved to 67007.Number of tests conducted per day has been increasing nationally, with 8,48,728 tests conducted on Friday and over 8 lakh patients tested on Thursday, a big advancement from February when India had conducted its first test in the only lab capable of testing Covid 19 samples in Pune.Also Read: Defence ministry’s special arrangements for celebrations at Red FortUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan has said that he is confident of the country’s coronavirus situation becoming far better in the next two months.A total of 64,553 new coronavirus cases were reported nationally on Friday morning along with 1,007 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.With this, the country’s Covid-19 count rose to 24,61,191, which includes 6,61,595 active cases, 17,51,556 discharged/migrated and 48,040 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-1-5-lakh-mark-with-1-192-fresh-cases/story-msYQtLnkt7gY42pGIcAqmO.html
14-08-2020||City||Rohtang Tunnel to open by September-end||Shimla The 8.8-km strategic Rohtang Tunnel, being built at 3,000metre above sea level between Manali and Leh, will be opened for traffic by September-end. The ₹3,200-crore tunnel will shorten the 474-km distance between Manali and Leh by 46km, which means the eight-hour journey will be cut by two-and-a-half hours. The tunnel is also called Atal Tunnel, as the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had announced the project on June 3, 2000. The work was entrusted to the Border Roads Organisation (BRO). After this announcement, there was a lull with the then United Progressive Alliance (UPA) chairperson Sonia Gandhi laying the foundation stone of the project on June 28, 2010. The project has faced geological challenges which have pushed the deadline, since digging started in 2011.The project was to be completed in February 2015, but water ingress from Seri Nullah, ban on rock mining and delay in allotment of land needed for quarrying, and loose rock strata in the middle caused the slow progress.More than 700 men are working in shifts to complete the tunnel. When the pandemic-enforced lockdown was imposed, proactive measures were taken to recommence work in active coordination with the state government. “When the lockdown was imposed, labourers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh working on the tunnel migrated, causing a major labour problem. Later, we arranged labour from different parts of the state,” said chief engineer Rohtang Tunnel project KP Purushothaman. He added, “Almost all major civil and engineering works have been completed and the remaining will be completed before September 20.”Defence minister Rajnath Singh was to inspect the work at the tunnel last month, but due to the stand-off between India and Chinese troops, this trip was cancelled. Rajnath is likely to visit Rohtang tunnel in August-end.“The government will invite PM Narendra Modi to inaugurate the tunnel, which is a boon for people living in the inhospitable terrain in Lahual and Spiti,” said technical education and tribal affairs minister Dr Ram Lal Markanda. Speed limits in the tunnel will be 80km per hour. The tunnel will accelerate troop mobility to strategic frontiers in Jammu and Kashmir, besides providing a road link to Lahaul and Spiti in the winters. The tunnel has the capacity to ply 3,000 vehicles per day under any weather condition. The cost of the project has escalated from ₹1,700 crore in 2010 to almost its double to ₹3,200 crore by September-end 202||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohtang-tunnel-to-open-by-september-end/story-wXtB7EdECwm2xIEmtnmYdI.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Miscreants put up flag with Khalistan written on it on terrace of Moga district administrative complex||Moga: Despite the security alert on the eve of Independence Day, two miscreants managed to reach the terrace of the four-storeyed district administrative complex in Moga on Friday morning and put up a saffron flag with Khalistan written on it, while their accomplice filmed the incident from a distance. While fleeing, the two men took away the Tricolour on the ground floor and allegedly tore it. On getting information about the incident, police personnel put up a new Tricolour and removed the saffron flag from the roof of the building. Moga senior superintendent of police Harmanbir Singh Gill said that two youngsters brought along the saffron flag at 8.15am. “It was a normal flag with the Khanda symbol but they had written Khalistan on it with paint.” Inspector general of police Kaustubh Sharma said, “We have CCTV footage of the accused and will arrest them soon.” SIKHS FOR JUSTICE RELEASES VIDEO OF INCIDENT The incident took place days after the banned US-based pro-Khalistan outfit Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) announced a reward of $1,25,000 (Rs 93 lakh) for anyone who puts up the ‘Khalistan flag’ at Red Fort on Independence Day. SFJ leader Gurpatwant Singh Pannu released a video of the Moga incident that shows the two men tearing the Tricolour and escaping with it. At the end of the video, Pannu announced a reward of $2,500 (Rs 1.8 lakh) for anyone raising the ‘Khalistan flag’ at panchayat ghars on Independence Day “It seems all this was done for money. While fleeing, they took away the National Flag with them. We are trying to recover it,” SSP Gill said. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “This is an act of cowardice. They chose a time when the employees were arriving for duty so no one suspected them. We will take steps to ensure such lapses don’t occur again.” An eyewitness was taken into custody as police suspect his involvement in the incident. A case was registered under the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act at the city police station in Moga. BITTU BLAMES SFJ, JATHEDARCalling for the arrest of the two miscreants, Ludhiana Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu tweeted, “The poison being spread by Pannu and Jathedar Sahib has shown its effect in Moga. Now is the time to differentiate between those who love this country and those who want to destroy it.” Bittu is the grandson of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh, who was assassinated by Sikh extremists at the Punjab secretariat on August 31, 1995. Bittu has been at loggerheads with Akal Takht acting jathedar Harpreet Singh for allegedly supporting SFJ ‘s demand for a separate Sikh state of Khalistan.AAP STEERS CLEAR, MANN CALLS IT ‘NON-ISSUE’ Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann termed the Moga incident a non-issue. “The AAP struggles for issues such as unemployment, inflation and poverty as they affect the common man. Owing to the deteriorating situation in Punjab, scores of youngsters are migrating to foreign lands. Such incidents are actually not issues,” he told reporters in Bathinda. In the run-up to the 2017 Punjab elections, AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was seen cosying up to Sikh radicals. In January 2017, Kejriwal had even stayed at the house of former militant Gurinder Singh’s house in Moga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/miscreants-put-up-flag-with-khalistan-written-on-it-on-terrace-of-moga-district-administrative-complex/story-5QEHItG8lALz10bDMeTwfM.html
14-08-2020||Jaipur||Heavy rains cause waterlogging in parts of Rajasthan||Heavy rains lashed Rajasthan on Friday, inundating low-lying areas and paralysing normal life. Several parts of Jaipur were waterlogged and scores of vehicles were stranded on roads after the city received excessive rainfall for almost three hours. According to a spokesperson of the MeT Department, Jaipur recorded 80 mm rainfall between 8.30 am and 11.30 am. Shabad of Baran district received 127mm rainfall, Dausa 124 mm, Karauli 101 mm, Bamanwas 76 mm and Sanchore 32 mm, he said. The weather office has forecast moderate rainfall at many places accompanied with heavy to very heavy rains at a few places in Jaipur during the next three hours. The MeT department has alerted for localised flooding of susceptible informal settlements, low-lying areas and underpasses. Thunderstorms with light to moderate rain are likely to occur at a few places in Jaipur, Sikar, Ajmer, Tonk districts and adjoining areas, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/heavy-rains-cause-waterlogging-in-parts-of-rajasthan/story-2Y8cgoU33AVj7nnXv9FRQP.html
14-08-2020||Lucknow||Nigrani samities to keep eye on Covid-19 patients in Lucknow localities’||To check the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city, district administration has formed around 140 nigrani samities to keep track of Covid patients who are under home quarantine and home isolation.Officials with the district administration said the move aimed to ensure effectiveness of home isolation and home quarantine. The move is said to be an outcome of the UP government’s orders directing district administration to strengthen up the front line facilities in order to contain the deadly virus outbreak.“We have constituted around 140 nigrani samities to keep a watch on the Covid-19 patients under home isolation or home quarantine. The samities that would also be backed by the local police station would keep a watch on the patients at the locality level,” said Mukesh Meshram, divisional commissioner, Lucknow. The samities comprise local corporator and volunteers, said Meshram. “The samities will ensure that in case of home isolation, the patient remains at home for 10 days in isolation. Also, the samities would ensure that the person who is home quarantined stays indoors for 7 days,” he added. He further said in case the patient is found roaming , the samities will ensure that he/she is admitted to the Covid Care Centre with the help of local police .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/nigrani-samities-to-keep-eye-on-covid-19-patients-in-lucknow-localities/story-Viky2lN4LXyXHS5pN3A8hI.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Freedom from taboo: Artists help remove stigmas around prisons||When the terms prison and punishment are spoken, dreadful images of crime come to mind. But anyone who has interacted with inmates only has tales of hopes to tell. Life behind bars teaches inmates many lessons, leaving most of them with a will to turn around their lives for the better. This Independence Day, a group of artists is helping these inmates get freedom from the taboos surrounding them.Yogesh Saini, who founded Delhi Street Art (DSA) to make the city’s public spaces more breathable, has teamed up with various incarceration facilities to help engage inmates. He and his team of artists have been cleaning up spaces, adding relevant murals to the city’s walls. Recently, they undertook painting murals of the lesser-seen facets of Mahatma Gandhi’s life at an incarceration facility on the outskirts of Delhi. “We started in December last year and finished the first phase by January. We have painted over 40 murals, and a few final touches remain,” says Saini. Masks are mandatory and social distancing protocols are followed. “We are being extra careful and restricting our movement,” he adds. The team has spent about five years working in different jails, and Saini believes that art reinforces positivity. “These are indelible memories for the people of the city, and it is a positive change for the inmates as well. They are in our contact even when they are out on parole, or upon completion of their sentence,” shares Saini.Sudhakar Singh, previously an employee with the Central Government, was sentenced to seven years in Tihar jail. He is a self-taught artist from Delhi and found his footing with the group, but life after sentence has not been kind to him, as he found himself out of work. “Ek baar aap jail chale jaao toh uske baad kuch nahi bachta. Main ek professional driver bhi hoon, lekin ab corona ke chalte koi kaam nahi hai,” he says. His son is a graduate and the sole earning member of the family. “Jab main gaya tha tab voh school mein tha. Usne graduation kari aur ab job karta hai,” he says.Read: Stuck in Pune due to Covid, Hong Kong-based doc’s murals spread positivityPhrases like “art has the power to reform lives” are not just tall proclamations. For life behind bars, art often emerges as a ray of hope. Vinod Lahori was fortunate he found a mentor in a fellow inmate who helped him hone his skills. “I used to sketch on applications and letters, but guruji motivated me to take it up seriously,” says Vinod who is currently out on parole due to his good behaviour and the covid crisis. Talking about his love for art, he says, “Dil ko bahut sukoon milta hai yeh kaam kar ke. Jail mein reh kar maine independent hona seekh liya hai. Vahaan aap insaan ko parakhna samajh jaate hain.”Artists who have worked with inmates realise and acknowledge the sea of difference in life in prison and the outside world. “Everyone deserves a second chance at life, and whatever they did in the past, they have paid for it. Unhe pachtava hai,” says Deepak Saini, a graduate of College of Art. Sharing his experience of working with the inmates, he says, “A lot of them came to know us, and before corona, we would often have lunch together. Art is a way to integrate them back into the society.”Read: Spreading corona awareness, one wall at a timeSelf-taught artist Virendar has worked at several incarceration facilities and says that often a person succumbs to their circumstances. “Koi kaise criminal banaa yeh aap nahi keh sakte, zaroori yeh hai ki sabko ek izzatdaar zindagi jeene ka adhikaar hai. Baahar aa ke unhe kaam nahi milta, log unhe alag nazar se dekhte hain. Art ke zariye unhe ek behatar zindagi mil sakti hai,” he says.Interacti with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/freedom-from-taboo-artists-help-remove-stigmas-around-prisons/story-kdLQdi83CGkBiRcM5kIFqL.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal to address AAP volunteers on Independence Day||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will be addressing AAP volunteers from across the country on Independence Day.The interaction by Kejriwal on Saturday will be carried out through an online session. On the occasion of Independence Day National Convenor of AAP Shri @ArvindKejriwal will be addressing party volunteers across India. Date: 15th August 2020Time: 4:00 PM➡️ Facebook - https://t.co/QPIoH2dicA➡️ YouTube- https://t.co/VOwzVg4aBD https://t.co/sI7VgA8d0K pic.twitter.com/3QzwZ0UOc4“On the occasion of Independence Day, National Convenor of Aam Aadmi Party Arvind Kejriwal will be addressing all volunteers of AAP across India,” the party said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-to-address-aap-volunteers-ahead-of-independence-day/story-KKOHc566m8osUymJBAs4XJ.html
14-08-2020||Kolkata||60-year-old killed by daughter-in-law’s family; 4 held while trying to dispose of body in a taxi||A 60-year-old woman was allegedly murdered by the family members of her daughter-in-law in south-west Kolkata in the early hours of Friday. Police stumbled upon the body, hidden in the boot trunk of a taxi among sacks of vegetables, during a routine checking. Cops have arrested the parents and a relative of the victim’s daughter-in-law and the driver of the taxi in which the body was found. Preliminary investigation revealed that the accused had planned to dispose of the body in east Kolkata as the area has large wetlands, canals and creeks and remains desolate. “The victim, Suja Mani Gayen, used to harass and torture her daughter-in-law Sujata Gayen. The relationship between Suja Mani’s family and Sujata’s parents had gone sour long back,” said a police officer. Sujata’s parents invited Suja Mani over for dinner under the pretext of discussing their disputes. They hit the victim with a rod and strangulated her. “During a routine checking, a police patrol unit intercepted the taxi. There were sacks of green vegetables in the boot trunk. The head of a woman with blood stains on it was jutting out. The four were immediately arrested,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/60-year-old-killed-by-daughter-in-law-s-family-4-held-while-trying-to-dispose-of-body-in-a-taxi/story-kdLD24p6CtmDPy5wfzUmHI.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||300 buses plying under PRTC’s kilometre scheme yet to resume operations||Patiala: The Pepsu Road Transport Corporation’s kilometre (km) scheme has gone off track as at least 300 buses it is running under it are yet to resume operations during the Covid-19 unlock phases. Under the scheme, the responsibility of operating the buses is of the private transporters and the corporation has to give only the running cost. Of the 300 buses under the scheme, 15 are integral coaches (Volvo), 47 are HVAC, while 233 are ordinary buses that run through contracts with private transporters. These buses have not been plying since March 18 when restrictions were placed on public transport. CORPORATION FEARS LOSSES, SCHEME BECOMING UNVIABLE The corporation has a total fleet of 1,045 buses. Though the PRTC resumed transport services on May 20, it is still running less than 50% of its total fleet due to lesser occupancy in the wake of the pandemic. The private transporters associated with the corporation fear huge losses in this scenario. “It is not financially viable for the PRTC to run buses under the km-scheme at this stage. The buses plying under the scheme could only resume services once the situation normalises. At present, only PRTC-owned buses are put into service. Even they are facing occupancy issues as the people are reluctant to travel in public transport,” PRTC managing director Jaskiran Singh said. Under the scheme, the running cost of a bus is estimated to be around ₹6.68 per km, while in self-financed buses, the expenses are pegged at ₹7.80 per km. Even insurance and security expenses are borne by the transporters. The employees unions see the scheme as a tactic to promote privatisation in the state’s transport sector. FOCUS ON GENERATING REVENUE Nirmal Singh Dhaliwal, convener of trade unions linked with PRTC, said the decision of not running the buses under the scheme at this stage will help PRTC to meet its expenditure somehow. “In the present scenario, the corporation should concentrate on generating revenues by running its pre-owned buses,” he said. Pradeep Gautam of the Km-Scheme Bus Operators’ Union said non-operation of buses has not only hurt them financially but also the workers have been rendered jobless. “A majority of us purchased these buses by taking loans from banks. We are finding it hard to repay our loan installments. Moreover, the PRTC has not paid ₹5 crore for plying these buses from February 15 to March 18,” Gautam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/300-buses-plying-under-prtc-s-km-scheme-yet-to-resume-operations/story-lmMn8AFMa9CB2iFRXkAMBK.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Raghavendra P Tiwari is new vice-chancellor of Central University of Punjab in Bathinda||Raghavendra P Tiwari has been appointed the new vice-chancellor of Central University of Punjab (CUP), Bathinda. At present, Tiwari is the vice-chancellor of Dr Harisingh Gour Vishwavidyalaya, a central university at Sagar in Madhya Pradesh. Tiwari, who replaces RP Kohli, is likely to join next week. The new vice-chancellor will serve for five years or till the time he attains the age of 70 years, whichever is earlier. The Union human resource development ministry issued a notification on Thursday after President Ram Nath Kovind appointed Tiwari the CUP vice-chancellor, registrar Dr KP Mundra said. Tiwari will be the third vice-chancellor of the Bathinda-based university, which was set up in 2009. A distinguished academician, Tiwari did PhD in geology from Gauhati University. He specialises in earth sciences, including palaeontology (analysis of plant and animal fossils) and seismology. He is engaged in research in palaeobiology (biology of fossil animals and plants). Tiwari has served as dean, School of Earth Sciences and Natural Resource Management, and remained head of the department of geology at Mizoram University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/raghavendra-p-tiwari-is-new-vice-chancellor-of-central-university-of-punjab-in-bathinda/story-bNqnqextU59iBHMSRIlzPI.html
14-08-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad Police files charge sheet in journalist Vikram Joshi murder case||A charge sheet has been filed by the police in connection with journalist Vikram Joshi murder case in which 10 people have been booked, said Kalanidhi Naithani, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Ghaziabad on Friday. “On July 20, Vikram Joshi was shot and later he succumbed to his injuries. 9 accused were arrested within 24 hours. Tenth accused Aakash Bihari was arrested on August 5. The process of filing a charge sheet in the Vikram Joshi case has been completed in a time period of three weeks,” Naithani told ANI.“All evidence has been collected. All accused have been booked under several sections including the Gagangster Act,” he said.Journalist Vikram Joshi, 35, was shot at by unknown miscreants near his residence in Vijay Nagar, Ghaziabad on July 20. He succumbed to his injuries at a hospital later.The incident occurred days after Joshi had filed a complaint with Vijay Nagar Police Station stating some men were harassing his niece.Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey had said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had announced Rs 10 lakh economic assistance for Joshi’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-police-files-charge-sheet-in-journalist-vikram-joshi-murder-case/story-Irp6rVp8heZVFBh20mjXCO.html
14-08-2020||Gurugram||Two killed after society wall collapses||Two men died and two others were injured after a portion of a wall of a society collapsed on two shanties in sector 66 following the heavy rain. Police said all four were sleeping at the time of the incident. Police have registered a case of causing death by negligence against the developer of Emaar Marbella Villas after one of the injured filed a complaint. The deceased have been identified as Karan Sahu, a painter from Chhattisgarh, and Saddam, a native of Pataudi. Both were rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared them dead-on-arrival, said police. The incident took place around 2.30am. Vishal Sahu, also a painter, said in the complaint, “My brother, Vinod and I stay in one shanty. We were sleeping at the time of the incident and it was raining. My brother and our neighbour Saddam died due to the injuries after coming under the debris. ... Last year too, a portion of this wall had broken, but the builder or owner did not get it repaired.” Deepak Kumar, station house officer (SHO), sector 65 police station, said, a case had been registered for negligence. The developer declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-killed-after-society-wall-collapses/story-vbqGsDtZQkHSaHi9nnvdtK.html
14-08-2020||City||PMC to shut down 8 Covid-19 care Centres due to low occupancy||Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to temporarily shut eight Covid Care Centres as there is less occupancy at these centres.These centres include FC College, Agriculture College, Bunter School, Aundh ITI, Polytechnic college, Ambedkar Hostel, Dyaneshwar Hostel and a hostel at Sinhgad College.Rajendra Muthe, PMC estate department head and deputy commissioner, said, “These eight Covid Care Centres will be closed temporarily due to low occupancy. Patients at these centres will be shifted to nearby Covid Care Centres.”“PMC has a total 21 Covid care centres in the city with a capacity of 15,430 beds,” he said.“These centres will be in the possession of PMC only. We will be sanitising it and keeping it ready in case of an emergency,” he said.Muthe said, “More number of Covid-19 patients is under home quarantine in Pune city compared to hospitals.”As of August 11 out of the 15,043 active cases, almost 7,754 are in home isolation and 7,289 are in hospital isolation.Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner said, “There is enough bed capacity at the Covid Care Centres for asymptomatic patients. But at the same time, we are promoting home isolation as it would help the administration to concentrate mainly on critical patients rather than asymptomatic patients.”The administration claims that as these centres will be shut temporarily, it will reduce the burden on manpower.A patient who tested positive for the virus said, “I did my Covid test at a PMC swab centre. They asked me to stay at the PMC-run quarantine facility until the report was out. The experience at the quarantine facility was not satisfactory.”Another patient from Baner centre said, “Toilets at this centre are unclean. Also, it is tough to spend days here as there is only my mobile for entertainment. So I preferred home isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-to-shut-down-8-covid-care-centres-due-to-low-occupancy/story-280DwFBl9TUFue1IqaMqkN.html
14-08-2020||Bangalore||Siddaramaiah didn’t condemn attack on Congress MLA’s house, says BJP||BJP leader BL Santhosh on Thursday said that former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah did not condemn the attack on Congress MLA Akhand Srinivas Murthy’s house but asked ‘irrelevant’ questions to the BJP.“Ex-CM of @INCKarnataka has tagged me in 13 tweets. Not one condemning riots or attack on his own party’s Dalit MLA or asking Govt for tough actions. Same beating around the bush asking irrelevant questions to BJP. Fear of votes & Policy of appeasement. #CongressAgainstDalits,” Santhosh tweeted.Recently, Congress MLA Srinivas Murthy’s residence in Bengaluru was vandalised, allegedly over an inciting social media post by his nephew.Murthy’s house was attacked by people for an alleged controversial post on Facebook by his nephew Naveen.On August 12, Murthy demanded police security after his house was set on fire.The MLA said the miscreants were not from his party but were outsiders. Expressing concern, he questioned if this could happen to an MLA then what would happen to others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/siddaramaiah-didn-t-condemn-attack-on-congress-mla-s-house-says-bjp/story-SWwWmAhjPiFl0OB3JzMK5N.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||High court asks CBI to probe collection of ‘royalty’ from mining trucks in Rupnagar||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary probe into the collection of ‘royalty’ from trucks carrying mining material in Rupnagar district. The court was acting on the report submitted by chief judicial magistrate-cum-secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Rupnagar, Harsimranjit Singh. On February 19, the high court asked him to prepare the report as during the hearing of a petition on illegal mining, the government had told the court that there are no illegal check points/barriers near the mining sites in Rupnagar. Since the counsel for the petitioner had controverted the statement, the high court had sought a report from the DLSA secretary. “From the stand of the state and the report, the factual position of the existence and operation of the illegal and unauthorised nakas varies. We have no reason to doubt the report that is supported by photos and videoclips through a pen drive,” the bench of justice Jaswant Singh observed. It said that in view of this, the court was inclined to initiate action against the officials concerned who have failed to discharge their obligations under the Provisions of the Mines and Mineral (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957 and failed to preserve the supremacy and rule of law. The CJM had listed out seven locations where he found illegal nakas on three dates on visits to verify facts again. The officer submitted photos and videos of the nakas and collection being made. “(Those contacted) unanimously confirmed that no truck carrying sand and gravel is being allowed to cross these points without paying royalty. In fact royalty is being charged/collected by crusher owners from the trucks/tippers of sand and gravel at the start of their journey and slip (parchi) in this regard is being issued to truck/tipper drivers, which is being cross-checked at the illegal checkpoints to ensure that no vehicle passes through without paying royalty,” the CJM’s report says. The court too observed that the report established the existence and operation of the illegal and unauthorised checkpoints, operated by private persons without any authority of law, at various locations. There’s an instance where such an illegal checkpoint is even near a police post. The CBI has been asked to probe the case in view of the stand of the state and its authorities and looking at the dimension of the lawlessness involved, the bench added. The CBI has been told to take further steps after a preliminary report based on the outcome of the probe within two weeks. A status report has been sought by September 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-court-asks-cbi-to-probe-collection-of-royalty-from-mining-trucks-in-rupnagar/story-tkhhTUDB9htOfqPZwCoMIN.html
14-08-2020||Gurugram||Covid-hit Gurugram falls behind on office rentals||Landlords and tenants of commercial office spaces in Gurugram are renegotiating rentals as they seek to overcome the fallout of the coronavirus pandemic on the office leasing market in the city that has, in recent years, become the Indian base of some of the world’s biggest companies.Most tenants, especially middle-rung companies, are seeking waivers and deferment of rental payments to tide over the impact of the public health crisis that forced a 68-day national lockdown till May 31 with some restrictions remaining to date. Landlords have no option but to renegotiate in the backdrop of an emerging trend of desperate tenants surrendering office space in neighbourhoods such as Udyog Vihar, Sohna Road, even Golf Course Road, a premium addressThe impact of the pandemic has been so drastic that Gurugram was pushed to second place for the first time in seven years in office leasing activity in the first half of this year, according to a report by the property consultant Knight Frank. According to the report, more office space was leased in Noida in January-June as supply was available at much lower rentals in the satellite city.According to the report, 0.92 million sq ft office space was leased in Gurugram in the first six months of 2020 compared with 1.08 million sq ft in Noida. Noida outperformed Gurugram in terms of overall transactions and became the highest contributor to gross leasing in the National Capital Region market, posting a year-on-year increase of 86%. It came against the backdrop of a 45% decline in gross leasing by area in the NCR in the first six months of 2020. “Demand for office spaces has been growing in Noida mainly due to relatively high rentals in Gurugram’s established office space locations such as DLF Cyber City, Golf Course Road, MG Road and Udyog Vihar,” Knight Frank said, adding that better roads, improved metro rail connectivity and competitive rentals helped Noida pip Gurugram.Over the years, Gurugram has emerged as a powerful magnet for both domestic and multinational companies as available commercial space in New Delhi shrank and rentals soared. Today, it is the India corporate base of companies ranging from insurers Aviva and Max Life to consultant McKinsey and beverage maker PepsiCo, and home to the factories of automakers Maruti Suzuki and Hero MotorCorp, and airlines IndiGo and SpiceJet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-hit-gurugram-falls-behind-on-office-rentals/story-9oDT7wPtc9PYcxVwZ7hOuM.html
14-08-2020||Lucknow||Head of Ram temple trust tests positive for Covid-19||The head of the trust set up to oversee the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19 in Mathura days after he shared the dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the foundation-stone laying ceremony for the shrine on August 5, officials said. Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, 84, the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust chairman, has been shifted to Gurugram’s Medanta hospital for treatment, they added.“Mahant Nritya Gopal Das has tested positive for coronavirus. [Uttar Pradesh] CM [chief minister Yogi Adityanath] has sought details of the health status of the Mahant. He has spoken to the Mathura DM [district magistrate] and his [Das’s] followers,” said Uttar Pradesh’s additional chief secretary (home), Awanish Kumar Awasthi. He said Adityanath also spoke to Medanta’s chairman and managing director, Dr Naresh Trehan, and requested him immediate medical attention for Das. “He [Adityanath] directed the Mathura DM [district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Mishra] to provide all possible support to ensure the best possible medical attention,” said Awasthi.Das was in Mathura to preside over the Krishna Janmashtami celebrations on Wednesday and was staying at Sitaram Temple there. Officials said about a dozen people attended the celebrations and Das also met his disciples during his stay in Mathura since Tuesday. “We are tracing those who came in contact with Mahant Nritya Gopal Das both at [temple] ashram and at Sri Krishna Janambhoomi [birthplace]. They are being placed under quarantine. The priest at Sri Krishna Janambhoomi and office bearer of its Trust present during the celebrations are also to be placed under quarantine,” said Mathura’s additional chief medical officer, Dr Devendra Agarwal. He added those who came in contact with Das were yet to be tested.Mishra said a team of doctors was rushed to examine Das when he complained of breathing difficulty, fever, and a sore throat on Thursday morning. “An antigen test was conducted and it came positive. A decision was taken to refer him for Medanta hospital and an advanced life support system-equipped ambulance was called. Mathura city magistrate Manoj Kumar Singh and a circle officer... accompanied him to Gurugram.”Shri Krishna Janambhoomi Seva Sansthan (Mathura) secretary Kapil Sharma said Das had not been keeping well over the last five years, but he appeared fine when he attended the Janmashtami celebrations on Wednesday. “We came to know about his ill health on Thursday morning.”Das shared the dais with Modi, Adityanath, Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat at the groundbreaking ceremony for the Ram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/head-of-ram-temple-trust-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-toD3Qbo9N85FihwlHhP7BO.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Rain likely in Delhi over next few days, light showers in NCR: Met||Delhi will continue to get light to moderate showers over the next two to three days owing to moisture incursion from the Arabian Sea and the monsoon trough (a line of low pressure) passing near the national capital.Delhi’s Safdarjung station recorded the highest rain for August in 24 hours since 2013 on Wednesday evening and Thursday night. Between 5.30pm on Wednesday and 2.30pm on Thursday, the station recorded 83.8mm of rain, the highest since 95.2mm on August 21, 2013.Delhi’s rain deficiency (since June 1) fell from 35% on Wednesday to 10% on Thursday, considered to be in the “normal” category for monsoon. The Palam station recorded 99.9mm, while Lodhi Road recorded 84mm and Ridge recorded 98 mm. Most of the rain was recorded in two intense spells between 11.30pm on Wednesday and 2.30am on Thursday and another between 2.30am and 5.30am, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi.“We can expect more rain. NCR (National Capital Region) may record moderate category rains while Delhi will continue to record light to moderate rains. The monsoon trough is passing along Ferozepur, Narnaul, Gwalior, Satna, Ambikapur and Chaibasa towards the low pressure area over Bay of Bengal. There is also a cyclonic circulation over south Haryana. So rains will continue for two to three days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.“Palam recorded a very heavy spell by 5am on Thursday and then parts of central Delhi recorded a spell after some time. South Delhi got the highest share because moisture incursion is from the south now, from the Arabian Sea. We may not see such intense spells from Friday in Delhi-NCR, but 5 to 7cm rain can be expected. The heavy spells are dependent on convection and monsoon winds,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rain-likely-in-delhi-over-next-few-days-light-showers-in-ncr-met/story-ByhqaXP5G6x2gzj5gUx1pJ.html
14-08-2020||City||2 die in state transport bus-van collision on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway||Two passengers, including the driver of a van, died after colliding with a Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus near Varai Dekhale area at Manor on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad National Highway on Thursday afternoon. The victims are identified as Hitesh Barod and Parbhat Barod. The bus driver, Nilesh Tanaji Bangre, has been booked by the Manor police and he has also sustained minor injuries. According to the police, the bus had jumped the lane owing to which the collision took place. As the van was operating on compressed natural gas (CNG), the two vehicles caught fire after the collision and the two occupants inside the van were charred to death.“The bus was coming from Borivli and going towards Boisar. It had three passengers, as well as the driver and the conductor. The passengers of the bus were in essential services and were returning to Boisar from work. As the bus was approaching Varai Dhekale, its driver lost control of the vehicle and crossed the barricade and jumped on the lane towards Mumbai where it collided with the van. The passengers on the bus jumped outside using the emergency exit,” said assistant inspector Pratap Darade of Manor police station. “Prima facie, it appears that Bangre was overspeeding, owing to which he lost control of the bus. We are probing if he was driving in an inebriated state. He has been booked under sections 304 (a) (neglience), 279 (causing hurt due to rash act), 337 (rash driving endangering human life) and 427 (mischief) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and we will arrest him soon,” said Darade. The bodies of the victims have been sent for post-mortem and the reports are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-die-in-state-transport-bus-van-collision-on-mumbai-ahmedabad-highway/story-U7K8vyTJ8QcZROwUDCtkyI.html
14-08-2020||City||Goodwin Jewellers case: Accused brothers in Mumbai Police’s custody||Mumbai Police have taken the custody of two directors of Goodwin Jewellers for investigation into six cases registered against them in the city. The two directors, Sunilkumar Mohanan Akkarakaran, 45, and his brother Sudheerkumar Mohanan Akkarakaran, 43, were lodged in Thane jail after they were previously arrested by the Thane police in December for allegedly duping thousands of investors across Maharashtra to the tune of Rs25 crore. Mumbai’s LT Marg police station is interrogating the two accused in three first information reports (FIRs) filed by Zaveri Bazaar-based jewellers claiming that the accused bought gold jewelry from them but did not pay them. The accused duped the three jewellers to the tune of nearly Rs7 crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goodwin-jewellers-case-accused-brothers-in-mumbai-police-s-custody/story-o3F5D7gEhD87WS5TRcl8ZO.html
14-08-2020||City||26-year-old Navi Mumbai resident offered job overseas, duped of ₹5.79 lakh||Days after a 26-year-old woman from Airoli returned to India after completing her Master’s degree in Australia, she was cheated of Rs5.79 lakh in a phishing attack. The Rabale police have registered a case of cheating following her complaint. The police said that the incident took place between February and March. The complainant, Nilakshi More, returned to the country on February 11 after completing her biotechnology course. Soon after, she updated her details on a job search portal, including her qualification and contact details. On February 22, she received a job offer from an email ID which was made to look like the official correspondence of a Canada-based chemical company. The fraudsters made her fill a form and a few days later, communicated through the same e-mail id to inform her that she had been selected for the job. Later, a woman who identified herself as Lynn Desautels called More on her number and asked her for more details. She then connected the complainant to another woman who posed as an agent in New Delhi. The woman identified herself as Nora Jayden and told More that she would have to pay Rs35,800 as work visa charges. She also made the complainant pay Rs88,650 for the work permit, said the police. Later, More paid an additional Rs2.89 lakh towards travel expenses including flight tickets. Once she transferred the large amount, the accused her asked for more money to create a new bank account for her and made her transfer Rs1.65 lakh. “However, the accused kept calling her and asked her for more money on various pretexts. Then the complainant found something amiss and after verifying some details, found that the email id on which she was sent the job interest was fake,” said an officer from Rabale police station. More recently approached the police, following which a case was registered against the two women, Desautels and Jayden on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-year-old-navi-mumbai-resident-offered-job-overseas-duped-of-5-79-lakh/story-OEWlcBht9Ler7kshqqTXgI.html
14-08-2020||City||IAS officers transferred in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government transferred bureaucrats on Thursday. Vinita Vaid Singhal, a 1996 batch Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer, was appointed the secretary of labour department. Singhal was the secretary in the tribal development department. Anup Kumar Yadav, who was the commissioner (family welfare) and director, National Health Mission, has now been posted as secretary of the tribal development department. Kumar, a 2002 batch IAS officer, was engaged in the state’s fight against Covid-19 before he was transferred last month. Dilip Halde, a 2010 batch officer, has been posted as the managing director of Maharashtra State Co-operative Marketing Federation, Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ias-officers-transferred-in-maharashtra/story-KakC4eYsh7JlIrc0Xf6xAK.html
14-08-2020||City||Whale shark case: 2 accused arrested in Mumbai sent to forest custody||Two persons detained on Wednesday for allegedly attempting to buy and transport the remains of a whale shark, which was brought to Sassoon Dock in Colaba, were arrested and presented before a court on Thursday.The chief metropolitan magistrate court at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus sent the accused – Jan Bahadur Yadav, 50, and Sham Rajaram Dhar, 35, – to forest custody till August 18. “We have begun interrogating the two accused to identify the others involved in the incident. The fisheries department is also assisting us to identify the boat through which the species was captured at the sea,” said Suresh Warak, range forest officer (mangrove cell).On Wednesday, the carcass of around 20-foot-long dead female whale shark was caught by a fishing boat which was brought to Sassoon Dock. As authorities made their way to the spot, the shark was cut into pieces in an attempt to sell it to a distributor. Whale sharks (Rhincodon typus) are protected under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, and listed as ‘endangered’ species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The forest and fisheries department managed to nab Yadav, the distributor who had come to Sassoon Dock to purchase the shark. Dhar is a tempo driver. Both were arrested on Thursday morning for violating the WPA.Rajendra Jadhav, joint commissioner (fisheries), said, “We have traced a boat that may have been involved in catching the shark. A notice has been issued to those inside it, directing them to report to us at the earliest. Based on proper evidence, details will be shared with the mangrove cell for further action. Meanwhile, we are deploying more personnel at landing centres such as Sassoon Dock to keep an eye on unsustainable fishing practices, which are affecting endangered marine species. An information board will be installed and awareness sessions will be undertaken to inform fishermen about the seriousness of such offences.”On Thursday, the shark’s post mortem was carried out by senior veterinarian Dr Shailesh Pethe from Sanjay Gandhi National Park. The report stated that the marine species had died due to suffocation. “Since the carcass was made into multiple pieces, no singular organ was available for patho-anatomical description. However, considering the gills were showing some amount of hemorrhages (bleeding), the death possibly could be due to hypoxia (condition where oxygen does not reach cells and tissues of the body),” said Dr Pethe. Additionally, tissue samples were collected for further DNA analysis and associated studies, as per the request of the mangrove cell, said Dr Pethe. The carcass and slaughtered pieces were buried at the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Centre in Airoli.“The post mortem proves that the shark was fished out at the sea. Similar to cases involving tigers or leopards, DNA samples help confirm that the species involved was Schedule I under WPA before the court. Proactive efforts being taken will ensure that such cases are not repeated,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-held-for-sale-and-transport-of-whale-shark-carcass-in-mumbai-sent-to-forest-custody/story-4jjfBElfgGcAIk4ISJzwFO.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra waives toll for vehicles plying to Konkan for Ganesh Chaturthi||The Maharashtra government on Thursday announced a toll waiver for private vehicles plying towards Konkan for Ganesh Chaturthi. Eknath Shinde, the cabinet minister for public works department (public undertakings and Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation) announced that the waiver will be implemented two days prior to the 10-day festival – which falls on August 22 – and two days after it. Shinde held a meeting via video-conferencing with Shambhuraj Desai, the minister of state for home, and other officials to finalise the toll waiver. To avail the waiver, motorists will have to go to their local police station and register their details, including their name, address, vehicle owner’s name, vehicle registration number and the date of journey, in a bid to avail the toll waiver, that will be granted by the issuance of a sticker. After the meeting, Shinde in a series of tweets said that like every year, the state government has decided to waive the toll this year too. “In the light of the coronavirus outbreak, those travelling to Konkan will need to have a [negative] corona test and an e-pass to travel,” one of his tweets read. Each year, thousands of people – hailing from Konkan – visit their villages and towns in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts of Konkan region for the festival. They either take the Mumbai-Goa highway (National Highway-66) or travel via the Mumbai-Pune expressway or Kolhapur-Bengaluru highway (to travel from Pune to Kolhapur), where tolls are collected. The total toll amount from Mumbai to Konkan costs around ₹500-₹600, depending on the type of vehicle. The government has also deployed more Maharashtra State Transport Road Corporation (MSRDC) buses to ferry people to the Konkan region during the festival. Those who wish to travel by the state transport buses will not need an e-pass, but have to undergo a Covid-19 test 48 hours prior to the journey. According to the state government guidelines, only those who are tested negative will be allowed to travel. Meanwhile, a miscommunication between the state and railways resulted in the delay in operations of special outstation trains for Ganesh Chaturthi. While transport minister Anil Parab said they gave permission for trains to operate, the railways said the state asked to keep the operations on hold. “Confusion is being created by the railways by blaming us [state government]. We have asked for 200 trains and directed the railway authorities to depart the trains once they get the bookings. It is not true that we have asked them to keep the proposal on hold. Nothing was given in writing and no oral orders are obeyed in government communication. They should immediately start the trains running,” said Parab. According to officials from the chief minister’s office, the proposal to run special trains has been put on hold and may be given a go-ahead only a week ahead of Ganesh Charturthi (August 22).“Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg have no capacity or health infrastructure to take extra load. The district administrations have requested to not give permissions to people coming from Mumbai, Pune and other cities. The railways may be given permission to ply trains early next week,” the official said.However, the minister confirmed that Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg district administrations have been asking the state to not allow people from outside the districts to flock in during the festival. “Even if we decide to run the trains, there is no response from the people. We have kept 3,000 ST (state transport) buses ready to ply more than 60,000 passengers but have received booking only for 12,000 passengers so far,” he said.Meanwhile, the Central Railway in a press release stated that they are ready to operate trains but waiting for approval from the state. “Railways is ready to run the specials subject to all the norms including social distancing, etc. Senior officials of the state government of Maharashtra informed on telephone on Saturday, August 8, at night to keep on hold the schedule of the running of special trains, as the matter is under reconsideration of the Maharashtra government and said that they would advise the outcome. Since then, the railway administration, both at the board level and the zonal level, are in continuous touch with Maharashtra government officials and have been waiting to go ahead,” the press release read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-waives-toll-for-vehicles-plying-to-konkan-for-ganesh-chaturthi/story-qCmvlO79eniVYNF1uC5ezL.html
14-08-2020||Bangalore||SDPI role under scanner: Minister||The role of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) in Tuesday’s violence in Bengaluru that left three people dead was under scanner, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday. A mob went on a rampage in the city on August 11 over a social media post with alleged derogatory references to Islam. The mob, armed with machetes, swords and sticks, vandalised the residence of a Congress legislator — the post was made from the Facebook account of his nephew — attacked two police stations, damaged vehicles, and smashed an ATM machine into pieces in a violent five-hour spree that also left 100 people, including 60 police personnel, wounded. Three people were killed after police opened fire to bring the situation under control. “As per the information gathered so far and video footage [available], most importantly the role of SDPI is coming to light. We are collecting more information regarding it, we are investigating deeply in this regard”, Bommai said. State deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan said the government was also considering banning SDPI, four of whose members are among the over 140 arrested in connection with the violence. Seventeen people have been booked for the clashes. “Already, several SDPI office bearers have been arrested. Muzammil Pasha, the SDPI district secretary is the main [accused]. Firoz, Afraz Pasha and Shaik Adil, all of them are from SDPI, have also been arrested. Their role is completely being investigated,” Bommai added.SDPI, however, has denied any connection to the violence and instead accused the police of failing to bring the situation under control. Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy’s nephew Naveen was among those arrested in the case. Naveen , who is in his 20s, said his account that was used to make the controversial post was hacked into. The post was made on August 10 and it went viral a day later, police officials said on condition of anonymityAuthorities have also extended Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which prohibits the gathering of four or more people at a place, in areas under DJ Halli and KG Halli police station, till August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/sdpi-role-under-scanner-minister/story-VC0GEXbOgubRMcFrjDXfOL.html
14-08-2020||City||One killed, 5 hurt after portion of building collapses at Mumbai||One person was killed, while five others were injured after a portion of a residential ground-plus-one storey building collapsed at Kurla Thakkar Bappa Colony in Vatsala Naik Nagar, Chembur (East), on Thursday at 5.24 pm. According to information from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management department, a portion of the building collapsed during the ongoing internal repair and maintenance work. The victim has been identified as Prabhu Khadare, 55. The injured – Vijay Gaikwad, 23; Ratanlal Bhingade, 65; Shahrukh Pathan, 35; Hasim Ansari, 29; and Ayub Shaikh, 57, are undergoing treatment at Sion and Rajawadi hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-killed-5-hurt-after-portion-of-building-collapses-at-mumbai/story-KCIygWFYIrXOL97Z821Z1N.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Facing flak, Chandigarh admn ropes in councillors to tackle Covid||The UT Administration has invited MP Kirron Kher and MC councillors for a meeting on August 18 to take their views on containing the Covid-19 pandemic in Chandigarh. The call for the meeting, to be held via video conferencing, was taken in Thursday’s war room meeting chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore. It comes in the wake of administration’s criticism for not involving local representatives while taking Covid-related decisions.Critical of the administration’s Covid management efforts, Kher on Wednesday had tweeted, “#HelpMyCity. PGI & other hospitals are under immense pressure. If medical facilities are not allowed in various parts of the city there will be fatalities due to #nobeds. I urge the administration to take necessary action.”Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla had also criticised the administration for failing to control the pandemic and written to the administrator to involve councillors in Covid-related decision making.Taking to Twitter about the meeting, Badnore wrote, “Looking forward to interacting with #MunicipalCouncillors over VC on #Tuseday to seek their views regarding #COVID Management in CHD Hon’ble MP @KirronKherBJP is also being invited to participate in the video conference.”Responding to the tweet, Kher wrote, “Thank you Hon’ble Governor Saab @vpsbadnore. Looking forward to the interaction for the #betterment of the health of #MyCityMyPeople.”Welcoming the move, councillor and city BJP chief Arun Sood said, “It is good to consult with everybody, as councillors get feedback from people. They know the gaps in implementation of steps to contain the disease. Councillors are better aware of the violations that are taking place and how to stop these.”Babla also recommended inclusion of RWA members in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/facing-flak-chandigarh-admn-ropes-in-councillors-to-tackle-covid/story-Oy7zyI9qv5BShOC0B1q6hN.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Montek report to Punjab govt: Punjab’s free power policy highly regressive, benefits only big farmers||Former deputy chairman of planning commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia has termed Punjab’s policy of free power to agriculture sector as “highly regressive” as it benefits only big farmers. In a report submitted to the Punjab government, Ahluwalia has also asked it to gradually reduce procurement of paddy from the extremely water-stressed areas, a suggestion which is expected to receive a sharp reaction from farmer community. The free power largesse --- incurring an annual burden of Rs 6,500 crore on the cash-strapped government --- has remained a sensitive political issue in Punjab, with no regime really being able to do away with the populist measure ever since it was announced in 1996. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had sought suggestions from the expert group, led by Ahluwalia, on ‘medium and long term post-COVID economic strategy for Punjab’. The report lists out three damaging consequences of free power policy. “It has led to an unsustainable burden on the budget and limits the state government’s ability to incur other expenditures essential for development. The total power subsidy in 2021 amounts to almost 1.9% of GSDP,” says the report. There are at least 14.5 lakh agriculture tubewells that draw benefit of this scheme. The Amarinder government had proposed to generate bills for tubewell use and offered direct cash benefit to farmers. However, the plan was junked after stiff political opposition. “Secondly, the policy has very damaging environmental consequences because it promotes water intensive paddy cultivation, leading to an excessive use of groundwater,” it added. “And lastly, only big farmers were really benefitting from the scheme,” the report said. Darshan Pal of Kranti Kari Kisan Union termed the report as anti-farmer and anti-Punjab. “The present government is looking for excuses to end free power to agriculture sector but we will not let it happen,” said Akali Dal spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema. FOLLOW HARYANA MODEL The expert group said Punjab needs to reduce the area under paddy by about 25 lakh acre (out of total 76 lakh acre under paddy) over the next 6-7 years. Suggesting Punjab to adopt Haryana model, it said the latter is currently giving an incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre in overexploited blocks to diversify. “Punjab should consider something along these lines. This would reduce the use of electricity, resulting in big saving on the subsidy front,” says the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/montek-report-to-punjab-govt-punjab-s-free-power-policy-highly-regressive-benefits-only-big-farmers/story-CaCniZxZWjngZ98HEhoDtN.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Online interview for staff selection for Covid-19 vaccine trials at PGIMER||Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) will conduct an online interview for staff recruitment for Covid-19 vaccine trials. PGIMER is among the 17 sites in the country, which is conducting a Phase 2 and 3 observer-blind randomised and controlled study to determine the safety of immunogenicity of the Covidshield (Covid-19 vaccine in healthy adults). The trials are expected to start by the end of this month.A total of eight posts have been advertised for the staff requirements, which include MBBS doctor with one-year research experience in clinical or vaccine trials, and other posts such as clinical research coordinator, staff nurse, pharmacist, and technician.The selection process will be conducted through an online interview on August 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-interview-for-staff-selection-for-covid-19-vaccine-trials-at-pgimer/story-Sg3vY7Lv7jTx5UZAMVe5DO.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC withdraws order removing HoD at Mumbai’s Seth GS Medical College||After receiving a rap from the Bombay high court (HC), the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday withdrew its order to remove Dr Deepa Kane from the post of professor and head of the cardiac anaesthesia department (HoD) of Seth GS Medical College, attached to KEM Hospital.Senior advocate Anil Sakhare, who represented the civic body, on Wednesday informed the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Madhav Jamdar that the order will be withdrawn and a fresh decision will be taken by the additional municipal commissioner after hearing Dr Kane and Dr Sanjeeta Umbarkar, on whose complaint the former was removed from the post.Dean of KEM Hospital, Dr Hemant Deshmukh, had issued the order on July 27, removing Dr Kane from the post. She was appointed on the post on December 3, 2019. The action was taken based on a complaint lodged by Dr Umbarkar, an associate professor in the department, alleging that Dr Kane lacked the necessary educational qualifications and experience in cardiac anaesthesia.However, when Dr Kane moved HC, BMC claimed that she was removed from the post of HoD because the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) had withdrawn approval for her appointment.MUHS counsel, advocate Rajshekhar Govilkar, on the other hand, pointed out that the approval was withdrawn based on two communications received from BMC, in January and February 2020, informing the university about purported deficiencies in Dr Kane’s qualifications and experience. Govilkar added that it was not an independent decision of the university, and was completely based on the communications.HC was irked to note that Dr Umbarkar had filed three complaints and representations with the dean of KEM Hospital, additional municipal commissioner and MUHS. Several communications had been exchanged between them, but at no point was Dr Kane informed about the complaints against her.On the contrary, her lawyer advocate Rohaan Cama pointed out that even after repeatedly approaching the authorities for specifics about her dismissal, she was not provided any information. “This is complete malafide... This is not the way to deal with doctors and professors,” the bench had said earlier, after it was pointed out that all the steps and action was taken behind Kane’s back, in complete breach of the principles of natural justice.The judges were also annoyed to note that Dr Deshmukh, the then HoD, was the one who had signed Kane’s experience certificate, yet he has questioned the same document.The court has allowed the civic body to take a fresh decision on the issue after granting the opportunity of hearing to both sides. However, it has clarified that till then, Dr Kane will be back on the post held by her. HC also ordered that the fresh decision of the additional municipal commissioner will not be implemented for two weeks if it is adverse to the HoD, cardiac anaesthesia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-withdraws-order-removing-hod-at-mumbai-s-seth-gs-medical-college/story-JEm3na7VMN3exV8nMmIhrI.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||27th fatality in Chandigarh, sharpest single-day surge with 91 cases||A 50-year-old woman became Chandigarh’s 27th Covid-19 fatality on Thursday, even as the city recorded its sharpest surge in cases with 91 fresh infections within the past 24 hours. It was on August 9 last when 89 positive cases were reported in the city in a single day. The city’s tally now stands at 1,842, with 737 cases still active. As many as 1,076 patients have been discharged, among them 53 on Tuesday. The deceased, a resident of Maloya Colony, died at PGIMER on August 12. She was undergoing treatment for cervical cancer, which had spread to other parts of the body, and also had a kidney disorder. The 91 fresh cases have been confirmed from across sectors and colonies. Among them is MC’s joint commissioner Sorabh Kumar Arora. After he tested positive, the first floor of the Municipal Corporation Office in Sector 17 was closed for sanitisation.Most of the remaining patients are either family contacts, community contacts or workplace contacts of previous Covid positive persons. Some also have travel history to Punjab, Delhi and Haryana.Reports of 86 people are awaited. 36 PEOPLE TEST POSITIVE IN PANCHKULAPanchkula The district confirmed 36 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday. Panchkula now has 1,096 confirmed cases, of which 401 are active and 691 have been discharged. As many as four patients have died.The fresh cases were reported from Sectors 4, 9, 10, 11, 12A, 15, 18, 19, 20, 23 and 25, besides Pinjore, Kalka, Barwala, and Mallah Dhaluwal and Khera Sita Ram villages. Reports of 428 people are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/27th-fatality-in-chandigarh-sharpest-single-day-surge-with-91-cases/story-09NGqEh5lwaRsoYzOIXIYJ.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi govt ministers made money from transfers of officials, alleges BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state chief Chandrakant Patil on Thursday alleged that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s ministers had received kickbacks in transfers of officials. Patil has called for a criminal investigation department (CID) inquiry into the matter. “MVA ministers have opened up a market of sorts for plump postings to favoured officials. There is a huge turnover in these transfers and it also comes at a cost to genuine officials, who may not have political affiliations. All this needs to be investigated by the CID,’’ said Patil. Patil, a former state minister, also added that the general administration department (GAD) led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had lifted the moratorium on transfers laid down by the finance department, headed by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on May 4. The moratorium was laid down owing to the Covid-19 and the ensuing lockdown to maintain continuity in the implementation of measures to tackle the pandemic. The finance department had in May issued a government order stating that no officer should be transferred this year to ensure continuity in the implementation of Covid-19 measures across departments. It was stated that GAD would come out with a specific order on transfers. Patil said that GAD issued a government order on July 7, allowing 15% of the transfers of the total posts to be carried out by July 31, which was later extended to August 10. He also said that the transfers had caused inconvenience and hardship to officials amid the pandemic. The state BJP chief, however, did not offer any concrete details or evidence about such kickbacks. He also did not level a charge against any specific minister. The ruling parties have refuted the allegation. Water resources minister Jayant Patil said that such “loose allegations” are not be taken seriously”. In a jibe to state BJP chief, Patil said, “If we set up an inquiry, we will start [the probe] with all transfers carried out by the BJP government in the past five years.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-govt-ministers-made-money-from-transfers-of-officials-alleges-bjp/story-QjvMzsYuBUfcX4wEjQM81I.html
14-08-2020||City||Shiv Sena’s fight against injustice to continue: Maharashtra CM||Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the party’s fight against injustice will continue, similar to how Maratha warrior king Shivaji fought against the Mughals. Thackeray, in his speech on the diamond jubilee celebration of Bal Thackeray’s weekly magazine ‘Marmik’, said that Shivaji Maharaj stood up against the mighty Mughals and taught the ‘Marathi manoos’ to not cower against injustice. The statement comes at a time when the state government is engaged in a legal battle with the Centre over the takeover of the investigation into the Sushant Singh Rajput case by CBI. Thackeray, during the 2014 state elections, had likened Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his ministers to Bijapur general Afzal Khan. “The identity of Marathi manoos is such that they would not do injustice to others, and if injustice is meted out to them, they will not leave the person. We must fight against injustice. Shivaji Maharaj taught us that. The Mughals were so powerful, despite that, a 16-17-year-old boy stood up against them and won Torna fort. If at that time, someone would have thought how to fight against the powerful Mughals, forget winning, then swarajya [self-rule] would not have been established. Therefore, without thinking about winning or losing, injustice will be rooted out of this soil,” Thackeray said. Sena leader Sanjay Raut, earlier in the day, said the state government was fighting in the Supreme Court to protect its rights within the federal structure. Speaking to reporters on Thursday, Raut said the case had been “technically” handed over to CBI.“The Mumbai Police is investigating the case and if there is anything else to probe, the CBI can do it… Bring Mossad and KGB too. There is nothing to hide. We are not opposing the CBI. When the Mumbai Police is already on the job, what will the CBI do?” Raut also defended Sena leader and Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is being linked to the actor’s case. “Aaditya Thackeray has nothing to do with the case. Nobody has taken his name, rather media has been taking his name. Everyone knows where today’s journalism is heading.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shiv-sena-s-fight-against-injustice-to-continue-maharashtra-cm/story-0ZxzP8KzDARVXae7y4j6hL.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||UT tells PGIMER, GMCH-32 to reserve 100 beds each for Covid patients from city||With a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases, and a realistic prospect of shortage of beds for critical Covid-19 patients in the city, the UT administration, on Thursday, directed the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, to reserve 100 beds each for critical patients from the city.The UT health secretary, in a letter to the director, PGIMER, has requested “immediate earmarking of 100 beds with critical care facility and keep it in reserve for Chandigarh patients.” If necessary, beds outside the Nehru Hospital Extension (NHE) block should be used, it was further stated.The letter notes, “There has been a spread of infection in Chandigarh in recent times which may lead to shortage of beds for critical patients of Chandigarh.”Earlier in the day, Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore, in the war room review meeting, decided that additional facilities for 200 beds-- 100 in PGIMER and 100 in GMCH-32-- should be created exclusively for Chandigarh’s Covid-19 patients.UT PLANS DISRUPTEDAs per the contingency plan prepared by the Chandigarh administration, 300 beds were to be set aside for critical patients. Of these, 200 beds were for critical patients at the dedicated Covid hospital at NHE, PGIMER. The scope for expansion of an additional 100 beds was also kept at the facility.Further, a similar facility of 100 beds was to be created by GMCH-32 at the Sector 48 hospital by converting the existing hospital into a dedicated Covid hospital.But it was observed that many beds in the Covid hospital at NHE, PGIMER, were occupied by patients from adjoining states.Of the 300 beds available in the city currently, only 91 are occupied by patients from city while the rest are from neighbouring states. Of the 149 patients at the Covid Care Centre at PGI, only 57 belong to Chandigarh, 54 are from Punjab, 16 from Haryana, 11 from Himachal Pradesh and the remaining from other states. In GMCH-48, out the total 44 critical patients admitted, 34 are from Chandigarh.FOR MODERATE SYMPTOM PATIENTSThe bed capacity for patients with mild symptoms and asymptomatic patients has also been expanded.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “As many as 600 beds are available in Hostel No 8, 9 and 10 of Panjab University for taking care of mild and asymptomatic Covid-19 patients.” He also stated that facilities in James Hotel have been requisitioned, where the Covid positive patients, who can afford to pay the charges can stay and avail the facilities. Eden Hospital has also been made available for Covid treatment in Chandigarh.For patients availing facilities at James Hotel, Sector 17, the charges will be Rs 3,500 a day for single occupancy, including three times meal, and Rs 4,000 for double occupancy.HELP DESK FOR ACTIVE PATIENTSThe UT Administration has also set-up a helpdesk for Covid-19 active patients who are in home isolation. The prime-objective of the helpdesk is to have regular interaction with patients and provide the medical assistance in case of emergency. The patients will be contacted on a daily basis. On Thursday, the doctors interacted with the patients through a video call and responded to their queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-tells-pgimer-gmch-32-to-reserve-100-beds-each-for-covid-patients-from-city/story-wluz3zTPM5vQlhAW2r5NEI.html
14-08-2020||City||Is all well in the Pawar family?||Eight months after an open revolt by Ajit Pawar (now the deputy chief minister), the Pawar family is again facing the same question, is all well? This time, because of Ajit Pawar’s son Parth. A day after Pawar called his grand-nephew (Parth) “immature” and said he doesn’t give a damn about what the latter says, three meetings were held, including one on Thursday evening. Parth had demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case a few days ago, following which Pawar on Wednesday said, “We give no importance to what my grand-nephew (Parth Pawar) says. He is immature.” Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai apartment on June 14. It is yet unclear how Ajit is reacting to the public rebuke for his son as he chose not to talk to the media. But there were rumours that Parth was upset and may take a decision, which was refuted by senior NCP leaders. Parth reached Silver Oak, Pawar’s residence at south Mumbai, on Thursday evening to meet the NCP chief and his daughter Supriya Sule. The meeting went on for more than two hours. Parth avoided speaking with the media after coming out. NCP insiders said Sule had called Parth home. “We are expecting all issues would have been resolved. His decision to meet the NCP chief indicates a positive development,” said an NCP leader. Before that, Sule met Ajit at his Mantralaya office on Thursday afternoon. The meeting between the cousins lasted an hour. State NCP chief Jayant Patil, considered as close aide of Pawar, said neither Parth nor Ajit is upset and Sule went to meet the latter to discuss development works of her parliamentary constituency. “Who said Parth is upset? Being a grandfather, he (NCP chief) has all the authority to say or suggest something. Do we get upset when a father figure in the family says something,” Patil asked reporters. “I don’t see any intention.” Before that, a meeting was also held at Pawar’s residence on Thursday evening where Sule, Ajit and state NCP chief Jayant Patil were present. Patil denied any discussion on Parth at the meet too. “It was a scheduled meeting. We had discussions on several issues. The party allows everyone to express their views. He (Parth) may have said something that I’m not aware of. There was no discussion on Parth’s statements, also no clarification will be sought from him,” he said. NCP insiders said Pawar is certainly unhappy, but by ridiculing his grand-nephew publicly, he has also given a clear message to all leaders that any deviation from the party line will not be tolerated. This is the first time the veteran leader has slammed a family member publicly. “Pawar saheb made the statement as the party president. He should have raised the issue on the party forum before going public,” said an NCP insider. Senior NCP leader and food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal too said that no one in the family was upset and Pawar only said that Parth was new. “The family is united, everything is fine and we are also members of the same family. No one is upset, not even Ajit dada (Ajit Pawar),” Bhujbal said. Political experts feel Pawar wants to end Parth’s habit of speaking out of turn on policy matters. “It doesn’t appear that Parth’s statements had anything to do with Ajit,” said Prakash Bal. The Pawar family has seen an open revolt by Ajit and a few other NCP lawmakers only last November. They had got together with the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and had hurriedly cobbled together a government. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had taken the oath as the chief minister, while Ajit too was sworn in as the deputy chief minister, but returned to the party as most NCP legislators, who were loyal to the party chief, refused to side with the rebel faction and the government barely lasted for 80 hours. A month later, Ajit Pawar was sworn in again on the same position in the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government. Parth had contested last year’s Lok Sabha election from Maval constituency in western Maharashtra against the wishes of the NCP chief. He was not in favour of Parth contesting the general polls, but surrendered to the pressure from the family and declared his withdrawal from the electoral fray, saying only two members from the family should contest polls at a time. Pawar was preparing to contest from Madha parliamentary constituency at that time. However, Parth lost the parliamentary election to sitting Shiv Sena MP Shrirang Barne.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/is-all-well-in-the-pawar-family/story-y62jGgYvTcKz4gSMx4PZJI.html
14-08-2020||City||With five more fatalities, Mohali surpasses Chandigarh’s toll||The district’s Covid-19 toll reached 30 on Thursday with five people – the highest so far in a single day – succumbing to the virus.Of the total fatalities, 10 (33.3%) took place in the past four days. Mohali has the highest fatalities so far, ahead of Chandigarh’s 27 and Panchkula’s four.Thursday also saw 67 fresh cases in Mohali, taking the count to 1,604.All deceased had comorbidities, said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh.Among them, a 61-year-old man from Gulmohar Complex, Dera Bassi, was admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh, on August 8. He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension.A 59-year-old woman from Shastri Nagar, Dera Bassi, was also suffering from diabetes and admitted in the same hospital, while a 68-year-old man, also from Dera Bassi, was admitted at Government Medical College, Patiala, on Thursday morning and died in the afternoon.From Mohali, a 71-year-old woman was under treatment at GMCH. She was suffering from diabetes, while a 70-year-old man from Sector 71, also a diabetes and hypertension patient, was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali. Dr Singh the last rites were conducted as per protocol under the observation of health officials. Out of total 67 fresh cases on Thursday, 27 are from Mohali, 17 from Dera Bassi and 23 from Kharar. As many as 84 persons were discharged on Thursday, bringing down the number of active patients to 717 in the district. A total of 858 patients have recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-five-more-fatalities-mohali-surpasses-chandigarh-s-toll/story-OYEwTiYh6b0Yw5HVXWctcP.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two years after murder of 4-year-old daughter, family gets ₹10 lakh compensation||Two years after a four-year-old girl was murdered by a labourer who held a grudge against the toddler’s father, the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) has awarded ₹10 lakh as compensation to the victim’s family.The convict, Kamlesh, who lived in the Labour Colony in Industrial Area, Phase 1, was neighbours with the victim’s family. Envious of her father’s samosa stall, he had slashed the baby’s throat with a sickle in full public view on February 25, 2018.In August 2019, a district court had awarded Kamlesh “life imprisonment till natural death” who was found guilty of “cold-blooded murder”. The court had also recommended providing compensation to the family.On Thursday, the family was called and the compensation amount was awarded by chief judicial magistrate-cum-secretary, DSLA, Chandigarh, Ashok Kumar Mann as part of the Victim Assistance Scheme, 2012.“It was recommended by the court that the file regarding compensation be forwarded to the legal services authority. It was received by DLSA on August 11 and today, the compensation was awarded,” Mann said.The Punjab and Haryana high Court judge and executive chairman of SLSA, Chandigarh, justice Jaswant Singh, had given directions that in cases where the court had recommended compensation to the victim/kin, there should be no delay in doing so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-two-years-after-murder-of-4-year-old-daughter-family-gets-10-lakh-compensation/story-iEvpBUF7daQ3OoNTBg8YHO.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||2 sales manager of pharma firm held for selling Covid drug for ₹30K in Mumbai||The crime branch on Wednesday night arrested two regional sales managers of a pharmaceutical company for allegedly selling remdesivir injections – used in the Covid-19 treatment – for ₹30,000 each. According to officers from crime branch unit 7, Chandraprakash Gupta, 31, and Swatantra Shukla, 32, are the masterminds of the illegal remdesivir sale racket. The duo used to take the injections from hospitals or medicine distributors by claiming that it was required for the relatives of senior officials of the pharmaceutical company where they worked. They then used to sell the injections for exorbitant amounts, said crime branch officers. “Gupta and Shukla were in touch with around 200 hospitals, distributors and medical stores in Mumbai and Thane. The accused used to sell a single vial of remdesivir injection to customers for ₹30,000, which is almost six times more than the actual price of the anti-viral drug,” said Akbar Pathan, deputy commissioner of police (crime branch). “They conspired to make easy money by procuring and selling the drugs for a higher price and dupe needy customers. They are the masterminds behind the illegal remdesivir sale racket and we are questioning them to find out how many injections have they sold in the black market so far,” Pathan added.A local court on Thursday remanded them to police custody till Sunday.Last month, the crime branch busted the racket and arrested seven people in connection with the case and seized 13 injections from them. The accused were identified as Rahul Bharat Gala, Vikas Angad Dubey, Bhavesh Ashok Shah, Ashish Gangadin Kanojia, Ritesh Rohidas Thonbare, Gurvindersingh Jasvindersingh Rathod and Sudhir Babu Pujari. Based on a tip-off, unit 7 officers, along with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials, sent a dummy customer to meet Shah. After bargaining the price of the drug, he agreed to sell a vial of the injection for ₹30,000. Shah then asked the customer to collect the injection from Gala and Dubey and gave their address to the customer. The police then conducted raids and arrested Gala and Dubey from their homes in Mulund and Diva, respectively, and recovered seven injections from them. The duo worked at a medical store in Mulund. The police then probed Shah, Gala and Dubey, and arrested the remaining accused and recovered six injections from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-sales-manager-of-pharma-firm-held-for-selling-covid-drug-for-30k-in-mumbai/story-O4I7rYmLVtPABdHUzrZiEJ.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||₹140-crore revamp plan on cards for 127-year-old Bellasis road overbridge in Mumbai||The 127-year-old Bellasis road overbridge (RoB) located between Mumbai Central and Grant Road railway stations will soon undergo reconstruction at a cost of ₹140 crore. The revamp work of the RoB will be undertaken by the Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (MRIDC). The reconstruction is expected to be completed within 1 year and 7 months. “The new bridge will have a six-lane carriageway instead of the existing three. This will help in ensuring the smooth flow of vehicular movement, as traffic jams on the route will be eliminated. The reconstruction will be completed in a period of 650 days,” said Rajesh Kumar Jaiswal, managing director, MRIDC.The construction of the bridge will be undertaken in two stages. The first stage will involve the fabrication of the steel structure of the bridge, while the second stage will involve construction of solid approaches on both sides of the RoB, along with merging the existing approaches. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on July 14 signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with MRIDCL for the revamp and construction of 11 RoBs and one road underbridge (RuB).Some of the works that will be undertaken include the construction of Tilak Bridge between Dadar and Matunga railway stations and RoBs at Ghatkopar, Byculla, Mahalaxmi, Currey Road and Lower Parel stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/140-crore-revamp-plan-on-cards-for-127-year-old-bellasis-road-overbridge-in-mumbai/story-4Hxdl0ClwjlYYk7vgoocuM.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||IMD issues orange alert: Mumbai likely to get heavy rain till Monday||The city is likely to witness active monsoon conditions throughout the rest of the month, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) extended rainfall forecast, released on Thursday. The weather bureau also issued an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain) for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar, for Sunday and Monday. A yellow alert (heavy rain across isolated areas) has been issued for Friday and Saturday. The city can expect gusty winds reaching 45-55 kmph occasionally on Friday and Saturday, said IMD. “The extended rainfall forecast indicates a positive anomaly for Maharashtra over the next two weeks till the end of August, with rainfall activity expected to continue, especially along the Konkan coast, which is expected to be active with moderate to heavy showers,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. The formation of a low pressure weather system over northwest Bay of Bengal, off north Odisha and West Bengal, is likely to persist and become more organised over the next two to three days paving the way for fairly widespread rainfall for the Konkan coast, ghat areas and central Maharashtra, said a bulletin issued by IMD. Meanwhile on Thursday, the suburbs and south Mumbai only recorded light showers despite the yellow alert issued earlier by IMD. The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs, recorded 5.6mm rain between 8.30am and 5.30pm Thursday while Colaba, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 2.2mm rain during the same period. For the second consecutive day, more rain was recorded in the northwestern suburbs, eastern suburbs and parts of Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Over the nine hour period, maximum rain was recorded at Dombivli (19.5mm), followed by Mumbra (17.6mm), Mira Road (15mm), Thane (14.3mm), Bandra (13.8mm), Navi Mumbai (13.4mm), Powai (13mm), Malad (10.8mm), Dahisar (10.5mm), and Bhandup (10.2mm). Along the Konkan coast, maximum rain was recorded on Thursday, between 8.30am and 5.30pm, at Mahabaleshwar (77.8mm). IMD classifies 15.6-64.4mm as moderate rain while 64.5-115.5mm rain is heavy. Over the past 24 hours (8.30 am Wednesday to 8.30 am Thursday), Mumbai suburbs recorded 42mm of rain while 17.8mm was recorded in south Mumbai. Maximum rain was recorded in Mulund (78.6mm) and Borivli (77.4mm) while isolated areas in Palghar (Jawahar, Vikramgad, Talasari) recorded 110-120mm rain. Matheran recorded 161.4mm while Mahabaleshwar recorded 135.5mm rain during this period. IMD also released a cumulative dataset of maximum rain recorded across weather stations in Konkan for the season so far. With 4,290mm rain, Gaganbawda in Kolhapur has witnessed maximum rainfall followed by Malvan (4,004mm) and Sawantwadi (3,508mm) in Sindhudurg district. Mumbai suburbs recorded 2,609mm while south Mumbai has recorded 2495mm rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/imd-issues-orange-alert-mumbai-likely-to-get-heavy-rain-till-monday/story-sHOsIfJ4SEYhqOt2UiBPSL.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||At 5.3%, Chandigarh’s infection growth rate is twice the national average||The average growth rate of Covid-19 infections in the city has shot up to 5.3%, which is almost double the national average of 2.8%, as per the data collected till August 12. Chandigarh now stands at the third position among all the states and Union Territories in the country, coming only after Andaman and Nicobar Islands (8%) and Puducherry (5.6 %).The average growth rate essentially means the speed at which infections increase. A calculation of average growth rate helps predict the expected number of infections in the coming days.As per data, Chandigarh has added 700 cases to its tally in just two weeks of August. This is exponentially higher than the 605 cases recorded in the month of July.TESTING RATE HAS INCREASEDMeanwhile, the testing rate in UT has also increased with the introduction of the antigen testing method. In July, an average of 199 tests were conducted in a day. This went up to 431 tests a day in August. UT health secretary Arun Gupta said, “Testing is being gradually increased. The RT-PCR method is being used on an average of 300 persons while the remaining tests are being conducted through antigen testing. Antigen testing is being conducted only for asymptomatic contacts of positive persons. More kits are being procured by the health department.” Prof Rajesh Kumar, former head of the department of the Community Medicine and School of Public Health, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), said, “The outbreak in the unlocking period is on expected lines but there are strategies to bring things under control. In our case, we need to bring down the positivity rate (percentage of positive cases found among the total population tested), which is around 9% in UT. So, there is a need to test more people and isolate them.”He added: “The simple thing is to trace as many contacts as possible of the positive persons. This exercise is as important as having beds in hospitals to treat patients. If a person tests positive, extensive contact tracing is the key to stop the outbreak. The number of contacts of a person will increase by over three times now as compared to the lockdown period. So, more resources are needed for tracking. Authorities need to zero down on every individual contact and categorise them into high and low-risk contacts and test them within five to seven days. These measures will bring the infection spread under control.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-5-3-chandigarh-s-infection-growth-rate-is-twice-the-national-average/story-ozxovV1a61WWixMG50jZXJ.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||In 21 days, lake levels at 60%; water cut in Mumbai may be reviewed||Good rainfall in catchment areas over the past 21 days has led to a sharp rise in the water levels of the seven lakes that supply drinking water to the city. From around 4 lakh million litres (30% of full capacity) on July 24, the water level on Thursday was at 8 lakh million litres (60%). However, there is still a shortfall of 6 lakh million litres of water for the lakes to reach full capacity. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is monitoring the situation on a daily basis and any decision to roll back or relax water cuts could be reviewed next month, depending on the rainfall over the next 20 days. BMC imposed 20% water cuts in the city on August 5. While there were no water cuts in 2019, owing to good rainfall in catchment areas, BMC had imposed a 10% water cut in 2018, a 20% cut in 2016 and a 25% cut in 2014. An official from BMC’s hydraulics department said, “If there is sufficient rainfall and the lakes are full, we can review the situation of water cuts. Normally, the situation is reviewed in the first week of October, but this year due to shortfall, the situation is being constantly monitored.” Generally, 15% of monsoon rainfall is expected in June, 35% in July and August, followed by 15% in September. The city has seen more rainfall than its monthly average in June and July.According to BMC’s data, the seven lakes at present have 8.70 lakh million litres of water, which is 60.17% of their full capacity of 14.47 lakh million litres. On Sunday, the water levels were at 7.31 lakh million litres (50.53%). The overall lake level in 2019, in the corresponding period, was 92.38 % and it was 88.26% in 2018. Bhatsa dam, which caters to 55% of the city’s total water requirement, is at 60.75 % of its total capacity, compared to 89.78 % at this time in 2019. Out of the total seven lakes, Tulsi and Vehar, located within Mumbai’s limits, have overflowed. The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems, the Vaitarna system supplies to the western suburbs and the island city, and the Bhatsa system supplies to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai as well as neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. The civic body supplies 3,750 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand for 4,200 million litres. Further, BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal has plans to bring water to Mumbai from Bhandardara dam in Ahmednagar, if required. However, BMC officials said a final decision on this may be taken next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-21-days-lake-levels-at-60-water-cut-in-mumbai-may-be-reviewed/story-66cosvNUWFedgj4cVxGSvI.html
14-08-2020||City||Three years after deadline, Mohali’s N-choe bridge hanging in balance||Nearly four years after work on the high-level bridge on the N-choe near Mauli Baidwan village was allotted, the project is only 40% complete, forcing commuters to continue taking longer alternative routes. The bridge will connect the Sector 80/81 dividing road with several villages. The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had allotted the project to Panchkula-based Mann Builders with a December 2017 deadline. Contractor Abhishek Kumar said the work was delayed due to three illegal houses on the construction site, which GMADA had failed to demolish. “Earlier, shifting of cables was stalling the project’s progress, but those have been removed now,” he said. “The three illegal houses will be razed within a week. Thereafter, the contractor will expedite the work,” said Davinder Singh, chief engineer, GMADA.Sources said the project was now expected to be completed by October 2021.Mauli Baidwan’s sarpanch Bal Krishan Goyal said commuters were at the receiving end due to delay in completion of the bridge. “This is negligence on the part of GMADA officials, who first failed to shift the cables on time and are now delaying compensation to three house owners,” he added. The National Agri-Food Biotechnology Institute (NABI) authorities have also written to GMADA authorities several times to complete the project since they have to take the longest alternative route to reach the institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-years-after-deadline-mohali-s-n-choe-bridge-hanging-in-balance/story-MVQ0vkINNEEtTFwRuEVdoI.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh private schools seek permission to strike off names of fee defaulters||Following the dispute between private unaided schools and the administration over the charging of fees to students during the lockdown, the Independent Schools Association (ISA) have prepared a composite proposal for the Chandigarh administration asking that they be allowed to strike the names of students not clearing their dues by the 15th of each month.The letter (copy with HT) sent to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore and signed by ISA president HS Mamik, mentioned that since the lockdown had gotten over on June 8 and unlock 3.0 was currently in effect, on compassionate grounds, the schools should be allowed to charge fees for the 2020-21 session at the same rate as were in 2019-20 session.The letter further mentioned that the schools wanted to set the 15th of every month as the date of clearance of pending dues by parents, and that any delay beyond that would result in the student’s name being struck off from the rolls.However, the schools have also written in the letter that they will show a sympathetic attitude towards parents who are still unable to pay the fees, wholly or partly due to the lockdown. They have suggested in the letter that such parents could submit an application with documentary proof as specified by the school and the Punjab and Haryana high court for their request to be considered.‘ADMN SHOULD WITHDRAW ORDERS’The ISA has asked that the Chandigarh administration withdraw its orders regarding fee collection citing them invalid under the Disaster Management Act. The association has also asked that no coercive action be taken against any school for the 2020-21 session in the matter of fee collection.On the other hand, the Chandigarh education department on Thursday issued a notice to a retired educationist and a retired accountant to process all complaints received against private schools. Officials on the basis of anonymity confirmed that between 100-150 complaints regarding charging of fee under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act which is in effect in the UT had been received. Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said that he was aware of the letter sent by ISA, but declined to comment on it.The ISA had moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the order issued by UT which directed private schools to reschedule the last date of depositing fee and funds for the 2020-21 session and fix the last date by giving at least a month’s time to the parents after the reopening of the schools.Private schools were also asked to upload the income expenditure account and balance sheets, but most schools haven’t followed through with that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/allow-us-to-strike-off-names-of-students-who-don-t-pay-fees-by-15th-of-every-month-independent-school-association-to-chandigarh-administration/story-64NLvIwgYy3UxsdxBHb44O.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Juvenile apprehended for trying to break into house in Chandigarh||Four juveniles tried to break into a house in Sector 34-C on Wednesday and one of them was apprehended by the police. Cops are on the lookout for the other three.Police said an eyewitness saw four juveniles breaking the locks of a house in Sector 34-C and called them, following which, they reached the spot. The boys tried to flee and police chased them till the Sector 33/45 turn and apprehend one of them, who is 17-years-old.A case has been registered under Sections 380 (theft) and 454 (lurking house trespass) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sector 34 police station. The boy has been sent to a juvenile home. Police said he had revealed the names of his three accomplices, who are also juveniles, and they will be nabbed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/juvenile-apprehended-for-trying-to-break-into-house-in-chandigarh/story-2EaBhUvEjkgqyLlSKSGCXK.html
14-08-2020||City||Downpour brings deluge to several Sonepat areas||Heavy rainfall in several parts of Sonepat district on Thursday led to a flood-like situation. Sonepat block reported 200mm rainfall, Kharkhauda 145mm, Rai 126mm, Ganaur 112mm, Gohana 55mm and Khanpur Kalan 19mm on Thursday. The district has been put on high alert. 15 hurt in building collapseFifteen people got injured after a building collapsed due to heavy rainfall at Salimsar Majra village. A district official said five of them were seriously injured and sent to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak.Sunita Devi, Jatheri sarpanch, said her house was also inundated and claimed that several panchayat record were spoiled. In Rai and Sonepat, cops were seen draining out water. Commuters had to face inconvenience as their vehicles were submerged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/downpour-brings-deluge-to-several-sonepat-areas/story-HPGiKmvulChqcSyaGq3YbJ.html
14-08-2020||City||Congress holds statewide protests against BJP-JJP government in Haryana||As a part of their statewide stir, workers of the Congress on Thursday staged a protest near mini-secretariat in Ambala against the Haryana government on various ‘scams’.The protests were led by Mullana MLA Varun Chaudhary, Naraingarh MLA Shally Chaudhary and other party leaders.They said that crores have been looted in the liquor scam, registry scam and rice scam by the BJP-JJP government in Haryana. Party workers also handed over a memorandum to DC in the name of the governor. MLA Varun said the government took this pandemic as an opportunity to loot the state through different scams.In Karnal, hundreds of workers took out a protest march, accusing the BJP-JJP government of covering up the ‘liquor scam’ in the state.The protesters, led by local Congress leaders Shamsher Singh Gogi and Sardar Tarlochan Singh, sought a probe by a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court into the ‘scam’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-holds-statewide-protests-against-bjp-jjp-government-in-haryana/story-fZRuJY5dDD88de4PNPEVgJ.html
14-08-2020||City||Two farmers fall into manhole in Sirsa, one rescued||Relentless efforts by the national disaster relief force (NDRF), Haryana Police, local administration and villagers on Thursday led to the safe return of 45-year-old farmer Puran Singh of Sirsa’s Natar village, who had fallen into a manhole on Wednesday night.Sirsa deputy commissioner (DC) Ramer Chander Bidhan said Puran was rescued from a 30ft deep manhole while another farmer, Kala Singh, was still trapped inside.“The incident took place on Wednesday night when two farmers were going to irrigate their fields. Puran slipped into a manhole and Kala jumped to rescue him. Some locals informed us about them and we, along with Haryana Police and NDRF teams, reached the spot. Puran was rescued last night and is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital,” the DC added.He said they had called the army from Hisar on Wednesday night to conduct a search operation for the missing farmer.“The army started its operation on Thursday morning. We are making tremendous efforts to search the farmer and rescue him from the manhole,” Bidhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-farmers-fall-into-manhole-in-sirsa-one-rescued/story-l09WfxCSj050ZCCz7Kn0MP.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana logs 793 new cases, 792 recoveries||Haryana reported 793 new coronavirus infections and 792 recoveries from the contagion on Thursday. Eight coronavirus infected persons succumbed to the viral illness on Thursday, taking the death toll to 511. Among the persons who died on Thursday, three were from Panipat, two from Faridabad and one each from Ambala, Sonepat and Gurugram. As per a medical bulletin, the cumulative number of positive cases was 44,817 and there were 37,846 recoveries. The number of active cases on Thursday was 6,820. The recovery rate climbed to 83.64 % and the fatality rate remained at 1.14%. The bulletin said there were 146 critically ill patients, including 25 on ventilator support. The number of patients with mild symptoms of the disease was 6,674. Four NCR districts of Faridabad (136), Gurugram (78), Palwal (51) and Sonepat (50) accounted for about 40% of the new infections on Thursday. And, so was the case with five northern districts of Panipat (119), Ambala (63), Karnal (62), Kurukshetra and Panchkula (36 each), which also threw up about 40% of the new infections. Among the other districts, Hisar reported 43 new infections, Mahendergarh (37), Kaithal (27), Rewari (18), Fatehabad (12), Bhiwani (10), Nuh (7), Jhajjar (5) and Jind (3). No fresh cases were reported from Charkhi Dadri, Rohtak, Sirsa and Yamunanagar districts. Meanwhile, Kurukshetra authorities said two persons succumbed to the virus in Kurukshetra, taking the death toll to 14 in the district. As per the health department, one of the victims, a 43-year-old woman, was suffering from kidney infection and diabetes. The other deceased, a 65-year-old man from Pehowa, also had diabetes along with high blood pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-logs-793-new-cases-792-recoveries/story-HB9XVcIUWEJ3RisYg8pqgM.html
14-08-2020||City||Four arrested for extortion bid in Jhajjar||Four persons, including three pharmacy students of a private college in Jhajjar, were arrested on Thursday for making an extortion call of ₹20 lakh to a local chemist Mukesh Popli ten days ago, police said.The accused are Vikram, Neeraj, Chirag, all pharmacy students hailing from Jhajjar, and Sanjay of Jind.Jhajjar DIG Ashok Kumar said, “During questioning, Neeraj confessed that he, along with his classmate Vikram, had hatched a conspiracy to extort money from a rich person to clear their loans. Their junior Chirag, who is working at a chemist shop here, told them about Mukesh Popli who, he said, would pay if threatened with dire consequences. Sanjay had provided them a SIM card and Vikram had made the ransom call to Popli.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-arrested-for-extortion-bid-in-jhajjar/story-JuznpGVXoylafPqBXcUxFI.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana cabinet meet: Aided schools’ retired employees to get honorarium||The Haryana cabinet on Thursday decided to give honorarium to certain retirees of the government aided schools through Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Honorarium Scheme. The honorarium will be given to those who retired between July 28, 1988 and May 10, 1998. At present, there are approximately 352 such employees. Though a notification to implement the scheme was issued in June, the cabinet granted ex post facto approval to it on Thursday.A similar measure was approved by the cabinet in January 2018 for 146 employees of government-aided colleges, who retired between 1988 and 1998. The 2018 decision to provide honorarium to college employees, including former state BJP president Ganeshi Lal, was made by ignoring a Punjab and Haryana high court ruling. The government though has justified the move saying this was a welfare measure. An official spokesperson said a retired school principal will get Rs 20,000 per month, headmaster will get Rs 18,000, lecturers Rs 16,000, masters and language teachers Rs 14,000 and JBTs, drawing teachers, PTIs, cutting and tailoring teachers Rs 12,000 per month. The class III non-teaching staff will get monthly honorarium of Rs 11,000, while class IV will get Rs 6,000. The spokesperson said the honorarium will be granted only to those retirees who are not getting any other such type of pension benefits. The scheme will come into effect from January 1, 2019. The monsoon session of Haryana Vidhan Sabha will commence from August 26. A decision to this effect was also taken in the cabinet meeting.Metro connectivityWith an objective to provide metro connectivity to the residents of old Gurugram, the cabinet on Thursday approved the final detailed project report (DPR) of metro rail connectivity from HUDA City Centre to various key locations in Gurugram. The spokesperson said that the total length of the corridor will be about 28.8km, consisting of 27 elevated stations with six interchange stations. This link would start at HUDA City Centre and move towards Sector 45, Cyber Park and other stations before finally merging in the existing metro network of Rapid Metrorail Gurugram at Moulsari Avenue station. This mass rapid transit system (MRTS) project will facilitate maximum part of Gurugram city. The linkages will enhance the efficiency of the transportation system in the NCR, the spokesperson added. The daily ridership on the study corridor for 2025, 2031 and 2041 is expected to be 5.34 lakh passenger trips, 7.26 lakh passenger trips and 8.81 passenger trips, respectively. The introduction of MRTS will result in reduction in the number of buses, intermediate public transport and usage of private vehicles. Transfer of land The cabinet approved the transfer of land of Ambala municipal corporation measuring about 7.72 acres in Sadhopur village to the women and child development department. The land will be used for construction of an integrated multiple complex that would include an observation home, a special home, a place of safety and a children’s home at the current collector rate.HARSAC administrative control The Haryana government has decided to transfer the administrative control of Haryana Space Application Centre (HARSAC) to Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID). The cabinet also approved the transfer of the subject of ‘Minor Irrigation and Ground Water’ from agriculture and farmers’ welfare department to the irrigation and water resources department on the pattern of central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-cabinet-meet-aided-schools-retired-employees-to-get-honorarium/story-HDYWSqggEb5rZyhQsiEcgO.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||HC grants bail to juvenile sentenced for raping minor||Apprehending that his future may be spoilt in company of hardened criminals if sent to regular prison on becoming 21-years old, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday granted bail to an accused, who was a juvenile at the time of the crime and was tried by a regular court for raping a minor. The court had remanded him in a borstal school in Nashik.“Having regard to the tender age of the appellant and looking to the aspect that soon he would be 21 years of age, it would be appropriate to suspend the sentence passed by the trial court,” said justice Shrkant Kulkarni while granting bail to the Nandurbar resident.“If he is allowed to be remanded in prison (after he turns 21), there is every possibility that he may mix-up with hardened criminals and his future may be ruined,” the judge added.Though a juvenile at the time of the incident, the accused was tried by a regular court instead of the juvenile justice board. On February 14, 2019, an additional sessions judge at Nandurbar convicted him under section 354A (sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012.The court had sentenced him to seven years’ rigorous imprisonment for the offence under the Pocso Act and three years’ jail term under the IPC.He then filed an application seeking bail during pendency of his appeal against the conviction, apprehending that he will be shifted to a regular prison on turning 21-year-old. His lawyer pointed out that he would be 21-year-old soon and it was necessary to suspend his sentence and release him on bail considering his tender age and the fact that he will come in contact with hardened criminals if he was allowed to be shifted to regular jail.Justice Kulkarni accepted the argument and ordered for his release on bail on furnishing personal bond of ₹15,000 and a surety of the same amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-grants-bail-to-juvenile-sentenced-for-raping-minor/story-xSLtiN4DQupDsDiQvERgmM.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||Cop suspended for drinking, misbehaving with locals in uniform||A woman constable from Juhu police station has been suspended from service for allegedly consuming alcohol and misbehaving with local residents of Moragaon in Juhu while she was in her police uniform. According to Juhu police officer, the constable, Sneha Suresh Patil, was deployed at Iskcon temple in Juhu for security purposes. “On July 24, she was in the morning shift and she committed the act after her completed her shift,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity.Following the incident, a complaint was made to her seniors including Pandharinath Wavhal, senior inspector of Juhu police station; Abhishek Trimukhe, DCP, zone 9; and Manoj Kumar Sharma, additional commissioner of police (west region).Upon inquiry in to the incident, she was found guilty, following which disciplinary action was taken against her and later she was suspended from service, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cop-suspended-for-drinking-misbehaving-with-locals-in-uniform/story-DRYmKdGjSqxWQ8hm1hZzEL.html
14-08-2020||City||Mumbai cop booked for raping woman on pretext of marriage||Kamothe police booked a Mumbai Police officer on charges of rape after his live-in partner claimed he refused to marry her. The woman, who is married and works at a leading information technology company, has been in an extra-marital live-in relationship with the officer since January. The complainant, 45, approached Kamothe police on Monday to complaint against the 45-year-old assistant police inspector (API) attached to Mumbai Police’s crime branch. The woman in her complaint said the API had sent her a friend request on a social media platform in 2018, at a time when she was not on good terms with her husband owing to constant fights. She accepted the request after seeing he was a police officer, but she did not respond to his texts on the platform for around eight months. However, they later became friendly. A police officer said, “The duo met in Panvel in September 2018. He told her he was unmarried while she informed him of her marital status. The woman alleged that the officer told her he wanted to marry her. In January 2019, the officer rented a flat in Sector 11 in Kamothe and lived with the woman there till December 2019. She alleged that the officer kept a physical relationship with her promising marriage. Around March, she learnt that he is married and has a child. When she confronted him, he told her he will soon get a divorce.” In January this year, the woman purchased a flat in Kamothe and the officer continued to live with her at her new flat till July. However, when asked, he refused to marry her. “We have registered a case against the officer based on the woman’s complaint. We are gathering evidence and will decide on further course of action later,” said inspector Vimal Bidave, Kamothe police station. The police have booked the officer for repeated rape and criminal intimidation under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. No arrest has been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-cop-booked-for-raping-woman-on-pretext-of-marriage/story-J8OpxkrJpkC2aUXMubLh6L.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||Bandra police arrest three thieves in two cases||Bandra police arrested three people on Monday for theft based on two separate complaints. Two of the accused were involved in stealing autorickshaws while the other was arrested for stealing laptops from parked cars. According to Bandra police, they received a complaint from Azim Abdul Sultan, owner of a book store in Fort, stating that two of his laptops were stolen from his car and the windowpane was broken after he parked the car near Bhabha hospital around 6.30pm on August 1. Inspector Manohar Dhanavade from Bandra police station said, “We registered a first information report (FIR). Upon scanning CCTV footage of the area, we identified the accused as 30-year-old Kisan Moti Kewat who had a criminal antecedent. We arrested him on Monday from Bandra (East).” The two other arrested accused Sandeep Baban Gosavi, 30, a resident of Parksite in Vikhroli and Rohit Kumar Mandal, 23, a resident of Vile Parle, were arrested while Bandra police were investigating several cases of theft. Four stolen autorickshaws were recovered from the accused. Nikhil Kapse, senior inspector, said all the three accused have a criminal past. There were 22 cases of robbery, theft, house break-in and pickpocketing registered against Kewat at various police stations across the city, while Gosavi had 14 cases of robbery, theft and house break-in and Mandal was wanted in seven cases of theft and in a case of narcotics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bandra-police-arrest-three-thieves-in-two-cases/story-RUaeD8NK7Vl771gYoeT0uJ.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||Dumper runs over autorickshaw, 1 killed||A 45-year-old Vasai resident was killed on Wednesday evening after a dumper ran over an autorickshaw on Dahisar flyover on western express highway near Borivli. The dumper driver fled from the spot soon after the incident, said Samta Nagar police.A police officer said, “The incident took place on Wednesday around 4pm when the deceased, Jitu Verma, was traveling in an autorickshaw. He died on the spot. He is a resident of Vasant Nagari, Vasai.”“We checked CCTV camera footage and identified the dumper and arrested the accused, Balu Kaudar, 30,” he added.A case has been registered against Kaudar under sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code and section 134(a)(b) of the Motor Vehicles Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dumper-runs-over-autorickshaw-1-killed/story-2KB16KKU562ZIeSySH6DoM.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Viceregal Lodge’s 132-year-old kitchen wing to be restored in Shimla||The 132-year-old kitchen wing of the Viceregal Lodge, which was once the summer residence of the British, will be restored for the first time in as many years. The Union government has sanctioned ₹12 crore for restoring the kitchen wing of British Era building. Human resource minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Thursday virtually laid the foundation for stone for the restoration of the historic building .The ministry has also approved ₹65 crore for the renovation and restoration of the building that over the years has borne the brunt of the vagaries of weather and time.The building, which is now the Rashtrapati Niwas (President’s residence), and also houses the Indian Institute of Advanced Studies, is famous for hosting the historic failed ‘Simla Conference’, a meeting between the Viceroy of India Lord Wavell and prominent political leaders of Indian Muslim league and Indian National Congress. Institute director Makarand Paranjape said, “Except for small repairs no major restoration work has been undertaken in the building. The cobbled stones in the building have become delaminated due to weathering . The British-era refrigerators and an ice-cream machine will be repaired and put for display of the visitors.” The wing is in a bad shape due to long disuse. “The five-storey kitchen wing is unsafe as water drips from the roof and walls have deteriorated due to dampness. The tiles have also broken. There is trolley installed in the kitchen to ferry food to the top story,” he said. Built in the Jacobethan style, the construction of building began in 1878 and on July 23, 1888, Lord Dufferin became the first viceroy to occupy the majestic building, which thereon remained the nerve centre of the British administration. As many as 13 viceroys stayed in building between 1888 and 1946. Lord Mountbatten was the last viceroy to stay in the building .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/viceregal-lodge-s-132-year-old-kitchen-wing-to-be-restored-in-shimla/story-qKG4VTylZZWbNhlnM0i9uO.html
14-08-2020||City||Sunny Enclave promoter sent to five-day police remand in criminal case||Jarnail Singh Bajwa, the managing director of Bajwa Developers and promoter of Sunny Enclave, was on Thursday produced in a Kharar court which again remanded him to five-day police custody. Earlier, he was remanded to seven-day police custody.Kharar deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Pal Singh said, “The court has extended his remand today. The accused is in the custody of Kharar police and we are investigating the case.”Meanwhile, Bajwa was granted bail by the Chandigarh consumer redressal forum in connection with several cases of cheque bounce.Bajwa’s counsel Dinesh Kumar Sharma said, “Bajwa paid ₹6 crore in 48 cases, which were pending against him in the consumer court. Out of 48, eight cases have been disposed off while more than 50% payment has been made in 36 cases.”Sharma said that they had appealed before the court that Bajwa would pay his balance amount (₹5.95 crore) in the next six months (₹1 crore each month). The court agreed to this condition and granted him bail, he added.In the cheating case, they will try to get a bail after sorting out the matter with the complainant within a few days, Sharma said.Bajwa was arrested on August 4 in several cases of cheque bounce registered in Chandigarh consumer forum. A day after that, he was arrested by the Kharar police in connection with a property-related cheating case registered against him in 2019.The consumer court had dismissed his bail plea on August 5. The court had set a condition before him to make at least 50% payments in each case to get bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sunny-enclave-promoter-sent-to-five-day-police-remand-in-criminal-case/story-CWQZtMt53IUZHYl1sfL3NP.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Landslide blocks NH-5 in Kinnaur||A landslide triggered by heavy rainfall in Kinnaur district blocked national highway five on Thursday. Boulders blocked the road near Malling Nullah. However, no loss of life was reported. Officials say it will take two-three days to clear the road as more landslides may take place. Traffic was also disrupted on the Kalka-Shimla Highway due to a landslide but the road has been cleared for traffic.Rainfall predicted till August 19As per the weatherman, heavy rainfall is likely to continue throughout the state till August 19. A yellow warning for middle and lower hills has been issued for August 17.Himachal meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said heavy rainfall took place in Bilaspur, Una, and isolated places in Solan, Mandi, Hamirpur and Kangra districts on Thursday, while light to moderate rainfall took place at other places in the state. The maximum and minimum temperatures were one to two degrees above normal, he added.Ghumarwin receives most rain Ghumarwin in Bilaspur district received 265mm rain, which was the highest in the state, followed by Naina Devi, in Bilaspur, which received 148mm rain. Kasauli in Solan district recorded 94mm rain, Sarkaghat in Mandi district received 88mm rain, Nadaun in Hamirpur received 83 mm, Guler 81mm, Palampur 69mm, Amb 66mm, Dharamshala 55.4 mm, Bilaspur 49mm, Hamirpur 44mm, Una 41mm and Shimla 15.4mm and Mandi received 14.4mm rain.The maximum temperature in Shimla was 24°C. Popular hill stations Kufri, Manali, Dalhousie, and Dharamshala recorded a maximum temperature of 20.8°C, 27.4°C, 22.7°C, and 27.4°C, respectively. The maximum temperature in Solan was 30.4°C, Kalpa was 25.2°C, Bilaspur was 31.5°C, Hamirpur was 31.2°C, and Nahan recorded 28.5°C. Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest place in the state at 14.6°C while Una was the hottest at 34°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/landslide-blocks-nh-5-in-kinnaur/story-t8xn1W6OMVVMvhXB7gPkmO.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||PU expecting upto ₹93 cr shortfall in revenue, panel says no to salary cut||With the pandemic outbreak and the resultant lockdown wreaking havoc to the economy, Panjab University (PU) is staring at a shortfall of about ₹93 crore in funds this year. A committee, formed curtail the university’s spending, stated this during a meeting on Thursday. The committee, led by dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla, also suggested that the university will be able to save ₹21 to 29 crore through cost-cutting measures, which were approved during the meeting.Due to the present circumstances, the university is not expecting examination fee of both semesters of the academic session 2020-21. According to the estimates, prepared by the finance and development office of the university, tabled in the meeting, the loss due to examination fee for one semester is estimated at ₹70-75 crore.The projected flow of revenue may also get affected as the varsity is expecting an adverse impact on fresh admissions. As the university has decided that classes for the first semester of session 2020-21 will be conducted online, it is not expecting to get hostel fee for at least six months, which comes to around ₹5 to 6 crore. The loss in rotation of the test is expected to be ₹3 to 4 crore while the loss due to drop in admissions will be around ₹7 to 8 crore.NO SALARY CUTSThe proposal for a partial salary cut was also discussed during the meeting of the panel but it was not approved by the committee. A member of the panel, on condition of anonymity, said, “We have suggested that the university may cut down the expenditure and take loan on internal assets which will be returned when possible.”WAY OUT FOR PU During the meeting of the panel, cost-saving measures were also discussed to make up for the losses due to the present circumstances. According to the estimates made by the university, ₹17 to 22 crore can be saved if the university conducts the examination of one semester.Cost cutting on electricity and other miscellaneous charges was estimated at ₹2 to 3 crore and ₹1 to 2 crore respectively. Besides this, ₹1 to 2 crore can be saved from administrative expenditure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-expecting-upto-93-cr-shortfall-in-revenue-panel-says-no-to-salary-cut/story-6Etaar163rne772488abnN.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Empanelment record : High court again puts Centre on notice on Khemka’s fresh plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday put the Centre on notice on a fresh plea of senior Haryana cadre IAS officer Ashok Khemka, who has demanded records pertaining to empanelment or exclusion of officers at the Centre be summoned. The fresh plea has been filed days after the HC had put the Centre on notice for August 24, in a plea wherein Khemka had challenged the central administrative tribunal (CAT) order dismissing his petition seeking direction to the Centre to consider his empanelment. As per Khemka, he was empanelled as joint secretary in December 2010 and applied for central deputation in 2011, 2012 and 2014, but was not appointed. Non-empanelment at this stage would lead to a cascading effect and he will not be able to serve at the Centre permanently, he had argued. In the fresh plea, the Haryana IAS officer says that on June 8, he had sought information under RTI to give names of all IAS officers who had been given relaxation against empanelment guidelines for evaluating their suitability for inclusion in the panel of secretary/additional secretary, but the information was denied. Then again on July 9, the information was sought to give names of all IAS officers who after April 2016 were excluded from consideration for evaluating their suitability for inclusion in the panel of secretary/additional secretary because of non-fulfilment of guidelines, but it too was refused. Hence, no information was produced to substantiate that despite him being empanelled at the post of joint secretary in 2010 and being placed in the offer list in 2011 and 2012, why his appointment never fructified. “The arbitrariness of the Union in meeting out sweeping relaxations to others unaffected by any hardship, whilst not applying mind on the petitioner’s repeated pleas demonstrates severe hardship, reeks foul. Therefore, it is essential for the determination of the present petition to summon the records,” the fresh application filed by him says. The officer also wants a complete list of the posts for which he was shortlisted in 2011 and 2012 for the appointment as joint secretary and recommendation/decision by the civil services board and the appointment committee of the cabinet. He also wants the Centre to supply the record to the court as to what were recommendations/decisions of the civil services board and the cabinet committee for his appointment as joint secretary in 2014. The notice on the fresh plea has been issued for August 24 too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/empanelment-record-high-court-again-puts-centre-on-notice-on-khemka-s-fresh-plea/story-hejq3QjJb7pL9kSOLNdk2I.html
14-08-2020||City||Six railway staffers from Ludhiana to get corona warrior awards on August 15||Six railway staffers of Ludhiana are slated to get corona warrior awards, for their services rendered during the lockdown, on Independence Day at a ceremony in Ferozepur.The Ferozepur Division has announced names of 32 railway staffers for the award and invited them to the city for receiving the award.Those who are getting the award are Sunil Bajaj, Jaswinder Ratti (ticket checking staff), Jaswinder Singh, Ramakant (scouts and guide), Om Parkash (diesel shed) and Rupesh Kumar (electric loco shed).During the Covid lockdown, these employees worked on the frontline in the operations of Shramik Special trains and in sending labourers to their native places.Bajaj and Ratti said that there was a possibility that they could get infected while disposing of their duties, but they still decided to work on the frontline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-railway-staffers-from-ludhiana-to-get-corona-warrior-awards-on-august-15/story-srIR1FGDVXXqixj6I2dtmI.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two personnel in Himachal CM’s security squad test positive; 180 new infections take tally to 3,816||Two personnel in Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s security squad have tested positive for Covid-19. One of them is the driver of the pilot vehicle in the CM’s motorcade, while the other is a gunman, officials said. They were part of the security squad during the chief minister’s travel from Kangra to Jwalamukhi on August 7 and then moved to Una. Thakur’s Una tour was cancelled so both of them joined back duty in Shimla. The chief minister was on a tour to Kangra from August 6 to 8. The health authorities have now started contact tracing. BJP workers had flouted social distancing norms during the chief minister’s visit. The party workers had gathered in large number at places the CM visited during his tour and many of them were not even wearing masks. Veteran BJP leader Shanta Kumar had advised the chief minister to avoid field visits and follow social distancing norms strictly. Besides the two security personnel, two new Covid-19 patients were reported in Shimla. A youngster admitted at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, tested positive, while a migrant labourer from Bihar was found infected with coronavirus in Rohru sub division. Forty patients who were admitted in the Medical Ward of IGMC have been isolated after the youth was found positive and ward has been sealed. STEEPEST SPIKE OF 180 IN 24 HOURS A total of 180 people have tested positive in the state since in last 24 hours taking the state’s tally to 3,816. Twenty-eight cases were recorded on Wednesday night and 152 today. On Wednesday state witnessed steepest spike of 153 case. Sixty-nine cases have been recorded in Kullu, 19 in Hamirpur, 18 in Una, 14 in Mandi, 13 in Chamba, 10 in Kinnaur and Solan, 9 eaqch in Sirmaur and Shimla, seven in Bilaspur, and two in Kangra. Most of the sixty nine people tested positive in Kullu are farm labourers who were here for apple season. They were in institutional quarantine. Ten people tested positive in Kinnaur were primary contacts of a Covid positive couple back from Delhi. The infected people had attended the last rites of a family member of the couple on August 2. The couple had returned from Delhi in the first week of July and tested negative after completing quarantine. They tested positive when a retest was done two days ago. The health authorities have now started rigorous contact mapping. In Palampur a former BJP block president has tested positive. He had also met Rajya Sabha member Indu Goswami recently. However, Goswami’s first Covid-19 report is negative. The total tally of coronavirus cases in the state has climbed to 3,816 with 1,328 active cases and 2,435 recoveries. Solan is the worst-hit district with 913 cases followed by Kangra at 554, Sirmour 471, Hamirpur 389, Una 312, Mandi 287, Chamba 267, Shimla 216, Kullu 190, Bilaspur 155, Kinnaur 58 and Lahaul-Spiti four. 17th DEATH Himachal also recorded 17th death due to the virus on Thursday. The deceased, aged 68, was diabetic and also suffering from hypertension. He was shifted from Zonal Hospital to Lala Bahadur Shashtri Government Medical College, Nerchowk a day ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-personnel-in-himachal-cm-s-security-squad-test-covid-19-positive/story-SakJ95B4dU0NIqgh1zoIfL.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Poetry, in the time of job loss||He lost his job in April. Because of the coronavirus pandemic. Saquib Hussain, 28, was an online strategist working for a multinational company.Even so, he is feeling very excited these days. This Friday, he has a visa-related appointment with the embassy of Ireland. If all goes well, he will be flying to Dublin for his Master’s in September.“It will be my first trip outside India,” says the gentleman calmly, while speaking on WhatsApp video from the isolation of his windowless basement studio in Gurugram’s DLF Phase 3.Meanwhile, Mr Hussain isn’t taking the job loss personally, though he does feel bad for his team as well as for his team leader—they were all told during a post-lunch meeting in the office that their contract wouldn’t be renewed, with an assurance that they would be contacted in the future. “My Master’s was already planned. The firing gave me a few extra days as a break to do the things that I really like.”Such as reading and writing poetry.Mr Hussain is fond of Mirza Ghalib, Faiz Ahmad Faiz (in fact, he is holding a copy of Faiz’s verses right now), Gulzar and many others including Rahat Indori, who died a few days back. “Rahat Indori saab had a great stage presence, and had that magical ability to swiftly earn the wah-wahs and claps from the audience.”Mr Hussain writes poems in Urdu but pens them in English alphabets “because my written Urdu is very bad.” Blame his “English medium background.” Indeed, if it weren’t for Fasiha Jabin, his mother, he wouldn’t have developed a taste for Urdu, and poetry, at all. Nobody else in Mr Hussain’s family, except perhaps for his younger sister Varisha, has a pulse for poetry “but Mumma is a great poetry lover... she seems to have read almost all the poets and can recite verses by great many including Tulsidas, Kabir and Rahim.” He says his mother often tends to suddenly break extempore into a verse or two, spurring him to Google immediately the poem and its author. She lives in Kolkata, where Mr Hussain grew up, with his father, a physician.Today, Mr Hussain agrees to share one of his poems, entitled “Muaafi”, with us. He wrote it at a time in his life “when I was emotionally into pieces due to a series of unexpected, unexplainable and untimely events, and a few months before I had finally reached out to a therapist for help.” This poem, he says, keeps him going. He himself translated it into English.Forgive, and ask for forgiveness.Forgive him, but forgive yourself first.Forgive, for he’s your own.Bid him adieu, if you may.Or hug him.But first, forgive him.Forgive him as it makes us feel humane,And the forgiven feels fortunate.And, if you want to be the bigger man?If you want to be the bigger man,forgive him, even before he asks you to.Forgive him, for you have His light in you.Forgive him, for he may feel a li’l blessed too.Forgive him, for anger is forbiddenand grievance is anger’s ally.Forgive, for there is helplessness,Responsibilities and humiliations for all of us.Forgive, for you both need peace,Forgive, for someone else may have forgiven you.Even if they didn’t, you do.As you are grateful for the empathy in you.Forgive, for lately sleep is expensive and worry’s quite a bargain.Forgive, for life has become smaller than,while we became bigger than life itself.Forgive, for it’s ego’s cure.Forgive, for may be, may be this legacy lives on.Forgive, for Ghalib once saidforgiving and asking for forgiveness makes life easier.Forgive and ask for forgiveness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-poetry-in-the-time-of-job-loss/story-NKaSuJ7ZUf9iawUJRszmnO.html
14-08-2020||City||Ludhiana man booked for abducting 19-year-old on pretext of trip to Rajasthan, raping her for two months||A resident of Preet Vihar was booked for abducting and raping a 19-year-old girl for two months, the police said on Thursday.The accused was identified as Habib-Ur-Rehman Ali. He had abducted the woman and taken her to Jaipur, Rajasthan, on the pretext of a trip, where he raped her at a rented accommodation.The victim, however, managed to locate a mobile phone and inform her parents about the incident after which she was rescued.In her complaint, the victim said that she had wanted to go on a trip and was lured by the accused who lived near her house. They went to Madina Colony of Jaipur on June 8, where the accused had already arranged for a rented accommodation.The victim said that the accused raped her for two months and did not allow her to go out. On August 7, she borrowed a mobile phone from a local and informed her parents. Her family members rescued her on August 8 and brought her back to Ludhiana.Assistant inspector (AI) Kamaljit Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code had been lodged against the accused and the case had been sent to Ramganj police station of Jaipur for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-booked-for-abducting-19-year-old-on-pretext-of-trip-to-rajasthan-raping-her-for-two-months/story-6iojIn1wdy2e0fhmr3ltCP.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||0.42% of 3 lakh recovered Covid patients donated plasma: FDA||Despite repeated appeals by the state government, till August 5, less than 1% of the three lakh recovered Covid patients from Maharashtra donated blood plasma for convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) for the patients. Health experts said cured patients refuse to return to hospitals to donate plasma due to the fear of contracting the infection again. Individuals infected with Sars-Cov-2— the virus that causes Covid-19 – develop antibodies as part of the body’s natural immune response to the foreign pathogen. This antibody invades pathogens and works to eliminate the novel coronavirus in patients.During CPT, these antibodies are infused into Covid-19 patients to help them fight the virus. Till August 5, 290,343 patients have recovered in seven divisions – Konkan, Nashik, Aurangabad, Greater Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Amravati – that account for 70% cases in Maharashtra. But only 1,236 units of plasma were donated, a mere 0.42% compared to the total number of recovered patients, according to the data provided by Maharashtra Food and Drug Administration (FDA). However, actual number of donors could be far lower, as the data provided by FDA also includes donors who have donated more than once. “This is a new virus and people lack basic knowledge about the spread. Once they recover, they refuse to come back for donation. It is just like organ donation. Despite having lakhs of possible donors, donations are less than 1%,” said Dr TP Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). Of the seven divisions, the maximum number of donations is from Mumbai, with 662 units of plasma till August 5, of which 511 units have already been used. Mumbai is followed by Pune division, which has obtained 378 units, of which 266 have been used. Konkan region which covers Nalasopara, Thane and Navi Mumbai that fall under the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has the third highest number of Covid-19 cases among the seven. Despite this, the division has received only 34 units of plasma, even lower than Aurangabad (46), Nagpur (44) and Nashik (40) with relatively fewer cases. Dr Behram Pardiwala, internal medicine expert, Wockhardt Hospital, who has treated 20 patients through plasma therapy, said, “I haven’t lost a single patient who has been treated with plasma therapy. In the treatment of patients with Covid-19, timing is the most essential thing. If we can treat moderately ill patients in time with the therapy, the recovery rate can be 100%.” Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said they are trying to sensitize people through several awareness programs.“The response is better than at the beginning of the therapy (around May),” he said. At the civic-run BYL Nair Hospital, 189 units of plasma helped treat 174 patients. The success rate of the treatment is above 95% at the hospital. At Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, which is also known as Sion hospital, where more than 3,000 Covid-19 patients have recovered, is lowest on the list with only 10 units. Nanavati Hospital is the only private hospital, which has received 94 units of blood for plasma therapy, of which 93 have been used till August 5. Dr Rinku Bhatia, heading the blood transfusion medicine department at the hospital, said, “The response has improved in the past two months. People often refuse to come forward due to several myths attached to the infection. Some people believe that donating plasma will make them weaker and affect their immunity, which is completely wrong.” Bhatia added that due to low haemoglobin levels among women, the hospital often refuses their donation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/0-42-of-3-lakh-recovered-covid-patients-donated-plasma-fda/story-ygZFrybJ03RWGLKiHRUsRJ.html
14-08-2020||City||Two held for murder of Samrala youth wing president||The police on Thursday arrested two accused for their alleged involvement in the murder of Youth Akali Dal leader Ravinder Singh alias Sonu. This comes a day before a proposed protest was announced by Shiromani Akali Dal.The arrested accused have been identified as Harjinder Singh alias Jinder and Kulvir Singh alias Pappi. The remaining accused are yet to be arrested. The accused were presented before a local court on Thursday that remanded to police custody till Monday.SAD had announced to hold a protest in Samrala against the murder and party president Sukhbir Singh Badal was likely to participate in the protest for pressuring the police to arrest the accused.SHO at Samrala police station Inspector Sikandar Singh said that the police have formed several teams for the arrest of the accused. On Thursday, the police arrested two accused following a tip-off.Ravinder Singh Sonu was gunned down on Tuesday by six assailants in Village Seh when he was participating in a tree plantation drive at a shrine. His brother Gurpreet Singh alias Gura Seh was also hacked to death 17 months ago by assailants over a dispute over torn posters.A murder case was lodged against Harjinder Singh alias Jinder, Kulvir Singh Pappi, Jagbir Singh alias Jagga, Bikramjit Singh alias Vicky, Aman Singh, Aman’s father Binder Singh and Harvinder Singh alias Gola, his wife Manjit Kaur and their unidentified accomplices following the complaint of Ranjit Kaur, mother of the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-murder-of-samrala-youth-wing-president/story-vNPAO9MZKvxdIp7LZXHLhP.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||413 deaths take Covid toll to 19,063; state tally is 560,126||Maharashtra reported 413 more Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, taking the state’s death toll up to 19,063, while 11,813 fresh cases pushed up the tally of infections to 560,126. Of the 413 deaths, 288 were from the past 48 hours, 74 from last week and 51 from the period before last week. Mumbai recorded 1,200 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally of infections to 127,556. The city’s toll rose by 48 to 6,991. While cases in Mumbai have plateaued over the past month, Pune district, which comprises Pune City, Pune Rural and Pimpri-Chinchwad, remains the worst affected in terms of daily rise in cases and fatalities. On Thursday, Pune City reported 1,148 new cases, Pimpri-Chinchwad 848 and Pune Rural 396. The district’s tally is inching closer to Mumbai’s with 122,020 cases against 127,556. Mumbai has 19,314 active cases, while for Pune district, the number is 40,225. Thane district has 19,589 active cases. The state’s case fatality rate (CFR) has continued to remain high, 3.4%, against the national CFR of 1.98%. According to a state health department report, which was submitted on August 10, Solapur city has the highest fatality rate of 7.12%, followed by Malegaon city (7.03%), Mumbai (5.51%), Malegaon (5.47%) and Nandurbar (4.96%).The rise in daily fatalities over the past few days and the state’s failure to bring down CFR has been a major cause for concern. In its letter to district and civic administrations, in the first week of July, the state health department had directed them to put in efforts to bring the positivity rate below 10% and fatality rate to less than 1%. “We have been able to reduce the CFR, although it is not as fast as at the national level. It is because of the monsoon and related ailments and the limitations our machinery is facing. We have been working tirelessly to bring it down. The local authorities have been told to concentrate on containment zones and increase tracing for high- and low-risk contacts. It is true that there is fear among the people about hospitalisation and it leads to late referrals,” said Dr Sadhana Tayade, director, directorate of health services.Neeraj Hatekar, Mumbai University economist, said the high CFR in Mumbai is because of various socio-economic compositions, while in other districts like Kolhapur, Sangli and Nandurbar the reasons vary. “There were hardly any elderly persons among the migrants who went back to their states in May. The elderly people with comorbidities stayed back in Mumbai. Similarly, the critical patients with comorbidities are referred to Mumbai, which leads to the high rate of fatality in the city. The rate may be high in Solapur, Sangli and Nandurbar for some other reasons like weak infrastructure,” he said. Hatekar, however, said CFR is high in some districts also because of the taboo about Covid-19. “People have fear about the infection in the areas where it is newly penetrated, like it was in cities initially. This leads to high fatality rate. Creating awareness and community participation may help authorities to get patients admitted to the hospitals early,” he said.The state, meanwhile, conducted 67,203 tests in a day on Thursday, and has a positivity rate of 17.58%. The recovery rate of Maharashtra stands at 69.8%, with the number of recovered patients rising to 390,958 after 9,115 people recovered on Thursday. The country’s recovery rate is 70.38%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/413-deaths-take-covid-toll-to-19-063-state-tally-is-560-126/story-NgxODuFZIQ6W6EBZLaY0PP.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Semester fee row: Panjab University to constitute panel to suggest solution||Amid growing demand of students for semester-fee waiver, Panjab University has decided to constitute a panel to deliberate on demands of various student outfits and make recommendations. Vice-chancellor Raj Kumar held a meeting with members of different student bodies on Thursday after multiple protests were held on campus. The students raised their demands in front of the V-C and other university officials at the meeting.PU’s dean students welfare (DSW) SK Tomar said, “Students aired their demands and a committee will be constituted to look into them. The panel will be headed by the dean university instructions and will suggest the way out.”During the meeting, some students suggested all charges be cancelled other than tuition fee as the classes will be held online, but others demanded complete fee waiver for the upcoming semester.Chetan Chaudhary of Students Organisation of India (SOI) and former president of PU students’ council said, “University officials said the panel will look into the demands of students and suggest a way out.”Panjab University is already staring at major financial constraints and is already looking at ways to curtail spending.“Rather than burdening students amid the Covid pandemic, the university will seek a special grant from the Centre,” said Sandeep of Students For Society (SFS), who also attended the meeting.Nikhil Narmeta of National Students Union of India (NSUI) said, “We have suggested that the university should adjust fee for months in which classes were not held against the next semester and charges other than tuition fee should be exempted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/semester-fee-row-panjab-university-to-constitute-panel-to-suggest-solution/story-WWPnzumHpGpfWhALP737FI.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Spreading awareness necessary to increase organ donations: PGIMER||Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (ROTTO), Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), celebrated World Organ Donation Day on Thursday.ROTTO collaborated with PGI Nurses Welfare Association and launched a week-long social media campaign to motivate people to pledge for organ donation. A poster-making competition was also held with the objective to garner traction for the cause.Speaking about the need for public education, Vipin Koushal, additional medical superintendent and nodal officer, ROTTO, said, “Over the last few years, the increase in number of organ donors has been steady in PGIMER. Increased awareness has definitely been an enabling factor along with synergised effort by departments concerned.” “There is a long way to go and public education is necessary to bridge the gap between patients who need organs and potential donors,” Koushal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/spreading-awareness-necessary-to-increase-organ-donations-pgimer/story-yINfKj77Gt8CbxXfRz2dKJ.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||37 girls hired by IOCL at Chandigarh Police job fair||Chandigarh Police organised a job fair on Thursday in which 37 girls received appointment letters from Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL). The 37 girls include 29 wards of police personnel, five candidates trained under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) and three from economically- weaker sections and victims of crime.Initially, a three-day training was conducted for the candidates in July at IT park petrol pump operated by IOCL. Director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Baniwal congratulated the girls and Sujoy Chaudhary executive director and state head, Punjab state office, IOCL, donated 2,000 Covid safety kits, including masks gloves and sanitisers. A project started by UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagdale, Chandigarh Police have provided 231 jobs to victims of crime, needy people and school drop outs.In her time as SSP, 980 youth (school dropouts, victims of crime, Juvenile delinquents, families in dire need, drug addicts or youth in high-risk category of becoming drug addicts) of different age groups have been imparted job-related training.Of this, 765 candidates have been trained till now and 215 are being trained at well- equipped centres at police stations of the city. A fourth centre will be functional soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/37-girls-hired-by-iocl-at-chandigarh-police-job-fair/story-U78S0D31uPjAUP0mFn58cP.html
14-08-2020||City||Residents protest against dilapidated condition of roads||Annoyed over the dilapidated condition of the main road connecting Chander Nagar with the civil city area (around 3-km long stretch) in ward number 91, residents of the area staged a protest against area councillor Gurpinder Kaur on Thursday.The residents alleged that it has been over two and a half years that the councillor has been making false claims for repairing the road, but nothing has been done at ground level.The residents had also restricted the movement of vehicles as potholes make the road susceptible to accidents. Councillor Gurpinder Kaur’s husband, Baljinder Singh and police reached the spot and pacified the protesters.A resident Ankur said, “The road is full of potholes but the councillor has only made tall claims in the past and nothing has been done at ground level to improve the condition. Accidents take place due to deep potholes and it becomes difficult even to step out of our houses during rainfall, due to water accumulation.”Baljinder Singh said, “An estimate to reconstruct the road has been approved and the construction work would commence after the monsoon season.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-protest-against-dilapidated-condition-of-roads/story-hyzFTWulCjNE5GEE5FiOKP.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Fewer guests, police in PPE at Red Fort for August 15 celebrations||Fewer guests at the rampart, photojournalists tested for Covid-19,police personnel quarantined for 14 days before the event and those frisking guests at the gates donning PPE kits — the Independence Day celebrations at Red Fort on Friday will see many firsts, as the occasion reconciles itself with the needs of the Covid-19 era.As Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses the nation, he will be surrounded by a fifth of the guests he was at last year’s celebrations, senior officials in the home ministry privy to the preparations said. The 140-odd guests will include cabinet ministers, senior bureaucrats and Supreme Court judges. No spouses have been invited, and a majority of the guests will be seated below the ramparts. “Last year, there were around 800-900 guests at the rampart, primarily because a lot of VVIP guests had come with their spouses. The number is much lower this year to ensure social distancing. Most guests will be seated below the rampart. Some may not come because of concerns about their health,” a senior home department officer said. HT had on August 5 reported that the guest list for the At Home function on August 15 evening in the Rashtrapati Bhawan complex had been kept at a maximum of 90 — down from the normal gathering of 1,500 dignitaries. As per the protocol for the ceremony this year, there will be no spouses, no live food counters, no freedom fighters will be present, and no free interaction with VIPs. Even the number of photographers who will be at the ramparts has been capped, with just 10 to be in attendance, as against 80-90 last year. Further, on Wednesday, the government conducted RT-PCR Covid-19 tests for around 10 photojournalists who will be at the rampart in close proximity with the Prime Minister as he delivers his speech. A photojournalist from a foreign press agency, who asked not to be identified, said, “For some of us who will be at the rampart, we were told it was mandatory to take the test. But for our colleagues who will be positioned elsewhere within the Red Fort complex, it was not compulsory to take the test. I have taken the test and am told the results were negative.” The tests were conducted at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital. Around 350 police personnel, of which around 100, who will form the guard of honour that Modi will inspect, are already in 14-day-quarantine at a police complex in Delhi, since August 1. Until Friday evening, the national capital had 10,975 active Covid-19 cases. Till date, the city has reported 149,460 cases. Of them, 4167 persons have died, while 134,318 have recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fewer-guests-police-in-ppe-at-red-fort-for-august-15-celebrations/story-NCWIPUhm4nqEBJ7DVL9NaJ.html
14-08-2020||Gurugram||Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran office submerged due to waterlogging||The office of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in sector 14 was flooded on Thursday following the rain. It blocked entry of employees who were forced to return as the water could be pumped out only by afternoon.The office of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) located on the ground floor behind the HSVP office too was flooded.HSVP officials, when asked about the matter said that a flyover is being constructed at Atul Kataria Chowk as a result of which the drainage has been blocked and construction is also being carried out in front of their office, which led to waterlogging as all channel were blocked. Satpal Dahiya, section engineer, HSVP said, “Directions have been issued to ensure that this kind of situation does not arise again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-office-submerged-due-to-waterlogging/story-3zeVl91YXkL87ttXWcND3M.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Cabinet nod for Metro connectivity between HUDA City Centre- Old Gurugram||With an objective to provide metro connectivity to the residents of old Gurugram, the cabinet on Thursday approved the final detailed project report (DPR) of metro rail connectivity from HUDA City Centre to various important locations in Gurugram . An official spokesperson said the total length of the corridor shall be about 28.80 kilometers, consisting of 27 elevated stations with six interchange stations. This link would start at HUDA City Centre and move towards Sector 45, Cyber Park, District Shopping Centre, Sector 47, Subhash Chowk, Sector 48, Sector 72 A, Hero Honda Chowk, Udyog Vihar Phase 6, Sector 10, Sector 37, Basai village, Sector 9, Sector 7, Sector 4, Sector 5, Ashok Vihar, Sector 3, Bajghera Road, Palam Vihar Extension, Palam Vihar, Sector 23 A, Sector 22, Udyog Vihar Phase 4, Udyog Vihar Phase 5 and finally merge in existing metro network of Rapid Metrorail Gurugram, at Moulsar Avenue station near Cyber City. This mass rapid transit system (MRTS) project will facilitate maximum part of Gurugram city. It will interchange with MRTS Corridor at Subhash Chowk, with Bus Stand at Sector 10, with Railway Station at Sector 5 and with Rapid Metro at Moulsar Avenue Station. The MRTS Corridor at Subhash Chowk will interchange with yellow line at HUDA City Centre and therefore, will provide direct connectivity to a large part of Gurugram with Delhi. It will also interchange with RRTS stations at Hero Honda Chowk and Sector -22 and will provide connectivity upto Sarai Kale Khan (SKK), New Delhi side and on one Shahjahanpur, Neemrana and Behror (SNB), Rajsathan on the other side. These linkages will enhance the efficiency of transportation system in National Capital Region (NCR), the spokesperson saod. The daily ridership on the study corridor for years 2025, 2031 and 2041 is expected to be 5.34 lakh passenger trips, 7.26 lakh passenger trips and 8.81 passenger trips respectively. The introduction of MRTS will result in reduction in number of buses, Intermediate Public Transport (IPT), usage of private vehicles. This, in turn, will result in significant social benefits due to reduction fuel consumption, vehicle operating cost and travel time of passengers. Besides this, it will also help in reduction in accidents, pollution and road maintenance costs are the other benefits to the society in general.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cabinet-nod-for-metro-connectivity-between-huda-city-centre-old-gurugram/story-nHwBSt9e55DpWGJyP3piWM.html
14-08-2020||Mumbai||Air India group pilots seek meeting with aviation minister to discuss challenges||Pilots of Air India group (Air India, Air India Express and Alliance Air) have written to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, seeking an immediate meeting to discuss challenges faced due to Covid-19, flying during monsoon, ill-designed flight duty time limitations (FDTL), and extensions and dispensations given by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The pilots urged Puri for a meeting in the interest of passenger safety.In their letter written to Puri by the Indian Pilots Guild (IPG) and Indian Commercial Pilots Guild (ICPA) unions of Air India on Thursday, the pilots highlighted flight safety and working conditions of pilots of Air India group companies and the recently-imposed policies implemented by the Air India board, imposing steep pay cuts that pilots said are implemented targeting pilots across Air India, Air India Express and Alliance Air. Pilots also said the Air India management has tried to burden frontline workers with massive pay cuts to safeguard the salaries and perks of senior management. The letter read, “Aviation policymakers are creating a caustic work environment without any reproach or consequence. It is paramount that the safety of the travelling public is not compromised. In this, you are our singular hope.”After the Kozhikode crash, that led to 18 casualties including two pilots, had recently also demanded the resignation of DGCA chief and demanded to replace him with a person from the aviation field.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-india-group-pilots-seek-meeting-with-aviation-minister-to-discuss-challenges/story-PZDBXELRX6tYaE9oA6ECMO.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Dedicated channel for exempted international passengers at Delhi airport||International passengers arriving in Delhi by Vande Bharat flights may not have to stand in long queues to exit the airport anymore. After launching Air Suvidha, an e-service that allows passengers to fill self-declaration forms online and upload their non-Covid-19 reports to seek exemption from institutional quarantine, the Delhi airport operator has now set up a dedicated channel for exempted passengers to speed up their exit from the terminal.Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport announced last Friday that it has developed Air Suvidha—a portal wherein passengers can apply for an exemption from mandatory institutional quarantine.Before this facility was started, all international passengers were screened at the airport upon their arrival, were divided into groups of 20, and were escorted by Central Industrial Security Force personnel up to the triage area where Delhi government officials allotted them hotels for seven days of quarantine. “Because passengers started being exempted from institutional quarantine, it was decided that a dedicated corridor be set up to facilitate quick immigration and customs clearance. With the new set up, it does not take more than 2 to 2.5 hours for an international passenger to exit the airport, which is the usual time the procedure took even before the pandemic,” an official from the airport said, wishing not to be named. However, only passengers exempted from institutional quarantine can avail the new facility, the officer added.The officer said a dedicated channel will take the passenger out of the Terminal 3 building through the immigration counters and customs area. The passengers can then leave right away to quarantine at home. The Air Suvidha facility was started on August 8, under which passengers seeking exemption under five categories—pregnancy, death in the family, serious illness, accompanied by children below 10 years and tested negative for Covid-19 via a recent RT-PCR test—will need to fill up an e-form on the Delhi airport website, www.newdelhiairport.in, and submit supporting documents, including a copy of their passport, at least 72 hours before boarding their flight.A spokesperson from Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) said passengers who have applied in advance for online quarantine exemption through the Air Suvidha portal on Delhi Airport’s website will have to show their approved e-Exemption pass after arriving at the airport. “This will provide them with a hassle free experience, with digital pre-approved exemption from institutional quarantine. DIAL has created a special corridor at Delhi Airport which will help them walk out of the airport safely, avoid mixing with other passengers and save time as well,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dedicated-channel-for-exempted-international-passengers-at-delhi-airport/story-XjQ4wgrxGJ7sLtylpXwVTL.html
14-08-2020||Noida||Noida residents complain of poor quality drinking water, want authority to address their 11 demands||Residents on Thursday demanded that the Noida authority take immediate measures to improve the quality of drinking water as its supply was of dubious quality, especially in some pockets. This was part of 11 other demands put forward by residents during a webinar with the top officials, including Noida authority additional chief executive officer Shruti (goes by first name) and officer on special duty Avinash Tripathi.The officials and residents discussed issues related to water supply after a complaint was filed with the Noida authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari on the issue on August 8. Maheshwari had directed the water department officials to discuss the issues and take required measures. Residents sought to authoritys attention on 11 points -- purification of rainy well water; regular cleaning of water tanks; compulsory cleaning of water supply line; augmentation of water supply; end to leakages in pipeline; poor water pressure in sectors; repair of defunct tubewells; irregular water supply; future planning of supply; replace old water pipes; and rectification of total dissolved solids (TDS) quotient. “We have asked the Noida authority to focus on regular cleaning of supply lines, water tanks, augmenting supply and also improving quality of water as many areas still get muddied water. We hope that the authority will address our 11 demands,” PS Jain, president, Confederation of Delhi-NCR Residents’ Welfare Associations (CONRWA), an umbrella body of RWAs, said. Residents said that quality of water in sectors 11, 12, 19, 20, 34, 50, 51, 52 and 53, among others, is poor. “There are times when the water supplied by the Noida authority is smelly and muddy. This happens either because the water pipelines have multiple leakages or the network is not cleaned properly. We have brought the matter to the notice to the authority in the past as well but it is yet to address the issue properly,” Arun Chauhan, a resident of Sector 34, said. Currently, the total demand for water in Noida is 332 million litres per day (MLD). The authority is supplying 240 MLD of Ganga water to residents and the remaining is procured through groundwater resources. The authority supplies 70% Ganga water and 30% groundwater in most areas of the city. “The authority should replace the rusty pipelines and faulty tubewells on a regular basis. We kept getting sand in out water and the issue persists despite complaints,” Neeraj Kumar, a resident of Sector 12, said.OSD Tripathi said the authority will address all the grievances raised by residents.“We have assured the residents that we will take all measures to improve the quality of water and also address their grievances. We will ensure regular cleaning of water storage tanks, pipelines and also work on the constructive suggestions to further improve the supply. However the authority already does the supply network regularly. But the suggestions made by the residents will be looked into,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-residents-complain-of-poor-quality-drinking-water-want-authority-to-address-their-11-demands/story-Kqkg7lpTao76yud4nbQZMN.html
14-08-2020||Noida||Noida authority ropes in technical consultant for developing heliport||Expediting the process to start work on the heliport proposed in Sector 151A, the Noida authority on Thursday appointed state-run RITES as the technical consultant for the upcoming project.The authority signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the central government-owned RITES, which will now undertake an economic feasibility survey, prepare a detailed project report (DPR), and prepare the design for the ambitious project as part of providing technical consultancy.With the project, the authority aims to provide air connectivity to corporate houses, developers, and residents in the region.The authority will pay ₹1.69 crore to RITES for its technical consultancy, according to the MoU. “We have fixed a period of eight months for RITES to carry out the assigned task. Once the DPR is submitted, and all necessary technical procedures are finished, the authority will start work at the site,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer (CEO), Noida authority.The heliport would be spread over 10 acres of land and its terminal building is to be built on 500 square metres. As per initial planning, the facility will provide space for 172 helicopters to land and will allow movement of 20 passengers at a time,The Noida authority had approved the heliport project on September 27, 2019.“The facility will boost commercial activity in the area along Noida-Greater Noida Expressway.,” said Maheshwari.“The heliport project will immensely benefit those who are investing in housing, commercial and industrial projects in newly developed sectors such as sectors 150, 151, 151A, and 152 among others along the expressway. This facility will fuel growth in Noida as it will provide fast connectivity to business owners and residents in need,” said Abhay Kumar chairman and managing director, Griha Pravesh Buildteck Pvt Ltd—a realty firm.The authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari, chief engineer Rajeev Tyagi and executive director of airport division of RITES, Rakesh Kapoor, were present during the signing of the MoU at Noida’s authority’s main administrative building in Sector 6.The authority has divided the development of the project into four phases. The first phase would include the study of the site, the second phase would entail technical feasibility with DPR, assessment of the impact on ecology, and transaction advisory would form the third and fourth phase respectively, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-ropes-in-technical-consultant-for-developing-heliport/story-EZh8iIxZJLD4e758DNlnvK.html
14-08-2020||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar gets dedicated helpline for cybercrime||Victims of cybercrimes will soon be able to register their complaints with the police over the phone in Gautam Budh Nagar. It is one of the 18 districts in the state for which the Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday released a dedicated helpline to deal with cybercrimes.“The helpline number (7839876650) will be activated soon. The state government has released helpline numbers for 18 major districts in UP. The idea behind the move is to have a more proactive approach in fighting cybercrimes. Complainants will be able to register their issues directly with the helpline. In case, victims approach police stations with their complaints, they will be redirected to the new helpline,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, crime.A cyber police station for Noida has been in the works for a while already and the new helpline number is one of the steps in dealing with cybercrime better, said the police. A special email address—cyber.ps.gbn@gmail.com— has also been set up for the purpose.Pandey said with the level of digitisation all around, cybercrime cases have been on the rise and it is important to nip such trends in the bud itself.“We have to be prepared from the start when dealing with cybercrime cases. We are working on developing a sophisticated infrastructure that will help us in cracking these cases. Fraud on the pretext of helping people with employment, or enticing them for lottery schemes are some of the most common criminal cases happening these days. Many kinds of frauds involving ATM cards also fall under the category of cybercrime and are rampant,” said Pandey.Police officers said that the increased pattern of cybercrime had continued during the lockdown as well with people resorting to illicit activities for additional income in case of job loss. However, the department did not have specific figures for any trends.In 2019, the district cyber cell had received 3,050 complaints related to various online frauds. The district police haven’t released the data for cyber crimes so far this year.Internships in Noida cyber cellThe Noida cyber cell is offering internship opportunities to aspirants who wish to work with the department and learn about the complexity of cybercrimes. The unit is looking for 10 interns for a period of two months starting from August 20. The interns will be supervised by senior police officers and will work at the commissioner office in Sector 108.“There is no age limit on the aspirants. We have options for teenagers, graduates, post graduates alike. They will work on cases of bank frauds, online frauds across e-commerce platforms, social media crimes, hacking etc ,” said Ankur Aggarwal, additional DCP, zone 2.Aspirants have till August 18 to apply for the internship and can submit their applications on: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdfiECThRY7qgExEBNcAT0l-M3e1LMNc6kXNQQM73Eqrla4bQ/viewform||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gautam-budh-nagar-gets-dedicated-helpline-for-cybercrime/story-E30AfYKS5KAv9AZfiCbKSM.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||NGT approves penalties of up to Rs 1 lakh for causing noise pollution||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has cleared hefty penalties for violation of noise pollution norms, proposed by the Central Pollution Control Board, which may go as high as Rs 1 lakh. In an order dated August 11, NGT chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel also ordered the constitution of a monitoring committee headed by retired high court judge SP Garg to ensure compliance of noise pollution rules in the national Capital. In a report submitted to the NGT on June 12, the CPCB had proposed penalties for various violations. Approving the fines, Goel said, “We are of the view that the compensation scale laid down by the CPCB for defaulters may be enforced throughout India. The CPCB may issue appropriate statutory orders for the purpose of being complied with in all States/UTs.”According to the CPCB report, a fine of Rs 10,000 would be levied for misuse of loudspeakers and public address system, besides seizure of equipment. Noise pollution from diesel generators of more than 1000 KVA capacity would attract a fine of ₹1 lakh and the equipment would be sealed. Noise beyond permissible levels at construction sites would invite a penalty of ₹ 50,000 and seizure of equipment. Permissible noise levels for residential areas is 55 decibels (dB [A]) during the day and 45 dB(A) at night. The standards for industrial areas are 75 dB (A) during the day and 70 dB (A) at night. The standard noise limit for silence zones such as hospitals and educational institutions during day time is 50 dB (A) and 40dB (A) during the night.The central board had also proposed heavy penalties for bursting firecrackers that cause sound beyond the permissible limits. A person can be fined Rs 1,000 for bursting crackers in a residential area and Rs 3,000 in a silence zone. The fine for the same offence in a public rally or procession would be Rs 10,000 and Rs 20,000 for residential and silence zones respectively. “In case of repeat violation within a fixed premise, the penalty will be doubled to ₹20,000. More than two violations will cost the defaulter, a penalty of ₹ 1 lakh and sealing of premises,” the CPCB had proposed in its report. Senior CPCB officials did not offer a comment, saying the anti-pollution body had submitted the detailed report to the NGT.Currently, the use of loudspeakers or playing loud music at weddings, events and restobars is not allowed beyond 11pm and can result in confiscation of equipment, a fine of upto ₹ 5,000 as well as imprisonment up to 5 years, depending on the gravity of the violation under the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules 2000. With regard to the constitution of a monitoring committee in Delhi, the NGT said besides the retired HC judge heading the body, it may also have representatives from the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), Delhi Police and the Delhi chief secretary as its members. “The committee may seek assistance from experts or other public institutions and submit a report before the next hearing,” Goel said in his order. The NGT will hold the next hearing on April 15,2021. In a report submitted on August 6 to the tribunal, the DPCC had stated that 26 new noise monitoring systems have been set up in addition to the existing five at various locations, including residential, commercial, industrial and silence zones. However, the DPCC had said that except for industrial areas, noise levels had exceeded the day and night permissible limits at all other locations. Omesh Saigal, former Delhi chief secretary and a petitioner in the matter of noise pollution, said, “It is an important step and may create a deterrent. But the important bit is the enforcement of the order. Each time an order is passed, it lacks enforcement. If implemented well, it can create public consciousness that noise pollution is actually harmful for health and help bring a positive change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngt-approves-penalties-of-up-to-rs-1-lakh-for-causing-noise-pollution/story-st7WrjrfXQin7jzuvFPjdL.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi court permits riot-accused to write DU exam in jail||A Delhi court on Thursday granted permission to a 22-year-old student of Delhi University (DU), one of seven men accused of murdering a man and rioting in north-east Delhi in February, to appear for his final-year open-book examination (OBE).Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav directed the jail superintendent to facilitate Aman Kashyap, a BA degree student of DU’s School of Open Learning, to write the examination at the jail complex after he filed a plea through advocate Rajeev Kumar Tiwari, seeking interim bail to appear for the examination.The Delhi University is conducting OBE from August 10-31 for the third-year students. On August 11, Kashyap, through his counsel Rajeev Tiwari and advocate Vimal Tiwari, sought interim bail stating that he needed to appear for the examination. They contended that Kashyap had been falsely implicated.In response to the court’s query for a status report, the superintendent of the Mandoli jail informed the court that the investigating officer had confirmed that Kashyap had to write an exam on August 14. The superintendent said that they would facilitate him to do so.The crime branch had, on June 25, filed a charge sheet in a Delhi court regarding the murder of 22-year-old Monis, a daily wager, who was waylaid on Brijpuri Road and beaten to death by a mob on February 25.The mob had also set several private and public properties on fire. Investigators arrested and charged seven persons.“All seven of them have been charged for rioting, murder, arson and criminal conspiracy,” said a senior police officer associated with the probe, requesting anonymity.Kashyap was arrested on April 1. Advocate Rajeev Tiwari, Kashyap’s counsel, said that his client was arrested on the testimony of a planted witness and he would soon file a discharge application in the court.“My client has been arrested based on the statement of an eyewitness Shashi Kant, who allegedly saw the incident take place from his home situated quite a distance away. However, even if he had been on the road, nothing beyond 800 metres would have been visible. Also, the road is curved. There is no chance of my client being involved in the murder,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-court-permits-riot-accused-to-write-du-exam-in-jail/story-wP9nL9NEfRqmYBg5lSpujJ.html
14-08-2020||Delhi||Part of Bhalswa landfill collapses after rain, 3 waste-pickers hurt||Three waste-pickers were injured when a section of the Bhalswa landfill in north Delhi collapsed on Thursday morning after overnight rain -- sending a grim reminder of the 2017 Ghazipur dumpyard collapse that claimed two lives. Civic officials said the injured persons were immediately taken to hospital. Two were discharged within a few hours while the third one was undergoing treatment.Ira Singhal, spokesperson of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said a small portion at the back of the landfill collapsed in the morning due to overnight rain. “Three waste pickers were trapped in the slide at Bhalswa. They were all taken to hospital. Two have already been discharged. No personal details of them are available,” she said. The Bhalswa landfill site is an open dumping ground near GT-Karnal road. Created in 1984, it is spread over 70 acres. Till October 2019, the landfill had attained a height of 65 metres, eight metres less than that of Qutub Minar. It had reached its saturation point in 2006 but the landfill still receives about 2,100 metric tonnes of mixed waste every day. More than 80 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste (old solid waste material) are dumped here.The civic body had last month claimed to have reduced the height of the landfill by 12 metres by processing legacy waste with the help of 15 trommel machines. The officials said nearly 5.8 lakh tonnes of legacy waste had been segregated and processed till July 2020.Vikas Goel, leader of opposition in the north corporation, blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party, which rules Delhi’s three civic bodies, for the accident. “Three people were injured and 2-3 livestock were trapped in the debris. Had the portion of the landfill collapsed on the road, it would have led to serious casualties. The BJP is responsible as it failed to devise a permanent solution to the problem of dumping of waste at the landfill. The mayor of the corporation should take moral responsibility and resign,” Goel said.Responding to the allegations, north mayor Jai Prakash said the municipality was making an effort to reduce the height of the landfill by segregation of waste. “A small portion of 15 metres in length at the back of the landfill had collapsed. No casualty was reported. We are concerned about the landfill and that’s why we have deployed 15 trommel machines to segregate and process 4,500 metric tonnes legacy waste every day. By this process, we have reduced the height of the landfill by 12 metres in nine months,” the mayor said.In September 2017, two people had died and several others were injured when a huge portion of the Ghazipur landfill in East Delhi had collapsed, sweeping away motorists on a nearby road into a canal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/part-of-bhalswa-landfill-collapses-after-rain-3-waste-pickers-hurt/story-pWb7e92ZvWhWoXQoPfsZRN.html
14-08-2020||Pune||Orange alert sounded in ghat areas of Pune dist||With Khadakwasla dam overflowing, 16,478 cusecs of water was released to Mutha river as disaster management control room issued public warning to not park vehicles and keep away from river bed areas. In ghat areas, orange alert is issued by India Meteorological Department (IMD) for August 14-17 with a chance of reduction in visibility, slippery road and chance of landslides in hilly regions. Isolated heavy Isolated heavy – (64.5mm to 115.5mm per day) to very heavy (115.6mm to 204.4mm per day) in ghat areas of Pune district for all four days. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol tweeted: “From 7 pm (Thursday), 16,478 cusecs water will be released from Khadakwasla dam into Mutha river which may cause Bhide bridge and river basin road to submerge. People should avoid visiting these places and those living near river bed should take extra care.” Irrigation department on Wednesday night released 428 cusecs, at 5 pm on Thursday 11,705 and later increased to 16,478 at 7pm. On Thursday, catchment areas continued to receive heavy rainfall with Panshet (66mm), Warasgaon (62mm), Khadakwasla (92mm) and Temghar (75mm). 53.7mm rainfall in 24 hours The city received 53.7 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, with Shivajinagar (17.3mm), Pashan (19.4mm) and Lohegaon (17mm). “Moderate rains (15.6mm to 64.4mm per day) to continue with occasional intense spells. During intense spells, there is a chance of partial reduction in visibility, slippery roads and chance of minor landslides adjacent to hilly regions,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of India Meteorological Department. Rainfall in last 24 hours Shivajinagar: 17.3mm Pashan: 19.4mm Lohegaon: 17mm Total rain in city in 24 hours: 53.7mm Water stock Dams; Rainfall on Aug 13; water storage Panshet: 66mm; 73.57% Warasgaon: 62mm; 62.97% Khadakwasla: 92mm;100% Temghar: 75mm; 49.50% Water storage stock in four dams is 71.51% Kalmodi dam 100% full The Kalmodi dam in Khed taluka touch the 100 per cent mark on Wednesday. Last year, the dam was filled 100 per cent by July 11. 129 cusecs of water was released from the dam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/orange-alert-sounded-in-ghat-areas-of-pune-dist/story-GufMBkNzKg6lE9sdcP6flJ.html
14-08-2020||City||Pinjore man dies as speeding car overturns on Mohali’s Airport Road||A 30-year-old man was killed and his female friend suffered injuries after their speeding car overturned on Airport Road during the wee hours of Thursday. Police said the deceased, Hitesh Walia, was a resident of Pinjore, and worked at a private company in Kurali. He was driving the white Maruti Suzuki Dzire during his commute from Chhat village to Sohana with his friend around 3am. On reaching near the Airport Chowk, Walia lost control of the car which hit the divider and overturned multiple times before coming to a halt. Walia fell out of the car and sustained severe injuries as his head hit the road surface, while his friend suffered a fractured leg.The duo was rushed to the civil hospital in Phase 6 where doctors declared Walia brought dead. “The body was handed over to the family after autopsy,” said assistant sub-inspector Satpal Singh, the investigating officer.Sohana police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in this regard. The deceased is survived by his wife and a two-year-old son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pinjore-man-dies-as-speeding-car-overturns-on-airport-road/story-E7oSC7NdpEso9ABkxn98xO.html
14-08-2020||Pune||100 years of India at the Olympics… Deccan Gymkhana honours Punekar Olympians in memory of how it all began||India first took part in the Olympic Games, under British rule, in 1920, at the Antwerp Olympics in Belgium, which took place in August-September. Revisiting the memories on the occasion of what is now the centenary year of India’s “Olympic Games debut”, the Pune District Amateur Athletic Association (PDAAA) and Deccan Gymkhana felicitated Olympians from the city at the Deccan Gymkhana on Thursday. Rekha Bhide-Mundphan , hockey (Moscow Olympics, 1980), Manoj Pingale, boxing (Seoul Olympics, 1988) and Balkrishna Akotkar, runner (Tokyo Olympics, 1964) graced the occasion. Recounting the events leading up to India’s participation at the 1920 Antwerp Olympics, the PDAAA stated that it happened soon after the First World War. It was industrialist Sir Dorabji Tata, who requested the governor of the time, Bombay Presidency’s Sir George Lloyd, to ensure permission for the athletes from London. On November 8, 1919, the Indian Olympic Association was formed at the Deccan Gymkhana. Sir Dorabji Tata was elected its first president. A selection tournament was held from April 1-8 in Mumbai, and in Pune, from April 23-24. “It was a great era when the Indians started to participate in the Olympics. In our time we on our own created a ground to practice. India today is on the right path of surging ahead as far as the Olympics go,” said Balakrishna Akotkar. Rekha Bhide-Mundphan added, “I am thankful to PDAAA and Deccan Gymkhana for felicitating us and during the time of corona if given a chance I am ready to serve society in whatever way the government requires.” Manoj Pingale, who runs his academy in Kondhwa, aims to produce an Olympic medallist from the city. “I am training young boxers very hard and it is my dream to give the city one Olympian,” Pingale said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/100-years-of-india-at-the-olympics-deccan-gymkhana-honours-punekar-olympians-in-memory-of-how-it-all-began/story-WEEBy7LeC9VGUnaFrtvxRI.html
14-08-2020||Pune||PMC to have 15 mobile tanks for Ganesh idol immersion||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will have mobile tanks for Ganesh idol immersion.Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “We urge residents to immerse idols in buckets at homes. Those who want to donate the idols can immerse at mobile immersion tanks. All fifteen wards will have a mobile immersion tank facility each.”The civic body, every year, erects artificial immersion tanks at 70-80 locations across the city. Residents are requested to immerse idols in artificial tanks to avoid water pollution.PMC takes action against 25 hawkers for selling Ganesh idols The Pune Municipal Corporation’s anti-encroachment department takes action against hawkers for putting up Ganesh idol sale stalls on roads and other banned locations. The civic body has allocated dedicated places for sale.A press release issued by PMC states that action had been taken against 25 stall owners for selling Ganesh idols without taking any prior permission. Aundh ward office took action against 17 stalls; two each in Bibwewadi, Vishrambaug, Yerawada and Warje ward offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-to-have-15-mobile-tanks-for-ganesh-idol-immersion/story-uwGYBHbbi43yD1FUfH4yhN.html
14-08-2020||Pune||Youth in Pune booked for circulating obscene pictures of a fashion designer||Pune: The Kondhwa police have booked a youth for uploading morphed images of a fashion designer on the social media after she refused to his physical relationship demands. The victim is 42 years old and the accused is from Kerala. According to the police, the accused identified as Rahul Srivastava got in touch with the victim in one of the WhatsApp groups related to fashion industry. He promised her a role in film industry and asked her to meet another person named Sameer at a hotel in Salunke Vihar. After the meeting, the accused told the victim that Sameer was inclined to offer her a role in the industry. However, he laid a condition that she will have to appear for a screen test before coming to Mumbai for the final audition.Inspector (crime) Mahadev Kumbhar of Kondhwa police Station, the investigating officer in the case, said that during a video call with the victim, Srivastava clicked pictures and later morphed them. “He asked her to have physical relationship with him which she refused. He even told her that he would circulate those pictures on the social media which she ignored. Later, the accused circulated one of the pictures in the common WhatsApp group after which she exited the group and blocked her number. She also lodged a case against him at the police station,” he said. However, he did not stop his act and kept sending obscene messages on WhatsApp and other social media platforms, police said. The police have invoked Information Technology (IT) Act, IPC 354(molestation), 354 A (sexual harassment), 354D ( stalking ) and IPC 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-in-pune-booked-for-circulating-obscene-pictures-of-a-fashion-designer/story-eSdpFX49Dd7OA51xOothxJ.html
14-08-2020||Pune||Woman, boyfriend arrested under Pocso Act in Shirur||The Shirur police arrested a woman and her boyfriend on charges of molestation and showing obscene videos to the woman’s minor daughter.The accused have been arrested under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. According to the police, the accused man showed obscene videos to the 16-year-old at her home in the presence of her mother. As per police officials, the family falls under the lower middle class income group and the father of the girl does not live with them. The mother asked the minor to accept the accused as her father and obey his orders. The girl rejected his overtures, but was threatened and allegedly molested. The girl informed her aunt about the incident, who then went to the police station and lodged a first information report (FIR) against the accused, Shirur police said.Police inspector Praveen Khanapure and police sub-inspector Ganesh Jagdale are investigating the case. Police inspector Khanapure said that the incident took place at her house. “The duo has been arrested,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/woman-boyfriend-arrested-under-pocso-act-in-shirur/story-Wyf4r456cxtGjfpBQbo5DO.html
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Solar-powered water pumps offer ray of hope for Spiti’s farmers||Solar-powered water pumps have come as a ray of hope for tribal farmers of the remote Spiti valley of Himachal Pradesh that otherwise offers limited livelihood options due to the harsh climate and inhospitable terrain. The cultivated fields in the valley are situated along nullahs and the Spiti river and many farmers still depend on rain-fed agriculture. Besides barley, the agriculture department has encouraged green pea production since the ’80s. Realising that age-old farm practices are not enough to meet the requirement of expanding families, farmers have begun to adopt new agriculture techniques. Since electricity supply in the region is erratic, most farmers rely on diesel generators to irrigate fields. With fuel prices on the rise, it is a drain on their pocket and the pollution caused by operating such pumps is also an environmental concern. Tandup Chhering, 45, who has been farming for 25 years at Sichling village in Spiti, says he bought a diesel-operated pump to irrigate his fields but found it difficult to meet the cost of running it. A diesel pump costs Rs 30,000 and running it comes up to Rs 2,000 a day. He shared the concern with the agriculture department that advised him to install a solar power water lifting pump under the Pradhan Mantri Kusum scheme, which provides subsidy up to 90% for installing such pumps that range from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. Dorjey Tandup, a farmer from Kaza village, is among 27 farmers who have installed solar-powered pumps. “The solar pump is easy to operate and it has reduced irrigation cost. Fetching diesel in jerrycans and carrying them to the fields was difficult,” he says. State technical education and tribal affairs minister Ram Lal Markanda, who represents Lahaul and Spiti segment and was the agriculture minister, also encouraged residents to avail benefits under the Central scheme. “The terrain and climate are hostile so we encourage farmers to adopt new techniques that will transform their lives,” he says. “Farmers are now showing interest in solar-powered pumps and the demand has gone up,” says agriculture development officer Subash Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/solar-powered-water-pumps-offer-ray-of-hope-for-spiti-s-farmers/story-wRU3dFKseGM5AyEKhvsgRM.html
