16-08-2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid-19 caseload rises to 1.04 lakh; death toll mounts to 537||Bihar’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 1.04 lakh on Sunday as 2,187 more people tested positive for the infection, while 22 fresh fatalities pushed its coronavirus death toll to 537, a health bulletin said.Patna district registered the highest number of fresh cases at 255, followed by Bhagalpur (177), Madhubani (127), Aurangabad (113) and Muzaffarpur and Saharsa (97 each), it said.Five fresh fatalities were reported in Patna, four in Gaya, two each in East Champaran and Rohtas and one each in Bhagalpur, Bhojpur, Buxar, Darbhanga, Gopalganj, Munger, Nawada, West Champaran and Siwan districts, the bulletin said.Patna has so far registered the highest number of Covid-19 deaths at 101, followed by Bhagalpur (41), Gaya (37), Rohtas (28), Munger (26) and Nalanda (23).The state capital has reported 16,621 Covid-19 cases so far. Districts that have reported more than 4,000 cases each are Muzaffarpur (4,244), Bhagalpur (4,151) and Begusarai (4,009).Six districts -- Gaya, Katihar, Nalanda, East Champaran, Rohtas and Saran -- have registered more than 3,000 cases each.Only Sheohar (553) has registered less than 1,000 cases among the 38 districts of the state.Bihar has so far tested 16.79 lakh samples for Covid- 19, including 67,212 on the previous day.The recovery rate among the Covid-19 patients in the state has increased to 69.71 per cent, Information and Public Relations Department Secretary Anupam Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-s-covid-19-caseload-rises-to-1-04-lakh-death-toll-mounts-to-537/story-lUFKfLe3awyUvmD9CGySYN.html
16-08-2020||City||Two snatchers arrested from Punjabi Bagh||New Delhi: Two brothers, who were wanted for being on a snatching spree for over a month, were arrested from west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh early Saturday morning, nearly three hours after they snatched a cellphone from a Delhi Police assistant sub-inspector in Paschim Vihar, almost five kilometres away from the place they were caught, the police said. The police’s facial recognition system helped identify the suspects, they said.Senior police officers said teams from at least six police districts were looking for the two as they were allegedly frequently committed street crimes, mostly stealing high-end bikes, and using them to snatch cellphones. Interrogations of the two brothers – Rahul,28, and Vipin, 23 — have revealed they had committed more than two dozen snatchings across six districts in the last fortnight. The brothers mostly preferred to steal white bikes, police officers said, earning them the “white bike gang” moniker.On the eve of Independence Day, when thousand of Delhi Police and paramilitary security personnel were fanning across the city, assistant-sub-inspector (ASI) Himmat Singh’s cellphone was snatched around 11pm, while he was riding his scooter in Paschim Vihar. The two were caught three hours later, the police said.A police officer associated with the team that arrested the duo said that on July 31, Rahul and Vipin stole a white bike from Lajpat Nagar area and went on a snatching spree, targeting areas such as Mukarba Chowk, Burari bypass, Sarita Vihar, Pitampura, Peeragarhi Chowk, Paschim Vihar, Rajouri Garden, Vikaspuri, Keshav Puram, Janakpuri, Punjabi Bagh and Shalimar Bagh.“They were mostly active along Ring Road, Outer Ring Road, Najafgarh Road and Rohtak Road,” said the officer.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said the two brothers were arrested by the Rajouri Garden police, who had been looking for them since July 3, when they snatched a woman’s bag, which contained Rs. 10,000, five ATM cards, and her driving license, from Subhash Nagar area. The two also allegedly committed a similar snatching on a man in the neighbourhood a week later.The police scanned CCTV cameras of the routes that the suspects took after the two crimes and prepared their route trails. Their faces were caught on camera while they were allegedly stealing a motorcycle in Netaji Subhash Place area, the officer cited above said.“Their images were run on our facial recognition system that identified them by scanning the database of criminals arrested. Their residential address was of Mangolpuri. Our probe hit a road block when a police team went to Mangolpuri and found that the suspects had shifted somewhere else,” said the officer.The team activated their criminal intelligence network and learnt that the suspects’ new address was in Avankita near Rohini. The matter came to light August 14, and a team in plain clothes went there to nab them.While the police personnel were waiting for the two brothers to return, they were informed that the duo had snatched an ASI’s cellphone in Paschim Vihar. The team split in two groups – one stayed at the suspect’s home while another laid a trap near Punjabi Bagh drain, the usual route that the suspects took to return home. Around 2 am, the team spotted and caught them with the ASI’s stolen phone, bike, one pistol and a knife, the officer added.“Vipin is previously involved in 12 cases while Rahul has 11 previous cases. One of them is a parole jumper. They have disclosed their involvement in more than 25 snatchings committed in last 15 days on a white bike in six districts of Delhi. They used to sell stolen mobile phones to one Akbar living in Budh Vihar. We are looking for Akbar,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-snatchers-arrested-from-punjabi-bagh/story-IhemBAMxrHnQFlCxs0lhMP.html
16-08-2020||City||Thane residents can now use app for free collection of dry waste||Residents of Thane can now use a mobile application to dispose of their dry waste. Thane-based NGO Samarth Bharat Vyaspeth launched an application ‘Recycled Earth’ on Saturday, through which residents can put up a demand for collection of dry waste. The NGO has been collecting dry waste since 2018, however, residents had to approach the Thane Municipal Corporation’s helpline or call the NGO to get their collection picked up. Now they can use the app to get the work done, free of cost. At present, around 235 societies give their dry waste to the NGO on a weekly or monthly basis. Around 100 tonnes of dry waste is collected annually in Thane. This waste is collected and recycled by the NGO.Bhatu Sawant, secretary of Samarth Bharat Vyaspeeth, said, “We have started the mobile application Recycled Earth so that more people can join this initiative. People can submit their request on this app. Using their location, we can reach the spot and collect the garbage. People will also get the location of our worker when he or she will be on the way to collect dry waste.”The NGO has roped in rag-pickers to help in the collection drive, and in doing so, is providing employment through the initiative. They have eight women who are working to segregate the waste, and soon, they will increase their staff. Nine Marathi film celebrities from Thane have already joined hands with this group to promote the concept.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-residents-can-now-use-app-for-free-collection-of-dry-waste/story-MrwuZk36aWgsqd6nMDImCI.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||97 booked for attending hookah and liquor party at Oshiwara||Oshiwara police on Sunday booked 97 people for allegedly conducting and attending a hookah party at a hotel at Jogeshwari (West). Dayanand Bangar, senior inspector from Oshiwara police station, said, “Acting on a tip-off, we raided the Bombay Brute [Mughal Sheesha] at Link Road, Jogeshwari (West) and found 97 people violating social distancing norms while indulging in hookah and liquor party.”According to police, there were a total of 65 men, 28 women patrons, one manager and three waiters present on the premise. The raid was conducted at 3.30am on Sunday.“When we entered, loud music was on, and people were busy consuming liquor and hookahs. Some patrons were found dancing to the blaring music,” added Bangar.All those present were booked under sections 294 (obscene acts and songs), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 2 and 3 of the Pandemic Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/97-booked-for-attending-hookah-and-liquor-party-at-oshiwara/story-kfCBJ9ij1VQzAx5Fn6ngLO.html
16-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram records less than 100 cases for 19th consecutive days||On Sunday, for the 19th consecutive day, Gurugram reported less than 100 new cases of Covid-19, recording just 78 new positives. Gurugram’s total number of reported infections, as on August 16, now stands at 10,263 cases, of which just seven percent (694 patients) are classified as ‘active’. The number of active cases are up slightly up from a week ago, on August 9, when the district had 663 cases. At the time, Gurugram’s total reported infections stood at 9,714, indicating an average growth of 78 cases per day over the past seven days. The week prior, between August 2 and August 9, the district saw an average of 67 new cases of Covid-19 every day. Health department officials, however, said that the test-positivity rate of the district remains below the recommended threshold of five percent, indicating that the situation is under control.“Our daily growth rate is still under one percent, and there is no cause for alarm,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s (IDSP) district surveillance officer (DSO) in Gurugram. State health department data showed that the district’s daily growth rate was 0.9 percent, which is the lowest in Haryana.Gurugram’s daily test-posivity rate — or ratio of new positives to new samples tested — stood at 3.5% on Sunday, which is within the World Health Organisation’s recommended positivity rate of 5 percent or less. “We have sustained a TPR of below five percent for at least three weeks now,” Sharma said.Of the current tally of 694 active cases, 84 patients are currently hospitalised, while the majority (573 people) are under home isolation. This is up slightly from 553 people under home isolation a week ago. Another 25 patients (down from 73 on August 9) are under observation at district Covid centre centres.Gurugram on Sunday also recorded 86 new recoveries (up from 65 the previous day), taking the district’s cumulative recovery rate to 92 percent (from 91 percent a week ago). The district recorded no new deaths on Sunday. The mortality rate in the district, thus far, is 1.2 percent (down from 1.34 percent a week ago), with 130 people succumbing to the virus so far.Gurugram on Sunday also collected 1,307 new samples for testing, down from 2314 samples collected on Saturday. Of these, 338 samples were taken by private labs for RT-PCR tests, while the majority of remaining samples were for RT-PCR and antigen tests by the health department.The doubling-rate stands at 84 days (the same as it was on August 9), while active cases make up seven percent of the reported case load (same as last week).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-records-less-than-100-cases-for-19th-consecutive-days/story-6qgotJfVt3L0UjXOtR46VJ.html
16-08-2020||Gurugram||Minister unveils plans for 100-acre biodiversity park in Manesar||Forest and tourism minister Kanwar Pal on Sunday unveiled plans to build a 100-acre biodiversity park in Manesar’s Kasan village. He also kick-started a plantation drive at an earmarked site on the foothills of the Aravallis. Forest department officials said that the project would be modelled along the lines of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park in Gurugram with a focus on planting native tree and plant varieties.Talking about the project, Pal said, “The park will come up with the support and involvement of the local community, particularly since panchayat land is being utilised. This will help in restoring the green cover in the area, raising the groundwater level, and also in generating income for the local community.” The minister on Sunday also met with the sarpanches of the local villages in the area to discuss their involvement in the project.Officials in the forest department added that proposed location has been chosen due to its strategic placement in the Aravalli foothills, which have largely been denuded due to human activities over several recent decades. “We now need to protect and revive such landscapes. The drainage pattern here is also suitable for forming waterbodies, which is also part of the proposal,” said Jai Kumar, district forest officer, Gururgam.The upcoming park in Kasan is among three that were initially proposed last year, the other two being in Damdama and Kukrola villages. Hindustan Times had first reported the development on August 20, 2019. At the time, Vijay Dhasmana, an ecologist who helmed the restoration of Aravalli Biodiversity Park, had said, ““If conservation is the administration’s aim, then that’s a good thing. Areas like Damdama and Kasan have some of the last traces of Aravalli wilderness in the region and need to be conserved.”However, Dhasmana had also cautioned that the administration must look holistically at the nature of Aravalli forests, instead of stopping short at simply planting native trees. “For example, it’s easy to plant ‘native’ varieties such as neem or chudail paapdi, but that won’t really bring back the native forests. The authorities will need to commit to bringing back the ecology of, say, dhau forests or babool forests, which have been lost from the area. That was the idea behind Aravalli Biodiversity Park,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/minister-unveils-plans-for-100-acre-biodiversity-park-in-manesar/story-hqRAUaz6HttgvMKIfJtW6L.html
16-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s testing slows down as positivity dips||The rate of testing for Covid-19 in Gurugram has slowed over the past three weeks, shows district health department data. In late June and through early July, the total number of tests conducted each week showed large jumps, increasing by as much as 40 to 50 percent (when compared as a moving, seven-day aggregate). However, since late July, tests have been increasing by only as much as 11 to 16 percent each week, the data shows. Health department officials confirmed that this was indeed the case, but clarified that there is presently no immediate need to further ramp up testing. With over 130,000 samples tested for Covid-19 so far, the extent of testing in Gurugram has is 93,000 tests per million population, the highest in the state. This is up from about 90,000 tests per million about a week ago. Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer (DSO) in Gurugram, also pointed out that district’s weekly test positivty rate -- defined as the ratio of positive cases to tests conducted -- has been under 5 percent for close to four weeks now. “The positivity rate is an adequate measure for whether we are testing enough. Scaling up testing is only necessary to keep up with continued spread of the virus. At this point, we believe that transmission itself has been curbed, and testing resources are finite, so we have to use them judiciously,” Prakash said, adding that testing for Gurugram also be reduced, if resources need to be diverted to areas of the state in greater need, once the daily positivity rate dips below three percent. “So even though the rate of testing has slowed down somewhat, in absolute numbers we are still conducting more tests, week on week. Earlier into the outbreak, we had to increase testing by as much as 50 percent before the TPR showed a decline. But now, positivity rate has continued to decrease despite the slowdown. That is the most hopeful indicator that we are out of the woods,” pointed out Dr Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist, Gurugram. Prakash also added that Gurugram’s test per million were significantly higher than those of neighbouring Faridabad, which has the highest reported caseload of infections in Haryana, but has tested not more than 55,000 people per million population. Meanwhile, at a state level, only 32,300 tests per million population have been conducted. “Our tests per million are three times as much as the state’s, and close to four times the national average,” Prakash said.Dr Prabhakaran Dorairaj, vice president, research and policy, Public Health Foundation of India, said that the reduction in testing is understandable given the dip in TPR. “I think we are seeing a natural progression of the epidemic -- which has only been slowed down by the lockdown. Transmission of the virus has continued despite curbs, as shown by serological studies from Delhi and Mumbai, where as many as 23 percent of the sampled population has been exposed to the virus,” he said. “Gurugram, being an extension of Delhi, would likely have a similar proportion of population infected, and this may have reached a natural threshold after which the virus has slowed down.” He however clarified that this hypothesis required supporting evidence, which is yet to emerge.BOX:Total tests // Weekly increase in tests // Weekly percentage increase in tests // Weekly new cases // Weekly test positivity ratesAugust 9 - August 15: 132879 (+14699 // 12.5%) | New cases: 551 | TPR = 3.7%August 2 - August 8: 118180 (+14362 // 11%) | New cases: 468 | TPR = 3.2%July 26 - August 1: 103818 (+13833 // 16%) | New cases: 675 | TPR = 4.8%July 19 - July 25: 89985 (+15265 // 20%) | New cases: 897| TPR = 6%July 12 - July 18: 74720 (+16,411 // 28%) | New cases: 846 | TPR = 5%July 5 - July 11: 58309 (+19,488 // 50%) | New cases: 919 | TPR = 5%June 27 - July 4: 38821 (+10,974 // 39%) | New cases: 759 | TPR = 7%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-testing-slows-down-as-positivity-dips/story-nBDo81IYxgzbCNWIGEFSvL.html
16-08-2020||City||Noida DCP transferred to Badaun||Noida The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday transferred the deputy commissioner of police (Noida Zone 1), Sankalp Sharma, to Badaun as superintendent of police. Ganesh P Saha, superintendent of police, Lucknow headquarters, has been transferred to Gautam Budh Nagar police commissionerate as DCP. However, it is not clear whether Saha will be the new DCP of Zone 1. When asked, GB Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh said, “The zonal postings are decided locally.” Awanish Kumar Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary, issued the transfer orders for 12 senior police officials in the state on Sunday. Sharma became the DCP (Zone 1) when the state government set up the police commissionerate system in the GB Nagar district in January this year. Sharma worked out several cases involving gangs of vehicle lifters. He also actively worked to ensure enforcement of lockdown in Noida. The DCP (Zone 1) was also very active on social media. “I am satisfied and happy for my tenure in Noida,” Sharma said. Sharma also made frequent interactions with the resident welfare associations. K K Jain, general secretary of Federation of Noida Resident Welfare Associations [FONRWA] said that Sharma’s interaction with RWA members was good. “He had improved law and order situation in Noida. We expect the new police official would also make similar efforts to improve policing,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-dcp-transferred-to-badaun/story-Tx0WG56rAM6cX5F89tIYDN.html
16-08-2020||Gurugram||High Court issues direction to file forensic report in inmate’s death||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the prison department to file the forensic report in the case involving the custodial death of an inmate inside Bhondsi jail premises. In a notice, issued on August 11, the prison department has asked to submit the report to the court in the next hearing on September 18.Last year in January, 28-year-old Akhilesh, convicted for robbery and murder, was found dead in Bhondsi jail premises. “The deceased was involved in a murder and robbery case and was arrested from Darbaripur village in Gurugram on July 28, 2012 for his alleged involvement in robbery. He was given life sentence by a sessions court on September 3, 2013 and since then he was lodged in Bhondsi jail,” said Ambika Yadav, advocate for Akhilesh’s mother, the petitioner in the case. Yadav added on January 8, 2019 around 8pm, Akhilesh’s mother, Satan Devi,70, received a call from the jail authorities saying her son was found dead “under mysterious circumstances.”Vipul Sachdeva, lawyer of the petitioner, said jail authorities had told Akhilesh’s family that he died of a heart attack, however, the autopsy report revealed a different cause. “The autopsy report clearly mentioned that various brownish/black pellets were found in the stomach of the deceased. The jail authorities were questioned regarding their level of security and caution with which prisoners are handled. The instance of the free flow of drugs and mobile phones have become a common practice in Bhondsi jail,” he said.Devi along with other family members had approached various authorities and officers to investigate her son’s death inside the jail premises, but to no avail, Sachdeva added.Despite several attempts, the Bhondsi jail superintendent could not be reached for comment.Last month, a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of Bhondsi jail was arrested for allegedly smuggling drugs and supplying SIM cards to inmates over the last two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/high-court-issues-direction-to-file-forensic-report-in-inmate-s-death/story-d62SIzdnIK9mFkTwR1WwFL.html
16-08-2020||Gurugram||Man booked for molesting minor girl in Gurugram||A man was booked for allegedly molesting a 17-year-old girl in the Sadar area on Saturday. The police said the suspect is yet to be arrested. The incident took place in 2019 but the FIR was registered on Saturday after the victim, a student of Class 12, shared her ordeal with her family, who then reported the incident to the police. The police said the suspect is a friend of the victim’s father. According to the police, the victim told the police that her father is a patient of tuberculosis and has been advised bed rest by doctors. In the police complaint, she said, “My father is recovering at home. One of his friends often used to visit him at home. On some occasions, his friend stayed over for the night at our house. One night in 2019, he touched me inappropriately and molested me. I do not remember the exact date of the incident. I had kept it to myself and did not tell my parents as I was scared.” The police said on August 6, the victim went to her aunt’s house in Jhajjar and confided in her. Her aunt told her uncle, and the family then reported the incident at the Sadar police station on Saturday. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The suspect is yet to be arrested and we are conducting raids to trace him.”A case was registered against the suspect under Section 8 (punishment for sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at the Sadar police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-booked-for-molesting-minor-girl-in-gurugram/story-92cAHTcLxrIOh1yX3W1a6O.html
16-08-2020||City||Greater Noida authority to earn ₹426 crore by selling flats in Sector Omicron 1A||GREATER NOIDA The Greater Noida authority has decided to raise more than ₹426 crore by selling 992 built-up flats in Sector Omicron 1A. The authority said that it is an open-ended scheme and will continue until all flats are sold out. This scheme has 521 2BHK (bedroom-hall-kitchen) flats of 58.18 square metres each and 471 flats of duplex category spread across 83.38 square metres each. The civil structure of these flats is already done, officials said .“The applicant can pay 10% of total flat cost as registration amount and apply for the scheme. Those who are living on rent have this golden opportunity to buy their own houses,” said Deep Chandra, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.The cost of a 2BHK flat and 2BHK duplex flat has been fixed at ₹34.72 lakh and ₹52.29 lakh, respectively. The authority will offer possession of these flats in one year after the allotment letter is issued to a successful applicant, said the officials.“The authority has not fixed any last date to apply for this scheme. We will allot these flats on first come first serve basis,” said Chandra.Besides, the authority also has 488 ready-to-move-in houses of size ranging from 29.76 square metres to 132.95 square metres in different sectors such as Mu 2, Zu 2, Eta 2, and Omicron 1. These are leftover flats, which could not be allotted in the past schemes, the officials said.“For the ready-to-move-in houses, an applicant can pay 30% upfront at the time of allotment and get possession instantly. These flats will also be allotted on first come first serve basis. We will evaluate the applications 10th day of every month. The applicants who will pay total cost of the unit can get 5% discount,” said Chandra.The authority has a target of raising a total of ₹603 crore by selling all these units in the two schemes, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-authority-to-earn-426-crore-by-selling-flats-in-sector-omicron-1a/story-uY8jmLLCw7LOjIgj9UMs5L.html
16-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: MCG set to construct ₹200-crore sports complex in Wazirabad||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is set to construct a ₹200-crore sports complex in Wazirabad, tenders for which will be floated within this week, said officials on Sunday.The multi-purpose stadium spread across 10 acres of land will have facilities such as a swimming pool, shooting range, basketball court, kabaddi court, among other such sports. In addition, MCG is also building hostels for accommodating over 100 male and female athletes there, the officials said. MCG chief engineer Raman Sharma said that the detailed project report (DPR) and project design have been completed and the project is expected to be completed by early 2023.“All necessary formalities such as a DPR and project design have been completed. We will be floating tenders for the project within this week. The project will cost over ₹200 crore and take two years to complete, from the day construction commences,” said Sharma.He further said that the stadium’s rooftop would be fitted with solar panels from which the entire complex will derive its electricity.Once constructed, the Wazirabad sports complex will be the city’s third full-fledged stadium after the Tau Devi Lal sports complex near Rajiv Chowk and Nehru stadium on Old Railway Road.Sharma said that for each of the sports in the proposed complex, different size of space will be reserved for erecting stands or seating arrangements for crowds as well as for reserving parking spaces.The announcement of a sports stadium in Wazirabad was made as early as June 2016 by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. In 2017, the civic body procured 12 acres of land from Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on a 99-year lease for the project.Till May last year, a proposal for constructing a ₹130-crore archery range and multi-purpose indoor sports complex was planned. However, following a meeting between Yashpal Yadav, the then MCG commissioner and V Umashankar, then chief executive officer of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), it was decided that a recreational sports complex on the lines of Azad Maidan and Shivaji Park in Mumbai was more feasible.The two officials realised that the ₹20-crore recreational sports complex did not need the hiring of any expert coaches and could simply be a space where a ground for football, a jogging-running track for athletes, a skating rink, indoor badminton and a basketball court could be reserved and utilized by all citizens without any need of supervision or expertise. However, with both officials getting transferred soon after, the proposal never came to fruition.On Tuesday, the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) had asked various civic bodies across the state, including MCG, for an update on the progress of projects announced by the CM, following which MCG officials expedited their work on the new plan for the Wazirabad sports stadium, said an official privy to the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-mcg-set-to-construct-200-crore-sports-complex-in-wazirabad/story-Skpr6LlWrkQx9cBNJPfFDI.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||10 city teens help raise ₹14.98 lakh to fight pandemic||A group of 10 teenagers from Mumbai have come together to help citizens from different walks of life to battle the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. A group of 16 year olds, collected ₹14.98 lakh that was used to help women self-help groups make masks, arrange personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and N95 masks for Covid warriors, and also help underprivileged students.“Our group, Project Samvedna, was formed when the floods hit Maharashtra in 2019. At that time, we were able to help 650 families with rations, clothes, medicines, books and other relief materials,” said Aditya Bhargava, a resident of Kandivli.Bhargava and his friends from the Dhirubhai Ambani International School (DAIS) decided to come together again when the pandemic struck the city.From April to June, they discussed ideas via video-conferencing, reached out to family and friends, created a website, made a video, and raised a request on a crowdfunding platform.“We had a lot of ideas, but we narrowed them down to three issues where we could do our best in terms of funding and logistics,” said Anushree Mishra, a member of Project Samvedna.Soon, with the help of the NGO Indian Development Foundation (IDF), the team provided 700 PPE kits and 3,000 N-95 masks to four hospitals in the city. They also provided 20 hands-free sanitiser units to 20 bal gurukuls in Mumbai and donated ₹1.20 lakhs to supply sanitary napkins to school-going girls.Dr Narayan Iyer, chief executive officer at IDF, said, “The team enabled around 100 women to make masks that were sold later. We took forward their project and are looking to scaling it up.”Kamya Parekh, a member of Project Samvedna, said that it was a “fulfilling experience” to work with her friends. “All of us knew we had to do something to help society. It was a lot of hard work, but it was a very fulfilling experience,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-city-teens-help-raise-14-98-lakh-to-fight-pandemic/story-mQISsyyCwnh2QsXdubblnJ.html
16-08-2020||City||Yeida extends date for submission of applications for MSME park plots||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has extended till August 20 the date for those who want to apply for a plot in a scheme meant for Apparel Park, micro, small, medium and enterprises and handicrafts located in sector 29. “Earlier the last date to submit the applications was August 15, 2020. But the applicants faced difficulties in submitting their respective applications due to technical glitches that may have cropped up in the niveshmitra portal, where applications are being submitted. The state government therefore has decided to extend the submission date to August 20 and informed us via email to communicate this information,” said Shailendra Bhatia officer on special duty of the YEIDA.The authority had on January 26, 2020 launched this scheme on 380 hectares located next to the site, where Noida International Greenfield airport project is proposed. The authority has a target to create around 7 lakh jobs and collect Rs 25,000 crore investment if all plots are sold out, said officials. The Yeida is offering plots in sizes of 250, 300, 350, 400, 450 and up to 40,000 square metres. There are 514 plots in the MSME category, 213 in apparel segment and 203 plots are available in handicrafts category, said officials.The application forms for the scheme has been made available on www.yamunaexpresswayauthority.com from February 2, 2020, said officials. The last date of hard copy submission was April 10, 2020. After downloading the forms, the applicants were to be submit their filled-up forms at www.niveshmitra.up.nic.— the portal that deals with industrial schemes. Due to the Covid 19 pandemic disruptions, the last date for submission of filled-up forms was earlier extended to August 15, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yeida-extends-date-for-submission-of-applications-for-msme-park-plots/story-S64xYHQ5Nr7z8UcWaJpHLI.html
16-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar complete 150,000 tests each, focus on reducing fatality rate||Even as Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar rose to the third and fourth place, respectively, of districts with the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, both have also managed to raise the number of tests to 150,000 each tests till August 15. While Ghaziabad has completed about 211 tests per million (tpm) per day, Gautam Budh Nagar (GB Nagar) 450 tpm per day. On a global scale, the World Health Organization had put a minimum of 140 tpm per day. Ghaziabad discovered its first case on March 5 and GB Nagar followed three days later.According to the figures of the state control room, Ghaziabad surpassed Gautam Budh Nagar and stood at the third spot in the list of districts in UP having highest number of total Covid-19 cases. The figure for Ghaziabad stood at 6451 while that for Gautam Budh Nagar stood at 6408 till August 15. The Ghaziabad district lagged behind Lucknow (16656 cases) and Kanpur City (9969 cases) till August 15. “The cases have increased but it is result of increase in sampling/testing and surveillance activities. Till August 15 we completed 151,826 of total testing,” said Dr. NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad district. With a population of 4.4 million, this would translate to around 34,506 tpm, which is higher than the national figure of 21,989 tpm.Presently, the district is conducting about 3000-3500 tests per day and its testing will be further bolstered by new RT-PCR laboratory which was inaugurated on August 15. On the other hand, the officials of the Gautam Budh Nagar district said that they have also completed 151,314 tests till August 15. With a population of nearly 2 million, the district has a tpm figure of 75,657. However, these figures denote samples tested and not individuals.“Our daily testing is ranging from 2500 to 4000 tests per day and will continue with higher number of testing. More importantly we have a very low fatality rate of 0.67% which is lower than Centre’s standard of 1%. We plan to reduce it further. With the lower fatality rate, the district is very likely to figure among the top districts across the country having a very low fatality rate,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar. “Our prime focus is on reducing the deaths. This is being done through early detection, early referral and treatment besides surveillance and door-to-door surveys.”Senthil Pandian C, IAS, the UP government appointed nodal officer for the Ghaziabad district, said, “Although the number of cases will rise with increased testing, we have put in focussed surveillance strategy to detect cases and continuously lower the cases of infection. If undetected, there is high possibility that the infected person may spread infection further. The testing will continue and cases will come to light. We have identified 10 areas of Indirapuram, Kavi Nagar, Modinagar, Loni and Sahibabad among others where there is high number of cases but extensive surveillance is done to detect cases. The idea is to detect all suspected cases by taking up several rounds of surveys.”“Early testing and detection become vital to prevent deaths. We roped in this strategy and there was considerable reduction in fatalities in the months of July and August. We also took a decision to stop referrals to Meerut. It was also directed that L2 wing should come up at the same premises at our L3 hospital (Santosh Medical). This will result in immediate shifting and save time in transporting patients. We also roped in usage of high flow nasal cannula during treatment of patients having complaints of breathlessness and respiratory issues,” he added. According to the latest official figures, 30 of 67 deaths have taken place at hospitals in Ghaziabad while 33 have taken place in Meerut and two each in hospitals of Noida and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-gautam-budh-nagar-complete-150-000-tests-each-focus-on-reducing-fatality-rate/story-iM5rgA0WheBaiJgI6GOzoI.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||Three arrested for sexual assault of minor||Mankhurd police on Thursday arrested three persons for allegedly sexually assaulting a 16-year-old. Police said, “We arrested the survivor’s elder sister and brother-in-law for allegedly attempting to arrange her marriage with a 49-year-old vegetable vendor. We have also arrested the vendor for sexually assaulting the minor.”According to the police, the vendor told the survivor’s 25-year-old sister and brother in law, aged 30, that he was looking for a young girl to marry and offered to pay ₹2 lakh to the girl’s guardians for the same.“Upon hearing the offer, the survivor’s sister took her to the vendor’s home where he allegedly sexually assaulted her on August 2 around 1pm. The survivor later narrated the ordeal to her mother and decided to file a complaint,” said an officer from Mankhurd police station.A case has been registered under sections 376 (rape), 366A (procuration of minor girl), 370 (human trafficking) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) and 17 (abetment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act against the three accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-arrested-for-sexual-assault-of-minor/story-tG0aT8sY2BoOPOe4fc0gxM.html
16-08-2020||City||Two persons arrested in Sudeeksha Bhati’s death case; suspects modified bike to evade arrest||Bulandshahr police on Sunday arrested two persons in connection with the death of 19-year-old Sudeeksha Bhati last week. Deepak Solanki, 28, a construction contractor and a resident of Gulaothi, was allegedly riding a motorcycle and mason 50-year-old Raju from Bulandshahr dehat was riding pillion when the accident took place on Chirora Road in Aurangabad on August 10. They were arrested soon after relatives of Sudeeksha identified them. Although the family had earlier claimed that motorcyclists had harassed Sudeeksha and that had led to the accident, the Bulandshahr four-member special investigation team (SIT) probe found that the accident was due to speeding. Sudeeksha was pursuing an undergraduate course in entrepreneurship from Babson College, Massachusetts, USA on ₹3.80 crore scholarship. Her death had sparked a political storm with parties questioning the law and order situation in the state.Police said that two days after the accident, the suspects had modified the motorcycle when they learnt that the police was on the look out for Royal Enfield motorcycles. On Sunday, police recovered their motorcycle too. Santosh Kumar Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Bulandshahr, at a press conference on Sunday said that the police had scanned multiple CCTV footage and established that the accident took place at around 8.44 am. “Police scanned 12 CCTV cameras and found Sudeeksha and her cousin travelling on a motorcycle at 8:25 am. The same camera captured Solanki on an Enfield at 8.17 am on the same route and picked up Raju from near Arif Hospital and later, Sudeeksha’s motorcycle crossed them,” he said. “The two motorcycles were moving in the same direction and covered 10.5 kilometres in nine minutes on a busy road which showed that both were speeding,” he said. Later, the Enfield motorcycle overtook Sudeeksha following which the accident took place.“Solanki said that a tempo traveller ahead of him had applied a sudden brake forcing him to brake suddenly too causing the motorcycle on which Sudeeksha was to collide with them near Bhavsi bridge. Seeing the accident and the injured, Solanki said he fled the spot due to fear,” said the SSP. With news that police was looking for Royal Enfield motorcycles, he went on make changes to the vehicle . “On August 12, I went to a local mechanic and got the wheels, silencer, and number plate changed. I also laminated the motorcycle with white stickers to disguise the identity,” he allegedly told police. Subhash Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Aurangabad police station, said, “We have seized the motorcycle. The suspects had modified its number plate, silencer, indicator, etc. We have also seized these parts of motorcycle and ₹1400 from Deepak and ₹300 from Raju.”Solanki was constructing a banquet hall near Khanpur road and he was on the way there when the accident took place, said police. The two were produced before the magistrate and sent to jail, said the SHO.On Sudeeksha’s father Jitendra Bhati’s complaint, the police had registered a case under Indian Penal Code sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (death due to negligence), among others.Jitendra Bhati said that he was satisfied with the police investigation. “My brother and his son identified the suspects. We demand the government to make an institution on Sudeeksha’s name so that local girls can get inspiration to study and do good in their lives,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-persons-arrested-in-sudeeksha-bhati-s-death-case-suspects-modified-bike-to-evade-arrest/story-WG1aR0DsP0sBITwRr8TF4K.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for travelling in local using fake ID||Wadala government railway police (GRP) on Saturday arrested a 33-year-old garment seller for traveling in a local train using a fake identity card of a civic medical staff.Dhananjaykumar Yadav, a ticket checker of Central Railway, identified the fake ID card and questioned the commuter Jamaluddin Kutubuddin Ansari, who later admitted that he sells garment near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) area.Rajendra Pal, senior inspector, Wadala GRP, said, “On August 15 around 4.30pm when the ticket checker asked Ansari to show his ticket and identity card, Ansari showed him an ID card allegedly issued by the civic health department,”“The ticket checker found it to be fake and brought Ansari to our police station for legal action. Following Yadav’s complaint, we registered a first information report (FIR) under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code,” Pal said.Ansari, during questioning, said he used to travel from CSMT to Wadala daily, using the fake ID card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-travelling-in-local-using-fake-id/story-DfT8yymi2Jc1T46BKvjU0J.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra jail Covid case tally touches 1,000||The number of Covid-19 cases reported among inmates lodged across jails in Maharashtra crossed the 1,000-mark on Friday and now stands at 1,007, which include six deaths and 814 recoveries. As on Friday, 26,308 inmates were lodged across 45 jails in Maharashtra.The six deaths were reported from Pune’s Yerawada Central Prison, Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Central jail and prisons in Dhule and Amravati.Nagpur Central Prison has recorded the maximum number (219) of Covid-19 cases. Prison officials have, however, claimed that all the 219 inmates have recovered from the infection. Jail authorities at Nagpur prison have conducted 616 Covid-19 tests among its inmates.Arthur Road jail, which is one of the most overcrowded prisons in the state, and houses several gangsters, terror suspects and high-profile economic offenders, reported 182 cases of Covid-19 among its inmates, while 46 jail officials also tested positive for the virus. The jail was also the first in Maharashtra where the case was detected, after a 45-year-old inmate tested positive on May 5 at Sir JJ Hospital, where he was undergoing treatment for a paralytic attack.Sangli and Akola district prisons have reported 145 and 99 Covid-19 cases, respectively.According to officials, of the 6,177 tests conducted across all central, district and open jails in the state, 781 were by Arthur Road jail, which houses more than 2,500 undertrials, against its capacity of 800.After Arthur Road and Nagpur jails, the most number of tests were conducted at Akola (569), Aurangabad (517) and Yerawada prisons (506).However, eight prisons – Sawantwadi district jail, Sindhudurg district jail, Yerawada open jail, Nanded district jail, Nandurbar district jail, Washim district jail, Bhusawal sub-jail, Morshi open jail and Nashik Borstal School – have not conducted any Covid-19 tests, said authorities.Among the jail staffers, the state prisons department has conducted a total of 1,560 tests, of which 293 results have come positive. No deaths have been reported, and 268 staffers have recovered.Prison officials claimed that they are regularly screening prisoners and those who develop any symptoms are sent for Covid-19 tests.A total of 10,476 inmates have either been released on bail or parole since March 25 to prevent overcrowding, as the total capacity of in jails across the state is only 23,217, said authorities. “All possible efforts to decongest prisons are being taken, but some of them are still overcrowded. Also, bail is granted by a court and not the prison authorities,” said Sunil Ramanand, additional director general (prisons). “The most important thing to notice here is that we have been able to successfully contain the Covid-related deaths in prisons,” Ramanand added. According to Madhurima Dhanuka, programme head, prisons reforms programme, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), though decongestion is an important step to control the spread of the virus in jails, it is not a complete solution. “Healthcare services to prisoners, ensuring social distancing norms among them and sanitisation are important issues that should be looked into by the jail authorities,” she said. Dhanuka further added that prison-wise monitoring, both internally and externally, is very important. “This can be done through the board of visitors (BoV) or by forming a nodal committee in every prison, which can ensure the compliance of all the safety guidelines for the prisoners. The committee can monitor the effectiveness of the preparedness of the prison authority to ensure the effective response to Covid-19,” she added. According to Dhanuka, many restrictions are imposed by the prison department, which undermine the rights of the inmates. The nodal authorities need to ensure that the rights of the prisoners are not unduly restricted or suppressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-jail-covid-case-tally-touches-1-000/story-egaKeKC3mCPcYrZfmkVFJL.html
16-08-2020||Kolkata||Raj Bhavan under surveillance, claims Bengal governor||Raj Bhavan has been placed under surveillance “undermining the sanctity” of the institution, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar alleged on Sunday, a development that could plunge his already strained ties with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to newer depths.Making the startling claim, Dhankhar, who has often crossed swords with the TMC government over a host of issues in the past one year, also alleged lawlessness was prevailing across the state, drawing sharp reactions from Banerjee’s party, which said that such acts of surveillance are the domain of his “bosses from Gujarat”.“I would like to tell you all that the Raj Bhavan is under surveillance. It undermines the sanctity of the Raj Bhavan. I will do everything to protect its sanctity,” Dhankhar told a press conference.“I have initiated a very serious, critical probe into it. Sanctity of Raj Bhavan’s functioning has to be kept intact,” he said.Without elaborating on what kind of surveillance Raj Bhavan had been put under, Dhankhar said, “As constitutional act, I will not, will never suffer any surveillance of any nature whatsoever. Those who have done it, must pay the price according to rule of law. My internal inquiry will be completed soon enough,” he said. The governor also spoke about confidential documents getting leaked.There was no word from the government on Dhankhar’s claim.However, Trinamool Congress MP and spokesperson Mahua Moitra hit out at the governor over the claims.“Uncleji now claims he and Raj Bhawan premises (are) under surveillance. Believe me, that’s something your bosses from Gujarat do better than anyone else -any of us would be novices at it,” she said on Twitter.Expressing “pain” at Mamata Banerjee and her cabinet colleagues not attending the customary At Home hosted at Raj Bhavan, the governor’s official residence, on Independence Day, Dhankhar said that less than 35 distinguished guests had been invited keeping in mind the Covid-19 outbreak.“It has been very painful for me... I was constantly interacting with the state government through the chief minister, was impressing upon her consistently that the programme will be held totally and strictly following the COVID protocol and keeping the number to bare minimum.“It would have been befitting for the occasion, it would have been a good tribute to our freedom fighters’ sacrifice if the chief minister and members of the executive invited (had attended); it has set a bad precedent,” he said.The chief minister had met the governor at Raj Bhavan on Saturday morning after attending the official Independence Day event but did not attend the At Home.Refuting Dhankhar, Moitra shared a document on Twitter, stating that 96 people were invited to the Raj Bhavan.“Uncle- please at least share the whole truth...Honble CM visited you at Raj Bhavan before your tea party & spent an hour with you. Dont think milling in a crowd at a tea party is wise for either her or you in the midst of Covid 19,” she tweeted.Referring to some of his many face-offs with the Mamata Banerjee government since he took over as the governor of West Bengal a year ago, including those at the state Assembly, during his visits to universities and the Constitution Day function, he said, these were not the signs of democracy or freedom.Dhankhar said he had found the gates to the Assembly locked during a scheduled visit. Likewise, the chamber of the vice-chancellor was under lock and key during his visit to a university of which he is the ex-officio chancellor, he said.On the Constitution Day, he was sixth in queue to address the Assembly, the governor said.“I pray to almighty that good sense prevails, Constitution is respected,” he said, adding, “15th August was another painful day for me, political violence and killing was noticed over unfurling of the national flag.” A BJP worker was killed allegedly by TMC supporters at Khanakul in Hooghly district following a tiff over unfurling the tricolour at the same spot.“We are in a state of lawlessness, already situation is alarmingly worrisome,” the governor said.He said as the governor he has a constitutional right to know about the happenings in the state and that it is the duty of the chief minister to make information available to him.Dhankhar said there have been five editions of Bengal Global Business Summit, but his questions on how much investment was promised and how much was actually delivered, and about jobs created have not elicited any response from the government. He said his advice to the civil administration and police to act as public and not political servants and conduct themselves in accordance with law and neutrally, has gone unheeded.“It is my commitment to the people of West Bengal, I will do everything possible to ensure that democracy in the state flourishes, and democracy will flourish only if there is rule of law,” he said.Dhankhar alleged that the police administration is acting in a manner which is “seriously compromising” the activities of political opponents of the ruling party.He said that even MPs and MLAs were being slapped with criminal cases and “threatened in a manner that will shake anyone”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/raj-bhavan-under-surveillance-claims-bengal-governor/story-xIqLs9vC1OlWvFaRP1PBRM.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||Non-Covid OPDs at civic-run hospitals witness low footfall||Despite restarting out-patient departments (OPD) for non-Covid patients at BYL Nair and King Edward Memorial (KEM) hospitals, as the pandemic curve continues to flatten in the city, footfall has fallen below 80% as compared to pre-Covid days.Civic officials have attributed the drop in patients to the fear of contracting the novel coronavirus infection at civic-run hospitals.“Another reason for lesser footfall is restrictions on local train services since major civic hospitals get patients from far-off areas like Vasai and Virar. We have also witnessed that residents prefer local private clinics over civic hospitals,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner.With many recovered Covid-19 patients complaining of lung fibrosis, diabetes, hypertension and breathlessness, KEM Hospital will start its post-Covid OPD by August 19 for such patients, said a health officer from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Cardiologists, pulmonologists and diabetologists among other specialists will attend to patients at the OPD.Before the Covid outbreak, 1,500-bed KEM Hospital recorded 7,000 OPD patients daily, while Nair Hospital received over 4,000 patients. After Covid-19 struck, the hospitals had to close down their OPD services to avoid any possible spread of the infection to non-Covid patients. After five months, the hospitals opened their OPDs in the first week of August. Dr Shailesh Mohite, dean of Nair Hospital, said, “Considering our hospital was a dedicated Covid care hospital, people are still scared to come here for non-Covid diagnosis. We are receiving 20% of the total footfall we used to receive pre-Covid.”Similarly, KEM Hospital has witnessed a 70% decline in patient footfall, said dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh.Meanwhile, Dr RN Cooper Municipal General Hospital, which is a partially-converted Covid-19 hospital, has been receiving the most number of non-Covid patients in their OPD. For the last two months, the hospital has been running two separate OPDs — a fever clinic for suspected Covid-19 patients and a general OPD. Till the first week of July, they were receiving around 200 patients daily; the number has shot up to more than 1,000 this month.“As people are scared to visit other major hospitals, all of them are coming to our hospital for diagnosis. We have kept over 250 beds for non-Covid patients,” said Dr Pinakin Gujjar, hospital dean.Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known as Sion hospital, is set to start its non-Covid OPD by the next weekend. “All civic-run hospitals will have two OPDs – one for suspected Covid-19 patients and the other for general patients. Their entry and exit points will be different. Hospitals have been instructed about the required changes to be maintained until this pandemic gets over,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/non-covid-opds-at-civic-run-hospitals-witness-low-footfall/story-WQKdU7AHzPQURxTOPACrMO.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC set to handle spread of Covid-19 in high-rises||With the change in the trend, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is expecting more Covid-19 cases from high-rises and buildings, than from slums. As the staggered unlock began in phases from June 5, as part of Mission Begin Again, the Covid-19 infection began to spread from slums to high-rises. BMC attributed it to more interaction between residents of high-rises and buildings with the rest of the city, as they ventured out more, with the opening of both essential and non-essential shops, and workers and house helps returning to work. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in BMC, in-charge of the civic health department, said, “We expect more cases to come from high-rises now.” According to Kakani, during lockdown in April and May, when cases in slums were on the rise, its residents are likely to have developed a certain level of immunity to the virus, in comparison to residents of high-rises who did not go out at all. Kakani said, “Slums have smaller homes, and their residents interact more with their ecosystem. Once a slum ecosystem is contaminated after some of its residents test positive, due to high level of community interaction, other residents of the slum are likely to develop some immunity. However, so far, residents of high-rises were indoors. As they begin to venture out more, they will be exposed to the virus for the first time.” On Sunday, Mumbai reported 1,010 new Covid-19 cases, and 47 new deaths. The total number of cases has gone up to 128,726, and the deaths are 7,133. There are 17,825 active cases in the city. The case fatality rate is 5.5%, and recovery rate is 80%. BMC is also mulling reopening gymnasiums in the city within the next few weeks. However, swimming pools will remain closed. Kakani said, “The chances of transmitting infection through use of a swimming pool are high. It will get difficult to contain the spread.” On June 5, BMC allowed opening shops on alternate sides of the road every alternate days. On August 5, BMC allowed malls and supermarkets to reopen, and shops on both side to remain open. The figures released by BMC show most wards with a high number of buildings have a higher growth rate. D ward comprising Malabar Hill, Pedder Road, Walkeshwar, Kemps Corner and Mahalaxmi areas has the highest growth rate at 1.4%, against Mumbai’s overall average of 0.82%. Similarly, all suburban wards corresponding to the areas of Kandivli, Borivli, Malad, Goregaon, Mulund have growth rates higher than Mumbai’s average. G North ward, which covers Dharavi, Dadar, and Shivaji Park, is among the 10 wards shortlisted by BMC on Friday as high focus areas, even though the cases in Dharavi have drastically gone down. This is owing to a higher growth rate in the buildings of Dadar and Shivaji Park, Kakani said. G North ward has a growth rate of 0.73%. Dharavi on Sunday reported five new cases, taking the total to 2,668. There are 80 active Covid-19 cases in Dharavi. Dadar reported 33 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total to 2,208, and 466 active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-set-to-handle-spread-of-covid-19-in-high-rises/story-wzBqgBX4xF6sWr1wx38cuI.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||Veteran actor Dilip Kumar’s brothers test positive for Covid-19||Octogenarian brothers of veteran Bollywood actor Dilip Kumar have been diagnosed with Covid-19. Their oxygen saturation has dropped below 80%. They have been kept under artificial breathing support at Lilavati Hospital. Eshan and Aslam Khan complained of breathlessness, after which they were rushed to Lilavati hospital on Saturday night. Later, they tested positive of Covid-19 in rapid antigen test and were immediately admitted to the Covid-19 ward of the hospital. As per sources in the hospital, their oxygen saturation has fallen below 80% and considering the age, both have been kept under artificial breathing support system called CPAP (Continuous positive airway pressure). It is a form of an airway pressure ventilation which supports breathing. “They have been kept in ICU but we haven’t intubated them as yet. Considering their age and pre-condition health issues like diabetes and hypertension, we have to be extra careful while treating them,” said a doctor from the hospital. They are kept under Dr Jalil Parker who refused to make any statement citing patient confidentiality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/veteran-actor-dilip-kumar-s-brothers-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-BGHUETAx71GmRB8E1fAa8I.html
16-08-2020||City||AAP to set up ‘oxygen test centres’ in villages: Kejriwal||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister and the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that he has got commitment for 30,000 pulse oximeters from different donors, which would help the party to set up “oxygen test centres” in villages across states to help Covid-19 patients.“Already received commitments for 30,000 oximeters. (I) am overwhelmed. (We) will now set up oxygen test centres in 30,000 villages. Commitments still pouring in. (With that) we will set it up in more villages. Thank u (you) donors. We will train village youth n (and) give them oximeters,” Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday.“This will help us in saving lives by detecting drop in oxygen levels in time,” he tweeted.Oximeters help in measuring the oxygen level and are found to be extremely useful for coronavirus patients who in many cases battle breathlessness due to drop in oxygen level.Arvind Kejriwal had on Saturday appealed to the public, members of the civil society and party workers across the nation to donate pulse oximeters to the AAP so it can set up ‘oxygen testing centres’ in rural India to reduce the number of covid deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-to-set-up-oxygen-test-centres-in-villages-kejriwal/story-2a5Z0CRcPTfBoUbVH602ZK.html
16-08-2020||City||Five rescued after fire in a Pitampura building||New Delhi: Firefighters rescued five people trapped inside a four-storey building in north Delhi’s Pitampura after a fire was reported in the basement of the building.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) officials said while all occupants of the building were rescued safely, a firefighter suffered cuts to his arm while entering the building.One elderly woman was rescued from the building’s basement, four others were saved after firefighters accessed the building from an adjoining house, said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services.The fire began in an air-conditioner installed inside a an acupuncture clinic located in the basement of the building. The other three storeys are residential. “We received a call about fire in the air-conditioning of the clinic in the basement at 11.07am. We sent two fire tenders initially,” said Chandraprakash Singh, sub-officer of DFS, who led the operation.“When we reached there, we found the basement up in flames and smoke having engulfed the upper floors. While two staffers of the clinic managed to escape, we had to enter the basement to rescue an elderly woman,” said Singh.The blaze spread quickly after a wooden cabin in the basement caught fire, said Singh.At the same time, the firefighters noticed two women and two girls of a family stranded in the balcony of the top floor. “They couldn’t escape either through the staircase or the terrace due to the dense smoke in the building’s common area. So, we accessed the terrace by climbing the adjacent building,” said the fire officer.The four women on the top floor were safely rescued in the operation that lasted 90 minutes and required five fire tenders, said the officer, adding that a leading fireman, Surender, suffered cuts to his hand in the operation.“He has received stitches and is out of danger,” he said.The police are still investigating the circumstances of the blaze. They were yet to decide on registering a case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-rescued-after-fire-in-a-pitampura-building/story-a2G3lujSkonOdKOFF5HNJI.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||Vasai civic body waives permission fees for Ganpati pandals||The Vasai Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) on Saturday waived off a ₹4,500 fee required for permission and fire brigade charges for Ganpati pandals in Vasai-Virar after Nallasopara MLA Kshitij Thakur appealed to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray to waive the same in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the rules, Ganpati mandals have to take permission from the local police, fire brigade and the civic body to install a pandal. Even with Ganeshotsav festival hardly a few days away, mandals have not been able to collect enough donations for the 10-day festival. “In view of this, I requested the CM to waive off the permission and processing fees on humanitarian grounds,” said Thakur.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Ganeshotsav will have to be celebrated in a subdued manner and after taking all the necessary precautionary measures. The volunteers have not been able to venture out to collect donation, and as a result, they are running short on money. “With much fewer people expected to venture out for the festival, it will be even more difficult for them,” said Thakur.All the municipal corporations have released a set of details to be followed by the mandals and the devotees for Ganeshotsav celebrations. It also includes capping the size Ganpati idols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vasai-civic-body-waives-permission-fees-for-ganpati-pandals/story-JaFFVwR1nonuCzq1EkHysN.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||Ensure social distancing is followed in revamp plan: Dharavii locals to state||A group of residents from Dharavi has written to the state government, seeking clarification on the redevelopment plan in India’s largest slums amid the Covid-19 outbreak. The residents’ group, People’s Responsible Organisation of United Dharavi (Proud) has demanded that their apartments be constructed taking into consideration the social distancing norms. Dharavi has reported more than 2,600 cases of Covid-19 since April. The residents have also sought a clarification on the percentage of buildable land being offered for the rehabilitation of the locals, who are majorly slum-dwellers. When asked on the issue, state housing minister Jitendra Awhad said, “We are of the opinion that now is the best time to go ahead with the redevelopment but all the concerns of all stakeholders will be looked into before the revamp. We are, however, yet to decide if the contract will be given to the same company which won the bid earlier or to go for re-bidding. We are taking a legal opinion on it and will take a decision soon.” Residents have claimed that social distancing and issues of density have become even more important after the outbreak of Covid-19 and have insisted that the slum dwellers be made aware of the plans being drafted by the state government. Hariram Dilliwala, general secretary of Proud, said, “We are still struggling to overcome the Covid-19 outbreak and are also trying to figure out how we can ensure better social distancing if something like this happens again at Dharavi. Hence, the government has to ensure that we are not thrown into vertical slums in the name of redevelopment. There should not be a scenario wherein we have 14-15 apartments on one floor, as social distancing is an important factor now.” Proud has sought clarity on the usage of common spaces. “We have written to the state government and sought clarity on what is the internal layout of our approved apartments is in relation to the number of apartments on each floor and the number of people who will use the building’s common spaces, to ensure social distancing norms. Also, we need clarity on how tall the buildings will be and the number of residents who will use common lifts etc. The government should give us all such details,” said Dilliwala, a resident of Dharavi from the past 40 years. Another resident, Radhakrishnan Perumal, said that the locals have appointed an architect to represent their concerns. “We do not mind the company the government appoints for our redevelopment, but we want to see what our future locality will look like. We have appointed an architect, who will represent us. We cannot afford the architect’s fees and hence the services by him will be taken from the potential developer,” said Perumal. According to Ameer Chand, the architect appointed by Proud, focus should be on ensuring that Dharavi does not become a “claustrophobic vertical slum”. “Enforcing redevelopment on the basis of improper plans is of no use. The new normal [social distancing norms] needs a new approach. Careful and detailed planning will ensure that the current horizontal density or congestion within the slum clusters of Dharavi is not getting translated into a claustrophobic vertical slum,” he said, adding that state needs to transparently give out the rehabilitation details of the project. “The government must specify the percentage of land they will allocate for the residents of Dharavi. It is also extremely unfair to not let the residents see their to-be-redeveloped house plans beforehand. Mere carpet areas should not be the benchmark for deciding liveability,” said Chand. Successive governments have been planning the redevelopment of 535-acre land in Dharavi since the 1980’s, but nothing has been materialised so far. In 2018, a special purpose vehicle (SPV) was set up to implement the ₹22,000-crore Dharavi Redevelopment Project, which aims to transform India’s largest slum pocket, located on prime land in the heart of Mumbai, into a plush township by offering 350 square feet homes to slum dwellers post redevelopment. The same year in November, bids were floated and won by Sec Link Technology Corporation (STC), backed by the royal family of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). However, the firm was not given the project after an alleged ‘technical glitch’ occurred, when the Devendra Fadnavis-government acquired 45-acre railway land adjacent to the area. The railway land was not mentioned in the original tender and the government was of the opinion that the tender to the UAE firm should be cancelled and the bids be re-floated. So far, no call has been taken on the redevelopment project, even though STC has threatened to move the high court against the government if the project is taken away from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ensure-social-distancing-is-followed-in-revamp-plan-dharavii-locals-to-state/story-8xdmIIwyqlxsLDjpbydlgL.html
16-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s Covid-19 death toll rises to 876, tally of cases climbs to 61,296||Fourteen more people succumbed to Covid-19 in Rajasthan on Sunday taking the state’s death toll to 876, while the highest single-day spike of 1,317 cases pushed the caseload to 61,296, a health department official said.Of the new deaths, three each were reported from Bikaner and Jaipur, and two each from Ajmer, Bhilwara, Udaipur and Sikar, the official said.Out of the total deaths in the state, Jaipur has reported 232 fatalities, followed by 87 in Jodhpur, 65 in Bharatpur, 59 in Ajmer, 57 in Bikaner, 53 in Kota, 37 each in Nagaur and Pali, 23 in Alwar and 19 in Dholpur.Among the new Covid-19 cases, 164 were from Jaipur, 135 from Jodhpur, 110 from Alwar, 79 from Kota, 74 from Ajmer, 73 from Bikaner, 66 each from Bharatpur and Udaipur, 61 from Barmer and 51 from Bhilwara.Chittorgarh reported 50 new cases, Pali 45, Baran 35, Tonk 34, Nagaur 33, and Jhalawar 32.  There are 13,816 active Covid-19 cases in the state, while 45,434 have been discharged after treatment, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-s-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-876-tally-of-cases-climbs-to-61-296/story-hyXt03nErVvzvaETUVfxzN.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||Taxi drivers struggle to earn their living||City’s transport operations have taken a major hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown, and taxi, autorickshaw and app-based cab drivers have faced the most hardship during this period.Public transport services were suspended in the city after the announcement of the nationwide lockdown on March 23. Later on June 6, certain services resumed with restrictions under the state government’s Mission Begin Again. As part of the relaxation, black and yellow taxis, autorickshaws and app-based cabs services are presently allowed to operate only for emergency travel along with a restriction on number of passengers. Meanwhile, due to the complete suspension of autorickshaw, taxi and private cabs for almost three months and the slow business after the relaxations, drivers continue to face a deepening financial crisis. When Hindustan Times spoke to drivers in the city, they said they were struggling to survive. Dharamveer Gupta, a 30-year-old Santacruz resident, has been driving an autorickshaw for the past five years. However, Gupta, along with his family, had to leave Mumbai on May 22 and take a shramik special train to his hometown in Uttar Pradesh, after facing severe financial crisis due to the suspension of autorickshaw services in the city. “The situation was not easy at all. Even to board shramik trains, we had to wait for over six hours in a queue outside the station but could not board the train,” said Gupta. Gupta arrived back in Mumbai on June 10, but he has been struggling to repay vehicle loans and earn a living. “There are no passengers. We are waiting for hours in order to get a single passenger. The day’s earning is hardly ₹300 as opposed around ₹1,000 that we used to make before. Banks are also troubling us to repay our loans. The condition is really bad and there has been no relief from the government,” he said. Another autorickshaw driver, Pankaj Tej Bahadur, 40, was lucky to leave the city a day before the nationwide lockdown was imposed, but he hasn’t returned to the city since then. Singh, who is currently in Azamgarh, has exhausted all his savings and wants to return to Mumbai soon. “People had started discussing that there will be a countrywide lockdown. I did not have any money saved, so I decided to leave on March 22. I was lucky that I did not have to face what a lot of migrant workers faced. I did odd jobs in my village and also did farming. My savings are exhausted now. I will return to Mumbai soon, but I’m not able to get a railway ticket,” said Singh. Mahindra Nath Chaurasiya, 50, has been driving a black and yellow taxi in the city from 1996. He said, “The business of black and yellow taxis depend on the opening of garments, fruits and vegetable markets. Everything is mostly closed, and it is nearly impossible to get passengers. I have not seen anything like this before. The cost of compressed natural gas (CNG) has also increased in the city, which makes it more difficult for drivers.” The condition of mobile application-based cab drivers is the same. Vijay M, who works with a mobile application-based cab aggregator service, has stopped logging in. “The condition is tough for mobile app-based cab drivers. I started driving cabs as I enjoy driving, but now sustaining in the business is quite difficult. I had logged in after the cab services resumed and did not get a single passenger for hours. This is the situation of almost all the drivers. The ones who do opt for rides mostly visit hospitals, which is an added safety concern,” said Vijay. Autorickshaw and taxi unions in the city have stated that many drivers survived on free food distributed by non-government organisations during lockdown. “The drivers who stayed back in the city found it extremely difficult to manage three meals a day. Many drivers survived on free food that was distributed. Majority of the drivers had no money saved with them as they generally send it to their hometowns,” said KK Tiwari, leader of Swabhiman Mumbai Taxi and Rickshaw Union. Taxi and auto unions have demanded waiver of vehicle loans for drivers as well as monetary relief for the period of lockdown but, they said, they have not got any response from the government. “There has been no response from the government to provide monetary relief to drivers. We are aware that drivers are facing financial crisis and have approached the government for waiving vehicle loans. We will be sending another reminder to the government next week,” said AL Quadros, leader of Mumbai Taximen’s union. Transport department officials have stated that discussions with unions are going on. “We have met the unions along with regional transport officers and are deciding different measures that can be undertaken for road transport and the drivers,” said an official from the department, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/taxi-drivers-struggle-to-earn-their-living/story-fLUrJIM4jMoBTZOapPMLlN.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||Will review 20% water cut in city: BMC chief||With the improved water levels in the seven lakes that supply water to the city, civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal on Sunday said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will re-examine the imposition of 20% water cut in Mumbai. Starting August 5, BMC imposed a 20% water cut in the city, owing to the meagre rainfall in the catchment areas. When asked about withdrawing the water cut, Chahal said, “We will certainly re-examine this.” The seven lakes that supply water to Mumbai have a total of 75.96% useful water content as on Sunday morning, up from the 60.17% useful water content as of Thursday morning, and 50.53% last Sunday morning. By this time in 2019, the lakes had 93.69% useful water content. The present useful water content of 10,99,445 million litres (ML) will be sufficient to supply water to Mumbai for at least seven months or more.On August 5, when the 20% water cut was imposed, the seven lakes had 37.36% useful water content or 5,39,307 million litres of water, as opposed to the same time in 2019, when the lakes had the lakes had 89.96% useful water content.Sachin Sawant, Congress spokesperson tweeted on Sunday morning: “On my request, BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, assured that Mumbai’s water cut will be withdrawn, and water supply will be restored [to previous quantity].” On August 14, Sawant had urged BMC to withdraw the water cut due to the nearing festival season, and Ganesh festival.BMC supplies 3,850 million litres per day (MLD), against a demand of 4,200 MLD. After the 20% water cut, BMC has been supplying 3,080 MLD to Mumbai.The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems – the Vaitarna system which supplies to the western suburbs and the island city, and the Bhatsa system which supplies to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-review-20-water-cut-in-city-bmc-chief/story-MLAjqpjeFcBQLqnS39LdOO.html
16-08-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal reports 3,066 new Covid-19 cases, 51 more deaths||West Bengal’s Covid-19 toll rose to 2,428 with 51 more patients losing their lives on Sunday, as per an official bulletin.The state also reported 3,066 new cases of coronavirus infection, taking the tally to 1,16,498, the bulletin issued by the Health Department said.Total 2,935 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, improving the discharge rate to 74.48 per cent.There are 27,299 active cases in the state at present, it said.The state tested 32,286 samples for Covid-19 since Saturday, it added.Thirteen people died in Kolkata, followed by 10 deaths in North 24 Parganas, nine in Howrah, and five fatalities in Darjeeling, the bulletin said.Four deaths were reported from the South 24 Parganas district, three from Purba Medinipur and two each from Jalpaiguri and Purba Bardhaman, while one each was recorded in Hooghly, Malda and Birbhum districts.Of the fresh deaths, 42 were because of comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental, it said.Kolkata accounted for 563 new cases, followed by North 24 Parganas at 560, Purba Medinipur at 222, and South 24 Parganas at 211, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-reports-3-066-new-covid-19-cases-51-more-deaths/story-xgAs8evECJj9XSHlVVPO1H.html
16-08-2020||City||Ludhiana trader held for duping friend’s father of ₹31 lakh||A trader was arrested on Sunday for allegedly duping his friend’s father of Rs 31 lakh by luring him with a Ponzi scheme that would double his money.The accused has been identified as Sham Lal of Kabir Nagar. His three unidentified accomplices are at large.In his complaint to the Daresi police, Manpreet Singh of Guru Nanak Nagar stated that on July 10 the accused lured his father Joginder Singh, who runs a grocery store, into investing Rs 25 lakh in a Ponzi scheme. On July 17, Sham Lal called his father from an unknown number, claiming that he was arrested by the CIA staff of the Chandigarh Police and he will also be arrested if they failed to pay them Rs 6 lakh. To arrange the money, his father had to sell his car, Singh alleged. Later, Sham Lal’s accomplice posed as a policeman and collected the money. But, finding something amiss, Singh followed the “cop” and noticed that he went to Sham Lal’s house in Kabir Nagar. Therefore, he filed a police complaint. ASI Om Parkash, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 420 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against the accused at the Daresi police station. A hunt is on to nab the accused’s accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-trader-held-for-duping-friend-s-father-of-31-lakh/story-Ki0wMe0Cf60J2R0hPpq3oL.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||Man, his three sons arrested for killing son-in-law||Sewri police on Saturday arrested a senior citizen and his three sons for allegedly killing his 40-year-old son-in-law with a stone.Police arrested them soon after the incident. The arrested accused are identified as Pandu Chaudhary, 60, and his three sons Someshwar Chaudhary, 32, Rameshwar Chaudhary, 30, Laxman Chaudhary, 26.According to police, the four accused and victim are residents of Brick Bander area in Sewri. The victim, Suleman Abdul Qadir Shaikh, stayed with his wife and two children.“Shaikh was Pandu Chaudhary’s son-in-law and was an alcoholic. He often assaulted his wife over trivial issues and also suspected that she was in a relationship with someone else,” said sub-inspector Hanumant Kumbhare.When Shaikh, in an inebriated state, assaulted his wife on Saturday, Pandu and his sons tried to intervene. Shaikh, however, abused and assaulted Rameshwar. The father and sons then thrashed Shaikh. Someshwar picked up a stone, which was around 25kg and hit Shaikh on his head, said Kumbhare. Shaikh died on the spot.“Shaikh was involved in several criminal offences in the vicinity, and had more than 30 cases of assault and robbery registered against him in Sewri police station and neighbouring police stations, said Kumbhare. Shaikh married three women and one of his wives died a few years ago, while the two others reside in Mazagaon and Mumbra, respectively, added Kumbhare.“The father and sons have been booked for murder. The accused were produced in the court and are remanded in police custody till August 25,” said senior inspector Gajanan Kurhade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-his-three-sons-arrested-for-killing-son-in-law/story-jn3gO6nl33nauAqhEDBA3N.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||FYJC minority quota merit list out; arts cut-offs rise||Several prominent minority colleges in the city have declared the first merit list for admissions under the minority quota for first-year junior college (FYJC) on Saturday. Arts seemed to be a popular stream among top scorers this year as colleges recorded a considerably high cut-off for the stream as compared to science and commerce. At St Xavier’s College in Fort, the cut off for art stream for Christian minority students went up from 84% in 2019 to 85% this year. The cut-off for science at the college saw a marginal dip as compared to 2019. At Bandra’s St Andrews College, the cut-off for arts went up from 75.8% in 2019 to 78.8% this year. Even the science stream cut-off at the college increased substantially from 74.4% last year to 80.4% this year. The commerce stream cut-off, however, saw a marginal dip of less than 1%. “One can see that the demand for arts has increased amongst top scorers. This has been the case over the last few years. We are, however, surprised to see an increase in the science stream and a marginal dip in the commerce stream which was known to be popular for several years,” said Marie Fernandes, principal, St Andrews College. Many other minority colleges will declare their first merit list for the minority quota in the coming days. Mithibai College in Vile Parle will declare its first list for the Gujarati quota on today (August 17). This year, there will be a zero-contact admission process for FYJC, considering the current Covid-19 situation. As a result, admissions under various quotas like management, in-house and minority are to be completed at the junior college level by August 22. Officials in the state education department said that to make the process of zero round (quota admissions) simple, student data has been shared with junior colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-minority-quota-merit-list-out-arts-cut-offs-rise/story-5mrLl4xi4BphaJZ4ajT1jM.html
16-08-2020||City||Palghar lynching case: 9 juveniles get bail||The Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) Bhiwandi on Friday granted bail to nine of the 11 tribals, accused in the Palghar lynching case, after the state criminal investigation department (CID) failed to file the final report within the stipulated 90 days.The parents of the nine minors, through their lawyer, sought bail for them on the ground that the CID had no evidence against them, hence the minors were in illegal detention. The CID was unable to gather any evidence against the minors in the lynching and subsequent mob violence case. Hence, the presiding officer of the JJB granted them bail. On April 16, Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri, 70, Sushilgiri Maharaj, 35, and Nilesh Telgade, 30, were killed when a mob of locals attacked them at Gadhchinchale, approximately 140 kilometres from Mumbai. The trio was on their way to Surat and Telgade had been driving the car. Five police personnel were also injured in the attack. According to CID, the lynching was caused by rumours that were circulated using Whatsapp, which warned against a group of organ and child traffickers passing through the area. The gathered mob had mistaken the two travellers and their driver to be the traffickers.Earlier last week,10 accused, against whom the charge sheet was not filed within the stipulated 90 days, were granted default bail by the Dahanu sessions court. They will be released on a personal surety bond of ₹30,000 each, and are likely to walk out of prison this week.The state CID took over the probe from the Kasa police and had arrested 11 minors, aged between 12 to 17 years. Nine of them were arrested on April 18, while two others were nabbed a few weeks later. They were all sent to the Bhiwandi Children Remand Home by the Dahanu court. The CID had strong evidence against two minors and had filed a final report against them with the JJB on August 7. Earlier, the Dahanu court judicial magistrate MV Jawale had granted default bail to the 28 accused, as the CID is yet to collect evidence against them. “We had the right to apply for default bail, as it was a clear case of illegal detention and all the accused were in judicial custody. They were lodged in Thane, Taloja, Palghar, Boisar and Wada jails, for more than 90 days,” said Amrut Adhikari, counsel for the accused. “However, only 10 accused will be released on bail as the other 18 accused are named in the third charge sheet, which includes names of 47 accused, filed by the CID on August 6,” said Adhikari. So far 226 witnesses have been examined and 808 suspects were detained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-case-9-juveniles-get-bail/story-HL0UzI9KVErPNfzjVxVkVO.html
16-08-2020||Gurugram||HSIIDC submits plan to auction plots in Manesar to reimburse claims||The Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation ( HSIIDC) has submitted a plan in the Supreme Court for settlement of third party claims and development of land in Manesar. This, officials said, will pave the way for setting claims of over 3,500 home buyers and plot owners, who were stuck after the Supreme Court vested the ownership of land with the government agency instead of the builders from whom they had purchased the property. The Supreme Court in March, 2018 had scrapped the acquisition of land by Haryana government and subsequent land deals of around 700 acres carried out by developers, but it had vested ownership of the land with HSIIDC and HSVP. Subsequently, around 3,600 buyers had submitted claims for refunds or possession of flats and plots to the HSIIDC. To resolve the claims of these buyers, the industrial agency on August 14 submitted plans whereby it has said that allottees seeking refund of their money shall be reimbursed within three months from the date permission is given by enforcement directorate, which is investigating this matter. The authority also stated in the affidavit submitted to the court that the sites, which don’t have third party claims, would be put on auction by September 30. “The auction purchaser will be given shortest possible time to develop the project and handover possession to allottees,” it said. The plan said the properties which fall vacant after payment of refunds will be put on auction and an average price will be discovered at which the rest of the buyers will be offered properties. In case of land, which is vacant but has third party claims, the claims will be settled after approval from enforcement directorate. In lands which have construction, site shall be auctioned and new developer shall be asked to offer developed plots to claimants seeking possession. The unlicensed land shall be planned, developed and sold in phase wise manner. Priya Sardhana, general manager, HSIIDC, Manesar said that their objective is to settle the claims of the buyers at the earliest. “We are trying our best to ensure that claims of the buyers are settled and they get their money or properties,” she said. The homebuyers, however, said they were not impressed by the proposal submitted by the authority as there was no timeline/deadline for the development and possession handover which could would mean another cycle of endless wait once construction starts.“HSIIDC wants to offer homes at current market price, which could be double or triple the price committed to by the builder ten years ago. Buyers bought their floors for Rs 30-35 lakhs, but under the new scheme it might cost them up to Rs 60 lakhs. We are not happy with this proposal and the authorities need to come out with a plan that is buyer friendly instead of trying to profit at their cost,” said Naresh Jindal, president, ABW Manesar Allottee Welfare Society.The acquisition notice of around 700 acres of land was issued by Haryana government in 2004. The land deals were carried out between 2004 and 2007 but these were challenged by land owners in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsiidc-submits-plan-to-auction-plots-in-manesar-to-reimburse-claims/story-FqUaQZLsCiKhdeqZuHvBwM.html
16-08-2020||City||Vehicle-lifting accused flees from quarantine in Ludhiana, nabbed||A vehicle-lifting who had accused escaped from a quarantine centre on Friday was nabbed from the fields near gate number 7 of Punjab Agricultural University on Saturday.The Division Number 5 police had arrested Gagandeep Singh, alias Billa, and his accomplice, Shankar Kainth, both residents of Rishi Nagar, for vehicle lifting on August 12 and recovered a stolen motorcycle from their possession. The duo was tested for Covid-19 and sent to the quarantine centre established at the Government School for the Meritorious on August 14 till the arrival of the report. ASI Hardev Singh of Division Number 5 police said that he, along with constables Amritpal Singh and Buta Singh, took the accused to the quarantine centre.There, Gagandeep assaulted constable Buta Singh and fled.“After conducting searches, the accused was found hiding in the fields near PAU’s gate number 7 on August 15 and arrested,” said inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at Division Number 8 police station.A fresh case under Sections 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Gagandeep at the Division Number 8 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vehicle-lifting-accused-flees-from-quarantine-in-ludhiana-nabbed/story-ctbUbZkp0anYm9UGUoyyyN.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Land pooling policy amendment to speed up acquisition process in Mohali||To speed up the land acquisition process, the Punjab government has decided to give additional land as compensation to those giving up their property voluntarily for development projects, with a notification likely from the Punjab housing and urban development department soon. To make the land pooling policy (LPP) more attractive, the Punjab cabinet earlier approved amendments in rules related to the residential sector, extending it to the industrial sector under the jurisdiction of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). The move comes as GMADA gears up to acquire 1,680 acres of land in the first phase of developing the Aerotropolis estate. The policy change is also expected to facilitate the development of the industrial estate in Sectors 101 and 103 in Mohali. What land owners will getAccording to the amendment, 1,000 square yards of developed residential plots and 200 sq yards of commercial plots, excluding parking, will be given instead of cash compensation for every 1 acre of land acquired from land owners for the upcoming Aerotropolis Residential Estate. Owners will get 1,100 sq yards of industrial plots and 200 sq yards of developed commercial plot, excluding parking, for 1 acre of land. The validity of the ‘sahuliyat certificate’, also given to land owners opting for LPP and to provide benefits to them during purchase of equivalent value of land, will be counted from the date of which the plot is alloted to them.Stamp duty exemptionEarlier, the validity was for two years from the date of announcement of award. The certificate exempts owners from stamp duty and other benefits whey they buy agricultural land with the sale proceeds from the developed plots that they get under land pooling.The move is in response to land owners’ demands that the validity be applicable from the date on which they get physical possession of the plots on the grounds that land value can be assessed only when the basic infrastructure is in place. GMADA has acquired 4,484 acres of land from 2001 to 2017. Of this, 2145 acres has been acquired till date through LPP which was introduced in Punjab in 2008 and amended from time to time. The rationale behind introducing LPP was to reduce financial burden on GMADA, as the acquisition of land through cash compensation mode was fraught with the risk of enhancement of compensation by the courts apart from being a cumbersome and time consuming process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/land-pooling-policy-amendment-to-speed-up-acquisition-process-in-mohali/story-iqEb3LSrkAgDza5CjZiQ7M.html
16-08-2020||City||Ludhiana police re-launch hassle-free FIR scheme for theft, snatching cases||The local police re-launched the “hassle-free FIR scheme” after nine months on Sunday.Police have invited residents to send their complaints regarding theft, snatchings and vehicle theft at the e-mail address: cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said FIRs through this medium will be registered within 24 hours, and complainants will be informed through e-mail and text message, adding that the cases will be registered automatically without any questions.The police chief added that this will reduce the grievances of the public who sometimes had to run from pillar to post to get their FIRs registered in such matters. In the last nine months, about 100 FIRs were registered under this scheme after receiving complaints via e-mails.In matrimonial disputes and fraud cases, FIRs will be registered only after preliminary inquiry to ascertain the facts, as is the current practice.However, if such complaints are still pending and no FIRs were lodged, complainants can send an e-mail.The e-mail must include the complainant’s name, father’s or husband’s name, address, email address, mobile number, place, date and time of the incident, and details of the accused (if any).The police had first launched the scheme on November 5, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-re-launch-hassle-free-fir-scheme-for-theft-snatching-cases/story-IbfKoHeEMLs9Ni4Vn15vaJ.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Gaping hole in Chandigarh’s Sector 34/44 cycle track invitation to tragedy||The incessant rain over the past week has caused a cave-in on a cycle track on Sector 34/44 the dividing road, while also causing damage to several other cycle tracks in other sectors.“The cave-in is lying unattended since Friday, putting lives at risk. Residents have placed branches around the road, while police have placed barricades. But, still it can cause a mishap due to poor visibility in rain or at night. Calls to authorities have gone in vain,” said Swadesh Talwar, president of the Sector 44-B RWA.Stating that it was a result of poor maintenance by contractors, president of the Sector 44-D RWA, VK Nirmal said, “There has been no maintenance or carpeting work for two years. When repairs are done, engineers are never present to oversee it, leaving poor workmanship ignored.”Administrator of a city-based cycling group, Cyclegiri, Akshit Passi said cycle tracks across the city were riddled with potholes, even the one right next to the Children’s Traffic Park in Sector 23. “When the administration is promoting cycling, it also needs to keep the cycle tracks in a good condition,” he said.Aware of the cave-in, area councillor Ravinder Kaur Gujral said he will visit the spot on Monday and ensure that it was repaired properly.While the cycle tracks are constructed and maintained by the engineering wing of the UT administration, this patch of land comes under the municipal corporation’s purview. A senior MC official said the repair was delayed due to Independence Day celebrations on Saturday, but the road will be fixed on Monday. “We haven’t examined this patch of road yet. But, some cycle tracks are built above pipelines. A leak there can cause the road to crumble,” said an official in the engineering department, not wishing to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gaping-hole-in-chandigarh-s-sector-34-44-cycle-track-invitation-to-tragedy/story-sPSpRsktPbDuR2tssuI9PI.html
16-08-2020||City||Vaishno Devi Yatra resumes after five-month long suspension||The Vaishno Devi Yatra in Jammu and Kashmir resumed on Sunday, nearly five months after it was suspended as a precautionary measure amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“The first batch of pilgrims chanted religious slogans before embarking upon the pilgrimage. So far around 200 pilgrims undertook the pilgrimage,” said an official of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board.The Vaishno Devi pilgrimage was stopped on March 18 as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19. In the first week, there shall be a cap of 2,000 pilgrims each day, of which 1,900 would be from Jammu and Kashmir and the remaining 100 from outside.“The situation will be reviewed thereafter and a decision will be taken accordingly. Only the pilgrims who have registered themselves online are being allowed to undertake the pilgrimage,” said Ramesh Kumar, CEO of the board.The pilgrims are required to install the Aarogya Setu App on their mobile phones before proceeding for the yatra. It will be mandatory for them to wear masks.Children below 10 years, pregnant women, persons with comorbidities and those above 60 years have been advised to avoid religious places for the time being.Kumar said that the yatra is being allowed to move in a unidirectional manner. “The pilgrims are directed to use traditional routes— from Katra to Bhawan via Banganga, Adhkuwari and Sanjichhat—to reach the shrine and Himkoti route-Tarakote Marg for their return journey,” he said.The pilgrims, coming from red zones, and outside Jammu and Kashmir would have to undergo Covid-19 test and only those pilgrims with negative reports will be allowed to move towards Bhawan.“Ponies, pithus and palkis will not be allowed to ply on the tracks, initially,” Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vaishno-devi-yatra-resumes-after-five-month-long-suspension/story-0dx0G70brpuqIQRhphNQrM.html
16-08-2020||City||449 new Covid-19 cases take J&K’s tally to 28,470; 15 fatalities push death toll to 542||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 449 new cases of the coronavirus infection, taking the total number cases reported in the Union territory to 28,470 on Sunday, while 15 Covid-19 patients died in the last 24 hours, officials said. According to them, all the 15 deaths were from the Kashmir Valley.With this, the death toll in the Union Territory has risen to 542, of which 501 were from the Valley and 41 from the Jammu regionThe recovery rate in the UT crossed 73.5%, the highest so far after 267 more people were cured, taking overall recoveries to 20,943. The active cases in the UT stand at 6,985.A government spokesperson said 97 people were discharged in the Jammu division and 170 in Kashmir. Of the total, 16,201 cured in Kashmir while 4,742 in Jammu division. Among the 449 new Covid-19 cases, 100 were from the Jammu region and 349 from the Valley. The cases detected on Sunday included 76 people who had returned to the Union Territory recently.Deaths cross 500-mark in KashmirWith 15 fatalities, the death toll crossed the 500-mark. The first positive case in J&K was reported on March 9 in the Jammu division and on March 26, first death was reported in Kashmir.The highest single-day spike of 17 deaths, was recorded on July 30. The death toll had crossed 300-mark on July 25. As many as 276 persons have died in July alone.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 129 more people tested positive followed by Bandipora at 43, and Baramulla at 42 cases. In the Jammu division, the highest number of 58 cases was reported in the Jammu district.Srinagar is the worst affected district with 6,915 cases and 173 deaths but the active cases in the district have come down to 1,689 after 52 recovered on Sunday. To date, 4.13 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 41,723 in home quarantine, 6,985 in isolation, and 46,380 under home surveillance. Besides these, 3.17 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/449-new-covid-19-cases-take-j-k-s-tally-to-28-470-15-fatalities-push-death-toll-to-542/story-0Nz3xH96Uxq4XUiRNmCozN.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: UGC’s decision on exams not a prudent move||Punjab chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh’s recent letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the directions of the University Grants Commission to its colleges and universities to complete the final examinations for exit classes by September 30 raises some valid points.The CM has said holding the exams will not be a wise move as Covid-19 cases could be peaking at that time, exposing the youngsters to risk of infections.Even if it does not postpone the dates, the UGC could explore options such as online tests – though this will not serve the interests of students from financially backward families – or grades based on assessments and previous performance.Postal services for delivery of question papers in open book mode and collection of answer sheets could be another avenue, a logistical nightmare by the looks of it, but possible if networks used by distance learning to mail lessons to students are tapped. This will take time and planning, but as the exit classes are a crucial stage in a student’s life, efforts should be made to complete the processes as quickly as possible. With the Joint Entrance Exams (advanced as well as main) and The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Undergraduate) scheduled for September, one will have to see how the logistics will be worked out by the National Testing Agency. Perhaps the UGC can take a cue from them.This is going to be an acid test for colleges and universities – smart thinking and planning will definitely help going forward. TEST CASEShould UGC roll back its decision on final exams by Sept 30?Is the UGC’s decision to complete final examinations for exit classes in colleges and universities by September 30 a prudent move? Send your responses to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com with your picture by August 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-ugc-s-decision-on-exams-not-a-prudent-move/story-sXIvR9fk1zHRPRFiD9TIjI.html
16-08-2020||City||Himachal’s patient tally goes past 4,100 with highest single-day spike of 163 cases||Coronavirus infections tally in Himachal crossed 4,100-mark as the hill state recorded highest single-day spike of 163 cases on Sunday. Kangra logged the maximum infections (39), followed by Solan (36), Sirmaur (26), Kullu (19), Mandi (13), Bilaspur (9), Chamba (9), Hamirpur (7), Kangra (5), Una (4) and Shimla (1). Previous single-day spike was on August 13 when 153 cases were reported in the state. Sirmaur DC RK Pruthi said among the local patients, 14 were male and five female. All of them were from Paonta Sahib. Seven labourers from Bihar were among 12 people found infected in Mandi. The patients were staying in Sarkaghat’s Cholthra area. A chemist in Mandi town is another victim of the virus. Most of the Kullu patients were farm labourers. In Solan most of the patients are factory workers from Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial belt. Kangra has recorded its steepest single-day spike with 39 cases. With this, the district’s tally has jumped to 614. 119 CASES LOGGED ON AUGUST 15 On Saturday, HP had seen 119 cases, 25 of which were reported from Solan, 14 from Mandi and 13 each from Kangra, Shimla and Hamirpur. On Sunday, the state had 1,377 active cases and recorded 2,720 recoveries. Solan is the worst-hit district with 975 cumulative cases, followed by Kangra (614), Sirmaur (513), Hamirpur (414), Una (327),Mandi (317), Chamba (292), Shimla (231), Kullu (227), Bilaspur (181), Kinnaur (59) and Lahaul and Spiti (6). FATALITY RATE 0.4%; RECOVERY RATE 65.4% With 17 deaths to date due to the contagion, Himachal’s fatality rate is just 0.4%, which is lower than the national average of 1.9%. Himachal has conducted 1, 79,024 tests — 24,393 tests per million, a figure better than the national average of 21,989. However, the recovery rate in Himachal is 65.4% which is lower than the national rate of 71.9%. In last one week, the state has clocked growth rate of 3.2% in the number of new infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-s-patient-tally-goes-past-4-100-with-highest-single-day-spike-of-163-cases/story-iSYAWXMR1KPB3uQmAakspJ.html
16-08-2020||City||Crop damage: Deepender seeks compensation for Haryana farmers||Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda on Sunday demanded compensation for farmers whose crops were damaged due to heavy rain that led to waterlogging in several parts of Sonepat and Rohtak.Hooda visited eight villages of Sonepat’s Baroda constituency where fields have been inundated due to downpour.“I urge the Haryana chief minister to provide adequate compensation to the farmers for their damaged crop at the earliest,” he added.PEOPLE SET TO DEFEAT ‘ARROGANT GOVT’ IN BARODAInteracting with reporters at Sonepat’s Gohana, Deepender said the people of Baroda have made up their mind to teach a lesson to the “arrogant Khattar government”.“The ministers are asking the Baroda residents to become part of this government by electing their candidate in the upcoming bypoll. This clearly depicts the arrogance and mindset of the BJP-JJP people towards the Baroda voters. Every section of the society is unhappy with the rule of the BJP-JJP coalition government and they are eagerly waiting to defeat their candidate in the upcoming bypoll,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crop-damage-deepender-seeks-compensation-for-haryana-farmers/story-Hj6RHeF3a7mydF1gtQyFDJ.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 93 new cases of Covid-19, tally at 2,102||Chandigarh on Sunday reported 93 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total count of positive cases in the Union Territory to 2,102. As per Chandigarh’s Health Department, 93 new Covid-19 cases and one death reported in the Union Territory today.The total count includes 934 active cases, 1,137 recovered cases and 29 deaths to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-93-new-cases-of-covid-19-tally-at-2-102/story-QViGQ9urETeDM2K1fUoBdK.html
16-08-2020||City||IAF man dies by suicide at Kasauli station||An Indian Air Force (IAF) employee committed suicide by hanging himself at the Kasauli station, police said on Sunday.The 23-year-old man hailed from Rajasthan and was found hanging from the roof of a barrack on Friday evening.The police reached the spot soon after they received information. A suicide note was also found at the spot wherein the man had mentioned that nobody was responsible for his suicide. He was taken to the hospital, where his postmortem examination was conducted.Parwanoo deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Yogesh Rolta confirmed the report and said police were conducting an investigation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iaf-man-dies-by-suicide-at-kasauli-station/story-W2lcitiM42tzr2QPUtoZwJ.html
16-08-2020||City||20-year-old woman crushed by pick-up van in freak accident||A 20-year-old woman was crushed to death after a Bolero SUV (HP-08-0503) overturned and landed on her in Shimla’s Chopal, police said on Sunday.The deceased has been identified as Suman, a resident of Panog village in Shillai tehsil of Sirmaur district.The accident took place on Saturday around 5pm near Sainj Khad when her brother-in-law Parmanand, 40, was driving the vehicle which was occupied by three other passengers. They were on their way to Dharchandna village from Ronhat. As per the reports, the driver lost control over the SUV and in order to save herself, Suman jumped out of the vehicle. However, the vehicle overturned and landed on her. The other passengers escaped with minor injuries.Eyewitnesses immediately informed the police, who reached the spot and rushed Suman to the government hospital in Kupvi. The doctors there pronounced her dead on arrival.Shimla superintendent of police (SP) Omapati Jamwal confirmed the report and said they were conducting an investigation. A case under sections 279, 337 and 304A of Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-year-old-woman-crushed-by-pick-up-van-in-freak-accident/story-OkUFr4nRmkKBxL2An0wfjK.html
16-08-2020||City||Government College Ludhiana (East) extends last date for online registration||The authorities of Government College Ludhiana (East) have extended the deadline for online registration till August 18. Earlier, the last date for applying online was August 12.Over 195 students have registered online against 80 seats for admission to BA I. Out of the total students, 155 are boys and 40 are girls. Over 90 students have yet not uploaded the required documents and another 29 students’ data is incomplete.Last year, as many as 245 students had applied online for the same course.The tentative ranks will be uploaded on the college website on Tuesday and the counselling will be held on Wednesday.Principal Dharam Singh Sandhu said, “We have extended the last date to August 18 and the counselling will be held on August 19. We have 80 seats in BA I course and the students who have not uploaded required documents or uploaded incomplete data have been given a chance to do the same in the next two days.” The construction work of the new building of the college is underway, therefore, classes will be conducted online by the faculty of SCD Government College. STUDENTS GET TWO MORE DAYS TO DEPOSIT FEEThe authorities of Government College, Karamsar, have extended the date for online fee submission to August 17. Usually, the students are required to deposit the fee within 48 hours of counselling but due to the Independence Day holiday and Sunday, the college decided to extend the date. The counselling session for students of BCom I, BSc medical and non-medical, and BA I was held online on August 14.In BCom I, the cut off for the general category was 104% and for the backward class was 102%. The counselling for all these classes will continue on August 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/government-college-ludhiana-east-extends-last-date-for-online-registration/story-UD4dhMZOMwNmBFwLMIRKEM.html
16-08-2020||City||Weatherman predicts heavy rainfall in HP today, yellow warning issued||Heavy rainfall is likely to occur in the state for the next two days, predicted the meteorological department, which has issued yellow warning for lower and middle hills for August 17 and 18.State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said rain is likely to lash the state till August 22. Downpour was recorded in Kangra, Sirmaur, Mandi and Hamirpur while light to moderate rainfall occurred at several other places during the last 24 hours. However, there was no appreciable change in maximum and minimum temperatures, he said.Paonta Sahib received 93mm rain, which was highest in the state, followed by Dharamshala (80.4mm), Mandi (75.3mm), Sundernagar (50mm), Palampur (28mm), Shimla (16.6mm), and Kufri (10mm).Maximum temperature in Shimla was 23.5°C while it was 19.2°C in Kufri, 14km from the state capital. Manali logged 27.8°C maximum temperature, Dalhousie 21.6°C and Dharamshala 26.8°C. Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti was the coldest place in the state at 13.2°C minimum temperature, while Una was the hottest as it recorded 34.5°C maximum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/weatherman-predicts-heavy-rainfall-in-hp-today-yellow-warning-issued/story-ykJY9EN4R43seOBCfNdn5I.html
16-08-2020||City||Bharat Bhushan Ashu inaugurates school at Ludhiana village||Punjab food, civil supplies, and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu inaugurated the Government Senior Secondary Smart School at Sirah village of the district on Saturday. While appreciating the cleanliness and infrastructure of the school, Ashu announced a grant of Rs 2 lakh from his discretionary quota for its development and Rs 20 lakh for the development of Payal constituency. He said that smart classrooms had been developed in all government schools falling under the municipal limits of Ludhiana city and now, they would also be developed in government schools in rural areas. Khanna MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha said that special emphasis was being given to improving the standard of education in government schools and that it was due to the consistent efforts of the Punjab government that the government schools are producing excellent results. He added that more such smart schools would be developed for the students residing in Payal constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bhushan-ashu-inaugurates-school-at-ludhiana-village/story-G8ID67bekwtGRXygFWaFEJ.html
16-08-2020||City||Recognise Tibet as buffer zone between India, China: Sangay||Presiding over a ceremony to mark India’s 74th Independence Day at kashag secretariat in Dharamshala, the sikyong (president) of Tibetan government-in-exile, Lobsang Sangay, once again urged India to recognise Tibet as a buffer zone of peace between India and China for a lasting solution to border conflicts.He appealed the Indian government to take Tibet’s history with China as a guideline when dealing with the PLA.“On this joyous occasion, I would like to congratulate India and the people of India for its achievements and progress in socio-economic development,” said Sangay.He said India had been kind and its people very generous to the Tibetan people and the Tibetan cause “for which we are eternally grateful”.He said, “As India succeeded in its independence movement, our own vision and policy of the middle way approach will be succeeded where we will have a genuine autonomy for the Tibetan people in Tibet. That is our wish and that has been the vision of His Holiness the Dalai Lama.”Following a brief celebration at kashag, Sangay attended the district-level celebration of the Independence Day at the police ground, Dharamshala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/recognise-tibet-as-buffer-zone-between-india-china-sangay/story-grt617SyJs0MSA2SZ7FhRO.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Random Forays: Dhoni, the swashbuckler who led from The Front||A young wicketkeeper-batsman stood rather shyly amid a row of players being introduced to the chief guest on the opening day of a match of the JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament in Chandigarh in September 2004. His countenance and demeanour reflected a deferential attitude, that of one eager to learn. As luck would have it, at the end of that match, when he was to receive the man of the match award for having blasted several sixes and fours while hitting a tornado like century, the announcer forgot his name. Being a bit more aware of players on the fringes of the Indian cricket team, I whispered into the elderly gentleman’s ear, “Mahendra Singh Dhoni”.The fact that Dhoni shone like a beacon and blazed a glittering trail of success which had few parallels in the years to come is well known. But what is perhaps little known is the human being behind the megastar persona which was visible to all. By recounting a couple of other encounters that I had with ‘Mahi’, I will try to give some insight.On the sidelines of an IPL match several years later, I had occasion to visit Dhoni in his room along with the wide eyed kids of a colleague, who wanted pictures with him. Having obliged the youngsters with his trademark nonchalance, Dhoni returned to watching Lord Hanuman’s animated story on television, which is what he had been doing before we had barged in. The sheer childlike joy with which he lapped up the details of the delightful film, as we sat watching it with him, was clearly reflective of his utterly uncomplicated mindset.An even more telling encounter took place in October 2007, when Dhoni led India to an eight run victory over the mighty Australians in a One Day International at the picturesque Sector 16 Stadium in Chandigarh. I was to facilitate the press conference with the captain and the man of the match, and I rushed onto the ground to meet the skipper at the conclusion of the proceedings. “Come, MS, we will go this way!” I said, and began to escort him towards the hall, while simultaneously asking a team official: “Where’s the man of the match?” Dhoni could see the lighter side of the matter and knew that I had missed the announcement. “Sir, I did all the hard work and now you are asking about the man of the match!”Needless to say, I grinned sheepishly to realise that “Captain Marvellous” was also the player of the match! Many a chuckle followed, as we made our way to the presser.Dhoni’s greatest asset was his ability to control his emotions, as he himself put it many a time during the course of his captaincy stint for India. His cool as a cucumber visage would seldom be replaced by a worried look. Even when India did well or when he himself sparkled with the bat or gloves, he would never demonstrate uncontrollable glee. A substantial smile which swept across the breadth of his handsome face would be his only celebratory gesture. So level headed was he that even when he was hitting ferocious sixes early in his career, he knew the value of playing a long innings. He even began to try, at one point in his career, to score 16 runs with singles off his first 16 deliveries that he faced in ODIs. Only then would he pull out the sledgehammer blows, including the inimitable ‘helicopter shot’ which he had patented and perfected, much to the chagrin of bowlers.His technique as a keeper was not a purist’s delight but he never missed catches or stumpings. And his unorthodox manner at the batting crease meant that bowlers could never quite figure out his next move. Dhoni’s greatest moment came in the 2011 World Cup final when he led a star-studded team from the front and hit that memorable TV perfect six out of the Wankhede Stadium.So much had India fallen in love with Dhoni that his tragic run out in the World Cup semi final last year at Manchester broke our hearts. He will be sorely missed, but what will remain with us forever is his super coolness, nonpareil. vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-forays-dhoni-the-swashbuckler-who-led-from-the-front/story-YFuyigUWrQfM4Ko2u4RKyM.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Highest single-day spike of 15 Covid-19 deaths in Ludhiana||Ludhiana on Sunday reported 15 Covid-19 deaths, the highest in a single-day so far, and 187 fresh infections.With this, the district’s infection tally has gone to 6,595, of which 1,951 cases are active while 4,398 patients have recovered. The death toll currently stands at 241, of which 153 have been recorded in just the last 16 days. Those who succumbed to the virus on Sunday include four woman and 11 men; an 81–year-old man from Durgapuri, 63-year-old man from Deep Nagar, Gill Chowk; 58- year- old man from SKA Nagar, 85-year-old man from old city area, 75-year- old woman from Iqbal Gunj, 60- year-old woman from Manakwal village, 74-year- old man from Amarpura, 72-year-old man from Jagraon, 30-year-old man from Mundian Khurd, 68-year-old man from Sector 32, Chandigarh Road; 65-year-old woman from Salem Tabri, a 65- year-old man, 76- year-old man from Nirankari Mohalla, 52- year-old woman from Samrala and 65-year-old man from Guru Nanakpura in Payal. Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma said that till date, 66.70% (4,398 Covid positive patients) of the 6,593 patients have been cured. He said that 18 patients (15 from Ludhiana district, two from Jalandhar and one from Jammu and Kashmir) succumbed to the virus on Sunday. He said 282 patients (266 new patients from Ludhiana district and 16 from other states/districts) have tested positive in the last 24 hours. He said that till date, a total of 84,995 samples have been taken, of which reports of 82,529 have been received, of which 75,213 tested negative and reports of 2,466 are pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/highest-single-day-spike-of-15-covid-19-deaths-in-ludhiana/story-0H6zAXVyycC6QKfmQOFtKJ.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Jagraon bridge: Potholed ramp connecting Ferozepur road to old city adding to residents’ woes||The ramp of Jagraon Bridge connecting Ferozepur road to old city has developed multiple potholes, leaving commuters a harried lot. These are proving particularly dangerous for commuters on two-wheelers and many of them could be seen slipping and falling. Jatin Singla, a resident of Sham Nagar, said, “On Friday, I was going to Chaura Bazar with my father who was sitting pillion. As we reached the bridge, I lost control of the bike and my father fell. Fortunately, I was going slowly and he did not suffer serious injuries. I think the municipal corporation is waiting for a tragedy to occur before swinging into action.” Kanwarjatinder Singh Bajwa, a resident of Deep Nagar, also had a similar grouse to share. He complained that the potholed and broken roads are adding to traffic jams. “The construction of the bride connecting old city to Ferozepur Road that began in 2016 is still awaiting completion and now the remaining ramp has also been damaged, further adding to the commuters’ miseries,” Bajwa said. Traffic expert Rahul Verma said accumulation of rainwater is the reason behind the potholes. “We face such issues every year as roads gets damaged due to the accumulation of water on the ramps around Jagraon Bridge. Proper drainage of rainwater is the only solution. I have spoken with the official concerned and it has been assured that the potholes will be filled soon,” Verma said. Apprised of the issue, superintending engineer (SE) Rahul Gagneja and mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the potholes will be filled soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jagraon-bridge-potholed-ramp-connecting-ferozepur-road-to-old-city-adding-to-residents-woes/story-83Ilzp4caGljO5ovJHudSM.html
16-08-2020||Pune||PMPML likely to resume operations by August 22||The public transport service is likely to resume its operations in the city as the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has received a positive response to ply buses during the Ganesh festival.“PMPML is already going through losses due to the pandemic and now, it is important to start the public transport service as well. So, we had a discussion with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in this regard and he was positive about it,” said Rajendra Jagtap, chairman and managing director (CMD) PMPML.“Now we will have subsequent meetings with both the civic body chiefs and accordingly, the bus service will resume in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. We will be trying our best to restart the service with all safety precautions, rules and regulations from August 22, which marks Ganeshotsav,” said Jagtap.The public transport service has been closed for common public since the past four months and only those in essential services were availing the PMPML service. On August 14, PMPML chairman and managing director (CMD) held a meeting with the state deputy chief minister seeking resumption of its service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmpml-likely-to-resume-operations-by-august-22/story-IPJTSIZCHcMWgIYWLSGapL.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||₹77-lakh discrepancy in Jagroan bridge project: Ludhiana mayor serves show-cause notices to MC officials||Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has served show-cause notices to the officials concerned of the municipal corporation after a discrepancy of Rs 77 lakh was found during a probe to evaluate the Jagraon Bridge retaining wall project which is being built at a cost of Rs 2.5 crore. After the discrepancy emerged, Sandhu has sought an explanation from the officials who had sought an additional Rs 44 lakh for the project on pretext of a design change. Confirming this, Sandhu said the officials have been asked to explain how the difference Rs 77 lakh arose. The mayor had faced sharp criticism recently when contractors of a construction company had halted work due to non-clearance of bills. The mayor had appointed two engineering students, one from Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College and another from Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) to submit the report on the estimated cost on the project. As per the report, the project could have been completed at a cost of Rs 1.73 crore. As per sources, many of the MC officials who had sought approval for the additional Rs 44 lakh have been transferred. JAGRAON BRIDGE PROJECT: In July 2016, one side of the flyover was closed by railway authorities as it was declared unsafe for movement of vehicles. For two years, the project remained in limbo as railways refused to pool money for the construction. Finally, the Ludhiana MC handed over Rs 24.30 crore to the railway authorities. In 2018, construction of the bridge began. The deadline was June 30, 2019, which was then extended to December 2019. The MC took over the work in December end and attempts were made to complete it by March 2020. However, the lockdown was imposed the deadline for the project was pushed to June. That deadline was also missed and it was promised to be thrown open for commuter on August 15. Now, the civic authorities are claiming that the work will be completed by September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/77-lakh-discrepancy-in-jagroan-bridge-project-ludhiana-mayor-serves-show-cause-notices-to-mc-officials/story-wjzkggHN9yf1WHVBeEgJMK.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University postpones senate elections, Goyal group cries foul||In view of the rising Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, Panjab University has deferred the senate elections, scheduled to start on August 24, by two months. Vice-chancellor Raj Kumar’s order, announced by registrar Karamjeet Singh on Saturday, comes eight days before the elections of faculties from where six members are elected to the 91-member senate, the apex governing body of PU.The term of the present senate will end on October 31. Earlier, the varsity had consulted the UT administration over conducting the senate polls. “Consequent upon the advice conveyed by the adviser to the administrator, Chandigarh administration, the vice-chancellor in exercise of powers conferred under regulation 12.2, Chapter II-B, PU calendar volume-1, 2007, has postponed for the time being the dates of election of all constituencies with immediate effect for two months or till the MHA Covid-19 pandemic guidelines are revised and permission granted by the Chandigarh administration, whichever is earlier,” states the order issues by the university.PU’s senate election is headed for a two-cornered contest between the Goyal alliance, led by Ashok Goyal and Navdeep Goyal, and the BJP-DAV alliance. Both alliances had differing stances on the conduct of senate polls and had also written to PU chancellor Venkaiah Naidu about it.While the BJP-DAV alliance was pushing for the polls to be deferred, the Goyal side stood firm on holding them as per schedule.Senator Navdeep Goyal said, “They were losing and that is why wanted the polls to be postponed. They want to buy more time. We are working on our future strategy and have written to the vice-chancellor to share the basis of postponing the polls.”“All stakeholders should have been involved before taking a decision. I appeal to the university authorities to review their call and conduct the elections while following proper precautions. The democratic process must not be stalled,” said senator Rajat Sandhir, who is aligned with the Goyal group.On the other hand, senator Subhash Sharma, who leads the BJP group, said, “Nothing is more important than human life. Some of our fellows are senior citizens and do not want to vote amid the pandemic. We are happy with the postponement of elections. Now, everyone will get a fair chance to vote.”Senator Rabindra Nath Sharma said, “Except the registered graduate constituency, there seems to be no rationale in deferring the election of other constituencies. This has certainly dampened the democratic sentiment and process. The decision must be reviewed keeping in mind the democratic ethos and history of the university.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-postpones-senate-elections-goyal-group-cries-foul/story-GKJ7MFoAIkSxjfRXICxqDK.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Dilapidated roads leave residents of Sectors 76 to 80 a harried lot||The condition of roads in Sectors 76 to 80, Mohali, have gone from bad to worse as they are hardly motorable and full of potholes and uncovered manholes. In addition to certain engineering flaw, persistent neglect of authorities towards re-carpeting the roads after digging them for underground drainage work has added to the residents’ woes. Waterlogging caused by often-choked road gullies is another reason for residents’ disappointment. Even mild rainfall causes water to stagnate on the roads, making them slippery. The worst effected is dividing road of Sector 79 and 80, where multiple potholes can be seen. MP Singh, president of residents welfare and development committee, Sector 79, said the RWA has written to officials asking for roads to be repaired, but no action has been taken so far. It is not an isolated case, as condition of almost all roads in these sectors, especially interconnecting roads, are pitiable. “We have been pursuing the authorities for the past two years. Although it has been around four months since the tender for the work was floated, nothing has been done on ground so far,” said Sucha Singh Kalaur, president of plot allotment and development welfare committee, Sectors 76 to 80. Davinder Singh, chief engineer of GMADA, said, “We have already prepared the estimate for maintenance of the roads and hopefully, the work will begin in two weeks. Also, most of the time it is the negligent attitude of residents causing damage to roads, especially during the construction of houses, as they use the road to keep building material such like gravel and sand which ultimately chokes the road gullies”. Highlighting the resentment among residents, Major Singh, senior vice president of plot allotment and development welfare committee, Sectors 76 to 80, said, “Driving on these bumpy roads without slipping is not easy. Even after paying such hefty road tax, all roads are potholed and have uneven surfaces. It seems that the work was carried out halfheartedly.” The residents said that after repairing the water pipelines, no one cares to repair the roads that were dug up for repair and when officials were asked about the pits lying open around the water supply pipelines, an official on condition of anonymity said. “The pits have been left open for testing after the repair. We will fill them once we check the water leakage.” However, residents claim that the pits have been left open for many months and all such repairs are done in patches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-dilapidated-roads-leave-residents-of-sectors-76-to-80-a-harried-lot/story-ortCYliWREVD2OKRu3uLdP.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Roundabout: ‘Our revels now are ended’||Condolences have come in from all over the country on the passing away of theatre doyen and art connoisseur Ebrahim Alkazi (18 October 1925 – 4 August 2020). However, what touched the heart was a Facebook post by Kumara Varma, who was schooled in theatre direction at the National School of Drama (NSD) and spent a lifetime in Chandigarh doing memorable plays and later heading the department of Indian theatre at Panjab University. Posting a black and white portrait of Alkazi, Varma quotes Shakespeare from The Tempest: “Our revels now are ended. These our actors, As I foretold you, were all spirits and, Are melted into air, into thin air.”Now settled in his home state of Kerala at Trichur, Varma says: “These are the lines that came to my mind when the news of Alkazi’s passing away came and one says with humble pride that whatever one learned was from him. He shaped modern Indian theatre and it was he who set the tradition of translating plays written in different regional languages all over the country and staging them in Hindustani. His repertoire was thus truly pan-Indian”.Legend of TughlaqWith this we come to the spectacular production of Girish Karnad’s Tughlaq, which was originally written in Kannada and translated for Alkazi by yet another brilliant director-musician of modern Indian theatre, late BV Karanth. Karnad was to say thus of Alkazi: “His fundamental contribution was to devise a methodology of theatre training which has continued after him, and to create a body of actors and directors which transformed the notion of theatre at the grassroots.” Interestingly, Alkazi first assigned Om Shivpuri to take up Tughlaq as a student production. Karnad was acknowledge that it was immaterial that these were only student productions: “Doors that we, in our vernaculars did not even know existed, had begun to open.” Karnad, who sourced his plays from myth and history, wrote Tughlaq in 1964, based on the maverick life of the 14th century Sultan of Delhi, Mohammad Bin Tughlaq.Alkazi as the founding director of NSD from 1962 to 1977, in those 15 years, directed to perfection many plays, yet his three definitive works to be staged in the backdrop of Delhi’s Purana Qila were Andha Yug, Razia Sultan and Tughlaq. The last which he first staged in 1962 is counted as one of the best productions the country saw in modern times is because it brought together some of the best talents of the country: Alkazi, Karanth, Karnad and of course the famous actor Manohar Singh, the Himachal boy who was groomed by his teacher to be one of the best actors on stage. Manohar was the first and only choice of Alkazi, who said: “Manohar had the aristocracy of spirit, nobility of soul and complete humility in understanding and enacting a role.” Varma, who played the junior guard recalls, “The play had passed from history into legend while it was still being enacted. Artiste Kamal Tewari recalling the magnificent and unparalleled performance of Manohar Singh, says: “I was included in the production playing one of the conspiring Ameers and I remember the slap Manohar Singh gave me sent me hurling some six feet away”. Veteran actor Rani Balbir Kaur adds, “I travelled a number of times till the play was active to see it and each time it was a great experience. What dialogue delivery by Manohar Singh! I first met Kumara Varma there playing the young guard to whom Manohar renders the famous speech ‘Umangon bhari umar hai, Khwab dekhne ki umar, Saare aalam ko jeetne ki umar’ (It is your age of exaltation, The time to indulge in dreams, The time to conquer the whole world)’.”Flash forward to 1980sIt was in the mid-1980s during a meeting with actor Meeta Vashisht, who one knows from her Chandigarh theatre days, at the NSD hostel. One got talking about Tughlaq. Meeta recounted that the boy students would down beer, strip off most of their clothing and recite the dialogues of Tughlaq till late at night. Not surprising for that’s how it was and is in boys’ hostels. The young ones were giving an irreverent tribute but a tribute nevertheless. At the same time they were practising dialogue delivery at its best. Yes, and as a friendly neighbourhood journalist one had the privilege of spending a few evenings with Manohar Singh who would pick up the play and recite some of the dialogues. I earned his wrath when I once dosed off a little in the middle of the renderings and he told me to get up, fix myself a drink, and carried on reciting. Such was the magic of Tughlaq, a political play that was written on the faultline of Nehruvian socialism, yet in such a manner that it reached out in its multilayered delineation to one and all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-our-revels-now-have-ended/story-eIo3uGkt9E0VvN9cb0uwKL.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man attacked on head dies, three booked for culpable homicide||A Bapu Dham Colony man and his two accomplices have been booked for culpable homicide after a man whom they allegedly attacked with iron rods died on Sunday.The victim, Mohammed Mufatkeen, 50, was also a resident of Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, and sold fruits for a living.The accused, Danish, and his two aides allegedly attacked him on the head with iron rods on Saturday night after a spat with his two sons. He was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where he succumbed to his injuries on Sunday evening.The three accused have been booked under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 26 police station. Efforts are on to arrest them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-attacked-on-head-dies-two-booked-for-culpable-homicide/story-QH5XdBXzLWqDvs7nC7mRWO.html
16-08-2020||Pune||Private institutes demand cancellation of CET exams this year||In a recent visit to Pune, state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said that within a few days a decision will be taken about the state Common Entrance Test (CET) for various professional courses, but for now the association of the management of unaided institutes in rural areas has become aggressive about their demand to cancel the state CET exams for this academic year due to pandemic. The association, which has more than 140 members across the state with prominent colleges and its principals, held a meeting on Saturday in this regard and sought cancellation of CET exams due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in rural areas of the state. “The admission process to private universities and out-of-state colleges has already started, but the private colleges affiliated to state universities are still waiting to start the admission process for its professional courses. Our demand is that CET exams should be cancelled for this academic year. If the state government has cancelled final-year exams giving students’ safety as the reason, then they should also shoulder the responsibility of safety of more than five lakh students who will appear for CET exams. Admission should be given on the basis of the Class 12 marks of the student this year,” said Ramdas Zol, president of the association. The results of the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) exams were declared late this year on July 16. Kailas Jadhav, a professor who is also fighting for this issue, alleges, “The real benefit in conducting the CET exams is for the private class’ owners as students prepare for these exams for months and private classes charge a high fee for it. So, if CET exam is cancelled, then, students will not join such classes and also seek a refund of their fees. So, all efforts are being taken to somehow conduct this exam, which is very risky for the lives of many students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/private-institutes-demand-cancellation-of-cet-exams-this-year/story-icJmcYbl7z4wNNbbFsWJUI.html
16-08-2020||City||Now, fly directly to Lucknow, Jaipur and Chennai from Chandigarh||Amid 90% plunge in footfall at Chandigarh International Airport due to the Covid-19 pandemic, IndiGo has introduced direct flights to and from Lucknow, Jaipur and Chennai. The launch scheduled earlier this year was postponed after the airport went into lockdown with rest of the country on March 23.The three flights will be operating thrice a week, with the first one taking off for Chennai on Sunday. The Jaipur and Lucknow flights will become operational from August 24 and 25, respectively.Meanwhile, the airline will also be resumed its flight to Srinagar from August 25. It will depart at 9.25am and return at 12.55pm, every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Before the lockdown, the airport saw nearly 12,000 passengers, both at arrivals and departures, daily. After the operations resumed on May 25, the number came down to 1,000 a day. This is mostly because of the fact that only six to eight of the 44 domestic and two international (Sharjah and Dubai) flights operating earlier are flying daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-fly-directly-to-lucknow-jaipur-and-chennai-from-chandigarh/story-4DHpZo3FUaloWhaNstHJ9N.html
16-08-2020||Pune||Governor treks to Shivneri fort to pay obeisance at Shivaji’s memorial||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Sunday trekked to the Shivneri Fort, the birthplace of Chhatrapati Shivaji and paid his obeisance at the memorial of 17th century Maratha king. The governor (78) trekked to the fort in 50 minutes and returned to the base in 30 minutes. “Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari today visited Shivneri Fort, the birthplace of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and paid his obeisance at the memorial of Rajmata Jijau and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. He paid his respects at the Shivai temple and offered his pranams to the cradle of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj,” said the governor office through series of tweets. Acting district collector Ayush Prasad, who accompanied Koshyari, said that the governor climbed the fort less in less than one hour without any assistance. Koshyari, who hails from the hilly state of Uttarakhand, was at the fort located in Junnar tehsil of Pune district for an hour. The governor is on a Pune tour since last week. Every year, Maharashtra chief minister visits Shivneri fort on Shivaji’s birth anniversary often via a helicopter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/governor-treks-to-shivneri-fort-to-pay-obeisance-at-shivaji-s-memorial/story-0Zt8EwVk20kICeukmS0jML.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh set to launch intelligent transport system for local buses||With the trial run over, the Intelligent Transport System that will provide live status of bus movement besides their arrival and departure timings on commuters’ phones as well as display boards at bus shelters is ready to be operationalised in Chandigarh.In the first phase, 100 buses have been integrated with the smart system, said Uma Shankar Gupta, director, transport, adding that: “We are expecting to launch services under this system this week.” The transport department is awaiting final approval and date of inauguration from the UT administrator’s office. The mobile app for passengers, which is integrated with the system, has been developed.After the work on both the software and hardware components of the system was completed in early March, the final trials were started. The trials were to be completed by March 18, and the system was to be launched on April 1. However, with the Covid-19 lockdown delayed the trials and launch.Chandigarh Transport Undertaking has around 400 buses in its local fleet. Of these, only about 150 are running these days owing to the pandemic.The World Bank-sponsored project, costing the administration around ₹25 crore, aims to modernise the transport system, wherein the estimated time of arrival (ETA) of buses will be shown on electronic boards at bus shelters. Real-time information about buses will also be available on a mobile application. CTU services will be upgraded with IT-enabled solutions as well.A primary control station will keep track of all buses though global positioning system (GPS) and monitor them under a planned system. Bus depots will be linked to the primary control station via local area network (LAN) connections and bus drivers will be provided with SMS facility to inform about their leaves that will be monitored by the central system.The department will also shortly start work on the construction of a control centre for the system at the Inter State Bus Terminus in Sector 43. Tenders for the work have been floated.SMART FEATURESEstimated time of arrival of buses will be shown on electronic boards at bus sheltersReal-time information about bus movement will be available on a mobile application A primary control station will keep track of all buses though GPS and monitor them under a planned systemCTU services will be upgraded with IT-enabled solutions as well||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-set-to-launch-intelligent-transport-system-for-local-buses/story-QFmXRBENmrI2Iv7m6wuWTN.html
16-08-2020||City||Panchkula’s Covid count goes past 1,200||Forty-two new cases of Covid-19 were reported on Sunday in Panchkula district, taking the count past 1,200. As many cases surfaced on Saturday as well. The total stands at 1,209, with 444 cases still active.Among the fresh cases, there is one employee of the office of director general health services (DGHS) and three from the education department.“The DGHS staffer is of the superintendent level. Contract tracing is being done,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon.As many as eight of the new cases have been reported from Kalka. Pinjore accounts for five infections.Six cases have surfaced in Sector 20 while four have been reported from Sector 7. The district has recorded four deaths so far while 761 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-s-covid-count-goes-past-1-200/story-IXTOOeKRC9hct4isI1iFxM.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Tractor trolley driver found dead in Ludhiana, family alleges murder||The mysterious death of a 45-year-old man, whose body was found in the fields of Lohara village under a tractor he drove, has led to allegations of murder by his family even though an FIR was filed against his employer for death due to negligence.The family members led by Rajinder Kaur, the wife of the deceased, staged a protest on Sunday against the police for an hour, demanding that a murder case be lodged against the accused. Sucha Singh, 45, of Satguru Nagar had a dispute with his employer Parminder Singh, owner of Dhillon Building Material Store, Lohara, who had not cleared his payments, alleged his widow.On August 14, Parminder Singh had called Sucha Singh to his farm in Lohara and shortly afterwards his body was found in the fields after which Kaur said she informed the police.Alleging that her husband was murdered even though it was made to look like an accident, Kaur said the Daba police had lodged a case under section 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.The protests stopped after the police reassured the family members that they would take appropriate action after getting the post mortem report.ASI Paramjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the police could add more sections in the FIR after investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tractor-trolley-driver-found-dead-in-ludhiana-family-alleges-murder/story-I3xBcQfUGMF3xE0vcMOaJJ.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees biggest one-day spike with 93 Covid cases||With 93 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, Chandigarh recorded its steepest single-day spike in infections.Also, an 87-year-old man from Sector 40 died of the disease on Sunday, taking the toll to 29.The number of infections in Chandigarh crossed the 2,000 mark on Saturday, when 81 people had tested positive. The biggest spike so far was recorded on August 13, with 91 new cases.Now, the total count stands at 2,102, with 934 cases still active. As many as 1,137 patients have recovered, 19 of whom were discharged on Sunday.The elderly man who died at the PGIMER “had a previous history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease, stated the media bulletin.Meanwhile, among those who tested positive on Sunday there are three people posted in the UT adviser’s office. “Two clerks and one steno were confirmed positive on Sunday. Two of them were on leave on medical grounds, and were asked to get tested for the coronavirus. All of them have been isolated,” said a UT official.After their reports came positive, the private secretary to the UT adviser was also tested on Sunday. His report came negative. “The office was sanitised and will remain operational,” the official said.The fresh infections have been reported from across urban and rural pockets of the Union Territory. Reports of 91 people are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-biggest-one-day-spike-with-93-covid-cases/story-iGA8WQicKYAiNw0KVCVfOL.html
16-08-2020||City||5 deaths in 2 days in Mohali district take toll to 36||Punjab’s Mohali district has recorded five deaths related to Covid-19 in the past two days, taking the toll to 36 on Sunday. Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said all five patients had comorbidities. On Sunday, three women lost battle against coronavirus. Among them was a 53-year-old woman from Sector 91, who was suffering from hypertension and hepatitis C and was admitted to Government Medical College in Patiala.The other two were a 35-year-old woman from Lalru suffering from diabetes and admitted to the civil hospital in Ambala, and a 25-year-old woman from Dera Bassi suffering from hypertension, who died at the PGIMER, Chandigarh. Saturday saw deaths of a 45-year-old woman from Kurali and 35-year-old man from Phase 11.Their cremation has been performed as per protocol, said Dr Singh, adding that samples of family members and other contacts are being collected. 68 positive, 48 curedMeanwhile, 68 fresh cases were reported on Sunday, with which the total has reached 1,809. As many as 58 people had tested positive on Saturday. The fresh cases include 23 each from Kharar and Dera Bassi subdivisions and 22 from Mohali. Also, 48 people recovered from the disease, taking the number of those discharged and active cases to 949 and 824 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-deaths-in-2-days-in-mohali-district-take-toll-to-36/story-cnegDVafa3UQe64zY0Q4bL.html
16-08-2020||City||Four CGST wing officials booked for graft in Rohtak||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday booked four officials of the Central GST (goods and services tax) wing in Rohtak for allegedly demanding bribe from a private firm owner. The accused have been identified as Gurvinder Singh Sohal, CGST superintendent Kuldeep Hooda, and two inspectors Rohit Malik and Pradeep. They have been booked under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. A CBI official, pleading anonymity, said Manoj Kalra, who runs a medicines’ factory in Sonepat’s Rai, complained that the CGST officials were demanding Rs 12 lakh bribe for not imposing penalty on GST evasion by his firm. “We laid a trap and carried out a raid at the residence of one of the accused, Kuldeep Hooda, on Friday night and seized gold, huge cash amounts and crucial documents. We have arrested Hooda and are investigating the role of the other accused,” the officer added. He further said Rs 3 lakh had already been paid to the accused by the firm owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-cgst-wing-officials-booked-for-graft-in-rohtak/story-5saDUpuFtkmW3rLZ32qEmJ.html
16-08-2020||City||Kinnow growers, traders worried over labour post-harvesting||Bathinda With uncertainty looming large over the availability of trained migrant workers for the kinnow season that starts from November, farmers say traders are hesitant to finalise a contract for wholesale purchase. A bumper crop is expected this time. Harvesting is done by farm workers from districts of Punjab and from Sriganganagar in Rajasthan, but the real worry for industry is labour of sorting, grading, waxing and packaging. For this, fruit growers in Abohar, the hub for kinnow cultivation in India, mostly rely upon workers from Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh and workers from Gujarat and Bihar. The kinnow industry employs around 8,000 such workers. State award winning kinnow farmer Arvind Setia said workers from Azamgarh are experts in harvesting fruits like apple and kinnow, and each year they gather at Delhi’s Azadpur mandi, before proceeding for kinnow harvesting.“Workers come from Delhi to Abohar in trains. This season, planning has been hit due to pandemic restrictions. As overall climatic conditions remain friendly, we hope for a good yield. An organised plan is needed for workers’ safe movement to Abohar,” said Setia.Punjab leads the country in the cultivation of kinnow, with the Abohar belt of Fazilka district alone contributing up to 60% to the state’s total production. The fruit is cultivated on nearly 33,000 hectare in Punjab. Last season, the Abohar belt produced more than 5 lakh tonne of kinnow.Kinnow harvesting begins during Chhat Puja to meet the demand for unripe fruits in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and few other states. “As Chhat Puja this year will fall after November 15, we have time to start harvesting. Accommodating the large population of migrant workers amid covid threat is a challenge. Workers who come must be tested for covid-19,” said another farmer.Shivam Setia, a trader, says, “The grading machine sorts kinnows according to different sizes, but the process greatly requires human intervention. Maintaining social distancing at machines that are small in size and in places, where this equipment is installed will be a challenge.”Punjab Agri Export Corporation (PAEC) general manager Ranbir Singh said the state government was working on providing logistic support for kinnow growers. “PAEC has five common facilitation centres in Fazilka and Muktsar districts, whereas washing, grading and waxing will be done at 75 paise/kg. We will also provide packaging on demand-based orders from farmers. A newly-established facility in Abohar is equipped with a state-of-the-art features to process harvested kinnow. The plant has a capacity to handle 15-tonne fruit in an hour,” he added.A second-generation orchardist Sagar Kumar said taking service of PAEC would cause additional financial burden on farmers because as per the existing practice, from harvesting to packaging, it came as a contract with private firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kinnow-growers-traders-worried-over-labour-post-harvesting/story-awzF8aYaVcMaIiEXhT14yH.html
16-08-2020||City||Repression can’t stop our protests against liquor mafia: Sukhbir||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday condemned the Punjab government for trying to repress the voice of the people by registering a case against former chief parliamentary secretary Virsa Singh Valtoha along with 1,000-odd others for protesting against the liquor mafia, which had caused over 120 deaths. He added that party would not be cowed down by such repressive tactics. “We will continue to agitate to ensure justice is meted out to the victims of the hooch tragedy.”Sukhbir also questioned the double standards of the Congress government on protests. He alleged that while no action was taken against Congress leaders and workers when they held any protest, the government went out of its way to target Akali workers. Former deputy CM added that junior officers were being targeted, while former Tarn Taran SSP Dhruv Dahiya who did not take action against the liquor mafia despite complaints has been rewarded with a plum posting. Sukhbir added that besides action against liquor mafia and Congressmen who were running the racket, strict action must also be taken against distilleries from where denatured spirit was released to the mafia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/repression-can-t-stop-our-protests-against-liquor-mafia-sukhbir/story-a4Dpzuy1B7EBdaZHjJOyTJ.html
16-08-2020||City||After a year, Punjabi varsity syndicate meets today; to decide on inquiry reports||Patiala Punjabi University will hold its syndicate meeting on August 17 (Monday) after a gap of one year. The syndicate is the highest decision-making body of a varsity, and the meeting will be held online. With the university yet to take a call on findings of inquiry reports related to allegations of corruption, nepotism and misuse of funds during 2007-2017, the state higher education department had given repeated directions to the varsity to hold a syndicate meeting at the earliest. The delay in holding the meeting has delayed action against officials and employees indicted in these reports. A varsity official said they are under immense pressure from state government to decide and fix responsibility in these inquiry reports. The last syndicate meeting, in which administrative issues were taken up, was held on August 21, 2019, under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor (V-C) professor BS Ghuman. The varsity has circulated a 250-odd page agenda for the meeting, prominently including discussions to decide key inquiry reports pending for the past two years. “The point related to inquiry reports has been prominently listed. It has been specifically mentioned that these reports were opened in the last meeting in 2019. Detailed discussion will be carried to finally decide on these reports. Among other agendas are promotions of teachers, approvals for recent appointments and other administrative decisions,” an official said.Punjab higher education secretary Rahul Bhandari, who is also a member of syndicate, said the agenda will be thoroughly discussed and taken to logical conclusion.“In addition, discussion will be carried out on administrative matters for the betterment of the financial situation of the university,” he said. The V-C could not be contacted.14 PROBES ORDERED IN APR 2017Following the resignation of former V-C Dr Jaspal Singh in March 2017, the then secretary of higher education, Anurag Verma, was appointed the officiating V-C. Verma had received complaints on irregularities in the university’s functioning from 2007 to 2017. These included allegations of nepotism, corruption, and bungling of funds in the examination branch, among other issues.On the basis of these complaints, Verma had ordered 14 internal inquiries in April 2017. The sealed reports of these inquiries were handed over to incumbent V-C prof Ghuman in December 2017. The V-C had formed a two-member committee, comprising former IAS officer Jagjit Puri and former IPS officer VK Kapoor, to investigate these internal inquiry reports. The panel had submitted its sealed findings to the university in July 2018, but no action has resulted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-a-year-punjabi-varsity-syndicate-meets-today-to-decide-on-inquiry-reports/story-M1pZEz3DOarWoN5LpC6o0H.html
16-08-2020||Pune||Rohit Pawar seeks reopening of temples in Maharashtra||Rohit Pawar, a legislator from Jamkhed in Ahmednagar and grandnephew of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar, has demanded the state government to reopen temples across Maharashtra. Rohit on Sunday said that many livelihoods are dependent on these temples, which have been closed since March 22 after the lockdown was announced to contain the spread of Covid-19. “I think that temples and religious places should be opened. There are many people whose livelihoods are dependent on these religious places. I will, therefore, follow-up on this issue,” tweeted Rohit in a response to another tweet by citizen who cited how traders in Tuljapur had been facing difficulties due to closure of the temple there. Despite growing demand, the state government has taken a call not to reopen religious places in light of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra, which accounts for almost 24 per cent of the overall positive cases with 41 per cent fatalities in India. Maharashtra’s coronavirus case tally increased to 5,84,754 on Saturday and the death toll due to the pandemic rose to 19,749, the state health department said.NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said that Rohit Pawar, being a public representative, has responded to a demand made by the common citizens. “As public representative, one has to listen and respond to what people feel and demand. The government on the other hand has to look into every aspect, including the safety of people during a situation like this,” said Malik. When asked about NCP’s stand on the issue, Malik said, if there is demand from people, the party will accordingly take a stand. “After all, we are here to serve the people.” Earlier this week, the government informed Bombay High Court that temples cannot be opened. The Bombay High Court division bench, comprising justices SJ Kathawalla and Madhav Jamdar was hearing on petitions by Ankit Jain and a Jain temple trust. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has also previously demanded reopening of temples in the state, a move Shiv Sena termed as “dual stand” saying that the Centre had decided to cancel Amarnath Yatra while the party’s state unit had been seeking reopening of religious places. A section of the Shiv Sena also has asked for opening up of religious places. Anand Dave, spokesperson of the party and member of Akhil Bharatiya Brahmin Mahasangh met home minister Anil Deshmukh last week and demanded reopening of temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rohit-pawar-seeks-reopening-of-temples-in-maharashtra/story-MhVluCPo2frzm1e4XK2waP.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||10 deaths, 743 fresh cases in Haryana||Ten patients died of Covid-19 while 743 others tested positive for the virus in Haryana on Sunday. On August 15, the state had recorded 10 deaths and 796 new infections. The state’s tally has now reached 47,153, while the number of active cases stands at 7, 014. According to the health bulletin, two patients each died in Faridabad, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar, while one fatality each was recorded in Rohtak, Panipat, Karnal and Hisar on Sunday, taking the toll to 538 (383 men, 155 women). No new case was detected in Charkhi Dadri and Yamunanagar. As many as 39, 601 persons in the state have so far recovered from the infection. Of the fresh cases, Faridabad logged the highest number of cases (117) followed by Gurugram (78), Sonepat (20), Rewari (10), Ambala (68), Rohtak (65), Panipat (70), Karnal (57), Hisar (22), Palwal (22), Panchkula (42), Mahendergarh (23), Jhajjar (7), Bhiwani (6), Kurukshetra (72), Nuh (3), Sirsa (27), Fatehabad (16), Kaithal (15), Jind (3). TWO LAKH SAMPLES IN 15 DAYS The number of samples collected and sent for Covid-19 testing from Haryana went past two lakh in the last 15 days, according to the health department data. On August 1, the state had sent 6, 28, 806 samples and by August 15, this number rose to 8, 30, 477. Similarly, during this period, 10,652 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were recorded and the number of the positive cases rose from 35,758 (August 1) to 46,410 (August 15), while 9,859 patients undergoing treatment across the state recovered. The infection claimed 100 lives in the first 15 days even as the fatality rate on August 15 came down to 1.14%. The doubling rate rose to 31 days from 25 days on August 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-deaths-743-fresh-cases-in-haryana/story-N4FepOnmDczYsTsD9HghWO.html
16-08-2020||City||45-year-old man found dead in Karnal village||A 45-year-old man was allegedly found murdered at Peont village of Karnal district on Sunday. As per the police, the deceased has been identified as Vikramjit Singh, a government employee and a resident of Peont village of the district.In the police complaint, family members of the deceased alleged that on Saturday, Vikramjit, along with his uncle, had gone to a government school in Alawala village where he had been transferred as a peon.Later, his friends allegedly reached there and took him to the fields to celebrate his transfer. The body was found in the fields a few hours later.Soon after getting the information, police, along with a forensic team, reached the spot and started investigation.Karnal deputy superintendent of police Ramesh Kumar said a case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. He added that the cause of death can be ascertained only after post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45-year-old-man-found-dead-in-karnal-village/story-3N9EO2oozFLEp3BDgpZepJ.html
16-08-2020||City||Daughter-in-law, lover held for Kaithal woman’s murder||The Kaithal police claimed to have solved the blind murder case of a 54-year-old woman with the arrest of her daughter-in-law and her lover. The woman, Charanjit Kaur, was found murdered at her residence in Janakpuri Colony of Kaithal on August 9. As per information, Charanjit had found out about her daughter-in-law, Rajvinder Kaur’s illicit affair. To get her out of the way, Rajvinder and her lover, Amit Kumar of Barout, killed her and also took away some jewellery to make it look like a robbery. Police have recovered the jewellery from their possession. The duo has been sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/daughter-in-law-lover-held-for-kaithal-woman-s-murder/story-NUJzCSwYRJwj8WkOc0Pp7J.html
16-08-2020||Pune||Father donates a portion of his liver to daughter, saves her life||A father donated 300 grams of his liver to save his 5-year old daughter’s life at the Jupiter hospital, Baner on Friday. The Pune region has seen only 21 organ donors in 2020, compared to 63 in the same duration last year. A 10-hour long liver transplant surgery conducted by an experienced team of surgeons helped Shubhra, who was suffering from a liver disease since birth. Before the surgery, a Covid-19 test was conducted on both father and daughter who tested negative. “Shubra was suffering from biliary atresia, a condition in which there is a failure of development of bile ducts in the liver at birth. The children suffering from this condition develop jaundice. She underwent a corrective procedure at birth known as Kasai’s procedure, said Dr Kalpesh Patil, a paediatric surgeon. Kasai’s procedure is performed for children suffering from biliary atresia if diagnosed within three months of birth. However, 80 per cent of children need a liver transplant in the future. In biliary atresia, there is a failure of development of the bile ducts of the liver. During Kasai’s procedure, the diseased bile ducts are removed and the intestines are joined directly to the liver. “Around 30 per cent of children will need transplant for biliary atresia before one year of age and 80 per cent children with biliary atresia will need a transplant by 20 years of age,” said Dr Gaurav Chaubal, who headed the team of doctors during the surgery. “The liver transplantation in children is often very challenging as they have very small blood vessels which need to be connected to the new liver and the operation is technically challenging,” added Dr Chaubal. Shubra’s father donated a part of his liver to his child. All necessary testing and diagnostic procedures were carried out and the transplant was performed on July 4. The transplanted liver began working straight away. At the end of the surgery, the recipient was stable and shifted out to the intensive care unit for further care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/father-donates-a-portion-of-his-liver-to-daughter-saves-her-life/story-T5km3FJ21xXU1OK16PK3ZJ.html
16-08-2020||Pune||12-year-old married off; parents, husband booked||The Bhosari police have booked a bridegroom and four others including family members for solemnising child marriage with a 12-year-old girl. The marriage took place on June 9 during lockdown period and it was against the wish of the girl. The victim called up social workers who informed the police and rescued the girl. According to the investigators, the marriage was solemnised on June 9 by the girl’s parents with Suraj in a quiet affair during lockdown so that it did not invite much public scrutiny.The marriage took place against the wish of the girl as she had declined the proposal citing young age. Post marriage the girl went to her in-laws place and started living with them. In the meantime, she came into contact with a local social worker and told her about the entire incident. The social worker approached Bhosari police after which immediate action was taken against those involved including family members, police said. Police officials met her parents regarding the issue to which they replied that it was a tradition of the community, according to which they performed marriage at an early age. The girl has been advised to stay at the parents’ house and on completion of 18 years she can be sent to her in laws place. Police inspector Shankar Awtade, in charge of Bhosari police station said, “The girl is underage and she was married off when she is 12- year old which is against the law. We took action and arrested the father, mother and husband in connection with the marriage. The court has granted them bail but investigation is on,” he said. All the accused in the case have been booked under Section 9/10/11 of the prohibition of child marriage act 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/12-year-old-married-off-parents-husband-booked/story-tG0gA9Y9vWnwoXnxkpcxNI.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown in Maharashtra to be lifted in stepwise manner: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said the process of lifting the lockdown in the state would be done in a stepwise manner.The threat of Covid-19 still persists, Thackeray said on Saturday, and added that he does not want a second wave of the deadly viral infection in the state.The Maharashtra government last month extended the lockdown in the state till August 31.Till Saturday, the state reported 5,84,754 Covid-19 cases and 19,749 deaths due to the disease, as per official figures.It is more important how to lift the lockdown than when to come out of it, Thackeray said in a video interaction with a team of doctors who are part of the task force set up by his government to combat Covid-19.“Those who hurriedly lifted the lockdown had to impose it again. I don’t want a second wave of coronavirus in the state,” the chief minister said.“The state government’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ initiative is being implemented step-by-step. The momentum of chase the virus’ campaign should not stop since the threat of the virus still persists and monsoon is still active in the state. We have to be careful about rain-related ailments as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-in-maharashtra-to-be-lifted-in-stepwise-manner-uddhav-thackeray/story-WQQyvm57W7UCmZKcPsWKIL.html
16-08-2020||Lucknow||Teenage girl raped, singed with cigarette butts by 2 men in UP’s Gorakhpur: Police||A teenage girl was allegedly raped and singed with cigarette butts by two men in the Gola area of Gorakhpur district in Uttar Pradesh, police said on Sunday.The girl was found unconscious on Saturday and is currently undergoing treatment at the district hospital, they added.The police have registered a case against one Arjun of Dehribhar village and an unidentified man on the basis of a written complaint from the survivor’s mother.According to reports, the teenage girl of a brick kiln labourer went to fetch water from a hand pump on Friday night, when the two accused forcibly took her to a hut near a pond in the village on a motorcycle and allegedly raped her. They also tortured the girl by inflicting burn injuries on her with cigarette butts and when she fell unconscious, fled the spot.The girl identified one of the accused as Arjun.“A case of kidnapping, gangrape and under sections of the POCSO Act is registered against the two men on a complaint from the survivor’s mother. A hunt is on for the accused,” Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Sunil Kumar Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/teenage-girl-raped-singed-with-cigarette-butts-by-2-men-in-up-s-gorakhpur-police/story-4t4z5prUPnYaoiaGedWLON.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||HP police ask govt to sack teachers involved in POCSO cases||To ensure safety of children, the Himachal Pradesh police have recommended that the state government sack teachers who have cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act registered against them. According to government data, about nine teachers involved in POCSO cases in various schools across the state had been suspended in 2019. Even as director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu, a 1989 batch Indian Police Service officer, had accorded top priority to safety of women and children when he joined office in May, the government had announced a slew of measures for protection of children against sexual crime in schools. A proposal to install close circuit cameras in classes fell through halfway though police in the last two months took various initiatives to generate awareness of crimes against women. Services of teachers involved in sexual offences against children should be terminated at the earliest. If not acted upon promptly, these perpetrators can find more opportunities to prey on young students, Kundu said.He had also introduced a new register, 26, in police stations to track crimes against women and children. The police also stressed on the need for routine meetings between the DGP and additional chief secretary, social justice and women’s empowerment to chalk out joint action plans and strategies to curb such crimes.Monthly meetings between the deputy inspector general of police (crime) and director, women and child development to coordinate issues between the two departments were also suggested. “They would act as nodal officers for their departments to take forward the joint annual action plan and take other necessary steps to address crimes against women and children,” added Kundu . Other proposals included involving anganwadi workers and women police workers to flag such crimes as a study had highlighted that in the majority of such cases perpetrators were known to the victim or were family members or relatives. The study revealed that financial empowerment had not impacted crimes against women as last year 358 cases of rape were registered in the state where 50% were abusers within the family. What was more astonishing was that the studies revealed that 300 abusers were acquaintances of the victims. It was also learnt that an increasing number of cybercrime cases were being reported against women and married women were more likely to be victims of crimes, especially domestic violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-police-ask-govt-to-sack-teachers-involved-in-pocso-cases/story-eON3GKN3uCzjRLT1r0i5IJ.html
16-08-2020||Delhi||Fire breaks out in three-storey building in Delhi, five rescued||Five women were rescued after a fire broke out at a clinic located in a three-storey building in northwest Delhi’s Pitampura area on Sunday, a Delhi Fire Service official said.No one was injured in the incident, he said.The fire department said it received information about the blaze around 11 AM and seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot.A woman was rescued from the clinic which is located in the basement of the building, while four others were rescued from a house on the second floor, said Delhi Fire Service Director Atul Garg.The fire broke out at the clinic and the smoke later engulfed other floors of the building, he said.The cause of the fire is being ascertained, he added.The woman rescued from the clinic has been identified as Swati (27). The other four are Laxmi Kansal (52) and her two daughters Pridhi Kansal (25) and Malika Kansal (23), and their relative Asha Rani, fire officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-in-three-storey-building-in-delhi-five-rescued/story-MdBWx5xASdpUcMScYFqAZN.html
16-08-2020||Delhi||Public celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi or Muharram barred in Delhi due to Covid-19||Delhi Disaster Management Authority has issued instructions to district magistrates and other authorities and field functionaries to ensure that the Ganesh Chaturthi festival is celebrated at homes and no idols of Lord Ganesha are set up in public places. The authority has also denied permission for holding processions during Muharram festival keeping in view the current restrictions on religious gatherings in place to prevent further spread of coronavirus infections.“During Ganesh Chaturthi Festival, no idol of Lord Ganesha shall be set up in the tent/pandal/public places, nor any kind of permission shall be granted for any procession. People shall be encouraged and advised to celebrate the festival at their home only at this time of Covid 19 pandemic,” the official order states. Ganesh Chaturthi will be celebrated on August 22 while Muharamm is likely to be observed on August 30. The DDMA order also bans processions on Muharram.“Similarly, no permission shall be granted for procession/Tajiya during Muharram festival and the public shall be encouraged and advised to celebrate the same at their homes and not at public places at this time of Covid-19 pandemic,” the order says.The order is in keeping with government’s guidelines for the Unlock-3 phase of reopening of economic and other activities after a prolonged period of nationwide lockdown. The Unlock-3 guidelines that came into effect from August 5 prevents holding of mass religious, political, social or entertainment events due the threat presented by coronavirus pandemic.However, several places of worship including temples, mosques, shrines and pilgrimages have been allowed to reopen while implementing social distancing, crowd control and other health safety measures required to contain the contagion. Also Read: No idol immersion, community celebrations this Ganesh Chaturthi: Delhi pollution bodyEarlier today, the Delhi pollution control committee had announced a fine of Rs 50,000 for violations of restrictions on Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations including holding large congregations, community celebrations and/or idol immersion at public places in the national capital this year.Idol immersion in the Yamuna river was banned following an order by the National Green Tribunal in 2015.Also Read: No Ganesh immersion processions this year in Pune: Ajit PawarThe Delhi Police and civic bodies have been directed to check the entry of vehicles carrying idols into the city.The DDMA order also asks authorities to hold meetings with religious community leaders before these festivals that generally lend to large congregations and mass gatherings and seek their cooperation in enforcing the restrictions and maintaining the law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/public-celebration-of-ganesh-chaturthi-or-muharram-barred-in-delhi-due-to-covid-19/story-rPdgrZKomXa4svDsZRI8wJ.html
16-08-2020||Pune||Pune: Man kills live-in partner, surrenders before police||A 27-year-old man allegedly killed his pregnant live-in partner after a quarrel and then surrendered before police in Maharashtra’s Pune district, officials said on Sunday.The incident took place on Friday evening in Karegaon village under Ranjangaon MIDC police station limits.The man later went to the police station and confessed that he killed his 24-year-old live-in partner, as per the complaint registered by Ranjangaon police.“He came to the police station and demanded a piece of paper and a pen. He wrote that he is a patient of depression and killed his pregnant live-in partner by strangulating her and sought that he be executed,” police naik P N Sutar said.The man then handed over keys of the house where he lived with the woman, he said.“After reaching the house and opening its door, we found the women lying dead on the floor,” he added.Sub-inspector Shubhangi Kute, who is investigating the case, said it has come to light that the deceased and the accused were in a relationship for last four to five months and she became pregnant during this period.“Since both of them did not have money to go for abortion, they often used to fight. They had an argument on Friday afternoon and in a fit of rage, the man strangulated her to death, locked the door from outside and surrendered before police,” she said.A case has been registered against the accused under Indian Penal Code Section 302 (murder), she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-man-kills-live-in-partner-surrenders-before-police/story-Wq7y8mzXUNqbowf65Ttc6M.html
16-08-2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Work at Rajasthan High Court suspended for 3 days||Work at the Rajasthan High Court here will remain suspended for the next three days, after its Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty reportedly tested positive for coronavirus. The registrar general of the high court, in a notice, said all the persons concerned are requested to get themselves tested for Covid-19.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The facility of testing is available in the Rajasthan High Court, Jaipur bench during the three-day period, the notice added. “ln view of recent results of Covid-19 tests conducted in the Rajasthan High Court, Jaipur Bench, it is notified that court and office work in Rajasthan High Court, Jaipur Bench shall remain suspended from August 17 to 19 for Covid-19 testing,” it said. The notice, however, did not mention the Rajasthan High Court chief justice. On Saturday night, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had wished a speedy recovery to Mahanty. “I have come to know Chief Justice of Rajasthan High Court, Sh. Indrajit Mahanty has tested positive for Covid_19... concerned about his health. Wish him a speedy recovery,” he had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-19-work-at-rajasthan-high-court-suspended-for-3-days/story-6kvEHNI3jeiSW5yyEnXBIK.html
16-08-2020||Bangalore||Completely ban corporate funding of elections: S M Krishna||Veteran politician and former External Affairs Minister S M Krishna has called for a “complete and total” ban on corporate funding of polls, saying there is a need to end political corruption and cleanse the electoral system in the country.The root of administrative corruption lies in political corruption, and the root of political corruption lies in electoral corruption, said Krishna, who has seen electoral politics from close quarters for over five decades. “We first need to cleanse the electoral system. The process is going on here and there. There have been some reforms which are just in the initial stages”, the former Karnataka Chief Minister told PTI.“But I am happy that there is no political corruption at the top in the Centre. There is not a single allegation of corruption or nepotism. The Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) himself is absolutely and impeccably clean and honest. This is a very big positive development”, he said.“Slowly, things will fall in its place. A situation will arise where people will choose candidates on the basis of the performance of the party in the government and in the opposition”, the former Maharashtra Governor said.Krishna, who joined BJP over three years ago after more than 45 years’ association with the Congress, said electoral reforms need to pick up pace and we must think of bringing in public funding of elections and a complete and total ban on private funding, which means funding from corporate companies. “It is a long way to go, but I am confident that we will have clean politics. If we have to see the emergence of clean politics, electoral reforms are a must.Unless money power is eradicated, there cannot be clean politics. My emphasis is for the eradication of money power, which is the first step we have to take”, he said.Secondly, appealing for votes on communal and caste basis during elections must become a penal offence, the 88-year-old leader added.Asked if he thought there should be a retirement age for politicians, Krishna said politics is not a government job to fix retirement age.With age comes maturity, knowledge and experience, the BJP leader said, adding, Morarji Desai became Prime Minister at the age of 81, and he did a fantastic job.“Suppose, hypothetically speaking, if he (Desai) had retired at the age of 60 of 65, then the country would have been deprived of such a sagacious leadership”, Krishna said.Atal Behari Vajpayee became Prime Minister at the age of 74, and he did a fantastic job. L K Advani became Home Minister at the age of 71 and he did a wonderful job, he said.“But at the same time, it is also essential...that the youngsters must be given opportunity”.There should be a blend of age and youth; maturity and initial starters. Elders should not be totally discarded, but their knowledge and experience must be utilised to groom the younger generation, Krishna said.“It is like what we say in Kannada; ‘Old Roots and New Leaves”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/completely-ban-corporate-funding-of-elections-s-m-krishna/story-y2oFeCgJLN1krBqBkk4LtN.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission exams to be conducted at sub division level for the first time||Shimla: In view of ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and for the convenience of candidates, the Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC) will conduct screening tests and preliminary examinations for the first time at all district headquarters and sub divisions except in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti district. The exam centres will also be set up near the state’s border areas for candidates who stay outside Himachal Pradesh. The HPPSC released a tentative schedule of the exams to be held in September and October. The commission has advised all candidates, who have applied for the post of Himachal Pradesh Administrative Services (HAS), executive officers/secretary (executive state municipal services), assistant manager (state cooperative bank) and tehsil welfare officer to opt for two exam centres through their login id for which a link has been provided on its official website. The candidates can choose the exam centre within seven days. No other opportunity or request to change the exam centre will be given to the candidates after this. HPPSC secretary Ashutosh Garg said that this decision has been taken as a precautionary measure during the pandemic and candidates can appear in these exams by applying for nearby centres. The exam centres will be allotted to candidates according to their option subject and in view of the availability of a centre at the district headquarters/sub division opted for. The commission reserves the right to allot exam centres to candidates other than the ones opted for depending on the number of candidates at a station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-public-service-commission-exams-to-be-conducted-at-sub-division-level-for-the-first-time/story-2CBNvF79oLIUbF85894pFJ.html
16-08-2020||Lucknow||Lakhimpur gangrape: Yogi Adityanath govt has failed to control crime, says BSP||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) said on Sunday the Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh has failed to control crime and that the law and order situation in the state is worsening after a 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped and murdered in Lakhimpur district.The girl was allegedly raped and murdered on Friday in the Isanagar area of the district. Police later recovered her body from a sugarcane field. Two men have been arrested in connection to the case.Also read: 13-year-old girl gang raped in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri, two men booked“See, from some time, the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh has been worsening. Rape incidents, murders of Dalits, law and order have become a question in the state. The public is upset and wants such incidents to stop,” Sudhindra Bhadoria, the BSP’s national spokesperson, said, according to news agency ANI“BSP chief Mayawati is repeatedly raising the issue of deteriorating law and order as it is felt that Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has been unable to contain crime in the state,” he said. Satyendra Kumar, Lakhimpur Kheri’s superintendent of police (SP), has said the two accused have been booked under offences of murder and gangrape, adding that action will also be taken against them under the National Security Act (NSA).(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lakhimpur-gangrape-yogi-adityanath-govt-has-failed-to-control-crime-says-bsp/story-zpg0NMC54aLQxEopG2pgeI.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||Sanjay Raut takes dig at Centre with Russian Covid-19 vaccine example||In a dig at the Narendra Modi government over its push for self-reliance, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said Russia gave the first lesson to the world on being ‘Aatmanirbhar’ by introducing a Covid-19 vaccine while India has just been preaching about it.Lauding Russia for the vaccine, Raut, in his weekly column ‘Rokhtokh’ in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, said this was a sign of being a superpower, and added that Indian politicians will not follow Russia’s example as a model since “they are in love with America”.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageRussian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday announced that his country has developed the world’s first vaccine against Covid-19 that works “quite effectively” and forms a “stable immunity” against the deadly disease, as he disclosed that one of his daughters has already been vaccinated.“When there was a movement across the globe to prove the Russian vaccine as illegal, Putin used the vaccine as a trial on his daughter and created self-confidence in his own country,” Raut said.“Russia gave the first lesson of being ‘Aatmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) to the world. We are just preaching about being ‘Aatmanirbhar’,” the executive editor of ‘Saamana’ said.Noting that Ram temple trust head Mahant Nritya Gopal Das has tested positive for coronavirus, Raut sought to know if Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who shook hands with Das during the temple’s ground-breaking function in Ayodhya (on August 5), will quarantine himself.Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who has tested positive of coronavirus, is in a critical condition and ministers and bureaucrats in the Modi government have also tested positive for the viral infection, he pointed out.“Delhi (the national capital) was never under such terror like it is now due to the coronavirus. There was fear of Modi and (Home Minister Amit) Shah earlier, but the fear of corona is more than that,” he said.The Rajya Sabha member claimed Delhi has “come to a standstill” and that this is serious.“The official unemployment figure has been put at 14 crore. But those running the country have no work. Political workers have become lazy because there are no political agitations. Opposition parties have become cold,” he said.There are no political meetings or functions in Delhi now. Even the Independence Day function preparations weren’t there. “Like in Mumbai, there is fear of coronavirus everywhere in Delhi,” he said. PTI MR GK GK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sanjay-raut-takes-dig-at-centre-with-russian-covid-19-vaccine-example/story-UDWlIBEjCciBSlBqrgjYfI.html
16-08-2020||Jaipur||875 fresh cases take Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally to over 60,000||Rajasthan on Sunday reported 687 new coronavirus cases and 13 deaths.The total number of cases in the state now stands at 60,666 including 14,265 active cases, 44,048 recoveries and 875 deaths.India registered 63,489 new coronavirus cases and 944 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.With 944 new deaths, the cumulative death toll in the country is nearing 50,000-mark.The country’s coronavirus count touched 25,89,682 including 6,77,444 active cases, 18,62,258 discharged and 49,980 deaths on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/875-fresh-cases-take-rajasthan-s-covid-19-tally-to-over-60-000/story-VYPIBZ22Ab1tV3MZIDDTKJ.html
16-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 480 new Covid cases, 4 deaths||With 480 new Covid-19 cases reported in Jharkhand on Saturday, the total number of coronavirus cases reached 22,672, the State Health Department said.In a Covid-19 bulletin, the state government informed that four persons succumbed to the virus on Saturday.The total count of coronavirus cases includes 14,181 recovered/discharged, 8,262 active cases, and 229 deaths, the department added.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia on Saturday crossed 25 lakh Covid-19 cases in the country after an increase of 65,002 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, said Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Saturday.With the highest recoveries of 57,381 Covid-19 cases in a single day, the total recoveries have crossed the 18-lakh mark and stand at 18,08,936. India’s recovery rate has soared past 70 per cent ensuring more and more patients are recovering, said the health ministry.According to the health ministry, there are 6,68,220 active Covid-19 cases in the country, which is 26.45 per cent of the total positive cases and are under active medical supervision.A total of 996 deaths were reported in India in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 49,036.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), the tally rose to 25,26,193 Covid cases, including 6,68,220 active cases, 18,08,937 discharged and migrated, and 49,036 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-480-new-covid-cases-4-deaths/story-q6srR62wTRnNAwoxe8XuBJ.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Hours after presiding over I-Day function, Punjab revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar tests positive for Covid-19||Bathinda: Hours after presiding over the Independence Day function in Mansa, Punjab revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar, 54, tested positive for Covid-19. He was seen attending the function without a mask. Mansa deputy commissioner Mohinder Pal said that the minister’s rapid antigen test was conducted in Mansa on Saturday after which he tested positive for coronavirus infection. Official sources said almost the entire senior district machinery is in home quarantine after meeting the minister. Kangar arrived in Mansa on Friday and met party workers besides officials over the past two days. He had interacted with meritorious students after felicitating them during the Independence Day function. AKALI LEADER FROM MALOUT TESTS POSITIVE, TOOFormer Malout Akali MLA Harpreet Singh Kotbhai has also tested positive for Covid-19.Muktsar nodal officer Dr Paramjit Singh Sandhu said the samples of Kotbhai were taken in Chandigarh. Two of his children have also tested positive. The family is staying in Chandigarh.Kotbhai shared that he had tested positive on his Facebook page on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hours-after-presiding-i-day-function-punjab-revenue-minister-gurpreet-singh-kangar-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-Sek7DRFXEwEiJwAjVlG9rJ.html
16-08-2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath pays tribute to Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his death anniversary||Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh) [India], Aug 16 (ANI): Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday paid tribute to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his death anniversary at Lok Bhavan here.Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also paid rich tributes to the former Prime Minister and said the country will always remember his the outstanding service and efforts of towards the nation’s progress.Born on December 25, 1924, in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior, Vajpayee was the first leader from the Bharatiya Janata Party to become the Prime Minister. He served as Prime Minister thrice -- briefly in 1996, from 1998 to 1999 and then for a full five-year term between 1999 and 2004. हर चुनौती से दो हाथ मैंने किये,आंधियों में जलाए हैं बुझते दिये।जननायक, विलक्षण नेतृत्वकर्ता, दूरदर्शी, अप्रतिम वक्ता, अजातशत्रु, भारत रत्न, परम श्रद्धेय स्व. अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी की पुण्यतिथि पर सादर पुष्पांजलि एवं कृतज्ञता ज्ञापन...हुतात्मा को नमन! pic.twitter.com/VgqtegKAYgIt was during his tenure that India had carried out Pokhran tests on May 11 and May 13 in 1998.Among his several portfolios, Vajpayee had also served as External Affairs Minister during PM Morarji Desai’s tenure during 1977 and 1979.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-adityanath-pays-tribute-to-atal-bihari-vajpayee-on-his-death-anniversary/story-lE7XEshcO7Ihkh5lv7roLJ.html
16-08-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru clashes: Police arrests 35 more accused, total arrests at 340||35 more accused have been arrested in connection with Bengaluru violence that broke out on August 11, taking the total number of arrests in the cases to 340, informed the police on Sunday.The imposition of Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in areas under DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits has also been extended till 6 am on August 18. The situation in the area remains tense. Section 144 has been extended twice in the area.An FIR was registered on the complaint of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy at DJ Halli Police station 3 days after the violence broke out in parts of Bengaluru on August 11, over an alleged “derogatory” social media post by his nephew, the police said.“An FIR is registered at DJ Halli Police Station on the complaint of MLA A Srinivas Murthy. As per the complaint, 2,000-3,000 people set his house and other properties including vehicles, on fire on August 11. Gold and silver items, vehicles and other things worth Rs 3 crore were robbed as per the complaint,” said the Police.“Complaint was filed by MLA after three days of the incident. Complainant MLA said that he was unable to come out of trauma after his house was burnt,” the police added.11 other FIRs had been registered till August 14 in connection with Bengaluru violence cases, out of which seven have been registered at DJ Halli police station in the city, the police had said earlier on August 14.Among the accused who are arrested are Naveen, the nephew of MLA Srinivas Murthy, and include Kaleem Pasha, the husband of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) corporator from Nagwara ward - Irshad Begum.Violence broke out in parts of Bengaluru on August 11, over an alleged “derogatory” social media post. At least three people were killed and nearly 60 police personnel were injured in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-clashes-police-arrests-35-more-accused-total-arrests-at-340/story-9ILD71qHIC7edHvcus3G8H.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena questions quarantine rules for PM Modi after Ram Temple trust head tests Covid-19 positive||After Ram Janmabhoomi trust head Nritya Gopal Das tested positive for novel coronavirus infection, Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece Saamna on Sunday questioned if Prime Minister Narendra Modi will follow quarantine regulations as he shared the stage with him during the groundbreaking ceremony of Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5.“The 75-year-old Mahant Nritya was present on stage on August 5 at the Bhoomipujan ceremony of the Ram Temple. He had not covered his face with the mask. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat came in contact with the Mahant. PM Modi held the hand of Nritya Gopal Das with reverence. So will our PM will also be quarantined,” the editorial in the Saamna questioned?“At present, Amit Shah is also in solitude after contracting the infection. Even former president Pranab Mukherjee has been tested positive for the virus and his health is also in a worrisome state. At present, all cabinet members, bureaucrats, parliament members are vulnerable to falling prey to the lethal infection. Even during riots and war, Delhi was not so frightened as it is today. The city seems to be a bit more scared now. Although the fear of PM Modi and Shah was already mongering, but the trepidation fear of coronavirus is more appalling.”On August 5, Nritya Gopal Das was the part of the Ram Mandir bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya and shared the stage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and a few others.This landmark event was attended by 175 guests who were invited by the trust headed by Nritya Gopal Das.Apart from heavy security arrangements, Covid-19 protocols and social distancing norms were abided by the people present at the gala event.Due to the coronavirus outbreak, no chief ministers except Yogi Adityanath was invited for the groundbreaking ceremony.Notably, Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik had sought invitation for Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray stating that the late Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackery was at the forefront in insisting and wanted the Ram temple built.Sarnaik had also stated that Uddhav had repeatedly taken a lead in the demand for the Ram Mandir and hence should be invited for the ‘bhoomi pujan.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-questions-quarantine-rules-for-pm-modi-after-ram-temple-trust-head-tests-covid-19-positive/story-aQL9YRPbfk87Ym4lqpFLHJ.html
16-08-2020||Patna||Chirag Paswan stops short of withdrawing support to Nitish, but hints at more action||Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan on Saturday hardened his stance against the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar but stopped short of announcing the much speculated withdrawal of support to the ruling dispensation in the state.Paswan, who was addressing workers at the state party headquarters here after unfurling the tricolor on Independence Day, however, hinted that some action on the withdrawal of support was likely in the near future as he was planning to convene a meeting of the LJP parliamentary board.Party sources said that Chirag in his rousing speech debunked speculations of his breaking ranks with the BJP-led NDA stressing that LJP’s loyalty to Prime Minister Narendra Modi was “deeper” than that of JD(U) helmed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar.The Jamui MP, who is on his first tour of Bihar in several months, arrived here on Friday evening and is expected to stay for the next two-three days, party sources said here.Paswan, who took over last year as the national president of the party founded by his father and Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, underscored that LJP has been consistent and steadfast in its support to the NDA government at the Centre on various issues unlike the JD(U) which had been equivocal on matters like abrogation of Article 370 and more recently, the CAA-NPR-NRC debate.Defending his attacks on the Bihar government on issues ranging from corruption, law and order, economic development and handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, the LJP chief pointed out that Kumars bid to seek re-election for a fourth consecutive term on the basis of a 15 years versus 15 years narrative was deeply flawed.He pointed out that Kumar was trying to equate Lalu Prasads RJD with lawlessness and bad governance not taking account of the fact that he was sharing power with the latter till not more than three years ago.He also asserted that unlike LJP, which joined the NDA in 2014 expressing full faith in the leadership of Narendra Modi, Kumar had thrown a fit when his then Gujarat counterpart emerged as a potential prime ministerial candidate, snapped years old ties with BJP and gravitated towards the opposition camp.Paswan iterated that it was beyond doubt that Bihar lagged behind most states on development parameters notwithstanding Kumars claim that the state has turned the corner in 15 years of his rule.He asked the LJP rank and file to continue going to the people with the truth, no matter how harsh it may be and claimed that economic advancement witnessed in the state in the last few years was due to the Centres bounty.The LJP chiefs run-in with the government in the state began in March this year when he embarked on a ‘Bihar First Bihari First’ campaign which was viewed with suspicion by the JD(U).Relationship between the two parties had taken a nosedive in the subsequent months with the LJP chief taking potshots at the JD(U) government over its handling of Covid-19, the migrants crisis that followed the lockdown and the insistence on holding assembly elections, scheduled in October-November, on time despite the raging pandemic.Paswan has repeatedly stated that his party was supporting but not a part of the government in the state an allusion to the LJP having no representation in the states council of ministers after his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras got elected to the Lok Sabha.Kumars reported reluctance to part with a number of seats for the LJP that was commensurate with its performance in the Lok Sabha polls last year is also said to have riled Paswan.LJP had contested six seats in the state in the Lok Sabha polls and had won all. The JD(U) had fought 17 and had won all but one.In the 243-strong assembly, the LJP has only two MLAs.An announcement of withdrawal of support by LJP will not reduce the government in Bihar to a minority though it could be a poor reflection on the NDA in the state which stood rock solid in the general elections a year ago, decimated the opposition and appears invincible in the face of a divided opposition.Intriguingly, the BJP has been maintaining a telling silence over the squabble among its two alliance partners in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/chirag-paswan-stops-short-of-withdrawing-support-to-nitish-but-hints-at-more-action/story-097ol9JqYmnm73eNCBAOlO.html
16-08-2020||Noida||Rain lashes parts of Noida on Sunday||Rain lashes several parts of Noida on Sunday morning. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted “partly cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers” today. IMD also predicted “thunderstorm with light to moderate rain” in several parts of the national capital, and the adjoining areas for Sunday. “Thunderstorm with light to moderate rain would occur over and adjoining areas of most places of South-Delhi, East-Delhi, Preet-vihar, North-Delhi, North-east Delhi, Central Delhi, Connaught Place, Lodi colony, Sarojini Nagar, Pragati Maidaan, Shandara, Gulaothi, Ghaziabad, Hindon-AF station, Loni Dehat, Khekra and Modinagar during the next two hours,” said the MeT department. IMD further said that light intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Hastinapura, Safdarjung Airport, Jahangirabad, Bijnor, Chandpur, and Alwar during the next two hours.Thunderstorm with light to moderate rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Aurangabad, Nodal, Palwal, Roorkee, Ballabgarh, Faridabad, Nazibabad, Sohna and Gurugram during the next two hours, as per IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/rain-lashes-parts-of-noida-on-sunday/story-TNamkRx5qQmmzOt2GRcTLL.html
16-08-2020||Kolkata||Bengal Governor Dhankhar asks people to create conducive atmosphere for polls||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday appealed to the people of the state to create an atmosphere so that elections can be held without any violence and set an example for the nation.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“I appeal to everyone. Let’s generate a climate so that we can give an example to the entire country that elections in West Bengal are most authentic, genuine free from any kind of violence,” Dhankhar told reporters at an Independence Day programme at Gandhi Ghat in Barrackpore.The governor, however, did not specify the election that he had in mind.The civic polls in 107 civic bodies in the state besides the Kolkata Municipal Corporation which was due in April this year has been postponed due to the pandemic.The crucial state assembly election, in which Chief Minister Mamamata Banerjee will seek to return to office for the third straight time and BJP put up a stiff opposition, is due in April-May 2021.“I have been trying for it right from day one and I can assure you this will happen. This is bound to happen. This is my Constitutional obligation.“I am working harmoniously with everyone concerned to ensure that democratic fabric is not tainted. It is not strained, it is kept sublime,” Dhankhar, who has been embroiled in several controversies with the state government since he took charge in July 2019, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-governor-dhankhar-asks-people-to-create-conducive-atmosphere-for-polls/story-GkoNAhdfQAOaFTMvpxSl3M.html
16-08-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal’s Covid-19 tally jumps to 1,13,432 with highest single-day spike of 3,074 cases||West Bengal reported its highest single-day spike of 3,074 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, pushing the tally in the state to 1,13,432, the health department said.The death toll climbed to 2,377 after 58 more patients succumbed to the virus, it said in a bulletin.Out of the 58 deaths, 54 were due to the comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSince Friday, 2,647 people have recovered from the disease, taking the total number of recoveries to 83,836, the department said.West Bengal now has 27,219 active cases.Of the fresh fatalities, Kolkata accounted for 21 deaths, while 15 casualties were reported from North 24 Parganas and five from South 24 Parganas. The rest of the 17 deaths were registered in 10 other districts.The metropolis also topped the list of new infections with 671 cases, followed by 642 in North 24 Parganas, 204 in Paschim Medinipur, 190 each from South 24 Parganas and Howrah districts, 177 in Hooghly, 174 in Purba Medinipur and 136 in Malda, the bulletin said.The remaining of the 690 cases were reported from 15 other districts of the state.In the last 24 hours, 34,214 samples were tested while 12,82,486 such tests have been conducted in West Bengal till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-s-covid-19-tally-jumps-to-1-13-432-with-highest-single-day-spike-of-3-074-cases/story-wPf5dyCc5ZVWEJLY3a9uzI.html
16-08-2020||Delhi||Two arrested for impersonating railway officials from Hazrat Nizamuddin station||Two persons, impersonating railway officials, were arrested from the Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway Station in Delhi on Friday, the police said.The security at the station was heightened in view of the Independence Day. Tickets and IDs of passengers were being checked at the main entry gate to prevent any unauthorised entry.The two were asked to stop and introduce themselves during checking before entering the railway station for boarding the Golden Temple Express. It is then that their behaviour raised suspicion.The officials found out that both their IDs were forged and they were impersonating railway employees.A case was registered and they were taken into custody.On sustained interrogation, it was found that one of them identified as Martand Rubab Kamble (21) earlier worked with a railway vendor and in a cyber cafe. He was, therefore, well aware of the railway operations and way to disguise as a railway employee and travel far-flung destinations. He made a fake railway employee ID and started travelling, DCP railway Harinder Singh said.Both the accused confessed that they used fake IDs for free railway journeys and operate as vendors in running trains.The other was identified as Omkar Bairagi Waghmode (20) and they are cousins.Further investigation was underway, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-arrested-for-impersonating-railway-officials-from-hazrat-nizamuddin-station/story-Ve6Idwe22c76ysrxNbg2CO.html
16-08-2020||Jaipur||Chief Justice of Rajasthan HC tests Covid-19 positive||Chief Justice of Rajasthan High Court Indrajit Mahanty has tested positive for Covid-19.Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot took to Twitter to wish Mahanty a speedy recovery.“I have come to know Chief Justice of Rajasthan High Court, Indrajit Mahanty has tested positive for Covid-19...concerned about his health. Wish him a speedy recovery,” Gehlot tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/chief-justice-of-rajasthan-hc-tests-covid-19-positive/story-ANizQiJnFlIcnBXiC9mf5L.html
16-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh to run vistadome buses inside Rohtang tunnel for tourists||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh will run vistadome buses inside Rohtang tunnel when it is inaugurated next month. The tunnel has been named Atal Tunnel in memory of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Announcing this at the Independence Day function in Kullu, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said, “Rohtang tunnel was Vajpayee’s vision and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate it to the nation in September.” He said Vajpayee had announced the project on June 3, 2000, and considered Himachal Pradesh, particularly Kullu-Manali, his second home. Vistadome buses will have a glass rooftop for a panoramic view through the hilly region and will ply through the 8.8-km tunnel, built at a height of 3,000 metres above sea level between Manali and Leh. The ₹32,000-crore tunnel will shorten the 474-km distance between Manali and Leh by 46km, which means the eight-hour journey will be cut by two-and-a-half hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-to-run-vistadome-buses-inside-rohtang-tunnel-for-tourists/story-K4TndpEd3HLHbAQmfTJEUN.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||KEM, Nair hospitals of Mumbai get nod for phase 2-3 Oxford vaccine trials||The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) granted approval to two civic-run hospitals in Mumbai — King Edward Memorial (KEM), Parel, and BYL Nair Hospitals, Mumbai Central — for phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of Oxford-AstraZeneca, a promising vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). By August-end, the trial on 320 volunteers between the age group of 20 and 50 years will begin. At present, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is looking for volunteers to participate in the trial. A total of 10 medical institutes have been selected for the pan-India vaccine trial, of which two are from Mumbai. According to sources, BJ Medical College in Pune has also been selected for clinical trials. The two Mumbai hospitals are waiting for a final nod from the state’s ethical committee to begin the trial. “Each of the two hospitals will perform the trial on a group of 160 volunteers. These individuals have to be healthy, without any severe premedical ailments. They shouldn’t be on any immunosuppressants or undergoing other lifetime treatment,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.All volunteers will be tested for Covid-19 through rapid antigen test (RAT). Also, they will be examined for Covid-19 antibodies to check if they were ever exposed to the infection in the past and recovered. “The trial will include volunteers from all strata of society in various age groups. This will include people residing both in slums and non-slums,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM.Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which is the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines in terms of volume, and British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZenecam have partnered to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine candidate formulated at the University of Oxford. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine has been named as Covidshield in India. Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Oxford vaccine candidate is on in the United Kingdom, Phase 3 in Brazil and Phase 1 and 2 in South Africa.“Phase 1 of the trial was completed in July in UK, which has received a promising response. This will be the phase 2 and 3 trial of the vaccine. After the completion of phase 2 trial, reports will be submitted to the Data Safety Monitoring Board, then to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization for stage 3 of the trial,” said Dr Deshmukh.In the earlier trials, volunteers who were injected with two doses of the vaccine induced a strong immune response. It provoked a T-cell (white blood cells that can attack cells infected with the coronavirus) response within 14 days of vaccination, and an antibody response within 28 days. The study was published in the science journal, Lancet.“It is a proud moment for us as Mumbai is the only city where civic-run hospitals have been given permission to run the trial. In other cities, only government-run hospitals have been granted the opportunity,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kem-nair-hospitals-get-nod-for-phase-2-3-oxford-vaccine-trials/story-rRumGlhRVMP0NqvaJZK5HM.html
16-08-2020||Mumbai||Maha tally rises to 584,754; state wary of 2nd wave||With 12,614 new Covid-19 infections, third-highest single-day spike, the state’s tally inched closer to the 6 lakh mark and stood at 584,754. The death toll neared 20,000, with 322 fatalities pushing it up to 19,749.With some of the cities and districts witnessing a spike in cases after a drop in the past few weeks, state authorities are wary of a second wave in parts of it. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has been asking authorities to keep a vigilant eye on the spread to ensure that there was no emergence of the second wave of the infection.Experts, however, are divided, saying it can or cannot be called the beginning of the wave. Mumbai reported 1,254 new cases and 48 deaths on Saturday, with the tally of cases reaching 127, 716 and toll 7,086. Pune district continued to remain on top in the case and fatality chart with 2,543 cases and 73 deaths in a day. Pune City rep-orted 1,114 cases and 34 deaths, while Pune Rural saw 458 cases and 25 fatalities. Pimpri-Chinchwad, also part of Pune district, reported 971 cases and 14 deaths. The district has the highest number of active patients at 41,080.Among the remaining fatalities, Thane district saw 25, including 18 in its rural parts, Nagpur district 19, Palghar rural 12 and Kalyan-Dombivli 11. Of the 322 fatalities reported on Saturday, 226 deaths were from the past 48 hours, 53 from past week and remaining from the period before it. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state stood at 3.38%.State’s recovery rate dropped below 70%, standing at 69.82%, from 70.77 on Thursday, as 6,844 more patients recovered on Saturday, taking the total number of recovered patients to 408,286. The active patients in the state are 156,409. State has 10,44,974 people under home quarantine, while 37, 524 are institutionally quarantined.Maharashtra conducted 66,429 tests in the past 24 hours and found 12,614 positive at a positivity rate of 18.98%. In some of the districts and civic bodies like Malegaon, Solapur, Kolhapur, Jalgaon, a sudden spike in cases was witnessed after a drop for a few weeks. A few experts termed it as a second wave. “It is a second wave, as the antibodies developed against the virus decrease and end in about four months. In some areas like Dharavi, more than 50% patients have found antibodies developed against viruses, but those may not remain for long. Rise in cases in some parts of the state is an indication of a second wave in some parts of the state,” said Neeraj Hatekar, Mumbai University economist, who has been studying the trend on a daily basis.Dr Amol Annadate, who was closely associated with administration in Malegaon in Nashik said that the relapse of rising number of cases may be called as the next stage. “The rise in the number of cases in Malegaon and other cities that had witnessed drop in the case earlier is because of the complacency. This can be called as next stage or even second wave. There is no social distancing or other norms of self-hygiene followed, leading to a rise in cases,” he said.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the 11-member task force, constituted by the state for the clinical management of critical patients, said the peak is owing to the aggressive and ramped up testing in the state. “State is at its peak and there could be a modulating pattern for the next few days in infections. I would not say it is a second wave, but we should be very careful to avoid any such wave. We can arrive at a specific conclusion about the peak only if the pattern sustains for a couple of weeks,” he said. Thackeray said on Saturday in an online interaction with an organisation of doctors that the state is planning a 500-bed hospital in Mumbai for immunology and virology research and similar hospitals in all the districts. He said that the state is also using satellite-based telemedicine technology to treat patients in remote areas of the state. He said that government authorities have been asked to not be complacent with the drop in the cases as it could lead to the second wave. “After relaxations from the lockdown, there have been sudden spike in the cases again. US recently saw 97,000 new cases after they open schools. I do not want it to happen here. I have been telling the authorities, including in Mumbai, to keep a vigilant eye to ensure that there is no second wave in the state,” he said. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the rise in Covid-19 cases in rural areas was a cause for concern. “The rise in cases is because of the migrants coming back from cities like Mumbai,” he said. Tope has also warned private doctors with action if they did not come forward to offer their services. As part of the Mission Begin Again, the state government is expected to roll out more relaxations from the ongoing lockdown curbs. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said in Chandrapur on Saturday that the state government was positive on allowing inter-district state transport services and a formal decision is expected to be taken next week. He said that the state government is also positive about allowing coaching classes to operate by following standard operating procedure. The minister said that the state government was also positive about resumption of local train services for Mumbai. Wadettwiar on Saturday said, “In our meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and attended by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar recently, we have discussed resuming inter-district ST buses. Honourable chief minister is positive about it. We may issue a formal notification and the norms to follow including the number of passengers. The decision is expected next week. Similarly, for the convenience of students from ordinary families who do not have online education easily available, we are considering allowing operations of coaching classes. They too will have to follow the SOP on the lines of one for the gymnasium,” he said. The minister said that it is being also considered if the schools in the rural areas can be opened.Wadettiwar had said on Friday that the state government has taken the decision of allowing gymnasiums to operate by following social-distancing norms. He said that the decision has been taken by the state government and the notification in this respect is expected to be issued in a couple of days. The announcement had come after Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis demanded for reopening of gymnasiums with immediate effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-tally-rises-to-584-754-state-wary-of-2nd-wave/story-dK8N6NbP9889LodDpPzlwM.html
16-08-2020||Gurugram||DTCP to carry out demolition drive from Monday in residential colonies||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) will resume its demolition drive from Monday onwards in unauthorised colonies and also in licensed private colonies with illegal constructions. The department officials said that they are personally appearing before court in cases where stay had been granted to apprise it of the ground situation. In the last six months, large-scale demolition drives have been carried out across the city. “The department teams have carried out surveys in unauthorised areas as well as licensed colonies and a demolition plan has been prepared. Sealing will also be carried out in cases of violations of building plan rules,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram, adding that it has also been decided that CM Window complaints lodged by residents with enforcement wing have also been divided areawise and these will resolved based on the area in which demolition drives are carried out. Around 100 such complaints have been lodged by city residents and these pertain to building plan violations, maintenance and similar such issues, said officials. “It has been observed that a large number of violations have been carried out on small plots of 60 sq yard, which were meant for underprivileged section. Large building of five to six storeys have come up and these would now be on our radar so that future violations don’t happen,” said Bhath, adding that the department officials are now personally appearing in cases to explain the actual ground situation in the courts. In last six months, the department has carried out over 50 demolition drives in unauthorised colonies, licensed private colonies to check mushrooming of illegal constructions and violations. However, the efforts made by DTCP were being offset by the continuous registration of small plots in controlled areas of the district in violation of rules, which promoted unauthorised colonization, said officials of the department. However, with the recent ban on registeries and action against revenue officials it is being expected that flow of such registries will be curbed. “The government plans to introduce a foolproof process of registration and this will definitely help in controlling unauthorised registries of small plots,” said Bhath.In last one year, it is estimated that more than 100 illegal colonies have come up in the city due to illegal colonization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-to-carry-out-demolition-drive-from-monday-in-residential-colonies/story-Q7zXB5IViEgQYXTXsypTtN.html
16-08-2020||Delhi||Schools won’t reopen till Covid is beaten: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said schools in the national Capital will not reopen until the Covid-19 situation is completely under control. The CM made the announcement in his address during the Delhi government’s Independence Day celebrations, which were curtailed this year due to the pandemic and were held at the Secretariat at ITO instead of the Chhatrasal Stadium. Addressing cabinet ministers, legislators, officials and the seven corona warriors, who were special invitees at the Delhi government’s Independence Day function, the chief minister talked about the ‘Delhi Model’ and emphasised how aggressive testing, home isolation and plasma therapy were the game-changers in the Capital’s fight against Covid-19.“In June, many people had started leaving Delhi because Covid-19 had spread widely in the city. But in just a few weeks, the two crore people of Delhi controlled the situation with their resolve, hard work and dedication. Though the situation is much better than two months ago, we still have a long way to go. We have not won the battle yet,” Kejriwal said during his Independence Day speech. He thanked all stakeholders, including the Central government, the corona warriors and various organisations.“When I meet parents, they all request only one thing—that schools should not reopen yet. We care for your children as much as you do. I want to assure all parents that we will not reopen schools in Delhi until we are fully convinced (about the city’s Covid-19 situation),” Kejriwal said.Unlike previous years when the Delhi government’s independence day function was held at the Chhatrasal Stadium, this time, owing to the pandemic, it was organised at the Delhi secretariat at ITO. Fewer people were invited due to restriction on large gatherings. The chief minister also announced that from next week the Delhi government will start sending oxygen concentrators to the homes of Covid-19 patients even if they have recovered from the disease. “These days we are hearing about cases where a Covid-19 patient tests negative, is declared recovered and is discharged from the hospital. But, within hours or a day or two, suddenly the person’s oxygen concentration decreases and the person dies. To prevent this, from next week we will be sending oxygen concentrators to all those who need it,” he said. Kejriwal had on June 22 announced the same while launching the scheme of distributing pulse oximeters to all Covid-19 patients under home isolation. Officials said while distribution of pulse oximeters has started, the oxygen concentrator drive could not take off in full swing due to some “technical issues”. While adding that the subsidies on water, electricity and bus rides for women will continue, he also talked about reviving the economy by consulting with traders and entrepreneurs.He also highlighted how the Delhi government managed to reduce air pollution, an annual crisis in Delhi during the winter months, and deaths caused by dengue and other mosquito borne diseases during the monsoon. The CM announced re-launching of Delhi government’s ‘10 Hafte-10 Baje-10 Minute’ (10 weeks-10’O clock-10 minutes) programme to check cases of dengue and other monsoon diseases. The drive was first launched in September last year. The campaign, Kejriwal said will be launched again from the first week of September during which people would be encouraged to inspect their homes for stagnant water to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. Before his formal speech, Kejriwal shared a video message in which he urged people to take three pledges. “First, today take the pledge that neither will you give nor accept bribe. Second, pledge against pollution. Do not contribute to pollution - be it air, water or land. Third, keep your city and environment clean. Do not litter,” he said. Talking about the many firsts which the Capital has seen during the pandemic, Kejriwal said Delhi was the first to introduce the home isolation model in India which further helped in scaling up testing. Another first was starting the plasma therapy through which more than 750 people have recovered, he said.“The Delhi government is the first government in the country to have reduced the price of diesel by Rs 8 straightaway. I think this will also affect the inflation rate and help push the economy forward… Our’s is also the only government to announce an assistance of Rs 1 crore on the death of a Corona warrior. There is no monetary value attached to the lives of the people, they are invaluable to their families, but this gave the Corona warriors assurance that there is a government that takes care of them, and if they are working for the people of the country by risking their lives, the government is also working for them,” the chief minister said. During the ceremony, the government honoured seven people which included an assistant superintendent and three head warders. The corona warriors included additional district magistrate (Central) Rajeev Singh Parihar, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital’s senior medical officer Hirdesh Kumar, LNJP Hospital’s nursing officer Sonu, police constable Pradeep Chauhan, CATS ambulance driver Tej Bahadur, Civil Defence volunteer Dina Nath Yadav and municipal sanitation worker Ashok Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/schools-won-t-reopen-till-covid-is-beaten-kejriwal/story-zjD9G9PsrSVykiA7HsGspN.html
16-08-2020||Noida||Three children injured as portion of roof collapses on them in Harola||Three children were injured when a portion of a roof of a four-storeyed building collapsed in Harola village on Saturday evening. The children were playing on the ground when the incident took place around 6pm. The children are stable, the police said.RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station, said the house belongs to a person named Joginder Awana. “It is a four-storeyed building in Harola village. In the evening, a few children were playing near the building when a portion of the roof collapsed o them, injuring three,” he said.Area residents informed police and a team swiftly reached the spot. The injured were identified as Utkarsh, 3, Aman, 5, and Manav, 15. Aman sustained a fracture to his leg as he was trapped under the debris. The police and local people rescued the victims and admitted them to the district hospital.Sonu Sharma, a resident, said he was resting in his room when he heard a loud noise. “I immediately rushed out and found three children trapped under the debris. We came to know that the children were flying kites when the incident took place,” he said.Police later cordoned off the area and launched an investigation. A stationary motorcycle and an auto also came under the debris and were damaged.“We have admitted the victims to the district hospital. We are looking for the property owner. We will register a case once the children’s families file a complaint,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-children-injured-as-portion-of-roof-collapses-on-them-in-harola/story-vLcvwO3tDvAV8MnhU3yh2J.html
16-08-2020||Noida||GB Nagar police chief gets outstanding service medal||Gautam Budh Nagar’s first commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh was awarded the Outstanding Service Medal on Independence Day. He was awarded it for his services to the police force.Singh was appointed CP on January 14 this year. He had won accolades for his people-friendly policing and crime control in the district. Recently in a review meeting with the higher officials of Meerut division, chief minister Yogi Aditynath appreciated his efforts. The CM said the implementation of the commissionerate system “brought positive changes in the law and order scenario of the district, by tightening the noose around anti-social elements in the district in such a short span of time.” Commissioner Singh said that GB Nagar police had been conducting a continuous series of soft skill programmes for their personnel. “We are trying to make our policing more people-centric, so that common people could get more responsiveness at their police stations,” he said. Singh, a 1995-batch IPS officer, who holds the rank of an additional director general (ADG), was awarded the President Medal for Gallantry (PMG) in 2002 for busting a Naxalite network in Sonbhadra district, besides bagging the Silver and Gold Disc from DGP. He completed police training in Italy and Cambridge University and was appointed as the supervising officer of the policy level parliamentary affairs in the Government of India and had been director (security) in Air India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-police-chief-gets-outstanding-service-medal/story-ieq1Pui3AOGfEu9BJ8whTM.html
16-08-2020||Noida||UP districts may auction properties of defaulter builders to recover dues||The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) has ordered development authorities in the state to furnish property details of all defaulting developers in their jurisdictions within 15 days. These will be passed onto the concerned district magistrates who can then auction the properties to recover homebuyers’ money from defaulting builders against whom recovery certificates have been issued, officials said.In a virtual meeting held with the chief executive officers and vice-chairpersons of 15 development authorities on Friday, UP-Rera chairman Rajive Kumar asked the authorities to provide a list of all unsold inventories, vacant land, among others details of both completed and under-construction projects of the defaulters.According to Rera chairman Rajive Kumar, the authority has till date issued nearly 2,000 recovery certificates, and the total amount to be recovered from defaulters is around Rs 600 crore. About 15 percent of the amount against these recovery certificates has been realised and transferred to homebuyers, he added. A recovery certificate is issued after an individual or firm refuses to pay the default amount as ordered by either a court or a quasi-judicial body. The recovery amount is collected the district administration.UP-Rera has also identified 25 top defaulters in the state and asked them to provide these details by August 17.“Rera has requested the development authorities under whose jurisdiction the projects or the properties of the defaulting promoters are located to make available the list of unsold inventories, vacant land, unsold FAR (floor area ratio) in all projects of these defaulting promoters,” Kumar said on Saturday.“The concerned collectors/district magistrates have been requesting us (Rera) to help them in the recovery of the dues by providing them details of the defaulters’ properties that can be auctioned. Paying heed to their request, Rera has proceeded to take further measures in this regard,” he added.Officials from development authorities including that of Noida, Greater Noida , Yamuna expressway, Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Moradabad, Agra, Bareilly, Kanpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Jhansi and Hapur were present in Friday’s meeting. “The chairman has directed the concerned authorities to provide the required information to Rera within 15 days. The information received will be passed on to concerned district magistrates for the realisation of the amount payable to the allottees through the auction of those properties,” said Abrar Ahmed, secretary, UP-Rera.The Gautam Budh Nagar magistrate said the district administration will take necessary action against defaulters as per the law. “ I am waiting for the orders from the higher authorities. If we are asked to auction the properties, then such orders will be duly carried out,” said district’s collector and district magistrate Suhas LY.The authority has also scrutinised projects whose date of completion have lapsed and concerned promoters have neither uploaded the completion certificate or the occupancy certificate of the projects on Rera’s website nor have requested an extension of the registration of the project.These projects include those owned by both the government authorities and private promoters. The authority has sent the names of the promoters and their projects to the concerned development authorities/industrial development authorities and asked them to give details on their current status so that further action can be initiated by Rera. UP-Rera has also prepared a list of top 10 defaulting promoters on the basis of their non-compliance with the authority’s orders. A total 3,850 orders, including 1,448 refund orders and 2,402 possession orders, and 667 recovery certificates have been issued against these promoters, said the authority.“We have also issued directions to the 25 top defaulting promoters, including these 10 promoters, to make available all information available to us by August 17, 2020,”said Kumar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-districts-may-auction-properties-of-defaulter-builders-to-recover-dues/story-c5rSvpxxBcuevUzobH0KUM.html
16-08-2020||Pune||10% of Pune’s population tested for Covid-19; 72,576 positive||With an estimated population of 35 lakh, about 10% of the city’s population or 3.54 lakh residents have been tested for Covid-19. Of those tested, 72,576 or 20.49% have tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19 infection, at least once. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 1,073 fresh positive cases on Saturday taking the progressive positives to 72,576. PMC data also recorded 27 deaths, taking the death toll to 1,710. Meanwhile, the state health department reported 1,114 fresh positive cases on Saturday taking the tally to 77,949 and 34 deaths were also recorded as per state data, taking the virus-related death count to 2,019. Of the 72,576 residents who have tested positive, 56,245 have recovered, 1,710 have been declared dead and 14,621 are currently undergoing treatment. Of those getting treated, 760 are in critical condition with 466 on ventilators and 294 in ICU without ventilators. Also 2,432 are undergoing oxygen treatment. Pune was the first to report a Covid-19 positive case in the state on March 9. In addition to testing close contacts of positive patients, the PMC also carried out random testing for traders in the city as the unlock phase began. On Saturday, PMC carried out 5,840 tests and 1,145 were discharged after being declared as cured. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “We have ordered for one lakh more antigen detection tests. Under ‘Mission Zero’ we have selected spots at five of the most-affected wards and we are aiming to conduct 100 tests at each of those hotspots. Totally we are aiming to test about 2,500-3,000 people in these five worst-affected wards. We are now aiming to contact at least 15 people for every positive person, which currently stands at 11.” Of the deaths reported on Saturday, seven were from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), six from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, two deaths each from Ruby Hall Clinic, Poona hospital, Kashibai Navale Hospital and Bharati hospital and one each from Vishwaraj Hospital, Global Hospital, Inlaks and Budhrani hospital, Naidu hospital, Parmar hospital and Deoyani hospital.Seven deaths were reported of residents from out of PMC limits, but reported from city hospitals including, three from SGH and one each from Noble Hospital, Sahyadri hospital, Symbiosis hospital, Deoyani hospital and KEM hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/10-of-pune-s-population-tested-for-covid-19-72-576-positive/story-Vym74nJZqOP8QMssYrgnWJ.html
16-08-2020||Pune||Moderate rain in Pune on I-Day, dams fill up to 79.3%||The city experienced a continuous spell of moderate rain on Independence Day [August 15] filling the dams to 79.3 per cent.In Shivajinagar and Lohegaon 35.3mm and 36.4mm rain was recorded respectively in 33 hours, while at Pashan in 24 hours, a total of 22.3 mm rainfall was registered.The data of Pashan rainfall on August 15 was not available.In the catchment areas, the intensity of rainfall was noted to be less as four dams — Panshet, Warasgaon, Temghar and Khadakwasla — received 289mm rain in the last 24 hours. The intensity of rainfall was more on August 13, as the catchment area received 428mm rain.Water storage in all four dams stands at 79.375 per cent. The water discharge continued from Khadakwasla during the day and if required, the state irrigation department will also be releasing water from Panshet dam which is filled 85.68 per cent.The state water irrigation department recorded water at Kalmodi (100 per cent), Vir (96.04 per cent) and Kasarsai (97.14 per cent) dams respectively.The ghat areas saw heavy to very heavy rains in the last 24 hours.Lonavla received 206mm rain, while Tamhini received 228mm rainfall.“More heavy rains are expected in the ghat areas until August 21 while the city will keep receiving moderate rain,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head, India Meteorological department.The maximum temperature of the day was 25.0 degree Celsius while the minimum temperature was 21.8 degree Celsius.Dams; Rain on Aug 15; water storageTemghar; 133mm; 59.65%Warasgaon; 64mm; 72.17%Panshet; 68mm; 85.68%Khadakwasla; 24mm; 100%Total rain in 24 hours: 289mmRainfall City rainfall in 33 hours Pune: 35.3mmLohegaon: 36.4mmPashan: 22.3mm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/moderate-rain-in-pune-on-i-day-dams-fill-up-to-79-3/story-hmpNwcJeUrui5mqrWzWC1O.html
16-08-2020||Pune||Parth Pawar attends get-together at uncle’s residence in Baramati, maintains silence over next move||Upset over Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar’s public reprimand by calling him “immature”, his grandnephew Parth on Saturday visited Baramati for a “get-together” that lasted for several hours. Till late evening, the Pawar scion was at uncle Shrinivas Patil’s Baramati residence where his mother Sunetra Pawar and aunt Sharmila were also present. Parth’s father and Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar were absent although he was in Pune earlier in the day to attend an Independence Day function. Both Parth and his father Ajit have maintained studied silence even as several other NCP leaders downplayed the episode saying “it’s just a family matter”. Messages and calls to Parth Pawar did not evoke any response. In the afternoon, a member of the family said, “Matter will end within two days” while Parth’s another paternal aunt Vijaya Patil earlier said that Parth is upset though he will forget everything in a few days.“Parth is young and sensitive. However, he will forget everything. After all Sharad Pawar is his grandfather,” Patil said in Kolhapur, indicating that all is well within Pawar family. Vijaya Patil is Ajit’s elder sister while Shrinivas is younger brother. Parth is reportedly unhappy with the way NCP chief publicly ticked him off over his demand for CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case, a clear deviation from the party line. Rejecting Parth’s demand, senior Pawar had said his grandnephew is “immature” and his views are “not worth a penny”. After rebuke from senior Pawar, Parth has been meeting family members for the past three days. Late on Friday evening, Parth met Ajit Pawar’s cousin Abhijit Pawar at latter’s bungalow in Baner while on Thursday, he visited Silver Oak, Sharad Pawar’s residence in south Mumbai. At Silver Oak, Parth could not meet senior Pawar though he had over two-hour long discussion with paternal aunt Supriya Sule. Reacting over Parth being upset, senior party leader Praful said the entire issue is not as important as being “portrayed” by the media. “Since Sharad Pawar has already spoken, the matter is over,” said Patel. Another NCP leader and Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said, “Parth is my friend and I am confident he will not take any other step. This is not at all a big issue.” This is not the first time that there have been indications of rift within the Pawar family. Earlier, when NCP chief was reluctant to offer a party ticket to Parth to contest the Lok Sabha polls, the Pawar scion forced his grandfather to reverse decision. After the assembly polls last year, Ajit Pawar had defied party line and joined hands with BJP to become deputy chief minister in Devendra Fadnavis government that lasted for three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/parth-attends-get-together-at-uncle-s-residence-in-baramati-maintains-silence-over-next-move/story-Ng7v7nhEMPYK3ZeFyDRHnN.html
16-08-2020||Pune||Flyers slurp immunity booster drinks at Pune airport||After domestic flights have resumed operations, there has been an upward rise in flyers preferring immunity booster drinks from our traditional kitchens, including haldi doodh (turmeric milk), kadha, soup, rasam and all types of tea. These drinks are believed to improve immunity and are now in high demand as Covid-19 pandemic has hit the world. Pune airport is known for its affordable drinks including tea for just Rs 10 and with the drinks priced at just Rs 50 per glass, for both economic or business class, flyers now prefer to drink these immunity boosters. Most of these drinks have been introduced for the first time after the domestic flights started operating since May 25 this year after being under lockdown for two months. Pune airport has a dedicated lounge, ‘Earth Lounge’ for flyers located inside the airport premises. Ranjan Swain, unit manager for the lounge said, “We have started certain immunity booster drinks after certain passengers enquired about it and now the demand is good. Although, air traffic has gone down substantially and so has the number of passengers. However, with those limited passengers we have had a good response to these drinks. The most popular beverages earlier were tea or coffee which has now been replaced with turmeric milk, kadha, soup, rasam and all types of tea.” Swain also added that social distancing norms and sanitizers at all points are kept for easy access at the lounge. The alcohol counter which is another favourite beverage for flyers at all airports usually has been shut for now as per government orders. In view of Covid-19, people prefer these ‘immunity boosters’ as opposed to the always favourite tea and coffee, these drinks are not being chosen by flyers in huge numbers. Javed Shaikh, a frequent flyer said, “There are some great immunity boosting items on the menu and they are really tasty too. I really appreciate their efforts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/flyers-slurp-immunity-booster-drinks-at-pune-airport/story-JcQgCNbGUYKRUvqFaL69YN.html
16-08-2020||Pune||Increased screen time hurting children’s eyes||City doctors are warning parents of the dangers of increased screen time on their children’s eyes due to online classes and restrictions on outdoor sports due to the Covid pandemic. The screen exposure time which was earlier close to about 30 minutes to two hours has now been extended to about seven to eight hours. Doctors have warned that this could lead to children getting spectacles due to constant exposure, while kids have already started complaining about refractive errors, redness, dryness, itchiness and sore eyes. Dr Sanjay Patil, ophthalmologist, chairman of the Hospital Board of India, said that there is a 30 per cent increase in children visiting him with complaints like excessive strain on eyes or tiredness. “Patients have complained about dryness or itching in eyes, or tired eyes too. Locked up inside homes and online classes running for hours, homework and other assignments are taking a heavy toll on kids and their eyes,” said Patil. Dr Mangesh Lingayat, head of paediatrics department, Noble hospital, said, “I have observed that kids come complaining about UV complications and upon further inspection, we get to know that they need spectacles. These are accidental findings.” Dr Hemant Todkar, consultant ophthalmologist, Apollo Spectra Hospital, said that he has till now attended around 120 cases since June and two out of every ten cases are related to eyes. “Due to the constant rubbing of eyes, the cornea of children may become thin and result in progressive permanent loss of vision. Moreover, rubbing puts added pressure on the eyes owing to which refractive error that is astigmatism occurs. Astigmatism is a blurred vision caused by an unusually shaped cornea and one will require spectacles. These children are given lubricants or artificial tears to avoid itchiness, dryness of the cornea, and permanent changes in corneal structure,” said Todkar. Dr Tushar Parikh, consultant, paediatrics and neonatology, Motherhood Hospital, said, “People of all ages blink far less often when concentrating on a screen. Prolonged periods of watching the screen and spending more time indoors have been associated with the development of near-sightedness (myopia). Activities on the ground are not only important from the physical fitness point, but also from eye health. Also, environmental light helps in retina development.” Advice on eye protection -Good nutrition that includes food rich in vitamins C and E, zinc, lutein, zeaxanthin, and omega-3 fatty acids, proper sleep, and reducing electronic gadget exposure of children from the age group of 0-17 for two-and-a-half hours every day. -Limit screen time and stick to it. Keep a gap of an hour between the end of the screen and sleep. This will help you get a sound sleep. · Dim the screens of all devices, which should limit the amount of the blue light coming through. Try not to use devices in the darkroom. · Using your electronic devices outdoors can be even more harmful because the UV radiation from the sun reflects from your smartphone or tablet screen directly onto your face, doubling the impact of dangerous light radiation. · Encourage your child to engage more in outdoor sports. · Make sure the screen is positioned so that your child looks slightly down at it, not up. And adjust the lighting to eliminate glare on the screen. · Make sure you get your child’s eyes examined by an ophthalmologist. All children should undergo routine eye check-up at 1 year and another at preschool at 4 to 5 years. -Allow children to pursue hobbies of their choices instead of accessing electronic gadgets. Educate children regarding the ill-effects of continuous exposure to the blue light emitted from the gadgets. Exercise · Establish screen-free zones. No smartphone usage for anyone in the family, in the car, or while dining. Parents should make sure that children do not use mobile or any other devices while having meals. Opt for a digital detox and take time free from electronic gadgets. · 20-20-20 rule: When using a computer or other screens, make sure after 20 minutes look away to more than 20 ft distance for more than 20 seconds. This will reduce eye strain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/increased-screen-time-hurting-children-s-eyes/story-qGkvYV0mbnjTBrNEs7fGiL.html
16-08-2020||Pune||50k rapid antigen kits for rural areas of Pune district after rise in cases||After a rising number of Covid-19 cases were reported in rural parts of Pune district, district guardian minister Ajit Pawar instructed the administration to purchase 50,000 rapid antigen test kits on an immediate basis. Pawar took a review of the rural parts of Pune district on Friday when elected members raised concerns about the increasing cases in their areas. Minister Dilip Walse-Patil, Datta Bharne, MP Supriya Sule and Amol Kolhe sought more focus in rural areas as these areas do not have enough medical facilities like urban areas. During the meeting, Pawar instructed the civic body to purchase 50,000 rapid antigen kits for more testing. He even instructed the administration to bring maximum private hospitals in rural areas under the Mahatma Phule Jan Aarogya scheme. These tests kits will be only for rural areas as 1 lakh kits had already been purchased by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for the city region. “We have started the rapid antigen kit procurement process under the district plan and kits will be purchased very soon as instructed by the guardian minister. I spoke to Sudhakar Shinde who is the state director of the Mahatma Phule Scheme and have requested him to bring 52 private hospitals from Pune rural under the ambit of the scheme,” said Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. As a special case, within the next two-three days, these 52 hospitals will come under the ambit of the state health scheme and citizens will not need to pay bills for Covid treatment. As per Pune divisional commissioner, rural areas in Pune are likely to witness a surge in virus cases by next month. Rao said, “The situation is becoming alarming in rural areas and complaints started coming in that patients are not getting admission at some hospitals. Considering these complaints, the Pune city administration is launching a central hospital allotment system in rural areas.”Capacity building of ventilators and beds in rural areaPune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has said that the administration is building the health infrastructure in Pune rural area. “We got 50 ventilators from the Tata trust and of it, 26 are functional in rural areas,” he said. The guardian minister has allowed MLAs and MLCs to use their development funds to purchase medical equipment. The equipment purchased under this scheme has be utilised in the MLA’s assembly constituency only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/50k-rapid-antigen-kits-for-rural-areas-of-pune-district-after-rise-in-cases/story-vTWUPHBjLqrS4aiSd2BS9L.html
