18-08-2020||Mumbai||422 new deaths reported in Maharashtra; govt wary of Covid-19 spread during Ganeshotsav||Maharashtra reported 422 new Covid-19 fatalities on Tuesday, taking the state’s toll up to 20,687, while 11,119 fresh infections pushed up the case count to 615,477. Of the 422 deaths, however, 327 were from the past 48 hours, 67 from last week and 28 are from the period before last week, according to the state health department. The state authorities are currently wary of a spike in cases if people crowd places during Ganeshotsav, which begins on Saturday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who has expressed concern about a second wave and warned authorities, told the latter on Tuesday to be “extra cautious during the festival”. Mumbai, meanwhile, recor-ded 931 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking its tally of infections to 130,410. The city’s toll rose by 49 to 7,222. While cases in Mumbai have plateaued over the past month, Pune district, which comprises Pune City, Pune Rural and Pimpri-Chinchwad, remains the worst affected in terms of daily rise in cases and fatalities. On Tuesday, Pune City reported 1,267 new cases, Pimpri-Chinchwad 747 and Pune Rural 418. Of the 89 deaths recorded in the district, 54 were from Pune City, 16 from Pune Rural and 19 from Pimpri-Chinchwad. The state’s case fatality rate (CFR), which has been a cause for concern for the government, is still high at 3.36% against the national CFR of 1.94%.Maharashtra’s recovery rate stands at 71.14%, as 9,356 patients recovered on Tuesday, taking the total number of recovered patients to 437,870. The active Covid-19 cases in state stand at 156,608.Meanwhile, authorities are gearing up to counter a spike in cases this month-end or early September owing to crowding during Ganeshotsav. Although most parts of the state are witnessing their peak and the downward trend of infection is expected to begin by August-end, authorities and the state-level task force appointed for the clinical management of the critical patients are wary. “During today’s meeting with the collectors and divisional commissioners the chief minister has asked them to be very careful about crowding during the festival. He has asked district authorities to increase lockdown curbs during the festival and rigorously follow state guidelines. The public mandals have been asked to arrange for online darshan of Ganpati idols to avoid crowding. The CM has also been asking authorities, during review meetings, to ensure that there is no emergence of a second wave in any of the districts,” said a state official, on the condition of anonymity. Health minister Rajesh Tope said they expect the downward trend of the Covid-19 infection after mid-September. “We have been witnessing peaks across the state, but are not sure how long it will last. We have been witnessing stabilisation of cases in Malegaon, Dharavi and the spread is in control in Aurangabad. In most places, the spread has been plateaued and now the downward trend is expected,” he said, adding that district and civic authorities have been asked to go for aggressive tracking and testing and also ensure that fatality rate remains low. The CM, in the meeting with district-level officials, said parts of Maharashtra have reached their peak of Covid-19 cases, while some parts are close to getting there. “…therefore, the measures adopted till now should be implemented effectively further and without any laxity,” a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) quoted Thackeray.The chief minister also urged public Ganpati mandals to implement the guidelines issued by home department. “There will not be any processions, as per guidelines, but all precautions must be taken so that there is no crowding. It is the utmost importance to see to it that spread of coronavirus does not increase due to it,” the statement further said.Dr Avinash Bhondve, Maharashtra president of Indian Medical Association, said, “After plateau, there will be fall in the cases by month-end but there is upsurge expected if the curbs are not followed properly. This may or may not be necessarily because of Ganeshotsav.”Thackeray, during the meeting, said while cases have come under control in some areas, some other districts have seen a surge in the number of patients. Thackeray directed district administrations to take guidance from the state-level Covid task force to reduce the case fatality rate. He said districts, where more patients are testing positive for coronavirus, must ensure an adequate number of ICU beds and beds with oxygen supply.Meanwhile, Tope said the state-level Covid task force will also study the cases where people who have recovered from Covid-19 are facing respiratory issues. The health minister said the topic was discussed at length during the review meeting on Tuesday.“Recently there have been cases where recovered people are facing respiratory problems and have to be admitted. Till now, we believed that the recovered patients have built an immunity to fight the virus and that they will not face any health issues. We are seeing a new form of Covid-19. In most districts we are seeing virulence and resistance by Covid-19. The task force will carry out a study on this. We will consult the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” Tope said, after attending the CM’s review meeting.Tope said he is for opening up of gymnasiums in the state, however, the final decision rests with the chief minister. “Under the Disaster Management Act, the chief minister has the authority to announce relaxations. As health minister, my stand is and has been that there is no harm to open up gymnasiums while maintaining social distancing. There are several people who want gyms to be opened as it helps in building immunity. The chief minister is concerned about social distancing. But for that we can issue standard operating procedure (SOP) to open up gyms,” he said.The minister said that some areas that had experienced a surge in cases are now under control. He added that following the measures will remain crucial. “In several areas such as Dharavi, Aurangabad city, Malegaon, etc, the situation is now under control. The cases there have plateaued. How high the peak will be [in a particular area] is impossible to say. We have seen that the curve is flattening where antibodies have developed in 25-30 per cent [of the population]. We will have to wait and watch, but will have to continue following out protocol in a mission mode,” said Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/422-new-deaths-reported-in-maharashtra-govt-wary-of-covid-19-spread-during-ganeshotsav/story-hkOvUq1HtbffmrLafS1jMJ.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||22-year-old arrested raping minor in Naigaon||A 22-year-old Naigaon resident was arrested by Charkop police on Sunday for allegedly threatening and raping an 18-year-old woman, who was a minor at the time of the attack. The accused and the survivor were in a romantic relationship when he raped her and allegedly posted her nude photos on a social media site. He later told her that he would remove the pictures only if she allowed him to have sex with her again. According to the complainant’s statement, the sexual abuse took place between February and August 12, after which the woman decided to file a complaint on August 16 with Charkop police station. The survivor told police that she and the accused were in a relationship at the time of the incident. In February, he called her to his house at Naigaon in Palghar, where he allegedly raped her, and then took nude photos of her without her permission. The accused then posted her pictures online, and when she pleaded with him to delete them, he agreed to do so only if she continued to have sex with him. The accused then raped her before deleting the picture, and threatened her of dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident, said an officer from Charkop police station. He allegedly raped her on multiple occasions after that. “Following her complaint on August 16, we registered a first information report (FIR) against the accused and arrested him the same day,” added the officer. The accused has been booked under sections 376 (punishment for rape), and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and section 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault) 8 (punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/22-year-old-arrested-raping-minor-in-naigaon/story-tErOvDs36s8fha69rSvenL.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Monorail rakes: MMRDA makes third attempt||After two failed attempts, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has invited bids for procuring 10 monorail rakes of four coaches each. The authority is looking at engaging Indian companies to manufacture the rakes. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA said, “We have widened the scope so that more Indian companies can participate in the process.” According to officials, companies that manufacture metro rakes can also participate in the bidding now. Earlier in June, the authority had scrapped bids after it received two responses for the tender from Chinese companies, CRRC corporation Ltd and BYD Co Ltd. A senior official from MMRDA also said that the Chinese firms were continuously asking for revisions in terms and conditions. MMRDA is looking at acquiring 10 additional rakes for 19.5 km corridor since early 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monorail-rakes-mmrda-makes-third-attempt/story-9zczQx0bSvPK6FG0CPxkpI.html
18-08-2020||City||Online fruit, vegetable store files fake theft complain, booked||NRI police have booked online fruits and vegetable store staffers for trying to cover up a ₹2.2 lakh deficit in their accounts by faking a theft at their Belapur office. During the investigation, the crime branch found that no theft had occurred and that the men had allegedly submitted a fake complaint at the suggestion of an advocate. The central unit of the crime branch was roped in to investigate the theft case after Prasad Nikam, 27, filed a complaint against unknown persons on August 8. Working as a team leader at the store’s Belapur office, Nikam had told the police that the money was stolen in the early hours of August 5. Nikam had claimed that the cashier Ganpat Prajapati, 21, had told their manager Manoj Boricha, 32, that he had slept at the office on the day of theft due to heavy rains. He claimed that the shutter was open when someone stole the money from the cash drawer. When the police checked for CCTV footage and questioned the staff, they found several discrepancies. More so, no suspicious activity was seen in the CCTV footage. After questioning the complainant, it was revealed that the story of theft was fake. “On August 7, the company had conducted an audit where they found that ₹2.2 lakh was a deficit in their balance. To avoid being pulled up from their superiors, Nikam, Prajapati and Boricha sought advice from an advocate who suggested them to file a false theft case,” said a crime branch officer. Police said they suspect that the trio or other staff members may have siphoned the money over the last one year in small amounts. The NRI police will now file a B-summary report before the magistrate, as the case is false and cannot go to trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-fruit-vegetable-store-files-fake-theft-complain-booked/story-9dvIDtGw8TowqkrGO4nZ3M.html
18-08-2020||City||Monsoon Session: Polycarbonate sheets to be installed in Himachal Vidhan Sabha to protect legislators from Covid-19||The Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha will be taking a slew of measures, including installing polycarbonate sheets, to prevent legislators and their staff from contracting the Covid-19 infection during the 10-day long monsoon session, which will commence on September 7.Polycarbonate sheets will be installed in the Vidhan Sabha to separate seats of legislators and ministers. At present, two legislators share one bench. All legislators will be provided hand sanitisers and high-quality face covers and masks to protect themselves from the coronavirus. The Himachal assembly has 68 members, including the Vidhan Sabha speaker.There will be 10 sittings during the monsoon session that will conclude on September 18. Vidhan Sabha speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said September 10 will be a private-member day.The budget session of the assembly was cut short due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the 21 sittings scheduled, only 15 could be held.‘Since the budget session was cut short due to the Covid-19 crisis, we have decided to hold a longer monsoon session, “ said the CM.The main opposition party, Congress, has been continuously demanding that the government call the monsoon session of the legislative assembly. “We are expecting many issues to be taken up in the House during the monsoon session. The Covid-19 crisis should be discussed on priority,”he said. “All members of the House will be given equal opportunity to raise issues of public importance,” said ParmarThe Congress has been constantly blaming the government for handling the Covid-19 situation ineptly.During the session, the opposition will try to push the government on the backfoot by raising the issue of procurement in health department. The Congress has also charged BJP leaders of flouting social distancing norms . It escalated its attacks on chief minister Jai Ram Thakur after a deputy secretary in his office tested positive and the office was sealed for a day. Later, power minister Sukhram Chaudhary also tested positive. Former chief ministers Shanta Kumar and Prem Kumar Dhumal had gone into self-quarantine after BJP president Suresh Kashyap met them . Kashyap also home quarantined himself as he had travelled with Sukhram Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monsoon-session-polycarbonate-sheets-to-be-installed-in-himachal-vidhan-sabha-to-protect-legislators-from-covid-19/story-FgLVTNg7ctB3VkXQHir1bI.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Man booked for sexually harassing tennis player||The Oshiwara police registered a first information report (FIR) against a man on Sunday for allegedly harassing an 18-year-old tennis player by demanding sexual favours from her. The player’s mother, in her statement to the police, said,” My daughter went to Ahmedabad last year for a tournament, where she met a man. They became friends and later fell in love with each other. But things did not work out between them and they later got separated,” A few days later, the tennis player received a call from an unknown woman who claimed that someone had the complainant’s objectionable photos. “The woman threatened to reveal the photos to the academy where my daughter goes for her training, which may lead to her ban from tournaments. The woman then told my daughter that she needs to talk to a person on a messaging app who will help her get out of the situation,” the statement given by the tennis player’s mother read. The complainant got scared and did as instructed by the woman. “On the app, she came across a man who introduced himself as Dev Vipul Javiya. The tennis player started chatting with the man hoping that he would help her get out of the situation, but he allegedly demanded sexual favours in return for the photos and threatened to post her pictures on social media if she refused to the demand. The tennis player revealed the incident to her mother and they approached the police to file a complaint. Senior inspector Dayanand Bangar from Oshiwara police station said that the case is being probed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-booked-for-sexually-harassing-tennis-player/story-JpEXEkjSrdu3j9ju1d6nMI.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Cambridge International to revise grades of June series exam||A week after results of IGCSE (Class 10), AS and A level (Class 11 and 12) qualifications for the June 2020 series were declared, Cambridge International has now decided to revise its scores.In a notice issued on its official website on Monday, the board said it will revise its earlier granted grades after receiving feedback from several schools. “We have decided that the grades we issue for the June 2020 series will not be lower than the predicted grade, submitted by the school. If a grade we issued last week was higher than the predicted grade, the higher grade will stand,” states the board’s official response. The board released the results of its June series examinations on August 10. This year, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, it had decided not to hold exams for its June 2020 series. Instead, it engaged with education authorities, governments and schools around the world to develop a robust process for awarding students with assessed grades. Revised grades will be sent to students in the coming days. “In the meantime, in order to provide immediate certainty to students, schools can inform them of the predicted grades they submitted to us. We provided this information to schools on results day,” the board stated. While very few students from the city took the June series examinations, principals said the move will help them. “Predicted grades of students which are submitted by schools are usually on the basis of their overall performance throughout the year. Matching students’ grades with those scores would help better their performance. This is especially good for students who wish to compete in the state board for college admissions as every mark matters there,” said the principal of an IGCSE school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cambridge-international-to-revise-grades-of-june-series-exam/story-ZTPWZoW1IQewtyL5noWKEO.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Whale shark case: Court grants conditional bail to all 5 accused||A day after the state mangrove cell made three more arrests in the recent whale shark case, all five accused were granted conditional bail on Wednesday.Last Wednesday (August 12), the carcass of a 20-foot-long dead female whale shark was caught by a fishing boat and brought to Sassoon Dock. The shark was cut into pieces in an attempt to sell it to a distributor. The forest department had first arrested the distributor and tempo driver, and arrested remaining persons on Tuesday based on interrogations with them.All accused were charged under sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.The five accused - buyer and distributor Jan Bahadur Yadav, 49, Shamdhar Yadav, 31, trader - Krishna Vasant Buchade, 29 - who cut up the whale shark into pieces and boatmen Dilip Hari Sivakar, 40 and Gopinath Damodar Mhatre, 38 - who accidentally caught the marine animal in their net and left it at the fish landing centre at Sassoon Dock - were granted provisional cash bail of ₹15,000 each for a period of 30 days. All five persons were directed to appear before the investigative officer of the forest department between 3pm and 5pm every Saturday until the charge sheet has been filed.The court said it was visible that the entire investigation was almost complete. “The accused are residents of Mumbai. There is no possibility of their absconding. They are ready to cooperate. Hence, there is no reason to keep them behind bars for so long,” read the order signed by the AH Kashikar, additional chief metropolitan magistrate, 8th Court, Esplanade.Whale sharks (Rhincodon typus) are protected under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972. All five were arrested for violating various sections of WPA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/whale-shark-case-court-grants-conditional-bail-to-all-5-accused/story-Z7jGnFvPbGS4nmf1hDnCfL.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||MSRDC speeds up Konkan Expressway work, divides it into four stretches||In a bid to expedite works, the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has divided the entire stretch of the proposed Konkan expressway in four different stretches. The state government is planning a 500-km expressway that will connect three coastal districts of Maharashtra - Ratnagiri, Raigad and Sindhudurg.According to MSRDC, the expressway will start from Chirle in Panvel of Raigad district and connect till Patradevi at the Maharashtra-Goa border. The first part will be constructed between Chirle to Raigad-Ratnagiri district, followed by another part till Guhagar-Chiplun (NH-166E), the third stretch from Guhagar-Chiplun to Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg border and the final phase between Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg border till Patradevi. Each of the stretches will be about 100-125kms long.“We have divided the works to expedite the process,” said Radheshyam Mopalwar, vice chairman and managing director, MSRDC. The under-construction Mumbai Trans Harbour Link will also be landing at Chirle.The state authority is looking for consultants to conduct a feasibility study and prepare a detailed project report for the greenfield expressway. The project report will also dwell on the financial management, land-pooling and development of nodes along the route.In March 2020, state urban development minister Eknath Shinde had announced that a greenfield expressway will be constructed along the Maharashtra coastline. Shinde had also said that the project will help boost coastal tourism and reduce the stress along the Mumbai-Goa National Highway.MSRDC has undertaken the construction of the Samruddhi corridor, which will connect Mumbai and Nagpur in eight hours, at a cost of ₹ 55,000 crore. It has also undertaken the construction of the Versova-Bandra sea link at a cost of ₹7,000 crore and is looking at extending it till Virar at a cost of ₹24,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/msrdc-speeds-up-konkan-expressway-work-divides-it-into-four-stretches/story-NlXuqm40ycWyE7zLx5pZVO.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Three of five trapped Nashik leopards at SGNP to be released back to wild||The Maharashtra forest department has decided to release three of the five captured leopards from Nashik, which were transported to Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) Borivali, back to the wild.While the three leopards - two males (sub-adults) and one female (approximately 3 years old) - will be rehabilitated from captivity, another male leopard trapped during the first week of August at Nashik will be brought to the national park, said, officials.This also comes as a breather for SGNP officials as the leopard rescue centre could not accommodate any more rescued or captured leopards as its capacity was full (18 leopards across 18 cages).The decision to release the animals was based on directions passed by the state’s principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF wildlife). “I have instructed the Nashik forest department to release three leopards as early as possible since they have no connection with the human-animal conflict cases. We have ensured there is the least amount of human imprint during their temporary stay in captivity,” said Nitin Kakodkar, PCCF (wildlife), Maharashtra. These three leopards were captured on July 2, 12 and 21.Leopards from the wild kept in captivity for long alter their natural course of survival as these cats get dependent on a particular time for feeding and begin losing instincts including hunting. “Thus, their early rehabilitation is critical,” said Kakodkar.Nashik forest officials said they were aware of the release. “Either on Thursday or Friday, we will be transporting the captured adult male with us to SGNP, and taking the three leopards for release at an undisclosed location in territorial forest areas in Nashik itself,” said Vivek Bhadane, range forest officer, Nashik. Bhadane said the department had trapped 13 leopards throughout July and one the first week of August from territorial forest areas. “While five leopards were sent to SGNP, one in Nashik forest department custody, remaining were released back in the wild,” he said.Leopard captures were carried out in an attempt to address human-animal conflict across a 12-km stretch along the Darna river (between Sinnar and Eklahare) where leopard numbers had risen significantly leading to a surge in conflict with five deaths and five serious injuries reported since December 2019.A preliminary report based on the analysis tissue samples of the deceased and swab samples of the trapped leopards by the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, an adult male leopard was identified to be responsible for conflict cases. “Once we realised this, we began drafting the plan to release the female leopards and the sub-adult male. However, as far as the two other captured adult males are concerned, we will await further communication from CCMB but no decision on their release has been taken so far,” said Kakodkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-of-five-trapped-nashik-leopards-at-sgnp-to-be-released-back-to-wild/story-fwWbN4TytPdKwq6Aw3d7IO.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||30-year-old man held for builder’s murder||Juhu police on Tuesday arrested 30-year-old Abdul Rehman Abdul Latif Shaikh alias Sonu for the murder of 55-year-old real estate developer and chairman of Al Sofi group, Abdul Munaf Shaikh on Monday morning. Shaikh, a resident of Saifi House in Andheri, West, was walking towards the mosque at around 6am on Monday morning when an unknown person wearing a cap attacked the builder from behind, slit his throat and stabbed him multiple times with a chopper. According to Juhu police officers, Sonu was unhappy that his father had sold a plot measuring three acres at Junaid Nagar in Andheri to Shaikh. Sonu was unhappy because he believed that his father had sold the plot at a cheaper rate. He had also threatened the victim on many occasions. Sonu also had gone ahead and encroached a small portion of the plot and built a shop on the land Shaikh had purchased. However, in 2019, Shaikh demolished the shop after he decided to develop the plot, said an officer. But since then Shaikh has been receiving threats from Sonu. In October 2019, the victim had filed a written complaint and marked his copy to the state home minister, Mumbai police commissioner and the joint commissioner of police (crime) stating that he faced a threat to his life and that people were stalking him. The complaint was passed on to DN Nagar police station for enquiry but an FIR was not registered. Later, Shaikh in another letter dated January 7, 2020, again wrote asking for an FIR to be registered and for necessary action to be taken. The letter was written by him in January, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, states, “A few criminals from our area including Abdul Rehman Abdul Latif Shaikh also known as Sonu has hatched a conspiracy to kill me during my walk for early morning prayers to the nearby mosque. He (Sonu) had further informed me that the said goons had waited for me, armed with weapons, on a few occasions to attack me.” The letter goes on to state, “The said goons were learnt to have previous criminal cases at DN Nagar, Versova, Amboli and Juhu police station. Last year, they had even thrown firearms into a nullah at Juhu Galli, when DN Nagar police team had visited their house.” Parmeshwar Ganme, senior inspector from DN Nagar police station confirmed that they had received a letter in October 2019 from the victim. “We inquired into the case, but we did not find anything at that time,” said Ganme. Police sources said that both Sonu and the victim were called to the police station and the matter was sorted out. But on Monday morning, Shaikh was murdered. Police officers said that Sonu had contracted the person who attacked Shaikh. Soon after the attack, the assailant went to his friend’s place, changed his clothes and is now on the run. Juhu police officers have recovered the blood-stained clothes from the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/30-year-old-man-held-for-builder-s-murder/story-5bLuLHWuwEwvWgip08pudJ.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Philippines government to follow Dharavi model to curb Covid spread in slums||The Philippines government will follow the Dharavi model to contain the Covid outbreak in their densely populated slums, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Tuesday. BMC has shared the details of the Dharavi model with the Philippine government’s health department. “The Philippines government will follow the Dharavi model. Team BMC shows the way to the world to fight Covid-19 virus, on front foot,” said Chahal. Chahal also shared a news report from Philippine daily Inquirer.net. The news report read: “The DOH declared that it would follow the successful Dharavi-Mumbai campaign conceptualised by Assistant Municipal Commissioner Kiran Dighavkar. Dharavi in India is Asia’s largest slum where the Hollywood movie, Slumdog Millionaire, was shot.” Dharavi is India’s largest slum, with over 8.5 lakh people living in around 55,000 dwelling units spread across approximately 2.5sqkm. The population density here is 3.4 lakh per sqkm. On an average, in Dharavi, 8 to 10 people live in a 100-sqft room, making social distancing virtually impossible.The Dharavi model includes testing in high numbers, moving positive patients to institutional quarantine facilities, shifting high- and low-risk contacts to separate quarantine facilities, and treating patients in time. BMC organised fever camps, door-to-door surveys, used private clinics and dispensaries to reach a maximum number of people and detect Covid-19 early, according to Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G North administrative ward, with jurisdiction over Dharavi. Dharavi has seen cases in single digits for the past few days, and its curve flattened by the end of June. On Monday, Dharavi recorded four new cases, and five each on Saturday and Sunday. It saw nine new cases on Friday, and six on Thursday. This is in contrast to number of cases that were being reported in a single day in May, when Dharavi saw its peak of the infection. On May 3, Dharavi recorded its single day highest number of cases at 94. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Dharavi has touched 2,672, with only 80 active cases. Currently, the doubling rate in Dharavi is 269 days, and growth rate is 0.27%, in contrast to May when the growth rate was at its peak at 4.8%. Dighavkar said, “We are giving the Philippines government information on how we conducted fever camps in Dharavi, and carried out contact tracing, and organised institutional quarantining.” Over the past few weeks, Dighavkar has been flooded with calls from municipal corporations in cities of Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Kolhapur, for guidance. Chahal said, “BMC’s Chase the Virus Policy has shown the world the way to fight Covid-19, but BMC is not complacent. We will never lower our guard.” Chahal pointed out that doubling rate in Mumbai is now 86 days, with a low infection rate of 0.8%, and a discharge rate of 81%. Mumbai has done 6.6 lakh tests. He said, “There are 17,800 active cases in Mumbai, symptomatic patients in hospitals are 5,388 and 7,548+ beds are vacant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/philippines-government-to-follow-dharavi-model-to-curb-covid-spread-in-slums/story-VOeD6lsv4buQRE0sB1PiUL.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||2 months on, BMC yet to start screening patients via 10 new X-ray vans||Almost two months after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) procured 10 vans and X-ray machines to screen individuals for Covid-19, the mobile facility has not started functioning as the x-ray machines do not fit in the vehicles. Five of the machines have been installed in Covid jumbo centres while the remaining five are lying at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital.With residential complexes reporting a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, the civic body, in a bid to diagnose more patients from housing societies, decided to use X-ray vans to screen people across various localities, to detect abnormalities in the chest owing to the presence of Sars-Cov-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19. For this purpose, in July BMC procured 10 X-ray machines and vans.The X-ray machines were to be fitted in the vans and synced for analysis with the radiology department of KEM Hospital. However, the hospital was unable to fit the machines into the vehicles. “Even though the machines are portable, they are still too bulky to be fit into a van. The civic body should have used one as a pilot project before procuring all 10 X-ray machines,” said an officer from BMC.“These machines are worth lakhs. Before making such random decisions, the civic body needs to be more careful,” said the officer. However, Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital, has claimed that the radiology department has been able to fix one machine in a van, and soon, screenings will begin.“With some alterations, we have been able to fit one machine into a van. We will fix the other machines soon and start screening people through chest X-rays,” he said.These X-ray machines, with the help of artificial intelligence (AI), will scan the images of people and provide the report within minutes. If an X-ray report raises suspicion among doctors, the resident will be tested either through rapid antigen test or reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.According to doctors, Sars-Cov-2 affects the lungs of patients, and X-ray scans may help in identifying the virus earlier. The radiological screening of lungs helps in distinguishing Sars-Cov-2 from other respiratory infections.“These scans help in identifying small patchy, translucent white areas in the lungs that we call ‘ground-glass opacities’ or GGOs. It forms cotton-like white spots in lungs,” said Dr Natasha Nanda, a radiologist from Dr LH Hiranandani Hospital.China, where the virus first broke out and spread to the rest of the world, first started using X-ray screenings to identify suspected individuals and installed the machines at all fever clinics in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-months-on-bmc-yet-to-start-screening-patients-via-10-new-x-ray-vans/story-3PMABYdchAGqz3ofPZBS5N.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Form mechanism in 2 weeks to curb private hospitals from overcharging Covid patients: HC to state||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday expressed its displeasure with the state for not having a proper mechanism in place to restrain private hospitals from overcharging Covid-19 patients. The court directed the state to inform the court about a concrete mechanism within two weeks. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Revati Mohite Dere was hearing a petition filed by an advocate, complaining of the exorbitant charges collected by private hospitals across the state for the treatment of Covid-19 as well as non-Covid patients. The bench, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Abhijeet Mangade, was informed that private hospitals were overcharging patients admitted for Covid-19 treatment for PPE kits. He submitted that while the government was procuring each kit for ₹378, private hospitals were charging much more for it. Mangade further submitted that though the state in its May 21 circular had put a cap of the charges private hospitals could recover from patients, there were two instances in which his acquaintances had been overcharged for treatment. Mangade further submitted that he did not seek any directions against the two hospitals that had allegedly overcharged his acquaintances, but wanted the court to address the larger issue of the general public who faced such exploitation. He further submitted that as the state had not put a proper mechanism in place to keep a tab on private hospitals, private hospitals were overcharging patients in an unbridled manner. The state, through assistant government pleader Nisha Mehra, submitted that municipal commissioners and district collectors were empowered to address the issue and action had been taken against hospitals that were found overcharging patients. She added that the authorities concerned had also directed the hospitals to refund the excess amounts charged. She further added that through an August 7 circular, flying squads had been constituted to visit private hospitals and ensure that they did not resort to overcharging. When the court sought to know the progress of the flying squads, Mehra said she did not have the data and required two weeks to submit it. The court then observed, “The government has not paid attention to the aspect of charging mentioned in the May 21 circular. We expect the state to apply its mind on the same and come up with a proper mechanism to address the concerns raised by the petitioner.” The state was asked to file an affidavit detailing the mechanism within two weeks. “We know that the state of affairs and how the government mechanism works, hence it would require two weeks,” said the chief justice, when Mangade sought a shorter date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/form-mechanism-in-2-weeks-to-curb-private-hospitals-from-overcharging-covid-patients-hc-to-state/story-R9AHNDX2Y4Zh5ial8z0TpJ.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||‘Surplus’ teachers can report to nearest school, help with online classes: Maharashtra education department||As schools in Maharashtra continue to teach students online, the state education department in a circular released on Monday asked teachers, who have been declared ‘surplus’ in their schools and are yet to get a fresh appointment elsewhere, to report to any school near their homes to help with virtual classes. As per department norms, if a school has more teachers than the student-teacher ratio of 30:1 per class, the appointments of surplus teachers are cancelled and they are transferred to other schools with vacancies. However in the current situation, as teachers cannot be asked to travel due to lockdown-related restrictions, the department has allowed them to work with the nearest schools. “Such teachers can help schools with the online teaching-learning process like conducting classes, planning academic activities etc. This will also help schools in working more efficiently during the ongoing pandemic,” stated the circular. While there is no clear estimation on how many teachers are yet to get the postings, the state has more than 10,000 surplus teachers. The department has also asked local authorities to relieve teachers who were earlier engaged in Covid-related duties, so that they can join their respective schools. “It has been decided to relieve such teachers with immediate effect,” said state education minister Varsha Gaikwad in a tweet on Monday. Schools have welcomed the decision, but said that the local authorities will have to intervene in the issue. “It should not happen that many surplus teachers report at the same school, while others continue to have none,” said a principal of a Thane-based school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/surplus-teachers-can-report-to-nearest-school-help-with-online-classes-maharashtra-education-department/story-RrBKK4kSaMZo6YguvfPahP.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Heads of private hospitals could face civil, criminal action if they refuse to admit Covid-19 patients: HC||Heads of private hospitals requisitioned for treatment of Covid-19 patients may face civil and criminal proceedings if they refuse to admit patients despite having beds available.Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the state government to appropriately warn requisitioned private hospitals that their directors, heads, or owners would be held liable for civil and criminal action if any Covid­19 patients are turned away despite the availability of beds.The bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Shrikant Kulkarni issued the directive along with a slew of guidelines and directives for containing the spread of Covid-19 in the Marathwada region.The bench was hearing a suo-motu petition concerning several issues and complaints about the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in 13 districts of the region.After hearing the government, local bodies and police authorities, the bench directed all district collectors of the 13 districts to form a task force, which will be functional round-the-clock to coordinate all efforts being made to contain Covid-19.The bench also directed that helplines should be made available immediately to answer frequently-asked questions about Covid care infrastructure, government and private Covid care centres, the availability of beds, etc.Besides, the task force has also been entrusted with the duty of regulating charges to be levied by private hospitals, to ensure compliance thereof and handle complaints regarding overcharging and billing by these hospitals.The bench directed that routine medical tests of doctors, paramedics and employees deployed on Covid-­19 duty should be carried out to safeguard their health given their exposure to the coronavirus infection.HC has suggested that the district administrations should also consider deploying mobile laboratories to conduct rapid antigen tests to make it convenient for the public at large and especially senior citizens or patients with co­morbidities to undergo tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heads-of-private-hospitals-could-face-civil-criminal-action-if-they-refuse-to-admit-covid-19-patients-hc/story-H76Ay4ij9JP2bMrLvw7kfK.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||2 die of malaria and Covid-19 dual infection: BMC||The city has started recording a gradual rise in the number of malaria cases with the ongoing monsoon season. For the first time since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has recorded two deaths where the duo was suffering from a combination of malaria and novel coronavirus infection.As per data provided by BMC, a total of 592 people in the city have been diagnosed with malaria until August 16. The two deaths have resulted in breaking the city’s decade-long record of zero fatalities due to malaria.In the first case, a 27-year-old man from G North ward, that covers Dharavi and Dadar, on August 3 within 24 hours of hospitalisation. “The patient had developed a fever and started vomiting from July 30. He was first taken to a local hospital where his condition started deteriorating further. Later, when he was diagnosed with Covid-19, he was admitted to a civic-run hospital but his condition was too severe,” said a health officer from BMC. The patient was an alcoholic, which had further compromised his immunity.In the second case, a 40-year-old man from M East ward, that covers Govandi, died on August 4. The patient developed fever and cough on July 25 when he was receiving treatment at a hospital in Navi Mumbai. He was shifted to a civic-run hospital in Mumbai on July 29 when his condition worsened. After running a diagnosis, he was found positive for Covid-19 and malaria. His cause of death has been marked as a type-1 respiratory failure with Covid-19 pneumonia with malaria.Both victims were from wards which were once hot spots for Covid-19 infection. Local activists claim that with all the focus on Covid-19, BMC has failed to pay attention to precautionary measures for monsoon-related ailments.“Considering these two areas comprise the biggest slums of Mumbai, every year we witness a large number of malaria and dengue cases. But with civic officials busy controlling the spread of Covid-19, they didn’t fog the vulnerable areas. The drains are clogged and overflowing. The lanes haven’t been cleaned, and are filled with mosquito breeding grounds,” said Dr Ansari Sheikh, a general physician and activist from Dharavi.BMC health officers refuted the allegations. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC said that every year during monsoon, the city records the highest number of malaria cases in August and September. “Both patients had Covid-19, so we can’t say the cause of death was malaria. However, we have increased our routine surveillance and are spraying insecticides in all wards,” she said. Last year, in August, 824 cases of malaria were reported.The city has reported a lower number of other monsoon-related ailments this year, till August 16. In the same period, 16 patients have been diagnosed with leptospirosis and five with dengue. No cases of swine flu have been recorded.BMC has instructed all private practitioners to provide doxycycline to patients with fever, to avoid further complications related to leptospirosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-die-of-malaria-and-covid-19-dual-infection-bmc/story-BoSuHtgq9ISa5r1ocbAw4M.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC to test those above 50 years in containment zones||Starting this week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has started to proactively conduct Covid-19 tests – both rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests – on citizens above 50 years of age with co-morbidities living in containment zones and sealed buildings. Along with senior citizens, high-risk contacts from these areas will also be tested. So far, only symptomatic patients were being proactively tested by BMC. However, new directives by the municipal commissioner ordered such tests on asymptomatic senior citizens as well as high-risk contacts. All 24 administrative wards have been asked to scale up their daily Covid testings. Ward officials will set up week-long testing camps at specific locations in their wards where citizens can get themselves tested. Antigen kits are being used more for Covid tests than RT-PCR, as the results of the former are out within 15-20 minutes. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “The idea behind this is early detection and treatment of comorbid patients. Senior citizens should be given early treatment for which detecting the virus in time is important. Further, we will also conduct testing of senior citizens beyond containment zones and sealed buildings.” Sanjog Kabre, assistant municipal commissioner of P North ward (Malad), said, “With more cases in high-rises, we are setting up camps outside housing societies for Covid testing. Prior to this, our daily testing number was around 100-150. We will now push it up to 500 daily tests, including antigen kits. We are also visiting workplaces of frontline staff and conducting antigen tests there.” Recently, the civic body narrowed down its focus to 10 administrative wards, which account for 46% of Mumbai’s total. The plan was to increase testing and deploy more personnel to visit containment zones, among other measures, in these wards. The wards that have been selected on the basis of their Covid-19 cases growth rate, doubling rate, positivity rate and fatality rate are R-North (Dahisar), R-South (Kandivli), R-Central (Borivli), S (Bhandup), N (Ghatkopar), T (Mulund), G-North (Dadar-Mahim), M-East (Govandi), P-North (Malad) and L (Kurla). On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 931 Covid-19 cases with total infected cases in the city reaching 130,410, followed by 49 deaths taking the toll to 7,222, according to the state health department data. As per BMC’s data, of the 49 deaths, three were of patients below 40 years of age, 31 of patients above 60 years, and 15 patients were between 40 and 60 years. The data further stated that 892 patients recovered and were discharged on Tuesday. A total of 105,193 patients have been treated and discharged so far. The number of active patients in the city is 17,704. Further, total Covid tests done till Monday stood at 6.63 lakh. Meanwhile, Dharavi reported four new cases on Tuesday. The tally of the slum is 2,676.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-test-those-above-50-years-in-containment-zones/story-16ygdMq7iYh5CmXWivp64H.html
18-08-2020||Gurugram||Property registrations to happen only in revenue estates where records are online||Property registrations in Gurugram that was to begin from August 17 is likely to be postponed as the revenue department is still fine-tuning the new software system. When the process does begin, the district administration said, registrations will be carried out only in those revenue estates where records known as jamabandi have been digitised.Jamabandi contains entries regarding Ownership, cultivation and up-to-date of various rights on the land. All changes of rights coming to the notice of the revenue agency are reflected in the jamabandi “There are 40 revenue estates (of 291) in the district where ‘jamabandi’ records have not been digitised. The new software shall plug loopholes and ensure a transparent system,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram.Haryana government had banned registration of property deeds from July 22 after a probe revealed many illegal registries were carried out during the lockdown period from March 22. A number of revenue officials in the district have also been booked for violating property registration rules.Khatri said that as far as the illegal registries were concerned, only a civil court could decide their fate as there was no provision under revenue rules to cancel them. “Only if the government amends rules in this matter can the department can take action,” he said.District revenue officer Basti Ram his department was engaged in digitising revenue records and expected it to be completed soon. “We are working to completely digitize the record and also awaiting directions with regard to registration from headquarter in Chandigarh. We hope in next couple of days things would be back on track and in a better way,” he said.Meanwhile, the property dealers and brokers in the city said that they had been suffering since the ban on registrations. “First, deals could not happen during lockdown, and when things were beginning to move, the ban happened. This way, business has been badly hit,” said Subash Sharma, a broker based in sector 23.Last month, Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala had said that government was planning to amend the rules and change the size of the plot and definition of urban area land to plug illegal registries. Instead of two kanals, which is present norm for agricultural land to obtain a no objection certificate from the administration, the government is proposing to increase it to one acre. The definition of land would be changed from agricultural to vacant land, he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/property-registrations-to-happen-only-in-revenue-estates-where-records-are-online/story-9Mh28HecC5FCqQgL1YkraI.html
18-08-2020||Gurugram||Ggm positivity rate declines to 6.95%; fourth highest in the state||Gurugram’s Covid-19 test positivity rate (TR) dipped below 7% since June, according to the recent state health department data. On Tuesday, Gurugram’s positivity rate stood at 6.95%, lower than Faridabad, Panipat and Rewari districts that had a rate between 8% to 11%, the highest in Haryana. Test positivity rate is the percentage of positive cases out of the total Covid-19 tests conducted. It is an important parameter to estimate the prevalence of infection and helps in locating areas where virus is spreading rapidly. A higher test positive rate is usually an indication of higher transmission in the community, with chances of more people having contracted the virus but haven’t been tested. Gurugram still is higher than the state average of 5.6%, but is lower than the national average of 8%. In June, when the Union government announced the first phase of resuming economic activity through “Unlock 1”, the positivity rate of the district was 18%. In July, which saw steep rise in cases and a concomitant increase in testing with the introduction of antigen testing, it reduced to 8% by the last week. Gurugram health officials said they aim to reduce the rate to 5% by focussing on on areas where there has been a resurgence of Covid-19. An advisory issued by the World Health Organization in May read: “Less than 5% of samples positive for Covid-19 at the least for the last two weeks, assuming that surveillance for suspected cases is comprehensive.”Dr. Virender Yadav, Gurugram chief medical officer said, “To further reduce the test positivity rate in Gurugram, the department has increased testing and have been responding to those tested positive by isolating them at their homes or admitting high-risks contacts in hospitals. It is over the time, the test positivity has come down drastically. Increased testing, timely test results and contact tracing has led to the decline,” said Yadav. According to him, Gurugram is able to do contact tracing of 96% cases which are being tested positive.Till now, 138,921 samples have been tested in Gurugram, out of which 64,591 were through rapid antigen tests and 74,330 were RT-PCR tests. Considering the positivity rate of antigen tests which is nearly 2-3%, while that of RT-PCR is 7-9%, Yadav said, “RT-PCR and antigen tests are being conducted in proportion. If 700-1000 RT-PCR test on an average is being conducted in a day then 1000-1200 antigen tests are also being done. In August alone 35,000 tests have been done including both the tests.” According to him, the district would have done a total of one lakh tests per million population by Wednesday, which will be the highest in the state. Since certain areas in the city are noticing resurgence of Covid-19 cases, testing camps will be organised to further lower the positivity rate. “These are some of the densely populated areas which were once the worst-affected areas like Wazirabad, Tigra, Chanderlok and Sohna. Antigen testing camps will be held on a weekly bases to trace cases and break the chain of transmission,” said Yadav. Wazirabad has reported more than 700 cases since June. Likewise, Chanderlok and Tigra have reported more than 600-700 cases. Sohna has also been one of the affected having at least 14% positivity rate in mid-July. POSITIVITY RATE: OTHER DISTRICTS Currently, Faridabad has the highest positivity rate of 10.9% followed by Panipat (9%) and Rewari ( 8%). While the remaining 18 districts have positive rates between 5.8% to 1.2%. Data shows that Jind has the lowest positivity rate of 1.2%. In the last week of July, Gurugram’s positivity rate stood at 8.5% , third in the state after Faridabad (13.8%) and Rewari (9.0%). The positivity rate of Panipat was 5.6% at that time. According to Rajib Dasgupta, chairperson, centre of social medicine and community health, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), based on the positivity rate districts can be divided into two groups. “One group comprises of districts with positive rate above 5%, which are mostly big cities like Ambala, Panchkula, Sonepat, Faridabad, Panipat, Rewari. On the other hand, the second group comprises of nearly half of the districts with positive rates below 5% but where numbers are gradually increasing. These districts require more attention as they might lack testing infrastructure compared to any other big cities. Increased testing and monitoring of cases is crucial in these districts to control the mortality rate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ggm-positivity-rate-declines-to-6-95-fourth-highest-in-the-state/story-tEPnXKGdeEUQA75OctSh3J.html
18-08-2020||City||MCG house meeting on Aug 28, issue of revenue roads likely to be raised||Gurugram: The status of selling or exchanging revenue roads in residential areas is likely to be among the final list of agendas that will be discussed in the house meeting of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on August 28.Other issues likely to be on the table would be isolation centres in residential areas, transfer of private colonies, and MCG’s sapling drives.The MCG is scheduled to hold the house meeting at a community centre in sector 27, invitations for which were sent to all 35 councillors and senior officials of the MCG on Tuesday.“At least 26 out of 35 councillors have already submitted their list of agendas for next week’s house meeting. I had informed councillors that they could include agendas that were part of the earlier list or submit a new list altogether. By the end of this week, the final agenda list will be prepared and shared to all councillors and relevant officials prior to the meeting,” said Mayor Madhu Azad.Revenue roads are a major issue across the city as a large number of townships, condominiums, societies have revenue roads passing through them that largely serve no purpose.These are essentially small vacant land owned by the government in residential areas. Private builders or residents welfare associations cannot construct or barricade it.In administrative language, a revenue road is a path in a village which connected residential areas to agricultural lands or fields. When the city urbanised rapidly in the late 1990s and early 2000s, while the villages became townships, these revenue road stretches remained.In 2018, the MCG proposed to allow private builders to buy them under the existing circle rates or exchange it with a land of equal size elsewhere. Since then there has been little progress.Apart from this, councillors are likely to look into the MCG taking over Sushant Lok 2 and 3.MCG was scheduled to hold a house meeting on July 7, at the same venue. However, with MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh having to attend a state-level meeting on the same date, it was cancelled. Officials said that several of the pending agendas which were not addressed due to the cancellation are likely to be repeated on August 28.The status on MCG’s sapling drive which started on June 27 is also one such agenda which is likely to be repeated again. Initially, the MCG had set a target of planting more than 40,000 saplings, however, following strong response by RWAs they have tripled their objective and are targeting to plant over 120,000 saplings across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcg-house-meeting-on-aug-28-issue-of-revenue-roads-likely-to-be-raised/story-xiZTgFBdMS4tYMTvjlQ7ZI.html
18-08-2020||Gurugram||GMDA drafts SOP for maintenance of green belts, will fence such areas to keep out encroachments||The Gururgam Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has completed drafting a standard operating procedure (SOP) to ensure uniform development and maintenance of green belts in the city, officials privy to the development said on Tuesday. The new guidelines contain provisions for protection of green areas as well as for private companies that wish to maintain green belts in Gurugram using CSR (corporate social responsibility) funds.Subash Yadav, metropolitan green planner in GMDA’s urban environment division, said, “Maintaining green belts has been a struggle for us. But over the past year, the authority has made a focused effort on clearing encroachments from such areas, and the next step is to restore the greenery. However, we realised a uniform, step-by-step directive is needed for the same, which is what the SOP is for.”The 13-page document lays emphasis on site selection and preparation, stating, “The success of plantation and aesthetic value of green belt depends on quality of site preparation.” It provides user agencies with detailed instructions on how to remove civil debris and rank vegetation, how to plow and prepare the soil, and how to ensure that the green belts remain sufficiently irrigated. The SOP also calls for fencing of green belts to keep out encroachments. “Fencing is the second most important component of development of green belts. Fencing helps in protection of plants from biotic interference,” the SOP states. “Until now, fencing of green areas was not a step we had considered. But given our past experience in maintaining green belts, we think it is necessary now,” Yadav added.As for the plantation process itself, the SOP dictates that trees and shrubs must be planted in horizontal rows of three, with flowering species in the first, outermost row, including native species such as amaltas, dhak, and harsingar trees. The second row will consist of ‘avenue trees’ that grow to a uniform height, such as silveroak, moulsari and kachnar trees. In the innermost third row, user agencies will be expected to plant taller ‘long rotation’ trees that will shade the green belt, and whose products may be harvested in the future, such as jamun, peepal, neem and semal trees.Rajbir Singh Bondwal, advisor, GMDA urban environment division, said, “We have also provided guidelines for continued maintenance of these areas, which is the most important thing.” Bondwal further said that getting private companies to care for green belts has so far been a challenge without a uniform protocol. “Now that all user agencies have a singular document that they can refer to, regular maintenance will become much simpler, and agencies can be held accountable in case of lapses,” he said. To demonstrate the utility of its newly drafted document, GMDA last week began a plantation drive in Behmrampur village on the occasion of Independence Day, while other plantation drives in Dhanwapur, Sikandepur, Chandu Budera, Badshahpur and Wazirabad are on the anvil. “These are in the tendering process and will be funded by GMDA. They will serve as a model for corporate partners, who is expected to maintain their allocated green belts on the same lines,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-drafts-sop-for-maintenance-of-green-belts-will-fence-such-areas-to-keep-out-encroachments/story-7VeOGH8psuMrj4m4QYpMDL.html
18-08-2020||Gurugram||First-year engineering student shoots himself dead in Sector 84||A first-year student of marine engineering allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself at his brother’s house in Sector 84 on Monday evening, said the police. The police said that the deceased had come to Gurugram during the lockdown and was staying with his elder brother for the last four months. His father was undergoing treatment in a private hospital in the city and his elder brother was with his ailing father when the incident took place. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said the police control room received a phone call, reporting that a man was found shot dead in an apartment building of a residential colony. Following this, a team from the Vatika police post was sent to the spot. “A countrymade pistol was found lying on the bed and the man was found lying in a pool of blood,” he said. During investigation, it was revealed that the family members were not aware of the reason behind the suicide, said police, adding that so suicide note was recovered from the spot. Sangwan said the family is also unaware of the fact that the deceased had a countrymade pistol. “The brother, on whose statement the case has been registered, said that he is unaware from whom his brother had acquired the weapon and the possible reason behind acquiring the gun. There was no issue within the family that might have prompted him to end his life,” he said. The elder brother in his statement to the police said that he received a call from his brother at 6.30pm and he asked him at what time he was reaching home. Around 8.30pm, the complainant reached home and found the door to be locked. He tried reaching out to his brother but his mobile phone was switched off. He then approached the society’s maintenance office for duplicate keys but they didn’t have any. The brother then called a carpenter, who broke a glass adjacent to the wooden gate after which the complainant opened the door and entered inside the apartment. “As soon as he discovered his brother’s dead body, he informed his family members, relatives and friends and then called police control room. No suicide note was found from the spot,” said Sangwan. The body was handed over to the family members after the post-mortem examination on Tuesday, said the police. A case under section Arms Act was registered at Kherki Daula police station and a probe is underway, said police. The police are also scanning his call records to find out the motive.Gurugram does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/first-year-engineering-student-shoots-himself-dead-in-sector-84/story-XFZhBzy7CDVH5r3n2mozoL.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Gangster Ejaz Lakdawala tests positive for Covid-19||Gangster Ejaz Lakdawala, a former associate of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, who was arrested by Mumbai Police in January, has tested positive for Covid-19.The anti-extortion cell (AEC) of the crime branch on August 8 had taken police custody of Lakdawala from Taloja jail, in connection with a fake passport case in which his daughter Sonia Lakdawala alias Sonia Shaikh is also an accused.After his police custody was over, the gangster was supposed to return to Taloja jail. Since the state has made it mandatory for all new inmates to undergo Covid testing before being lodged in the jail, Lakdawala was tested a few days ago. “His test result came positive. He was immediately admitted to GT Hospital’s high-security ward. His condition is stable and he has no major Covid symptoms,” said a crime branch officer.All the AEC personnel who came in close contact with the accused have been asked to home quarantine, said a senior police officer.It is not clear whether he contracted the virus in jail or while in police custody.Lakdawala has been on India’s most-wanted list from 1998 when he escaped from Nashik jail. He was wanted in 27 cases of murder and attempt to murder and in 80 cases of threatening businessmen for extortion in Mumbai alone.During his initial years, Lakdawala was among the close confidants of Dawood who used to provide logistical support to D-Company members in Mumbai for extorting money from Bollywood film producers and businessmen. But after Rajan split with Dawood, Lakdawala chose to work with Rajan. While on the run for years, he had stayed in Malaysia, Bangkok, South Africa and Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gangster-ejaz-lakdwala-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-hYWgbhUhohdh3CDt5huX0O.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Fadnavis writes to CM Thackeray regarding high fatality rate, seeks increase in tests||Former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday wrote another letter to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, pointing to the high fatality rate in Mumbai and demanding an increase in testing capacity. In the letter, Fadnavis said that the city’s Covid-19 case fatality rate in the last 17 days of August stood at 5.40%. Around 7,000 tests were being carried out daily, but considering the city’s population, this was too less.Fadnavis said that the only way to tackle the spread of Covid-19 was to test more aggressively to identify positive patients, isolate and treat them. “Despite insistence, I cannot fathom why the number of tests is not being increased. Even though the case fatality rate in the country is now at 1.92%, Mumbai’s has consistently hovered at 5%”, said Fadnavis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fadnavis-writes-to-cm-thackeray-regarding-high-fatality-rate-seeks-increase-in-tests/story-lEZ1AQIz9vZCpxcMQXfvXN.html
18-08-2020||Gurugram||Bank executive’s death: Victim’s last location near Sector 39||The Special Investigation Team (SIT), probing the death of a 38-year-old senior executive of a private bank, whose body was fished out from a water treatment plant in Delhi, has found that the victim’s last traced location was near Unitech Cyber Park in Sector 39 at 8.02pm on August 5 — roughly 17 minutes prior to his disappearance. The police said probe has revealed that at the same time, both the mobile phones that he was carrying were turned off. The police are now checking all the CCTVs of the approach roads leading to Sector 46, near his residence and the Delhi-Gurugram border to ascertain the circumstances leading to the victim’s disappearance. In one of the CCTV footage, the victim can be seen walking in a service lane near green belt in Sector 46 for a few metres. A police official, who is part of the three-member SIT, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The victim had two mobile phones with him at the time of his disappearance. Both were turned off at 8.02pm. We are checking his call records and the CCTVs in the areas where he was last seen.” Dheeraj Ahlawat, 38, who was working in the department of corporate loans for a private bank, was last seen walking near a service lane around 7.45pm on August 5. His family said that he had gone for a walk with a friend at 7pm. Around 7.30pm, his wife had called him and he told her over the phone that he was nearby and would return shortly. At 7.42pm, his friend went home, leaving him alone. The police said at 8.30pm, when his wife called him again, both his phones were found switched off. The family members then contacted his friends and relatives and tried to locate him. On August 6, they filed a missing person’s complaint under Section 346 of Indian Penal Code at the Sector 50 police station. A day later, the victim’s body was found by a Delhi police team of K N Katju police station from Haiderpur water treatment plant in Rohini. Since the body was yet to be identified, it was kept it in a hospital for identification. The body only had an undergarment and was partially decomposed. P K Mishra, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Rohini district, Delhi, said, “The body was recovered from a mesh in water treatment plant in Haiderpur. After its identification, the post-mortem examination was conducted and the probe was handed over to Gurugram police, with whom an FIR was already registered.” His father, Raj Singh, said, “One of our relatives is a sub-inspector in Delhi police. We contacted him for help in locating my son. Through his contacts and database, he told us that on August 12, a similar looking body had been traced in Rohini area. The body was decomposed since it had been in water but we identified him through his built and a ‘rakhi’, which my daughter had tied on his hands on August 3. It had the word, ‘veera’ written on it. He was found in his undergarments. He did not have enmity with anyone and did not mention any threat from anyone to us before. Every day around 7pm, he used to take a break and go for a stroll. He always carried two mobile phones, in case one died. He would not venture too far without informing us.” After the post-mortem examination in Delhi on August 13, the kidnapping charge was added to the FIR. The police said the body did not have external injuries but the cause of death would be established after the post-mortem report comes out. An SIT was formed on Monday after the victim’s family met the police commissioner, demanding a probe and alleged that police had not carried out a proper investigation after they had initially approached the police. Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “It is a blind case and we have initiated the probe. The post-mortem report is awaited. We shall check CCTVs in the areas and also write to his employers. We shall conduct a thorough probe” A spokesperson of the private bank for whom the victim worked was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bank-executive-s-death-victim-s-last-location-near-sector-39/story-JSVgaiLZZ2U7o5FqOzCcAM.html
18-08-2020||Gurugram||Man wanted in 53 criminal cases nabbed by cops in Nuh||The police arrested a 36-year-old man wanted in 53 criminal cases, including robbery, theft , ATM loot, murder, attempt to murder and kidnapping, from the Nuh district on Sunday, after a brief chase and an exchange of fire. The police said that the patrolling team and the crime investigation agency (CIA) of Tauru received a tip-off that the suspect, identified as Ahmad alias Kodd, was hiding in his village Rithath in Pinagwan, Nuh. He was living in an under-construction house, the police said. A joint raid was conducted by the CIA and the police team to arrest Ahmad. However, before the teams could reach his hideout, he fled and took shelter in the house of his friend, identified as Farookh, in the same village, said the police. Narender Bijarnia, the superintendent of police, Nuh, said upon seeing the police presence in the village, local people started gathering at the spot. “When the teams raided the house, Ahmad shot a fire at the police, as a result of which one of the sub-inspectors suffered a gunshot injury on his arm. Meanwhile, the teams surrounded the house and asked him to surrender. An exchange of firing took place and one of the policemen had a narrow escape,” he said. The police said during the cross-firing, one bullet hit Ahmad’s right leg and he collapsed. Soon the police teams surrounded him and arrested him. The police recovered two countrymade pistols and two live cartridges from his possession, said the police. A team of Delhi police also reached the spot in search of Ahmad, said Bijarnia, adding that he was involved in several criminal cases in Delhi as well. Bijarnia said more than 50 villagers had gathered near the spot and two of them were carrying countrymade weapons. They started firing at police teams and some of the villagers, including women, started pelting stones at police teams. “As a result of the stone-pelting, police vehicles were damaged,” he said. Sub-inspector Rakesh Kumar and the suspect were rushed to a hospital. The police teams also arrested one of the villagers, identified as Saddam, for firing on the police team. A case under sections 148 (rioting),149 (unlawful assembly),332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) ,353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty),225 ( illegal obstruction),186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions),307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and sections of the Arms Act was registered at Pinagwan police station. Ahmad suffered a gunshot injury on the ankle of his right leg and is currently receiving treatment at Mandikhera hospital in Nuh, the police said. The suspect, after he recovers, will be produced before the court and the police will demand for a three-day remand, said the police.According to the police, Ahmad was allegedly involved in more than 25 criminal cases pertaining to organised ATM loot in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, and Delhi. He has been on the run for the last four years. The Haryana Police has announced a reward of ₹50,000 for information leading to his arrest, while the Uttar Pradesh Police had announced an additional reward of ₹25,000. Likewise, Rajasthan Police had announced ₹5,000 for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-wanted-in-53-criminal-cases-nabbed-by-cops-in-nuh/story-3Rh8OYchBKSGvjHyVE9mtO.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||State to provide insurance cover for private doctors, NGOs, activists working on frontline||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday declared that it will offer insurance cover of ₹50 lakh to private doctors working on the frontline. The amount will be given to the next of kin if the doctor dies from Covid-19 while treating patients infected with the disease. It has also decided to provide an insurance cover of ₹25 lakh to social activists or NGOs conducting final rites of Covid victims in rural areas.State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “Any private doctor who was treating Covid-19 patients at his private hospital or a government hospital and eventually died after getting infected, with it will be eligible to get insurance cover of ₹50 lakh. The next of kin of the private doctor will get the insurance amount.”The only condition is that the concerned district collector will have to verify and the director of health services will have to endorse the claim application, he said.Life insurance was one of the demands earlier made by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC). Tope said he has given a written assurance to the representatives from both the organisations, in a meeting held recently.In another decision, the state has decided to provide an insurance cover of ₹25 lakh to social activists or NGOs performing final rites of those who died to Covid-19. The decision was taken considering the instances where NGOs or social activists came forward to perform the final rites of a Covid-19 patient after family members refused to attend, out of fear of getting infected, state rural development minister Hasan Mushrif said while making the announcement.“A social activist or an NGO involved in performing final rites of those who died due to the coronavirus in rural areas will get insurance cover of ₹25 lakh. It means if such a person dies due to Covid-19 infection than his or her next of kin will get the insurance amount,” Mushrif said.The only condition is that the social activist should not be in government service and the NGO should be registered with the charity commissioner, he said. “These people are putting their lives at risk by performing the final rites of unclaimed bodies. Considering that the decision is approved, the insurance cover scheme will be applicable until September 30,” he added.Doctors should reconsider over-prescribing Tocilizumab for Covid treatment, says TopeState health minister Rajesh Tope said that doctors should seriously reconsider over-prescribing Tocilizumab as the firm (Roche) manufacturing the drug has admitted that it is not that effective in treating Covid-19. Tope also said that the task force will be making changes in the treatment protocol overuse of the drug considering the same.“Doctors should seriously give a thought to prescribing Tocilizumab in the backdrop of Roche’s letter in which it has admitted that the drug is not that effective for treating Covid-19. The task force formed to reduce Covid-19 casualties has formulated treatment protocol considering guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the World Health Organization (WHO). It will also consider changing the treatment protocol for overuse of this drug for Covid treatment following the development,” said the health minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-to-provide-insurance-cover-for-private-doctors-ngos-activists-working-on-frontline/story-bvPytVUU3w4e9aFHuxlPBK.html
18-08-2020||Noida||Dog stuck in empty water reservoir for over a week rescued||A stray dog, which fell inside a deserted underground water reservoir in Greater Noida more than a week ago, was rescued successfully on Tuesday.According to the locals and rescuers, the empty water reservoir has been lying in a state of disrepair, with its broken windows and open manholes posing threat to anyone who passes there. On Tuesday, some locals from Saini Sunpura village in Greater Noida under Ecotech3 Police Station, who had gone there for a walk, heard a whining from inside the dark pit of the reservoir and dialled the police control room. The police in turn got in touch with a city-based animal NGO named Smart Sanctuary to coordinate the rescue.“We received a call from a PCR and immediately reached the spot. We were actually surprises to see that the dog was still alive. The entire building is threat and anyone, especially children who play in that area, can fall into the abandoned water pits. It’s a dry and dark reservoir, not in use and runs at least 25 feet deep. I went inside using the ladder and it took some time to rescue the animal,” Kaveri Rana, managing trustee, Smart Sanctuary.According to a veterinary doctor, the dog had turned skeletally thin and possibly survived only on rainwater. The doctor said that the animal could have been stuck there for at least two weeks.“It’s a fully grown canine in its prime. It was only eight and a half kilograms when we pulled it out, as compared to teh typical weight of between 20 to 25 kilos. All its body fat and muscles had been used up as energy sources that kept it alive. It seems that the dog must have been stuck there for at least two weeks or perhaps more. Dogs can survive that long without food. It’s on liquid diet for now and will take at least four weeks to recover,” said Dr. Ravinder Kaur, a veterinary doctor at canine and feline critical care unit, Ghaziabad.The locals who called up the police claimed that some people had accidentally fallen earlier into the reservoir earlier.“The reservoir is near our village Saini Sunpura. We were walking past it when we heard the whining and called the police. The reservoir is an open threat to even humans. A few months ago, a man from our village had also fallen into it and was found a day later. Many children go there to play as well. The reservoir needs to be repaired and its openings closed.,” said Vishwas Nagar, a resident Saini Sunpura, Greater Noida.Contacted, officials said that they are looking into the matter.“We will get the reservoir checked and fixed. The matter has come to our attention now and the concerned official will soon inspect the entire premises so that such an incident is not repeated,” said Deep Chandra, additional CEO, Greater Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/dog-stuck-in-empty-water-reservoir-for-over-a-week-rescued/story-3ZD6FxTalhQWiI965kielL.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Private hospitals in Mohali asked to increase critical Covid care bed capacity||Private hospitals in Mohali were on Tuesday asked by deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan to increase tertiary (or specialised) Covid care bed capacity as a buffer when cases were surging even as an adequate number of beds were available. Dayalan was speaking at a meeting with the representatives of government and private health institutions. Most of the institutes agreed to make more ventilator equipped beds available.To others who said they did not have the requisite infrastructure, Dayalan said, the “district administration will facilitate setting up of L3 facilities (dealing with complicated or critical cases) and provide ventilators and paramedics to private hospitals to meet the challenge unitedly.” He also added that the district administration had procured 30 ventilators which would be installed by Thursday in selected institutes. There was enough respiratory care equipment in stock including the oxygen cylinders, oxygen - flow masks, hospital beds, ventilators and personal protection kits, Dayalan added. The DC also made it clear that no Covid patient requiring tertiary care would be declined admission without permission from the expert referral committee. The committee, comprising the civil surgeon and doctors from other government and private hospitals, has access to bed status in every health institution on real time basis. It is empowered to move a patient from L2 to L3 (critical care centres) or vice versa depending on his or her condition. The administration will also conduct ‘moblile-testing’ by running vans to conduct random rapid tests in the areas around large industries and spots such as labour chowk to increase the testing range. Besides, the district had appointed dedicated teams to continue surveying areas especially the containment zones and keep a tab on Covid spread there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/private-hospitals-in-mohali-asked-to-increase-critical-covid-care-bed-capacity/story-1P0lp6C3KzP1gepOYDlncP.html
18-08-2020||Noida||Noida to get ₹180 crore under centre’s ‘Safe city’ project||Noida will soon have exclusive women police outposts, dedicated help desks at all police stations, more ‘pink’ toilets, said the district police, with the city being recently selected for the ‘Safe City’ project by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA).Noida was selected for the scheme by the home ministry last week and would be the second city in the state after Lucknow (selected last year in November) to get funds under the project. The MHA has approved a total budget of ₹180 crore for Noida under the Nirbhaya Fund scheme. Noida will be developed as a ‘Safe City’ with the central and state governments contributing funds in 60:40 ratio.The project will be implemented by the police commissionerate, with support from different industrial development authorities (Noida authority, Yamuna Expressway authority among others) besides help from the transport department.Noida was among four cities whose name was sent to the MHA by the state government last year in December for development under the ‘Safe City’ project. The other three cities whose names were sent were Varanasi, Kanpur, and Gorkahpur.“The proposals under this project aim at women’s safety and empowerment by not only providing a safe and secure environment but also enabling them to defend themselves against such crimes,” said Noida commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh. He also added said there is a need to take concrete law enforcement initiatives focused upon mitigation and proactive resolution of criminal offences against women.The police commissioner also said in addition to the facility to lodge any complaint with Police Control Room (PCR) with the 112 helpline, a special ‘women powerline’ (1090) is being run on which women can lodge a complaint. “Many mobile applications for women have also come up at the state and local levels. We are now trying to integrate all of them over a common platform. The plan includes setting up of an Integrated Smart Control Room, setting up ‘pink’ outposts (exclusively administered by women police) for facilitating ease of filing a complaint by women, night patrolling by women police officers, setting up women help desks at all police stations with counselors, implementing safety measures in buses, installing CCTV cameras, improving street lighting in identified crime areas, setting up more ‘Pink’ toilets (facilities equipped with sanitary napkins among other amenities) and integration of ‘women powerline’ with the single emergency number 112,” he said. “An integrated approach will help in assisting women in distress on a 24x7 basis.”Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Nitin Tiwari, the nodal officer of the ‘Safe City’ project, said the project will also have provision for integration with other projects of Noida police such as Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS), cyber security cell among others in the future. “CCTV surveillance at public places will include installation of cameras across the city at strategic locations around public places frequented by women and vulnerable sections and where CCTV surveillance can assist the law enforcement agencies in prevention and detection of crimes,” he said.Tiwari further said that CCTV surveillance will first connect to the local police station level, where a local command centre (LOCO) will be established with a storage capability of seven days. “The same feed from the police station will be available at district headquarters, where a district command centre (DISCO) will be established. The DISCO will have alerts and aggregation capabilities, which will be integrated with the existing central command centre(CENCO). The project will involve deployment of video and communication analytics software for identifying and promptly tracking persons and vehicles involved in incidents of harassing women in public places,” he said.However, experts have raised concerns with Noida’s impetus on increased surveillance for ensuring women safety. Kalpana Vishwanath, co-founder and chief executive officer of Safetipin, an organisation that works on make cities safer for women, said that installing CCTV cameras and installing ‘pink’ toilets does not translate into ensuring safety and security of women completely. “Moreover, the Nirbhaya fund is not meant only for the technological interventions planned by the Noida police. I think a multi-prolonged outlook and many other efforts are needed from the centre and states to make cities safe for women,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-to-get-180-crore-under-centre-s-safe-city-project/story-DDBaEm6Ny5OiRbU8hHp5XO.html
18-08-2020||Noida||Noida Authority approves ₹5037 crore budget for the city||The Noida authority on Tuesday approved a budget of ₹5,037 crore for the financial year 2020-21, of which the net expenses will be ₹4,600 crore. Of this, ₹1,000 crore will go towards for land acquisition to develop industrial sectors (up from ₹600 crore of last fiscal), ₹126 crore for developmental work in villages (₹106 crore last fiscal) and ₹221 crore for the Noida-Greater Noida Metro Link connecting Noida’s sector 71/50 to Greater Noida West’s sector Knowledge Park-V area. Other expenses were not expanded upon.The authority had approved ₹6,289 crore budget last year.“We will receive a revenue of ₹5037.37 crore for the financial year 2020-21 from different heads and have decided to spend ₹4,600 crore,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority.The authority also approved a proposal that allows the developers to pay the 8.5% simple interest on the group housing land dues. This is following a Supreme Court order that directed the Noida authority, and also the Greater Noida authority, to impose the interest on land cost as per the existing the current marginal cost of funds based lending rate (MCLR) of State Bank of India (SBI).The interest rates on group housing rates would often go up to 15-23% after the authorities levied more interest on late payments. Developers had moved the apex court demanding lower interest rates claiming that high rate of interest would render their realty projects non-profitable.The authority also approved a decision to allow set up the restaurant and other commercial space at the rooftop of the Botanical Garden multi level car parking facility in sector 38A, and developing two higher secondary schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-approves-5037-crore-budget-for-the-city/story-DHrstXgDGx8JL1hxpfzqBO.html
18-08-2020||City||Nine arrested for participating in a horse-cart race in Greater Noida||Nine persons were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly organising and participating in a horse-cart race on National Highway 91 in Dadri in violation of traffic rules.The police said some motorcycles and three-wheelers were also driving along the two horse-carts and chasing them in the race which was captured on video.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said around 7am the police received information that some people had organised a race involving two horse-carts violating traffic and social distancing rules amid the coronavirus pandemic. A number of local people had also gathered at the spot to view the race which also saw the participation of some motorcycles and three-wheelers, he added.“A police team reached the spot and found two three-wheelers, one Maruti Eeco car and some motorcycles at the sport, while the owners of the horse-carts had escaped with their animal-driven vehicles,” he said.The police seized the vehicles at the spot and arrested nine persons— Babban, Kasim, Arshad, Sajid, Furqan, Aad Mohammad, Hasan and Yasin, and Shahrukh. All suspects are residents of Ghaziabad, the police said.Yaqub, a local resident said, “Two horse-carts and some people on motorcycles and three-wheelers raced for about two or three kilometres on the highway, and it was very unsafe for commuters on the road to navigate.”Dinesh Singh, station house officer, Dadri said the arrested persons claimed that they had only come to watch the race. “We came to know that two horse-carts were involved a race but the owners managed to escape from the spot. We have arrested these nine people because they were also racing with the horse-carts. We have launched a search to arrest the men who were running the horse-carts. We do not know if a bet was also placed in the race,” he said.The police have registered a case against under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant, 269 (unlawfully or negligently spreading infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC.Police said the horse-cart owners have been identified, both are also residents of Loni in Ghaziabad, and will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-arrested-for-participating-in-a-horse-cart-race-in-greater-noida/story-T9GC1oXFk8JTARicd8WlmO.html
18-08-2020||City||22-year-old pregnant woman killed over dowry in Dadri||A 22-year-old pregnant woman was allegedly shot dead by her husband and in-laws for dowry in Dadri on Tuesday. The woman Shaishta (identified by her single name in the police records), was from Inder Nagar in Bulandshar and was seven months pregnant. According to the police, she had married Amir (single name), a resident of Rithori village in Dadri in March 2019.The victim’s brother, Naimuddin, told the police that on Tuesday morning he received a phone call from a marriage broker, who had facilitated the marriage, who told him that Shaishta’s in-laws had shot her dead. “We quickly came to Dadri, and found her dead with a bullet injury in her abdomen. My sister was seven months pregnant,” he said.Naimuddin filed a complaint of dowry death against Amir, his father Iliyas and ten other family members at the Dadri police station. All the suspects are on the run, the police said.In his complaint to the police, Naimuddin said his family had incurred an expense of ₹10 lakh on Shaishta’s wedding. “However, since the marriage her husband and in-laws were demanding dowry. They started torturing her for ₹5 lakh. We initially thought the matter would resolve over a period of time, but they have killed my sister,” he said.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police (Greater Noida) said that the Dadri police had received a call from Iliyas on Tuesday. “He claimed that Shaishta had ended her life by shooting herself with a gun. However, when the police team reached the spot all the family members were absconding,” he said.Pandey said that Iliyas’s statement appeared dubious to the police. “The neighbours revealed they had heard a gunshot at night. She was shot in the chest and that likely means that she hadn’t shot herself,” he said.The police have registered a case under sections 302 (murder), 304b( dowry death), 498 (detaining a married woman with criminal intent), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code, and section 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act against Amir, Iliyas and ten other members of their family.The body has been sent for an autopsy and the reports are awaited. The police teams are conducting searches to arrest the people named in the FIR. “ We have not found the weapon used in the crime. We are probing the matter from all angles,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-year-old-pregnant-woman-killed-over-dowry-in-dadri/story-90xPdo85AiByGoP3PI6ISM.html
18-08-2020||City||UP minister Atul Garg tests positive for Covid-19||Ghaziabad The Uttar Pradesh’s minister of state for health, Atul Garg, has been admitted to a private hospital in Ghaziabad’s Kaushambi after he tested positive for Covid-19, officials of the district health department said on Tuesday. On Independence Day, Garg had inaugurated the district’s first RT-PCR laboratory at MMG Hospital. “On August 15, the minister got his test done through RT-PCR, but the report was negative. On Monday, he had complained of fever and cough, and an antigen test was conducted which found him positive for the infection. He got admitted to Yashoda Hospital, and is presently under treatment. On Tuesday, another RT-PCR test was conducted at the hospital and the sample tested positive,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. The authorities at Yashoda Hospital said that the minister was admitted in the Covid wing that is equivalent to L2 category facility. “The minister is stable. We are regularly monitoring his health, as he also has complaints of hypertension and diabetes,” said Dr Sunil Dagar, spokesperson of the hospital. Garg, who is MLA from Ghaziabad constituency, also tweeted about his Covid-19 positive test. “I got tested on August 15 and the result was negative. Yesterday, I tested positive through rapid test at 9pm. Those who have met me from August 16 to 18 should be careful and get themselves tested...,” the minister said in his tweet on Tuesday. The health department officials said they estimate that the minister had about 150 contacts during the period. “On Tuesday, we conducted tests of about his 47 close contacts and none of them tested positive. We will probably repeat the test after four-five days,” Dr Gupta added.In the state, two ministers -- Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan -- recently succumbed to the viral disease, while more than a dozen have tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-minister-atul-garg-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-Vk3S0AEsl6Q1WJsml4lLQI.html
18-08-2020||City||With revised targets, UP plans over 131,000 tests per day||Ghaziabad Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, the state government has issued directions to all the 75 districts to together conduct at least 131,380 tests per day. The two districts of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar have been given a daily target of conducting 2,540 tests each -- 2,000 tests with the help of rapid antigen kits and 540 through reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method. As per the directions issued by Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health), the districts have been given different targets ranging from 360-960 RT-PCR tests per day and 1,200-2,000 tests through rapid antigen kits. “Since the number of cases are rising, there is need to conduct more tests. Therefore, we have assigned minimum targets for RT-PCR and rapid tests for each district. On priority, the tests should be conducted for close contacts of positive patients and also for those having symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) in containment zones,” stated the directions issued on Monday. According to state officials, the total testing in the state till August 17 stood at 3,966,848 with share of about 12.82% in overall samples tested across the country. According to figures of Union ministry of health & family welfare, a total of 30,941,264 samples were tested up to August 17 and 8,99,864 samples were tested alone on August 17 across the country. According to the last available data (as of August 15) from GB Nagar, the district completed about 151,314 tests, including 93,683 conducted with the help of rapid kits that have a share of 61.91%. GB Nagar district officials said that they are already conducting more tests than the target given by the state. “Our previous RT-PCR target was about 360 tests per day and now it is 540 a day. In comparison, we are conducting about 800-1,000 RT-PCR tests per day. The RT-PCR test is being done for patients having symptoms and co-morbidities,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar. On the other hand, Ghaziabad officials said that they are conducting about 3,000-3,500 tests per day which include about 900-1,000 RT-PCR tests. Till August 17, the district collected about 157,021 samples and test results were received for 155,291 samples. The overall Covid-19 cases in the district stood at 6790 till August 18. “We are focussing on people having ILI and SARI symptoms and those who are close contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. Besides, our surveillance teams are also conducting surveys in containment zones in order to find out suspected cases,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. Of the 155,291 tests conducted so far in Ghaziabad, 88,513 were conducted through rapid antigen kits with a share of 56.99%. The test positivity rate of rapid kits is about 2.46% as compared to about 6.8% through the RT-PCR tests, as per the official figures. “We have ordered more rapid kits for meeting the minimum requirement set by the state officials. If a person tests negative through rapid kits, we are conducting subsequent RT-PCR test only if the person is symptomatic. But the subsequent RT-PCR test is done for all people having co-morbid condition,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-revised-targets-up-plans-over-131-000-tests-per-day/story-3se3nGQbC2UNvhJW6wZQmI.html
18-08-2020||City||Covid-19 hits Delhi-Meerut expressway work as several workers found positive||Ghaziabad The work for the Delhi-Meerut expressway (DME) project has hit another hurdle as more than 80 construction workers have either tested positive or are under quarantine, said officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). During the past 20 days of testing, about 80 workers from phase 4 of the project either have been found positive or are under isolation, the officials said, adding that only two workers from phase 2 have tested positive. According to the officials, they have availability of about 1,200 workers out of 2,000 required for phase 2, while phase 4 of the project that requires 1,500 workers is facing a shortfall of about 700. “The shortage of workers is there since the lockdown period, as many workers have not returned from their home towns. We are trying to finish the work for the two phases by end of December. During the past 20 days, testing of workers were taken up from the health departments of Ghaziabad and Meerut, and about 80 to 90 workers have been affected by Covid-19. They are either positive or placed under quarantine,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI. The DME project comprises four phases, of which the construction work is underway for phase 2 (19.8km from UP Gate to Dasna) and phase 4 (32km greenfield expressway from Dasna to Meerut). The phase 1 (from Akshardham to UP Gate) and phase 3 (from Dasna to Hapur) of the project are already operational. The 32km-long phase 4 spans across two districts of Ghaziabad and Meerut and has achieved physical completion of about 73%. On the other hand, the phase 2 which is entirely in Ghaziabad is 83% complete, the officials said. The affected workers are under the categories of skilled, semi-skilled and construction labourers. “Those workers who have been found positive are being regularly checked by the doctors . We are taking up all measures to control the infection in the workforce. But with the issue cropping up, the project work may be affected further,” Garg said. Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that the health department takes up “intermittent testing” of workers engaged in the DME project to prevent the Covid-19 spread among the workforce. “Our teams go to the project site and also conduct camps. Those who are found positive are shifted to a Covid facility while their close contacts are shifted to facility quarantine,” said Gupta.The NHAI officials said that the shortage of workers and the pandemic issues may delay some of the upcoming works which have received clearances now. “We recently received clearances for five different works. One of them is related to the new rail overbridge (ROB) at Chipiyana near Lal Kuan. The ROB will be about 115 metres in length and have 14 lanes. The other clearance is received for the work at three places over the Ghaziabad-Hapur railway section in Dasna. We are trying to hire more workers to complete the project by December, 2020,” the project director said. In November last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during a review of major infrastructure projects, had directed that the ongoing DME project, which will provide faster and safer connectivity between Delhi and Meerut, should be completed by the revised timeline of May, 2020. The PM on December 31, 2015, had laid the foundation stone of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-hits-delhi-meerut-expressway-work-as-several-workers-found-positive/story-7IRM0urXFO9W0L799WO9oK.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Transparency officers: Ludhiana MC’s first appellate authority to appear before PSIC||The Punjab State Information Commission (PSIC) has directed Rohit Kumar, public information officer (PIO) and the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC)’s first appellate authority to appear before the commission for not coming up with a clear response to a query under the Right to Information on appointment of transparency officers in the civic body.The next hearing through video conferencing has been scheduled for September 14.City based RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal had, under RTI, sought the names of the transparency officers deputed in MC and asked for reasons if they had not been appointed.As the MC failed to provide the information, Sabharwal moved the PSIC and during its hearing on August 5, and the commission observed that the MC had failed to appoint the officer and that Rohit Kumar had submitted “a vague reply” that the commission had to deploy the officials in MC. This happened despite PSIC already issuing a letter to the department of government reforms to appoint the officers in public authorities in 2019.Directing the MC to submit a reply with the applicant, the commission ordered the PIO and the MC's first appellate authority (a copy is with the Hindustan Times) to be present during the next hearing.Sabharwal said in November, 2010, the chief information commission (CIC) had issued circular to appoint transparency officers, following which the department of state governance reforms had issued a letter on July 23, 2019, for the same. He alleged that even after 10 years since CIC had issued the circular, the transparency officer had not been deputed in MC. The role of the transparency officer is effective record management, digitisation of records, high priority and quality in disposing of RTI applications etc. It is the responsibility of the PIO of a public authority to supply correct and complete information within the specified time to any person seeking information under the RTI Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/transparency-officers-ludhiana-mc-s-first-appellate-authority-to-appear-before-psic/story-jAnaGiR5MQ62npYQHE6iEN.html
18-08-2020||City||Shops allowed to stay open till 7pm in Ambala||District magistrate Ashok Kumar Sharma on Tuesday issued fresh orders changing the shop timings in the district again.The timings have been fixed from 9am to 7pm for all shops in urban and rural areas of the district, the order reads. Sharma said the surge in Covid-19 cases is a matter of serious concern.“To prevent and control the spread of coronavirus infection, it has become essential to restrict the movement of public especially in the markets. Hence, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 30 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005….all the markets, shops located in rural areas and residential colonies/societies, including street vendors/hawkers will be allowed to run/open from 9am to 7pm. More than 10 shops located in a particular area or a residential colony close to each other shall be considered a market,” the order reads.However, medical, dairy and milk vending establishments, petrol pumps, hotels, restaurants, dhabas, sweets shops, meat shops and other such service providers shall be exempted from these orders, the DM said.So far, the district has recorded 2,703 cases with 340 active cases. Total 22 patients have succumbed to the virus here till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-allowed-to-stay-open-till-7pm-in-ambala/story-X80aht5DHB5qoCoIkJe1OL.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hospital to start ayurveda medicine trials on Covid patients||Shri Dhanwantri Ayurvedic College and Hospital will soon conduct trials to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ayurvedic interventions like ashwagandha tablets and shunthi capsule on mild to moderately symptomatic Covid-19 patients in the city.The study will be undertaken in collaboration with Central Ayurveda Research Institute for Respiratory Disorders in Patiala.Earlier last week, the Ayush ministry had given approval for the study titled “A Prospective Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Ayurveda Interventions (Ashwagandha Tablet and Shunti Capsule)’ in the management of Covid-19 infection (mild to moderate symptoms).“We already have around 70-patient capacity. They will receive allopathic treatment. However, the trail will be conducted on the patients for ayurvedic interventions, specifically ashwagandha tablets and shunthi capsule and collate data on their safety and efficacy,” said Naresh Mittal, general secretary of the college management committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-hospital-to-start-ayurveda-medicine-trials-on-covid-patients/story-nyX4DIdf2Lfs2njSqMvSPN.html
18-08-2020||City||Powercom workers block road during protest in Mohali||The members of Powercom and Transco Contract Employees’ Union of Punjab staged a protest outside the Labour Bhawan in Phase 10 here on Tuesday. They blocked the main road outside the complex, causing inconvenience to commuters.The protesters were demanding reinstatement of retrenched employees and a work order system to be immediately started in the Barnala circle. They also pressed that contract employees should be made permanent, and job and proper compensation be given to the family members of power workers who died due to electric shock while on duty.The stir was part of a massive state-wide protest staged by the contract workers across Punjab on Tuesday. The widows and parents of the deceased employees were also present.Addressing the protesters, union vice-presidents Rakesh Kumar and Gurwinder Singh said contract employees working with complaints and maintenance had not been given salaries for the last seven months, and when they asked for the same, the Powercom started firing them.During the paddy season last year, new contractors were issued work orders, but this was not done this year. They alleged that the Powercom management had deliberately done this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/powercom-workers-block-road-during-protest-in-mohali/story-JXd8OqkUXZXdBQCj3lXCqM.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Include pvt nursing homes in Covid fight, MP Kirron Kher suggests at admn meet||Facing flak for not involving elected representatives in pandemic management, the UT administration on Tuesday held an online meeting with the city’s MP, mayor and councillors of the municipal corporation to discuss the Covid-19 situation.While UT administrator VP Badnore sought suggestions to beat Covid-19 in writing, MP Kirron Kher pitched for involving private nursing homes in pandemic management.“Nursing homes should be allowed to join government hospitals in Covid-19 treatment. These will benefit the city with the availability of more hospital beds/ventilators, and strengthen the medical facilities being provided here,” an official statement from Kher said.The MP told HT that she has pressed for the opening of 14 nursing homes which were closed during the Congress rule in Chandigarh. “These will help share the burden on government hospitals,” Kher said.In July this year, a panel of Badnore’s advisory council had rejected Kher’s proposal of allowing the conversion of residential plots into sites for nursing homes.Reacting to the MP’s stand, Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla said she should take the Covid situation more seriously.“Kirron Kher is keener on starting more nursing homes in residential areas. This will create parking issues, so these should be opened in commercial areas. I request the MP to take the Covid situation seriously,” Babla said.He added that more steps should be taken against malpractices in the name of Covid-19.The councillors raised suggestions to set up a helpline at quarantine centres so that patients’ family members are able to coordinate among each other.They suggested that traffic coming from outside be monitored strictly and proper screening be done at all the entry points of the city. They pushed for imposing heavy penalty on violators for not wearing masks in public.They proposed that beggers should be banned in the city. They pressed for creating more awareness among the masses and ensuring discipline from mobile street vendors, besides proper monitoring of facilities at quarantine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-include-pvt-nursing-homes-in-covid-fight-mp-kirron-kher-suggests-at-admn-meet/story-Rz1Ut39yHNy5zhqMoMXQaM.html
18-08-2020||City||Congress objects to notification for delimitation of Ambala MC wards||Registering their objections to the notification of the delimitation process for the wards of Ambala Municipal Corporation, members of the Congress party met deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma on Tuesday.The notification, issued by the Haryana urban local bodies department on August 13, has divided the MC areas into 20 wards. The department has invited objections through the DC till August 23.Ambala MC’s last tenure ended in 2018, when there were 20 wards – 11 in city area and nine in Sadar area. Later in 2019, the corporation was bifurcated into Ambala Municipal Corporation and Ambala Sadar Municipal Council, but the fresh polls have yet to be conducted. Rohit Jain, treasurer, Haryana Congress, said, “We had already protested against the constitution of the ad hoc committee where no opposition member was added for the delimitation process and now the party workers have presented their objections on the boundaries of wards to the DC.”The Congress, in its objection, alleged that the notification was issued on August 13, but there had been no communication or announcement for the public. It is clear that the whole process is being done in a biased manner just to help the ruling party, the party alleged.“My ward has been wrongly divided into four parts. The delimitation process has deprived the opposition members of their strongholds, while their wards have also been added to reserved category,” alleged former ward number 2 councillor Darshna Mehta. DC Sharma said after all objections were received, a meeting will be arranged with every party for further process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-objects-to-notification-for-delimitation-of-ambala-mc-wards/story-zSebUvZQiSHwKdidw1LIsK.html
18-08-2020||City||Job racket busted, five held for promising jobs at Delhi airport||New Delhi: Delhi Police on Tuesday claimed to have busted a cheating racket and arrested five persons, including the mastermind of the gang, who duped job aspirants by offering employment at the Delhi airport. One of the arrested men was working as a web designer at a private educational institute in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said the arrests were made following investigation into a cheating and forgery case filed on the complaint of one Deepak Kumar, who was duped of around 4.47 lakh in the name of providing a job in Airports Authority of India (AAI), insurance and income tax. Kumar is a resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Etah.“The complainant had seen an advertisement about the job on a social networking site on July 11 last year. The cheats tricked him into paying 4.47 lakh in different bank accounts by assuring the job and later switched off their mobile phones. To convince the complainant, the fraudsters even issued a fake appointment letter of AAI. A case was registered on Kumar’s complaint and investigation was taken up,” said DCP Ranjan.During the probe, DCP Ranjan said, the investigating team collected and analysed details of all mobile phones and bank accounts used by the suspects in the crime. Their efforts led them to an account holder, 40-year-old Shahzad (single name), who was arrested and interrogated.“Shahzad revealed that he had provided his bank account to Sanjay Sharma and was paid R5,000 for it. Sharma was arrested and he said he had shared the bank details with Pawan Gupta, who was working for the gang’s kingpin Shahzad Ali,” the DCP said.DCP Ranjan said Gupta’s arrest and interrogation led to the nabbing of the gang’s kingpin Sajid Ali and his key associate Sumit Upadhyaya, who worked as a web designer.The arrested persons told police they lured job-seekers through various advertisements on social media. They impersonated senior officials in AAI and tricked job aspirants into transferring money in various accounts after promising them placement at Delhi airport and issuing fake appointment letters, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/job-racket-busted-five-held-for-promising-jobs-at-delhi-airport/story-jDpfvrrlTBIQWtV86mnyfJ.html
18-08-2020||City||Five held for Mori Gate violence, main suspect on the run||New Delhi: A day after more than a dozen masked men opened fire, vandalised vehicles and homes and assaulted women and children at Kucha Mohtar Khan in north Delhi’s Mori Gate, five persons have been arrested in connection with the violence. The alleged prime suspect Lalit aka Pongi, a habitual criminal from Model Town, is still untraceable, officials said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said the arrested persons were identified by their first names -- Jatin, Vikas, Ritwik, Gaurav and Chetan. All of them are residents of north Delhi’s Gur Mandi and Rajpura villages. While four of them were caught on Monday night following raids at their possible hideouts, Chetan was arrested on Tuesday.During interrogation, the five men admitted to their involvement in the violence, police said. They told the police that they were called by Lalit and his brother-in-law, Luv, for settling a score with some residents of Kucha Mohtar Khan with whom the two had an altercation late Sunday night. Lalit was allegedly assaulted by five-six locals over some issue that is yet to be known.To take revenge, Lalit and his brother-in-law called their associates, who reached there in 15 minutes and allegedly went on the rampage in the neighbourhood for nearly 30 minutes -- firing in the air, vandalising vehicles and homes and assaulting women and children, a police officer associated with the probe said, requesting anonymity.DCP Bhardwaj said multiple teams have been conducting raids in north Delhi, Nangloi and Uttar Pradesh to nab Lalit, Luv and at least five more men involved in the rioting. At least four persons, including a woman and a girl, were injured and over two dozen vehicles were damaged.“The arrest of Lalit and Luv is important as only their interrogation would help us find the exact cause behind the fight. We spoke to the locals who said Lalit fought with them because they had stopped him from harassing some residents. We need to verify their version and for that, Lalit will have to be questioned,” said an investigator, who did not want to be named.The officer said Lalit was previously involved in seven-eight crimes, including a murder. “We have learnt that it was Lalit who had opened fire in the area,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-held-for-mori-gate-violence-main-suspect-on-the-run/story-ZE6WlUvD8gqO88ZE2FJe2K.html
18-08-2020||Delhi||Students’ union objects against JNU registrations for monsoon semester||The students’ union of Jawaharlal Nehru University on Tuesday objected against the administration’s decision of holding online registration for a new monsoon semester — between August 21 and 31 — stating that the evaluation from the previous semester is yet to be concluded.“We have been in touch with student representatives who have put forward their concerns. The evaluation process is not yet completed and now we are being asked to register. The provisional registration does not have any scope for grade improvement or repeating the course,” said Saket Moon, JNUSU vice president.“The University Grants Commission has said that the winter semester evaluation must be completed by September 30. In such a scenario, it doesn’t make sense to start registering for the next semester when this semester too hasn’t been completed,” Moon added.On Friday, JNU administration released a circular calling for provisional registration for the monsoon semester and asking its Schools and Centres to start online classes “where feasible.” Moon said this essentially means that students who want to opt for offline classes or a blended mode of learning will be “left in uncertainty as others progress to the next semester.”While the administration has asked students to register and pay dues like hostel and tuition fees, JNUSU in a statement on Monday said it was “inhuman” to expect students to pay the dues for hostel and registration “when fellowships have not been disbursed.” The students’ body will be holding meetings this week with various students’ groups on the matter.Registrar Pramod Kumar said “We are just doing provisional registration and not talking about academics or grade improvement. We want to get the registrations done because around 14 schools have finished their examinations and we have to get online classes started for those students. Those who have opted for blended learning will not be left behind because whenever they reach the campus, offline classes will be conducted for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/students-union-objects-against-jnu-registrations-for-monsoon-semester/story-vZ9tjhcfaGM4DFUzuPzrNI.html
18-08-2020||City||Man murdered over friendship with woman||New Delhi: Delhi Police on Tuesday arrested two men for allegedly killing a 35-year-old property dealer, Rajeev Kala, in outer Delhi’s Bawana on August 10. According to senior police officials, the man was killed as he tried to befriend a woman, who was the girlfriend of one of the accused. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outernorth) Gaurav Sharma confirmed the arrests of Deen Dayal, 35, and Mohit, 23 -- both residents of Ramesh Nagar, Bawana. The murder was reported to the police on August 10 at 11.30am. A police team found Kala’s body which had multiple blunt injuries on the head. The body was sent for post-mortem examination and a case of murder was registered, said a senior police officer, who wished not to be named. “It was also found that Kala has been involved in 12 criminal cases, including two murders, two cases of dacoity, two attempts to murder, a case of abduction and five cases of burglaries and thefts. He was staying alone,” the officer said. During preliminary probe, it was found that Kala had enmity with a man over his friendship with a woman. “With the help of technical surveillance and local inquiry, Dayal was detained for questioning. He initially pleased innocence but when he was confronted with his phone call records and other technical evidence, he confessed to having killed Kala,” the officer said. The official said Dayal has disclosed that he had roped in his friend Mohit and Rohit in the crime. “On the tip-off by Dayal, Mohit was also arrested but Rohit managed to escape. Dayal disclosed that Kala had befriended his girlfriend to which he had objected and warned him, but Kala, who was a criminal, didn’t listen and warned Dayal to stay away from her. In order to take revenge Dayal, along with Rohit and Mohit jumped into Kala’s house during the early hours in August 10 and bludgeoned him to death with rods and sticks,” the officer said. While Mohit had been named in a case of theft, Dayal has no previous criminal involvement, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-murdered-over-friendship-with-woman/story-hxIkDXonQkyeInMwlaV1rN.html
18-08-2020||City||DTC proposes to run buses at full seating capacity||New Delhi: The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has sent a proposal to the state disaster management authority (SDMA) to allow its buses to run at their full seating capacity instead of the existing rule of 20 passengers per vehicle, senior government officials said on Tuesday.The matter was supposed to be taken up in SDMA’s meeting on Tuesday along with other topics such as opening of hotels, weekly market, gyms and yoga centres in Delhi. But the meeting was postponed and is now likely to be held on Wednesday, the chief minister’s office said.The Centre’s unlock 3 rules permit opening of hotels, gyms and yoga centres but it has not been allowed in Delhi. The Delhi government had proposed to reopen these services but lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal rejected the move, saying the Covid-19 situation continued to be “fragile” in Delhi and the threat was still “far from over”. Based on last week’s data, Delhi is getting 1,033 fresh Covid-19 cases on an average every day.A senior DTC official said the corporation in its proposal sought permission to run all state-run buses to their full seating capacity. “No standing inside the buses will be allowed and no extra passenger will be allowed beyond the allotted seats, if the SDMA approves the proposal,” the official said on condition of anonymity. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said if allowed, passenger capacity will be increased in DTC and cluster buses.“As the economy has largely opened up by now, the 20-passenger rule in DTC and cluster buses is giving a harrowing time to commuters. This is being taken up on public demand and keeping in mind law and order issues. At many bus stops, crowds are so large now that it becomes difficult for the conductor control the inflow of passengers,” Gahlot said.The minister said wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing will be not be compromised during bus journeys at any cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dtc-proposes-to-run-buses-at-full-seating-capacity/story-x2NyJRIgMP8YrZUNDKsPlJ.html
18-08-2020||City||Charge only tuition fee, govt warns private schools||New Delhi: The directorate of education’s (DoE) north-west district zonal office on Tuesday directed all private schools under its jurisdiction not to charge fee under any component other than tuition in accordance with the directorate’s April 18 order.The DoE had issued an order on April 18, saying private schools can charge only tuition fees during the “lockdown period”.“Annual and development charges can be charged from parents on a pro rata basis, only on a monthly basis after the completion of the lockdown,” the notice stated.The DoE had warned schools against any fee hike without the government’s permission.On July 2, HT had reported that a private schools’ association had written to the Delhi government, saying that they were free to charge annual and development charges, besides tuition fees, from July since the lockdown is over.A senior official at DoE’s private school branch, who wished not to be named, said, “The DoE is in receipt of many such complaints against schools. We have compiled the complaints and transferred them to respective zonal offices for further action. The department is taking all these complaints seriously and our April 18 order is effective since schools are still physically shut.”In a notice issued on Tuesday, the office of DoE zone 13 said, “As the co-curricular activities, sports activities, transportation and other development-related activities are almost nil due to the closure of the schools, these charges cannot be taken from parents/students. It’s been mentioned in this order that no fee except tuition fee will be charged from parents during the lockdown period. An annual and development fee can be changed from parents only on monthly basis after completing the lockdown period.”SK Bhattacharya, president of The Action Committee of Private Unaided Recognised Schools -- a body representing 400 schools -- said, “We had already informed the government and DoE that their April 18 order mentions that the schools cannot charge any other component during the lockdown. But now the process of unlocking has started, the schools in accordance with the order are free to charge annual fees and development charges on a pro rata basis now.”Aprajitha Gautam, president of Delhi Parents Association, said, “The DoE should take action against schools charging fees under other components despite directions. So many parents have been forced to pay full fees by schools amid the lockdown and DoE is not taking any action. These orders won’t do any good till action is taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/charge-only-tuition-fee-govt-warns-private-schools/story-HMIYYAA2QRcYg2dlWuIFMM.html
18-08-2020||City||Shopkeepers protest against allotment of shop at Ludhiana’s Pink Plaza||High drama was witnessed at the Pink Plaza market in Chaura Bazar on Tuesday after the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) authorities went to take possession of a shop. Following this, the GLADA officials, who went to the site with duty magistrate and police force, returned empty-handed after facing opposition from shopkeepers. It was the fourth attempt by GLADA to take possession of the shops, where water tanks have been installed by the shopkeepers in the market. While the GLADA officials said that the shop has been allotted to a person against a monthly rent of Rs 3,100, the shopkeepers said that the shop was allotted by GLADA for installing water tanks, when the market was established around six years ago.President of the market association, Rubal Dhall said, “The market has also filed a petition in the high court over the issue and the hearing has been scheduled to be held for October. The GLADA authorities are however forcibly trying to give this shop on rent for just Rs 3,100 per month, even when the value of the shop is over Rs 1 crore. The shopkeepers will never allow them to allot this shop. The duty magistrate also heard the grievances of the shopkeepers and asked the GLADA authorities to check the record.Despite attempts, GLADA Estate officer, Baljit Singh could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shopkeepers-protest-against-allotment-of-shop-at-ludhiana-s-pink-plaza/story-fF7HVQQko3WHmZyZAmngKL.html
18-08-2020||City||AAP criticises BJP-ruled civic bodies for hiking taxes, corruption||New Delhi: Alleging corruption in the BJP-ruled municipal corporation in Delhi, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday said the civic bodies have cheated the people by introducing new taxes and increasing others. Both the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and the North Delhi civic body had hiked property tax on rented commercial property. The SDMC had also introduced professional tax but its north Delhi counterpart postponed the proposal to charge the new tax. “Corruption is a major issue in MCDs. The BJP had promised ahead of 2017 municipal polls that they would do away with corruption in the civic bodies. But things have only gotten worse now. The BJP had also promised that the MCDs would not introduce or increase taxes. They have cheated people of Delhi on that front too,” said Durgesh Pathak, AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs.He further said, “The BJP ruled North MCD is all set to introduce professional tax, 34% increase in house tax, increase in property transfer tax and the tax element on electricity consumption from tomorrow (Wednesday)… We demand that the Delhi BJP should immediately roll back the proposals of a tax hike. The AAP will organise a demonstration at the Civic Center tomorrow (which has the head office of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation) from 1 pm, where the standing council meeting on the tax issue will take place.”Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, however, said that while proposals have been placed in the corporations for an increase in four different taxes, the party has asked its leadership in corporations to ensure that no additional financial burden is put on the people of Delhi. “These are proposals and have not been approved as of now. There will be no increase in taxes, except the one in property transactions. The corporations are facing a huge financial crisis and have a limited source of revenue. The AAP-led Delhi government is no releasing funds to the civic bodies. The civic bodies will have to take measures to boost revenue,” Gupta. He hit back at AAP for politicising the issue and said, “They are accusing us of putting the financial burden on people whereas it is the AAP government which has not waived off the fixed charges from electricity bills despite requests from people. They can’t give relief to people for even two months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-criticises-bjp-ruled-civic-bodies-for-hiking-taxes-corruption/story-5kiwu2HvHyIXQQUhywhijJ.html
18-08-2020||City||SC collegium proposes 6 names for Delhi HC judges||New Delhi: The Supreme Court collegium, on Monday, recommended the names of 6 lawyers for appointment as judges of Delhi high court.The 6 persons recommended are Jasmeet Singh, Amit Bansal, Tara Vitasta Ganju, Anish Dayal, Amit Sharma and Mini Pushkarna.The Delhi high court is currently functioning with 32 judges against a sanctioned strength of 60 judges.The collegium also recommended the name of advocate Rajesh Kumar Bhardwaj for appointment to the Punjab & Haryana (P&H) high court. The P&H high court currently has 30 vacancies and is functioning with 55 judges as against its sanctioned strength of 85.The collegium had, on August 14, recommended the appointment of 11 new judges to 3 different high courts. 4 persons each were recommended for appointment to Allahabad and Kerala high courts while 3 were recommended for Gujarat high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-collegium-proposes-6-names-for-delhi-hc-judges/story-LCqU21SOkrgh0u4vJYxr6H.html
18-08-2020||City||HC tells DU to announce results of final-year students soon||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the Delhi University to expeditiously declare results of final-year undergraduate students who have obtained admission in foreign universities for higher studies.A bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad also reiterated its Monday’s order in which the court had directed the varsity to give an assurance letter to the foreign universities that the result of concerned students will be communicated at the earliest.The court was hearing pleas by students who wanted to visit abroad for studies but are yet to get their provisional certificates from the college. On Monday, while hearing pleas by Prateek Sharma, a law student and National Federation for Blind, the court had directed DU to create an email ID on which the students can send their requests along with the details of the foreign university in which he/she might have secured provisional admission.On Tuesday, the bench was informed that on July 7, justice Pratibha M Singh had passed an order relating to results of students who were obtaining admission in post graduate courses in foreign universities.The bench, while noting that senior advocate Sachin Dutta and Mohinder Rupal, representing DU, did not inform it on Monday about the July order passed by the single judge, asked the varsity to adhere to the direction issued by Justice Prathiba M Singh in the July 7 order.The university counsel conceded in the court that it was an error on their part in not pointing out the July 7 order and said the error was bonafide and they will adhere to the directions of the earlier order.On Monday, the court had asked the students to furnish the necessary details relating to their admission, their e-mail ID, the e-mail IDs of the concerned foreign university and the designation of the official to whom such a request letter is required to be served.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-tells-du-to-announce-results-of-final-year-students-soon/story-FJBdqHBHLPuUoO9gzJzQQM.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Locals will be consulted before starting projects: Maha CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday held discussions with a group of eminent persons on ways of boosting the state’s growth rate and reviving its economy which has been badly hit by Covid-19.These eminent persons, including veteran banker Deepak Parekh and former bureaucrat Vijay Kelkar, are members of the Pune International Centre.Thackeray held the discussions with the Centres president Raghunath Mashelkar, vice-president Kelkar, Parekh, Shami Mehta and other members via video-conferencing.Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the finance portfolio, also took part in the parleys.According to an official statement, the chief minister stressed on initiating a dialogue with locals before any development work is undertaken and also underscored the need for transparency in carrying it out.Without naming anyone, Thackeray said this did not happen earlier, but now on people will be taken into confidence and dialogue with them will be increased.Our government will not go beyond the views of locals while bringing in any project. There is no meaning to a development which is coupled with protests and baton charges, the statement quoted the chief minister as saying.The Hindu Hrudaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg, that will connect Mumbai to Nagpur in Vidarbha, will give momentum to the states development, he added.He reiterated that 24 townships will be developed along the 700-km expressway.A network of industrial hubs will also be weaved along the expressway, benefiting the state, Thackeray added.The chief minister emphasised on decentralisation of industries in Maharashtra, contending the state witnessed repercussions of concentration of industries in certain areas during the lockdown period.He observed that industrial units in Mumbai, Pimpri- Chinchwad and Thane remained shut during the period, affecting production.If industries are decentralised, production will continue in some or the other parts of the state, if such a situation (as triggered by Covid-19) is to arise in the future, the chief minister said.Thackeray also called for changing the hire and fire work culture or else, he added, employment issues will crop up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/locals-will-be-consulted-before-starting-projects-maha-cm/story-zbJYzjMNIOiBnL3dyTOSGP.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Wanted Dilpreet-Rinda gang shooter lands in Chandigarh Police net||Wanted in 20 cases by the Punjab Police, a 26-year-old shooter of the Dilpreet-Rinda gang was arrested by the Chandigarh Police on Monday night.Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, was arrested along with a property dealer, Firoz Khan, 32, of Govind Nagar, Nayagaon, who had allegedly hired him to issue threats and fire at a superintendent of police (SP) (First Battalion) and his son owing to a property dispute in Nayagaon. The duo was arrested from the road behind the Football Ground, Sector 17, Chandigarh.A countrymade pistol and five live cartridges were recovered from Khan’s Maruti Swift car. Police said Gopi was driving the car and on spotting the police team tried to flee by reversing the vehicle, but the cops managed to intercept the car. “Khan had disputes with a few property dealers as well and had hired Gopi to threaten them too,” said a senior police official. A case under the Arms Act and Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 17, Chandigarh, police station. The accused were on Tuesday produced before a court and sent to three-day police custody. “Gopi is an active member of the Dilpreet-Rinda gang. He is facing cases registered in Ludhiana, Sangrur, Rajpura and Sector 11 police station, Chandigarh. He was hired by Khan after being released from the Nabha jail six months ago,” said inspector Ram Rattan, station house officer, Sector 17 police station, Chandigarh. LONG LIST OF CRIMESThe very first criminal case against Gopi was for a murder in Balachaur, Punjab, in 2011.According to police, Gopi had helped gangster Dilpreet Baba escape from police custody in 2016. A case in this regard was registered at the Kathgarh police station in Nawanshahr.After escaping from custody, Dilpreet, along with gangster Harvinder Singh Rinda and Akash, had killed a sarpanch outside the Sector 38 West gurdwara in broad daylight. Dilpreet was arrested, while the other two remain at large. Gopi had also previously held the charge of the Panjab University Student Union’s (PUSU) chairman, though he had never been enrolled in the varsity. In April 2016, Gopi, along with Rinda, Resham Godara, Satwinder Singh Navaal and others, had allegedly opened fire on the PU campus after a fight between leaders of PUSU and Student Organisation of India (SOI).SOI’s Manpreet Aulakh had suffered a gun injury on his upper thigh, Godara on the head and Jashanpreet from SOI on his arm and legs. The accused had even threatened to kill inspector Narinder Patial, who was then posted as the Sector 11 SHO. While lodged in the Patiala Central Jail in January 2014, Gopi, along with Rinda and others, had tried to kill the deputy jail superintendent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wanted-dilpreet-rinda-gang-shooter-lands-in-chandigarh-police-net/story-ZHjF62dH4wSQSnbdUPm22N.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||MC panel rejects proposal for tickets to enter gardens in Chandigarh||A committee constituted by Chandigarh mayor Raj Bala Malik to enhance revenue sources of the municipal corporation has decided against charging entry fees in gardens and green belts of the city.During a meeting on Tuesday, it was decided that since the General House had already rejected such a system, the committee would not discuss the proposal made by the MC horticulture department.The department had suggested that an entry ticket for gardens and green belts ranging from ₹10 to ₹20 will help increase the civic body’s revenue. Paid passes to morning and evening walkers were also recommended. The plan was mooted for Rose Garden, Sector 16; Fragrance Garden, Sector 36; Shivalik Garden, Manimajra; Japanese Garden, Sector 31; and Valley of Animals, Sector 49.Meanwhile, in order to enhance revenue, the committee has recommended levying door-to-door waste collection charges in villages recently merged into the MC. A proposal will also be prepared for regularisation of water connections outside lal dora of villages and amendment in water bylaws.The committee also recommended that booking of rooms in community centres be allowed on rent basis while options be explored for running gyms in community centres with private partnership and using these centres for organising exhibitions to generate revenue. Among suggestions to curtail expenditure is exercising austerity while organising Rose Festival and Chrysanthemum Show. The possibility of 20% cut in fuel provided to official vehicles of all MC officers should also be explored, suggested the committee.The recommendations will be sent to the General House for further discussion and taking the final decision on the agendas approved, a release stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-panel-rejects-proposal-for-tickets-to-enter-gardens-in-chandigarh/story-3TyMcFe9MHhTtSzzQs2acI.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Man, 25, dies, friend hurt as mini truck hits motorcycle||A 25-year-old man was killed and his friend injured when a mini-truck collided with their motorcycle near Uchha Bridge in Mullanpur Mandi on Monday evening. Van driver Chamkaur Singh fled from the spot leaving the vehicle behind. After the incident the driver of the mini truck fled from the spot leaving his vehicle on the road.Mullanpur police lodged an FIR against Chamkaur Singh of Hathur and seized the vehicle.Karan Kumar of Mullanpur, riding pillion on the motorcycle, died on the spot, while his friend Mukesh Kumar was referred to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala for treatment of multiple fractures.An FIR has been lodged following the statement of Rinku of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, who is a friend of the victim.Rinku told police that Karan was going to visit his in-laws in Ludhiana with Mukesh when the truck collided head-on with the motorcycle.ASI Nirmal Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under sections 279, 304-A, 427 and 338 of IPC had been lodged against the driver at the Mullanpur Dakha police station and police were searching for him.Karan is survived by his wife and two children. He was a labourer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-25-dies-friend-hurt-as-mini-truck-hits-motorcycle/story-zEHxtML2mMrma7UDpiJNUK.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 3.67 lakh recovered from Ludhiana man who cheated acquaintance of Rs 31 lakh||The police have recovered Rs 3.67 lakh in cash and a scooter from Sham Lal, 42, of Kabir Nagar, who was arrested by the Daresi police on August 15 for cheating an acquaintance of Rs 31 lakh in a fraudulent investment deal and cooking up a story on bribing the police. Lal and two others were involved in the crime, of which one has been identified by police as Happy Sharma. According to joint commissioner of police (city) Bhagirath Meena, Manpreet Singh of Guru Nanak Nagar had complained that Lal had cheated his father Joginder Singh of Rs 25 lakh by promising to double his money in a fake investment scheme. He had then cooked another plan and taken Rs 6 lakh from Joginder by saying he had been caught by a crime investigating agency (CIA) team of Chandigarh police with Rs 25 lakh and had to bribe them or they would arrest Joginder.Manpreet alleged that his father had arranged for Rs 6 lakh by selling his car, and handed over the money to Lal’s accomplice, Happy Sharma, who posed as a CIA staff member.Manpreet said as his suspicions were aroused when he followed the accomplice and found him entering Lal’s residence in Kabir Nagar. He then lodged a police complaint.Meena added that the police had lodged an FIR under sections 420, 506 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code at the Daresi police station on August 15 and Lal had been arrested.During questioning Lal confessed to exchanging damaged notes on commission basis. He said he was in debt, had lost money in gambling and was being pressurised by moneylenders. Aware of the fact that Joginder, his acquaintance, had a substantial amount of cash, Lal had first asked Joginder to invest the money and also hatched a plan to fake being caught by CIA officials. Rs 3.67 lakh in cash and a scooter from recovered from himAccording to Lal, of the money he had received from Joginder, he had repaid the moneylenders and given Rs 13 lakh to Happy for his role in the conspiracy.Meena said police were investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rs-3-67-lakh-recovered-from-ludhiana-man-who-cheated-acquaintance-of-rs-31-lakh/story-9bWquTeQLTc37FSCtwgCKP.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Jai Ram’s 12 security personnel, driver, among 61 test positive in HP||Thirteen more people in Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s security detail have tested positive for Covid-19, health officials said on Tuesday. The patients include a personal security officer (PSO), one driver and five security personnel. They are believed to have contracted the virus from the personnel who had tested positive last week. All of them were institutionally quarantined. Within a week, 19 people in the CM’s security detail have tested positive for the deadly infection. Five personnel tasked with the CM’s security, including a PSO, one driver and three police jawans, had tested positive on August 14. In Kullu, over a dozen police personnel, including members of a police contingent that had participated in the state-level Independence Day parade were quarantined after the drill instructor tested positive. The CM had presided over the function. Banjar deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Binny Minhas who commanded the parade has also been quarantined. The Kullu police station has been sealed. Authorities have also informed the Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and Home Guard whose contingents took part in the parade.STATE HAS 4,235 CASES Meanwhile, the Covid-19 tally in Himachal rose to 4,235 with 61 new Covid-19 cases reported across six districts since Monday night. Fifteen cases were reported in Shimla, 14 in Mandi, 11 each in Kullu and Una, four in Kangra, two each in Chamba and Hamirpur and one in Solan. Mandi chief medical officer Dr Devender Sharma said all those found positive in Mandi were from outside the state. “They are labourers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and were in institutional quarantine,” said Dr Sharma, adding that the patients had been shifted to a he Covid-care centre at Karnodi. Among the 11 people found positive in Kullu, six are farm labourers from Naggar, deputy commissioner Richa Verma said. The remaining five include an army jawan and a policeman. Two are primary contacts of infected people and one person returned from Haryana recently. In Una, eleven people have tested positive. Among four patients in Kangra, one woman has no travel history; two are primary contacts of Covid patients; and one returned from Punjab. So far, the health authorities have conducted 1,83,224 tests, which is nearly 25,000 tests per million population. In the past one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 3% and the recovery rate in the state is 69%. Active cases in the state are 1,253, while 2,923 people have recovered. To date, 17 people have succumbed to the contagion. In terms of the total cases, Solan is the worst-hit district with 982 cumulative cases, followed by Kangra (620), Sirmaur (516), Hamirpur (416), Una (340), Mandi (331), Chamba (297), Shimla (248), Kullu (238), Bilaspur (182), Kinnaur (59) and Lahaul and Spiti (six).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/33-new-covid-19-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-most-are-migrant-labourers-from-bihar-up/story-7AnFEnppNIHbbduC0fbmtN.html
18-08-2020||City||85-year-old patient dies during transfer to GMCH, FIR lodged||Police have registered a case against unidentified persons after an 85-year-old male patient died while being shifted from a private hospital in Mohali to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.Tarlochan Singh of Morinda, complained to the police, that his father, Baldev Singh, was admitted to a hospital in Gharuan following stomachache on August 12. After being diagnosed with liver infection, he was shifted to Ivy Hospital, Sector 71, Mohali, on August 15. After depositing Rs 55,000 for treatment, he was asked to pay another Rs 80,000 for ventilator support. As he could not afford that, he asked the hospital authorities to refer his father to GMCH and booked an ambulance of Ivy Hospital to transport him. He alleged that the hospital staff removed the oxygen cylinder supporting his father’s breathing, while stating that the ambulance was equipped with two oxygen cylinders. The hospital did not send any staff member for the ambulance, and his father died on the way for want of oxygen support, Tarlochan alleged.The police later found that the oxygen cylinders in the ambulance were empty. “The family has accused the hospital of negligence. We will take action based on the report of the autopsy, which has been conducted,” DSP (City) Gursher Singh Sandhu. On the hospital’s part, Rupinder Kaur, head of unit, Ivy Hospital, said, “The family got the patient shifted under ‘leave against medical advice’ (LAMA). The FIR has been registered on false allegations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/85-year-old-patient-dies-during-transfer-to-gmch-fir-lodged/story-HeDXXMB6nmaEolfVOpOxJN.html
18-08-2020||City||Four succumb to Covid in Mohali, toll rises to 40||Four people with comorbidities succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking Mohali district’s toll to 40. Half of these fatalities have occurred in the past nine days.Also, with 93 fresh cases being reported, the total went past 2,000. As many as 2,004 people have tested positive in the district so far, 969 of whom are still to recover. Those who died include an 87-year-old man from Zirakpur, who was suffering from lung disease, and a 42-year-old man from Dera Bassi, who was a patient of hypertension. Both were admitted to the PGIMER, Chandigarh.Meanwhile, a 76-year-old man from Sector 65 breathed his last at the government hospital in Patiala. He was suffering from hypertension, diabetes, and tuberculoses. A 56-year-old woman from Mamupur village in Kharar is the fourth fatality. She was suffering from diabetes and was admitted at the civil hospital in Ambala.Among the fresh cases, 39 have been reported from Mohali city while the remaining are spread across its peripheral villages besides Kharar and Dera Bassi subdivisions. Also, 18 people were discharged on Tuesday, taking the number of those cured to 858. Health minister reviews arrangementsPunjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday visited the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and reviewed all arrangements.Sidhu directed the hospital management to install CCTV cameras and LED lights in wards so that health of the patients could be monitored continuously and closely. He said cleanliness in all wards was very important and any shortcoming would not be tolerated. He also asked the hospital staff to ensure full compliance with guidelines issued by the government for prevention of the disease. The minister also appealed to the people to go to the nearest health centre and get their test done as soon as any symptoms of Covid-19 appear. “Sometimes people arrive late at the health facility which makes their situation worse,” he said. Pvt hospitals asked to increase bed capacityPrivate hospitals in Mohali were on Tuesday asked by deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan to increase tertiary (or specialised) Covid care bed capacity as a buffer when cases were surging. Dayalan was speaking at a meeting with the representatives of government and private health institutions. Most of the institutes agreed to make more ventilator equipped beds available.To others who said they did not have the requisite infrastructure, Dayalan said: “The district administration will facilitate setting up of L3 facilities (dealing with complicated or critical cases) and provide ventilators and paramedics to private hospitals to meet the challenge unitedly.” He also added that the district administration had procured 30 ventilators which would be installed by Thursday in selected institutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-succumb-to-covid-in-mohali-toll-rises-to-40/story-v599fxmOkjST1DqMCD5q7K.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||3 men held for bid to steal cash from ATM machine in Manimajra||Three men, all aged 19 years, including a delivery boy with online food portal, a tea vendor and a former salesperson, were arrested for allegedly attempting to steal cash from an ATM in Manimajra’s Subhash Nagar.Hari Om alias Sonu, Abhishek and Satwant Singh alias Golu, all from Bapu Dham Colony (BDC) in Sector 26, had damaged an Axis Bank ATM on August 11 after they failed to get the cash.They were arrested on the intervening night August 17 and August 18 from the parking lot near the Sukhna Lake Regulator end.A case was registered under sections 380, 511 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code at the police station in IT Park, on the complaint of Kikar Singh an employee with Hitachi Payment Service Pvt Ltd, responsible for depositing cash in the machine.Kikar Singh reported that on August 11, at about 7.45 am, he received a phone call informing him that the ATM had been damaged.When interrogated, the three men said they damaged the machine after they could not get the cash using an ATM card which they claimed they had found in the booth.Inspector Lakhvir Singh, station house officer of the IT Park police station, said, “Hari Om had worked as a salesman in a shop at Elante mall, Abhishek worked as delivery boy with Swiggy and Satwant had a tea stall in the grain market.”Hari Om had a theft case registered against him Sector 26 as a juvenile and was admonished on March 21, 2016, he said.The three men during preliminary questioning said that they had made an unsuccessful attempt to break an SBI ATM in Sector 44 Chandigarh on June 24. They had also stolen Rs 25,000 from the Vita booth near the IT Park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-men-held-for-bid-to-steal-cash-from-atm-machine-in-manimajra/story-rac767CSflS6aExAgH0QkJ.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board to rent out 2,500 flats to migrant labour in Maloya||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has planned to rent out 2,500 small flats in Maloya to migrant labourers and urban poor under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) Scheme of the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. The CHB on Tuesday gave a presentation on the scheme at a meeting chaired by UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida. After the country witnessed reverse migration due to the pandemic, the scheme was launched to provide ease of living and planned housing at affordable rent to migrant labourers and urban poor, who stayed in slums, informal settlements, unauthorised colonies. The scheme will be implemented by utilising existing vacant government houses through public-private partnership or by construction, operation and maintenance by public/private entities on their own vacant land.The complexes will be a mix of single and double bedroom dwelling units and dormitories of four to six beds including all common facilities that will be exclusively used for rental housing.The adviser said that a memorandum of understanding (MOU) will be signed between the Chandigarh administration and the ministry of housing and urban affairs, and the CHB will be the state-level nodal agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-to-rent-out-2-500-flats-to-migrant-labour-in-maloya/story-jdM94saBOnbWTJcYK0SpxJ.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tally touches 2,300 with 89 Covid cases||With 89 Covid-19 cases reported on Tuesday, the number of infections has reached 2,305 in Chandigarh.The number of active cases stands at 1,030, as 1,243 patients have been cured while 30 have succumbed to the virus.Among the fresh cases, Sector 40 accounts for the highest, with nine residents testing positive. It is followed by Sector 45 with six cases and Sectors 38 and 61, where five cases each surfaced on Tuesday.Meanwhile, facing flak for not involving elected representatives in pandemic management in Chandigarh, the UT administration for the first time held an online meeting with MP Kirron Kher besides the mayor and all councillors.Kher pitched for involving private nursing homes for Covid-19 management. “As many as 14 private nursing homes that were closed during the Congress rule should reopen for the citizens. This will be helpful in sharing the burden of government hospitals, even if for non-Covid cases,” she later told media.Meanwhile, councillors suggested creation of helpline numbers in each quarantine centre for family members of patients to coordinate with them. They were also in favour of heavy penalty on those not wear masks besides ban of begging in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tally-touches-2-300-with-89-covid-cases/story-1mCtRKyuTFFoLCj4mrnSPL.html
18-08-2020||City||Ludhiana records 266 new Covid-19 cases, 8 more deaths||As many as 266 tested positive for coronavirus and eight lost their lives on Tuesday. The Covid-19 death toll has mounted to 262 and the infection tally reached 7,089.The active cases stand at 2,063. As many as 4,761 patients have recovered from the virus. AIG (crime) Bhupinder Singh Sidhu and SDM Jagraon Narinder Singh were among those who tested Covid-19 positive today. He is undergoing treatment at DMC&H.Fatalities include a 63-year-old woman of Jain Colony near Daba Road, a 56-year-old man from Aman Nagar near Jalandhar Bypass, a 59-year-old woman of Model Town, a 70-year-old man from Vishkarma Colony, a 45-year-old woman from Kot Mangal Singh, a 27-year-old man from Thrike village and a 75-year-old man from Durgapuri. Panic grips Daba area after death of a man, two sonsPanic gripped Daba area of the city after a man and his two sons, who own a cinema hall at Daba Road, died within a week, due to sudden cardiac arrest. After the cases surfaced, the health department collected the samples of the family to get their Covid-19 tests done. The matter came to light after traffic marshal Mandeep Keshav shared the video of the man identified as Nirmal Singh, 90, who died after the death of his two sons Narinder, 68 and Pritpal Singh, 66. Keshav while performing last rites of the deceased as per the Covid-19 protocol, said that the samples of all the family members were collected and the results were awaited. “It is indeed a mystery as to how three members of a family passed away within a week,” he said. Keshav said that the family had contacted him to perform the last rites of Nirmal Singh. On the other hand, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that he has yet to receive the report pertaining to the death of three persons. 76 BJP workers booked for lockdown violationsDivision Number 3 police have 76 workers of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for violating state directives for maintaining social distancing.ASI Jagdish Raj, who lodged an FIR in the matter said that the BJP workers had staged a protest against the ruling government over illicit liquor near Shagun Palace at Samrala road on Monday.He added that the protestors did not follow social distancing norms following which a case under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the IPC has been lodged against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-records-266-new-covid-19-cases-8-more-deaths/story-rZg8gaNn6fBybAGxVrnbRJ.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||89 new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid-19 tally rose to 2,305 with 89 more people testing positive for the disease on Tuesday.The fresh cases include a two-year-old boy and a six-year-old girl, according to a medical bulletin.Chandigarh has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases for the past several days.The city now has 1,030 active Covid-19 cases. The death toll stands at 30.Sixty patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection. A total of 1,243 people have been cured so far, the bulletin said.A total of 22,198 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 19,787 have tested negative while reports in 86 cases are awaited, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/89-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh/story-XHQhZJubK2vTbddOp09wVP.html
18-08-2020||City||Heavy rain leaves many roads inundated in Ludhiana||Intense spells of rain that lashed several places across the city over the last few days flooded streets and left many areas inundated.Rainfall on Tuesday resulted in waterlogging in many areas, giving a harrowing time to commuters across the city.Residents said that tall claims of the civic body regarding turning the city into a smart city have fallen flat, as roads and internal areas get waterlogged even after a brief spell of rain. Residents lashed out at the civic body on social media.Waterlogging was witnessed at Rahon road, Haibowal, old GT road near clock tower, Chaura Bazar, Model town road, Dugri, Ferozepur road, Sutlej club road (near the entrance of DC residence), Chandigarh road among other areas.Cabinet minister and MLA (Ludhiana west) Bharat Bhushan Ashu had visited the spot on July 11 after residents complained against waterlogging and directed the public works department authorities to find a solution for the problem. But no improvement has been done at ground level. Shopkeepers at the Dugri main road and Rahon road also raised a hue and cry over the potholed roads, which result in accidents.While the stretch of Dugri main road (near Dugri police station) is in a pathetic condition for a long time, a major portion of the Rahon road has been dug up for installation of sewer lines.A shopkeeper in Dugri area, Sanjay Tiwari said, “The road is in bad shape for a long time and many accidents also take place on a daily basis. The MC had also conducted repair work in the past, but the material starts peeling off a few days after the work is done.”Despite attempts MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal could not be reached for comment. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said that the staff is regularly working to clean the sewer lines to avoid waterlogging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rain-leaves-many-roads-inundated-in-ludhiana/story-1Ylq1uE9fPkYpY9wM0v9HJ.html
18-08-2020||Pune||Labour beaten by local residents in Bhosari, dies due to shock||A labour, who entered a house of a Bhosari resident during the wee hours on Tuesday, was physically assaulted and later died due to shock after being allegedly beaten and tied by local residents, said officials. The deceased entered the house in Bhosari at 5am on Tuesday by opening the door latch. The family members, who were in the adjacent room, raised an alarm. Then, locals gathered at the spot sensing that a thief had entered the house. They jointly assaulted him after tying him with a rope, police said.The deceased has been indentified as Santosh Mahadev Houshe (36), a resident of Dighi who died of shock and fear after being assaulted, said Bhosari police station incharge Shankar Autade.Autade further said, “The deceased entered the house of a person in Bhosari gaothan and was caught by the family members. He was shouting at that time. They tied him with a rope and beat him up and informed the police. He was again beaten up by other persons who gathered at the spot leading to his death in their custody. He fell unconscious due to shock and died before he could be rushed to the hospital. He worked as a labour and stepped into the house in an inebriated state with the intention of stealing, the residents informed. There is no mark of any external injury on his corpse. We have registered a case of culpable homicide in this regard.” The police have invoked IPC Section 304 (culpable homicide).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/labour-beaten-by-local-residents-in-bhosari-dies-due-to-shock/story-LPZ9RPe36bBhIqjaOTdZKI.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University senate polls postponed: Syndicate bypassed, allege members||The members of the Panjab University syndicate on Tuesday alleged that the executive body of the varsity had been misled and bypassed before deciding to defer the senate polls.The members of the syndicate—including Ashok Goyal, Navdeep Goyal, Rabindra Nath Sharma, Jarnail Singh and HS Dua—who had staged a dharna at the varsity late Monday evening held a press conference here on Tuesday.They alleged that the decision was taken behind their backs and the executive body was not taken into confidence by vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar before making the postponement order public.On August 15, PU announced that the senate elections had been deferred for two months. The members of the syndicate had then demanded that the documents based on which the decision had been made, which were given to them on Tuesday after a night-long dharna.Syndicate member Ashok Goyal said, “The regulation under which the polls were postponed states that the V-C can defer the elections at any stage in case of emergency, but the matter shall be reported to the syndicate.”“The V-C has no business to make [the decision] public without taking the matter to the syndicate first. The decisions are being taken somewhere else,” he said.Syndic Navdeep Goyal said, “The UT administration and their legal experts were consulted even though PU has its own legal panel. If there was a need to postpone the senate elections, they should have held a syndicate meeting to discuss it.”Now, members are demanding that a special syndicate meeting should be held in this regard. However, PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “The decision has been taken as per the advice of the UT administration and within the framework of rules and regulations, keeping in view the pandemic.”Meanwhile, 21 senators including Subhash Sharma, Sanjay Tandon and Gurdip Sharma on Tuesday wrote to the V-C to take action against those syndicate members who had staged the dharna at the registrar’s office the whole night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-senate-polls-postponed-syndicate-bypassed-allege-members/story-RI8ONvQWAmjh8xmRj1xWiO.html
18-08-2020||City||Swachh Survekshan 2020: Ludhiana municipal corporation to be awarded by PM Modi||The Ludhiana Municipal Corporation (MC) will receive an award under Swachh Survekshan 2020 at the Swachh Mahotsava ceremony which will be conducted online on August 20 where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will present the awards to the winners.The virtual event would be observed as Swachh Bharat Mahotsav for celebrating urban swachhta champions. As per the letter received by the state government from the ministry of housing and urban affairs, Ludhiana, Nawanshahr, Jalandhar cantonment and Amritsar cantonment area have been selected for the awards.As per the officials, only Ludhiana MC would be receiving the award out of all the MCs in the state, but the category of the award has not yet been disclosed. In total, 75 awards would be presented. The rehearsals for the virtual ceremony are going on.Last year, the Ludhiana MC slipped by 26 spots in comparison to its ranking in 2018 under Swachh Survekshan. Ludhiana was ranked 163 out of 4,237 cities in the country. In 2018, the MC stood at 137 position under the category of cities with a population above 10 lakhs while the city was ranked 140 in 2017.The announcement of 2020 results was delayed owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The MC officials are expecting that the ranking would improve in Survekshan 2020. Residents would also be able to view the online event on social media. They can visit ‘SwachhBharatUrban’ on Facebook, ‘SwachhBharatGov’ for Twitter, visit ‘https://rb.gy/vh0vdk’ on YouTube.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/swachh-survekshan-2020-ludhiana-municipal-corporation-to-be-awarded-by-pm-modi/story-p6tAtPmCudDEhHqgxkxQ8I.html
18-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: Govt’s decision of imposing lockdown on Saturdays invite criticism||With coronavirus cases rising in Punjab and the state government announcing additional restrictions in the cities of Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala which have emerged as hotbeds of the infection, different sectors including traders, hoteliers, restaurant and salon owners, etc have strongly criticised the decision to impose lockdown on Saturdays. Traders said that they were already receiving tepid response post lockdown. With this decision of the government, the business would be badly hit, they said. President of Akalgarh market garment association, Manpreet Singh Bunty said, “The wholesale garment business in the city is dependent on weekend sales. With the government imposing lockdown on Saturdays also, the business would be hit by 60% to 65% as customers from other districts/states visit the city on weekends.”President of hotel and restaurant association, Amarvir Singh and executive member, Amarjit Singh said that the hospitality sector has been the worst affected in the post lockdown period. “The restaurant owners were already receiving low footfall and only 20% to 25% of restaurants have been opened in the city after the lockdown. Further, the restaurants are also allowed to open till 8.30 pm only. The government should reconsider its decision,” he said.Traders said that many small businesses are on the brink of a shutdown due to losses and if the lockdown continues for a few more months, the owners would be forced to shut business.President of Ghumar mandi market association, Pawan Batra said, “Small traders will not be able to bear losses for a long time now and if lockdown restrictions continued for three more months, many shopkeepers will have to shut down their shops. This would also result in large scale unemployment and the crime graph would increase. Imposing restrictions on weekends will not serve the purpose.” Salon owners said that they are facing huge losses due to weekend restrictions. Owner of a beauty parlour at Mall road, Abhay Girdhar said, “Residents do not visit salons/barber shops on Tuesday and Thursday. And now the government has ordered lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays. We were already receiving around 25% response and this decision would further affect our business.”CP urges residents to stay at home at weekendsCommissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal has urged people to venture out of their homes only when it is necessary. In a Facebook live session on Tuesday, the police chief said that according to new instructions issued by the state government, non-essential shops will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays. He said that the CM announced weekend ‘stay at home’ in Ludhiana.He also added that the police and district administration has roped in private hospitals also for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The city has 1,000 beds in private hospitals that have been reserved for coronavirus patients.Residents on Facebook have appealed to the government to set a limit on bills charged by private hospitals from coronavirus patients, as there are complaints of fleecing by private hospitals. The police commissioner said that the government has already set a limit for private hospitals and no hospital overcharge from patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-govt-s-decision-of-imposing-lockdown-on-saturdays-invite-criticism/story-bZ0I0TtnaJIJV4gx6HqDBO.html
18-08-2020||City||Former PCMC mayor dies of coronavirus||Pune: Former mayor of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation Rangnath Phuge died due to Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. The senior leader of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) was undergoing treatment related to coronavirus at Sahyadri hospital in Pune for last four days, according to his family members. Phuge, 80, was PCMC mayor between 1996-97 and was three-term Congress corporator of Phugewadi. After the formation of NCP, he switched from Congress. Phuge is survived by wife, three daughters, a son, daughter-in-law and grandchildren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-pcmc-mayor-dies-of-coronavirus/story-7b3L1UnRCDI1PdjH5mRmwJ.html
18-08-2020||City||Ludhiana Police collect Rs 2.60 crores as fine from lockdown violators||Police have collected Rs 2.60 crores as fine from 56,098 violators since lockdown was imposed in the region.According to Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal, the city police have issued as many as 56,098 challans to lockdown violators under different violations, including not wearing masks, spitting at public places and for not maintaining social distancing. He said that as many as 53,605 have been challaned for not wearing a mask in public and a fine of Rs 2.52 crores has been collected from them. The police have also registered 301 cases against people for venturing out without wearing masks and arrested 370. For spitting, at public places, a total of 2,196 people have been challaned and Rs 2.26 lakh has been collected as fine from them. Around 256 violators have been challaned for not maintaining social distancing and a fine of Rs 4.96 lakh was collected from them. Apart from it, 191 criminal cases were registered and 250 persons were arrested for not maintaining social distancing.The police chief added that the Ludhiana Police have registered three FIRs and arrested two persons for violating home quarantine norms. The police have also issued challans to 41 persons and collected a fine of Rs 77,500 for the violation.He said that five FIRs have been registered and four persons were arrested for inviting more than 30 people in wedding functions. One case has been registered for the gathering of more than 20 people in a bhog ceremony. Besides, 417 criminal cases have been registered and 471 persons have been arrested for violation of night curfew. Over 23 cases have been registered against political parties for organising protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-collect-rs-2-60-crores-as-fine-from-lockdown-violators/story-BiTKM967WKfqoRBn0HresO.html
18-08-2020||City||3 ITBP men, 6 cops among 43 Covid cases in Panchkula||With 43 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, Panchkula district’s tally rose to 1,267. Among those infected, there are three Indo Tibetan Border Police men and six personnel working at the office of Haryana director general of police. Now, there are 398 active cases in the district, as 861 patients have been cured and eight have succumbed to the disease. According to the daily bulletin, 19 other “positive persons are being traced”.Most cases on Tuesday were reported from Panchkula city. As many as nine surfaced in Sector 15, followed by four in Sector 8 and three each in Sectors 9, 10, 19, 20 and 21. A person each tested positive from Sectors 4, 17, 25 and 27 besides Sectors 4 and 5 of Mansa Devi Complex too.Haryana DGP office closed for 2 daysAfter six cops tested positive, the office of Haryana director general of police located on the premises of police headquarters in Panchkula has been closed on Wednesday and Thursday. “All officers are working from home and all urgent policing requirements of the state are being looked after,” stated a release. With cases surfacing among staffers of Shiksha Sadan too, the Haryana secondary education department too has decided that all officers and staffers will work from home till August 21, with some exceptions for urgent work.Admn to undertake aggressive samplingAmid the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, Haryana additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Rajeev Arora on Tuesday held a meeting with district officials and asked the health department to conduct more and more sampling, contact tracing and home isolations.He said sampling should be conducted at community health centres, as many people avoid visiting bigger hospitals in the city for the fear of being stigmatised.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said the focus will be on aggressive sampling and more surveillance.“The number of Covid-19 sample collection centres will be increased from nine to 19 from Wednesday. Also, we will conduct house-to-house surveillance once again, which will be followed by sampling of the high-risk population and those showing symptoms,” she said, adding that education and police departments will be involved in contact tracing as well.Also, there are plans to use ambulances to collect samples from far-off villages and to increase the number of counsellors so that mental health issues of Covid-19 patients can be addressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-itbp-men-6-cops-among-43-covid-cases-in-panchkula/story-7RKV4qhcwXfPoQJ3N4QzEN.html
18-08-2020||City||HP police carries out week-long drive against drug menace||In a bid to curb drug menace in Himachal Pradesh, a Special Task Force headed by the commandants of the police battalions carried out a week-long drive from August 3 to 12 by conducting raids, seizures and gathering intelligence. Drug trafficking in the borders and selected pockets of some districts are of great concern and it needed to be dealt with firm hands, said director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu. He said preventive steps taken by the district superintendent of police needed to be augmented from other police units. An urgent need for augmenting the efforts and increasing the tempo to build pressure on drug traffickers was felt, the DGP added. Seven commandants of battalion were sent to the districts for a week to collect and collate intelligence about drug trafficking. “They actively conducted raids, searches, seizures. In some cases, they were associated with investigating officers of the local police station for carrying out raids and further investigation of the cases,” Kundu said. The commandants were assisted by DSPs from CID and staff from Battalions and other units. They met stakeholders and enlisted important issues required for preparation of a wider road map for combating the menace of drug trafficking in the state. They also interacted with cross sections of the society, including public representatives. “Teams deployed also collected data on drug users and traffickers which will be useful for making relevant policies on prevention of drug trafficking in an organised way,” the DGP said. During the drive, 17 cases under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act and Excise Act were registered and 20 accused were arrested. The STF destroyed cannabis plants on 5 Bigha of private land in Kullu district, recovered 3,106 Tramadol capsules from Sirmaur district, 2.5kg poppy straw in Una, 900 liters of Lahan (locally brewed liquor) in Bilaspur district, 5.4kg poppy straw in Baddi area of Solan and10gm heroin in Kangra district. A detailed report will be presented before the competent authorities by the STF to help evolve a comprehensive strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-police-carries-out-week-long-drive-against-drug-menace/story-rqyU1kwHfOS30BbWdWuNiK.html
18-08-2020||City||Notices out, CLU fee defaulters in Ludhiana to face action||The cash-strapped Ludhiana Municipal Corporation has started serving notices to shopkeepers, who have yet to pay their change of land use (CLU) fees.The CLU certificate is required to change the land use category from residential to commercial. This is allowed on roads declared commercial by MC in the past.MC expects to collect around Rs 30 crore as CLU fees from the defaulters.Failure to clear the dues even after receiving the notice may result in sealing of the shopkeepers’ properties.Notices have already been served to around 150 shopkeepers in the areas falling under MC’s Zone D, such as Dugri Road, main Haibowal Road, Model Town-Jawaddi Road, Barewal Road, among others.Assistant town planner (ATP), Zone D, Mohan Singh said, “Many shopkeepers have approached the civic body to clear their dues after receiving the notice. Further proceedings, including sealing of the buildings, will be initiated against the defaulters.”As the fee was pending for several years, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and mayor Balkar Sandhu had recently directed the building branch to recover the dues or face action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/notices-out-clu-fee-defaulters-in-ludhiana-to-face-action/story-z0JA8NhBzhZCyId3ajag6O.html
18-08-2020||City||Now, Ludhiana residents can apply for home isolation on mobile app||The district administration has developed a mobile application through which Covid positive patients can apply for home isolation while sitting at their homes. The move comes in the wake of complaints from patients and their caretakers who were being made to stand in a queue outside the Covid Care Centre to apply for home isolation.The mobile app ‘Home Isolation Ludhiana’ was launched by Fatehgarh Sahib MP Dr Amar Singh through video conferencing. He was also accompanied by deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Mr Sandeep Kumar, ADC (Jagraon) Neeru Katyal Gupta, sub-divisional magistrate Raikot Dr Himanshu Gupta, senior Youth Congress leader Kamil Boparai among others. The app is presently available on Google Play and will be launched for iOS devices in the next few days. This app can also be downloaded from the link: https://homeisolationpunjab.in.Speaking on the occasion, Dr Amar Singh said the mobile app “will prove beneficial for residents”. He said that earlier, residents who tested positive will simply have to make a video of themselves showing a separate room, attached bathroom and a caretaker. Once this video is submitted, the patient will get confirmation.After the application is submitted, the patient will be able to select a time slot on which he/she wants to visit the Covid Care Centre set up at Meritorious School, Ludhiana, for checkup, before the application for home isolation is approved. If the patient is not feeling well, their caretaker can also visit the Centre for final approval.DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said that only asymptomatic/patients with mild symptoms below 60 years of age will be eligible to apply for home isolation. He urged the residents to submit only correct information at the time of applying. “This is the second mobile app being launched by the district administration in the last few days. On August 9, a mobile app ‘HBMS Punjab’ was launched where residents can check real-time status of vacant beds in both private and government hospitals.” The status of vacant beds can also be checked on the official site: www.hbmspunjab.in or https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district, DC Sharma said, adding that the list of all private hospitals offering Covid treatment had been uploaded on the app as well as the web link.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-ludhiana-residents-can-apply-for-home-isolation-on-mobile-app/story-14zsuJIv8rT6BNlSnT0CVJ.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Artist makes Ganesh idols with in-built hand sanitisers ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi||As Covid-19 cases across the country continue to rise and people slowly become accustomed to the new normal, an artist in Mumbai has come up with an innovative idea right ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi.The Ghatkopar-based artist has created Ganesh idols that dispense hand sanitisers automatically once you place your hand under the dispenser. “Covid-19 is still here, so I have made idols that dispense sanitiser,” the man told ANI. Maharashtra: An artist from Mumbai's Ghatkopar has made 'sanitizer Ganesha idols' ahead of #GaneshaChaturthi.He says, "COVID-19 is still here, so I have made idols that dispense sanitizer. It functions automatically when people place their hands under it to sanitize them." pic.twitter.com/ns5SPP3CStMaharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 6-lakh mark on Monday with the addition of 8,493 fresh cases, the state health department had said. Every year, devotees, especially in Maharashtra’s Mumbai, carry out processions while bringing the idols home and during immersions. However, with the ongoing pandemic, this year it is not allowed as people need to follow social distancing rules as a precaution against Covid-19 outbreak. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will set up seven-eight collection units in every administrative ward during the 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi festival, which falls on August 22.The units will be set up to prevent devotees from carrying out any procession or to avoid crowding during the immersion process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/artist-makes-ganesh-idols-with-in-built-hand-sanitisers-ahead-of-ganesh-chaturthi/story-XiDkhCngB3eisi7k4svGKP.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||ARIIA 2020 rankings: PU second among government, aided varsities||Panjab University has secured the second position among the government and aided universities of the country in the second edition of the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) released by Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday.Institute of Chemical Technology, Maharashtra, is ranked first and Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University is at the third position. A total of 674 institutions took part in the rankings.The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras came first among all institutions, followed by IIT Bombay and IIT Delhi in the second and third places, respectively.In the first ARIIA rankings released last year, PU was ranked ninth among the government-funded institutions and third among all Indian varsities.An initiative of the Union ministry of education, ARIIA, which aims to promote innovation among Indian educational institutions, assesses colleges and varsities on criteria ranging from support for entrepreneurship development to innovative learning methods, intellectual property generation, technology transfer and commercialisation, budget and funding support, among other aspects.Earlier this year, in the NIRF rankings, PU had slipped 10 notches from 2019, settling at the 44th position.“The spirit of innovation has been inculcated in our students and faculty members over the recent years. Many new research and innovation projects were granted to us. University has been focusing on incubation centres and we have been provided funds for research and innovation by RUSA as well,” said Dr Ashish Jain, director of PU’s internal quality assurance cell.PU’s vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said, “The rankings are the result of faculty and students’ contribution towards innovative technologies. We are in the process of setting up a centralised incubation building, which will give tremendous push to start-ups and innovations on the campus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ariia-2020-rankings-pu-second-among-government-aided-varsities/story-pLfsaslbAowdBCRHQcMApO.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||₹21 lakh collected in first month of on-the-spot traffic challans in Chandigarh||A month after Chandigarh traffic police launched the e-challan system, they have issued 6,113 challans and collected Rs 21.06 lakh in fine from on-the-spot challans.The traffic police are terming the project – a brainchild of former deputy inspector general of police (DIG, traffic) Shashank Anand – a success and will soon add the option to pay through UPI as well.Currently, payments can be made only through debit or credit cards.E-challaning is available for compoundable traffic offences for which traffic police are authorised to collect the payment, such as driving without seat belt, wrong parking, etc. These can be paid on the spot or online at https://echallan.parivahan.gov.in/index/accused-challanChallans for which fines are collected by the court, including drunken driving, dangerous driving or juvenile driving, are not covered under this. Besides, challans where the driving licence is seized are also not included.“E-challaning is especially helpful amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Payments can be made on the spot with no need to turn up at the Traffic Lines in Sector 29, which prevents crowding,” said deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic administration) Kewal Krishan.He said normally appointments were given to violators to pay their fines at the Traffic Lines. But, currently they were giving these only in cases where vehicles had been impounded.Superintendent of police (SP, Headquarters) Manoj Kumar Meena, who is holding the additional charge of senior superintendent of police (SSP, traffic), said, “Challaning officials have given a thumbs up to the new system. We are now in the process of integrating it with the UPI payment system to allow violators to pay through mobile wallets as well.”The traffic police are also sending bulk SMSes to people, who have previously pending Traffic Violation Information Slip (TVIS) challans against them. These challans can be cleared online.Top violationsStopping at zebra crossing 2,650Dangerous/illegal U-turn 1,171Use of black film 468Driving without seatbelt 305||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/21-lakh-collected-in-first-month-of-on-the-spot-traffic-challans-in-chandigarh/story-95jBkUG8fZK8oSEx7ZL07O.html
18-08-2020||City||Traffic policeman checking vehicles run over in west Delhi, critical||New Delhi: A 51-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Delhi traffic police was critically injured after a car ran over him when he was checking vehicles for violation of rules in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar on Monday evening -- the second such accident involving a traffic officer in the last 20 days..The driver sped away and is yet to be identified. The ASI, identified by his first name Mahavir, is undergoing treatment at Balaji Action Hospital in Punjabi Bagh and is in a coma , police said. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said the incident happened when Mahavir and three-four traffic police personnel were checking vehicles near the Raghubir Nagar police booth. Around 5.30 pm, Mahavir signalled a white i20 car to stop for checking. “The car driver halted his vehicle but suddenly accelerated. The vehicle hit the ASI, who was standing in front of the vehicle. The ASI fell on the road. The car ran over his abdomen and lower part of the body, causing serious injuries and sped away,” DCP Purohit said. The injured ASI was rushed to the hospital where he slipped into a coma. A case of attempt to murder and obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions under Sections 307 and 186 of Indian Penal Code was registered at the Khyala police station against the car driver. Police officers associated with the probe said CCTV cameras of the possible routes the car driver took were being analysed. “We have some vital clues in the case and our teams are working on it,” the DCP said. Twenty days ago, a 54-year-old assistant commissioner of police (ACP) of Delhi traffic police died after he was hit and dragged for nearly 50 metres by a mini-truck near the Rajokari flyover where he was busy clearing a traffic jam. ACP Sanket Kaushik was declared brought dead at the AIIMS Trauma Centre. The truck driver was caught in Mahipalpur, four days after the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traffic-policeman-checking-vehicles-run-over-in-west-delhi-critical/story-ZLf4VKdu2HlApVx4OXXjFP.html
18-08-2020||Delhi||Curious case of Covid-19 in Delhi: Re-emergence seen in some cured patients||Some hospitals in the national capital have said they are seeing recovered coronavirus patients returning to them with recurrence of the infection.Earlier this month, the Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital saw two instances of patients with relapse of coronavirus, almost one-and-a-half months after they were cured of the infection. In both the instances of relapse, the patients had moderate symptoms.Aakash Healthcare in Dwarka had also reported a case where a cancer patient recovered from coronavirus and contracted the disease again after a couple of months. The second time proved fatal for the patient who succumbed to the virus.Last month, the case of a Delhi policeman having a relapse of the novel coronavirus had emerged which had left experts baffled. In the same month, a similar case had surfaced in the national capital after a nurse employed at a civic-run dedicated Covid-19 hospital had tested positive again after recovering from the contagious disease.Also read: Over 23% of Delhi’s population exposed to coronavirus, shows sero-survey resultsAccording to Dr BL Sherwal, medical director of the Delhi government-run hospital, unless the virus is cultured or gene sequencing done, it will be difficult to determine whether it is a different strain of the virus that has infected the person the second time. “There can be a relapse. The virus can be isolated from the body particularly from the sputum. We have the evidence that after ninth or tenth day the virus becomes non-infectious and the patients are not tested again,” he said. “However, the virus has been reported to be living in patients who have recovered around 39 to 40 days back,” he added.Dr Chandragouda Dodagoudar, director of medical oncology at Aakash Healthcare in Dwarka, shared the case of a 65-year-old patient who had stage 2 lymphoma. The patient first visited the health facility in March and was advised chemotherapy but was very apprehensive due to the coronavirus disease.“The patient delayed the treatment for two and a half months and took alternative medicines and when that medication did not work and she started having pain, she visited the hospital. She had contracted Covid-19 by then and the lymphoma had progressed from Stage 2 to Stage 4. We could not administer chemotherapy while she was undergoing COVID treatment,” he said.The doctor said after the patient recovered from coronavirus, she was administered a slight dose of chemotherapy and became better and was discharged. But after a month, she had a relapse of COVID and ended up in a critical condition and succumbed last month.Also read: How Delhi crossed Mumbai in grim Covid-19 milestoneThe senior doctor said the patient did not have any other co-morbidities but called cancer a ‘‘co-morbidity’‘.Sherwal said patients with weak immunity are likely to get reinfection. “It can be there in any of the patients, cancer patients, HIV patients, etc,” he said.He added that immunocompromised patients are at more risk if they do not take precautions like wearing of masks and washing hands frequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/curious-case-of-covid-19-in-delhi-re-emergence-seen-in-some-cured-patients/story-x6lbGYq9M8SMCfKPWoXieN.html
18-08-2020||Pune||Pune reports 46 Covid-19 deaths in 24 hours: PMC||PUNE The city reported 46 deaths within 24 hours on Monday which was the highest death toll ever due to Covid-19 since the pandemic broke out. According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) the total death toll of the city now is 1,785.The civic body also reported 835 fresh Covid-19 cases which took the progressive positive count to 74,933.While the state reported, 919 cases and 26 deaths in PMC limits taking the progressive positive count to 80,407 and death toll to 2,077.Meanwhile, 1,049 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday after recovering form the infection taking the final count to 58,706.Currently, there are 14,442 active cases in the city out of which 765 are critical cases with 464 are on ventilators and 301 in ICU without ventilators. Over 2,455 people are undergoing oxygen treatment in the city’s hospitals. About 4,635 tests were conducted which took the final count of tests conducted to 3.64 lakh.Out of these 46 deaths reported on Monday, eleven were from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH), six were from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), four from Inlaks and Budhrani Hospital, Three from Jehangir hospital, two each from Naidu hospital, Sahyadri (Karve road), Noble hospital, Bharati Hospital and Ruby Hall Clinic. One each from D H Aundh, Rising Medicare hospital, Tarachand Hospital, Poona hospital, O&P hospital, Sahyadri hospital (Kothrud), Ranka hospital, Deoyani hospital, Lotus hospital, Meera hospital and Mai Mangeshkar hospital. Also, 11 deaths were reported of those form outside PMC limits but declared dead in the city hospital, two from SGH, one each from Global hospital, Jehangir hospital, Bharati hospital, NIXI hospital, Jupiter hospital, Surya Sahyadri hospital, Sahyadri Hospital (Ahmednagar road), Sancheti hospital and Jeewan Jyoti hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-46-covid-19-deaths-in-24-hours-pmc/story-VKIBGfluxRI7GbMrk2vjhI.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Breeder crushes dog under car, Maneka Gandhi pleads to CM for his arrest||The video of a dog being killed after being run over by a car in what seems to allegedly be a deliberate act by a breeder has gone viral on social media, following which the district police has formed a team to nab the culprit on Tuesday. It has also provoked the wrath of BJP MP Maneka GandhiSharing the video of a turbaned youth placing the dog before the car and driving over it on her Twitter handle, Gandhi, who is also the chairperson of the non-governmental organisation People for Animals (PFA), wrote, “This is Gurinder Singh s/o Harbans Singh, village Dandupur, Kapurthala in Punjab. He is a breeder and seller of dogs for dog fights. This is what he does to dogs when they are no longer useful. This dog died after 30 minutes of being in excruciating pain.”The man used the animals for dog fights, Gandhi, who founded PFA said, adding, he “should go to jail,” while appealing to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Kapurthala police for their intervention.Police has taken immediate action, said deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sundeep Singh and registered a case under Sections 429 IPC, 11(1) of Prevention of Cruelty to Animal Act, 1960, against Gurinder on the complaint of Shalini, head of PFA Amritsar.Shalini said after she received CCTV footage on Monday of the dog being killed, her team traced Gurinder Singh through the car’s registration number.“We conducted a raid at the house along with local police and rescued 11 dogs today. All were in very poor condition and one Pomeranian puppy had drowned in the water when the wife of the accused threw him in the nearby fields,” she said.The DSP said teams had been formed and raids were being conducted to nab the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/breeder-crushes-dog-under-car-maneka-gandhi-pleads-to-cm-for-his-arrest/story-JbbeaTwHw1cLPH3uQQeosJ.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Who stands tall with the small business?||When the government announced that 80 crore Indians have been given food packets of lentils and rice/flour, reality hit hard. Reality that we are still a poor nation, a nation where people need to be given survival aid. So much for all the comparatives on what much of the first world is doing to support small business and employment and what India must do. I run a small business in the hospitality sector, one of the hardest hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. What can I expect from a government busy in giving basics to 800 crore? Not much I suppose. But then, what have we ever got? Ever since the lockdown and the doom and gloom which surround us, challenges have been thrown at small business and its employees. Some have closed shop; some are on the verge of doing so, and others are struggling. Not once in this pandemic has the government or its minions deemed it fit to call or offer a word of support. Agencies that are quick to remind us of the dos and don’ts of due dates and compliances, are missing in action. Compare this with presidents, prime ministers, governors and mayors in countries such as Canada, the US, the UK, Germany, Australia and New Zealand who have come out in support of small business, local communities and jobs. These countries and governments realise that for the continuity of their economy and their way of life, it is important to support small and medium businesses. The lack of any meaningful support will lead to a destruction of small business, as by their nature they have the least depth in reserves and access to funds. However, it is the small and medium business in most countries that are among the largest employers. This holds true for India as well. DREAM SHATTERED FOR MANY The ramifications of this destruction will be felt for long and a lot of things will change permanently. Large-scale global events have had that impact historically. One has only to look back at the impact of the Spanish flu a century ago. The Indian economy was sputtering even before the pandemic hit, no matter how well the numbers are polished and presented, it will be hard to escape the fact that we have record unemployment and an unprecedented contraction in the economy. We are a consumption-driven economy; and it is the consumption story of the Indian economy which is hit hardest as the government failed in providing direct cash transfers to employers or employees. This will possibly lead to a catalyst effect in further slowing the economy, leading to closure of many businesses and resulting job losses. The number of people being pushed into penury will be huge as defaults and bankruptcies rise. Most small and medium businesses that had emerged as a result of the opening of the economy and helped countless people exit poverty and attain a higher standard of living will probably be shattered. There was a sense of self-worth and confidence which had crept into the citizens of modern India and no longer did we consider ourselves a third world nation. Today, that dream lies shattered for many. FIND BALANCE IN FIGHT AGAINST COVID The relationship of the Indian state with small business is at best that of indifference, for the most part predatory. A state that is paid for and maintained by a multitude of taxpayers through a never-ending multi-layered taxation system nips and cuts continuously. Where amid all this destruction is my promised government ‘of, by and for the people’? Public memory is short, so indulge me while I remind you how not so long ago, we queued up for a visa and the foreign job…good cheap Indian labour. Once again as the doors of opportunity close in our country, people will have to look outwards. Don’t kill the dream at home, All it will take is a bit of candour on your part, step out of your ivory towers and help rebuild what was so rudely shut, find a balance in the fight with this disease. Not as drill masters on a parade but as supporters and mentors would to a long-distance runner in a marathon.The writer is a Chandigarh-based food entrepreneur. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/who-stands-tall-with-the-small-business/story-nwIDCLtyjBLMKgAamaCNJM.html
18-08-2020||Pune||UGC vice-chairman, SPPU vice-chancellor praise NEP||In an online program organised by the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), Bhushan Patwardhan, the University Grants Commission (UGC) vice chairman showered praise on the recently ushered in New Education Policy (NEP). “There is a misunderstanding among Indians that original knowledge source comes from the West and this new education policy is liberating us from that. This policy for the first time boldly has talked about our country’s legacy. So in search of our own identity, education will play an important role in the future,” Patwardhan said. Along with Patwardhan, SPPU vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar, pro-vice Chancellor N S Umrani, SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar and deans of several departments of SPPU were present. Patwardhan further said, “I will not talk about the specifications or the points drafted in this policy, but it is the process of change of thoughts for all of us. SPPU is actually a miniature of UGC in Pune, we are handling more than 1,000 universities and SPPU is handling more than 1,000 colleges.”“We celebrated our Independence Day but the question is that have we become free in our mind. And education is to liberate our minds from that kind of impact of colonial times and so many invasions on our country. So we have to change our curriculum in a major way and we have started this process. The inter-disciplinary studies concept was first introduced in SPPU in the country and emphasis is given on this in the NEP. The internship has now been applied to all other subjects. So this new policy comes with so many new things and I welcome this policy.” he added. Talking on this occasion, Karmalkar said, “It has become necessary to make basic changes in the syllabus and with the NEP it would be possible now. Social development is an important aspect highlighted in this policy and it should be promoted by universities and colleges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ugc-vice-chairman-sppu-vice-chancellor-praise-nep/story-FOSpbSyQuNR1ssK0lMhecO.html
18-08-2020||Pune||Small mandals in Pune can set up mandaps after getting permission||While popular mandals have decided to celebrate the ten-day Ganeshotsav inside temples because of the Covid situation, small groups had requested Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and police to allow them to erect mandaps on roadsides and chowks. The civic administration and police officials have permitted small mandals to set up mandaps by getting requisite permission. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “Considering the Covid pandemic, Ganpati mandals should celebrate the festival inside their temples only. The mandals that do not have their own temples can install mandaps after obtaining permissions from PMC and other departments.” Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham said, “Only those mandals that do not have their own temples or separate areas can install small-size mandaps. These mandals should keep in mind their social responsibility and follow all necessary safety precautions during the festival. The police officials will check the mandap spot and, if possible, mandals should celebrate the festival within the temple premises.” Many Ganpati mandals had written to PMC and Pune police department seeking permission to erect mandaps. “It is not possible for smaller mandals to celebrate the festival without the mandaps. In the recent meeting that we had with the authorities, we sought permission to install mandaps,” said Shailesh Bhadai, president, Bhadai Samaj Ganpati mandal. Khadak Ganpati mandal president Sanjay Balgude said, “In Pune, many temples have a big permanent idol and a smaller one for immersion during the visarjan day. As it would not be right to worship two idols inside temple premises, small mandals should be allowed to put mandaps by following social distancing and safety precautions.” The city has around 2,500 Ganesh mandals and many unregistered mandals. Many small Ganpati mandals do not have their own temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/small-mandals-in-pune-can-set-up-mandaps-after-getting-permission/story-dw72A3brJJadKzTCuPM1MO.html
18-08-2020||Pune||Experts raise questions about Pune administration’s handling of Covid-19 situation||Pune district in a new hotspot in the state as it has overtaken state capital Mumbai in the positive case count. Out of the 6, 04, 358 positive cases in the state as of August 17, 1, 32, 481 are from Pune district and 1, 29, 479 are from Mumbai, followed by Thane district with 1, 14, 896.Even though the administration claims that the district has been testing more, Mumbai with a population of 1.24 crore has tested 6,51,593 while Pune as a district with a population of 94 lakhs has tested close to 5,57,225. Experts have raised serious questions on the administration’s handling of the situation. According to experts some of the loopholes which have led to this situation could be poor contact tracing, while state’s average contact tracing for every positive person is about 24, Pune city’s contact tracing is now only 11. A good tracing system helps break the chain by containing the spread of the virus. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “Despite me repeating the same point in every meeting that the administration must focus 100 per cent on those who have comorbidities are also senior citizens and pick them up even at the slightest symptoms before they develop complications and put them under institutional quarantine. There has been no response.”“Also, the people have failed to follow precautionary measures like maintaining social distance, wearing masks, and immediately reporting to hospitals in case of symptoms,” he said.Meanwhile, while Mumbai came up with jumbo facilities two months ago, Pune is still scrambling to set up its jumbo facilities. Saurabh Rao, Divisional Commissioner said, “It is true that we have missed deadlines due to several reasons including rains, but we are hopeful that we could at least set up the critical care facilities at these centres for now.”Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), said, “In Mumbai, the peak activity of coronavirus pandemic reached at the end of July and now it on a plateau in Mumbai. In Pune, the peak period will be experienced at end of August or in early September. So it is expected to overtake Mumbai. Secondly, in Pune, the testing activity is being carried out with a higher momentum than Mumbai for last 2 weeks. That’s why the number of new cases will be more. Third, in Pune, the patients are discharged after a full treatment of 10 or more days. So the number of active cases is on a higher side. At the same time in Mumbai the patients are discharged even on 5th day if the symptoms are abated.”Dr Sanjay Dabhade, Jan Aarogya Manch, said, “I think that lockdown measures have limitations. We cannot restrict the movements of the people furthermore. Best way to contain the spread is personal safety measures. Cases are sure to rise. It is inevitable now our aim should be to check Case Fatality Rate and provide the best possible Health Care to all more attention towards high-risk patients.”Rao further said that all possible contacts are traced in the district within two to three days. “Also that the infectivity rate or the R naught is now going down for Pune and hopefully in the next 17 day, we will reach a point where Mumbai is right now.” Rao also indicated at testing out of the ICMR guidelines juts like Mumbai did to stop the super spreaders. He also hinted at the discrepancy in the number of cases being reported by the state and the PMC which will be hopefully resolved by Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/experts-raise-questions-about-pune-administration-s-handling-of-covid-19-situation/story-Nfi5oOhHOmIl8nFYiDRoPP.html
18-08-2020||Pune||Pune divisional commissioner holds review meeting with army on possible flooding||In light of the continuous rain in western Maharashtra and the horrific memories of last year’s flood in Kolhapur, Sangli and Pune district being afresh, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao held a review meeting with southern command officers.Rao said, “It’s raining all over western Maharashtra. Last year Sangli and Kolhapur city faced heavy rain and floods, many were evacuated. By considering that, the divisional commissioner’s office is taking all the care this year.”Rao said, “I took a review meeting with the army’s southern command officers and checked how much help they would be able to extend if it was required. At the same time a meeting had been conducted with the state disaster management office. The five districts falling in western Maharashtra demanded some help on the background of the rainy season and a proposal has been forwarded to the state government for approval.”Rao said, “All the five districts Kolhapur, Sangli, Pune, Satara and Solapur have prepared their disaster management plan at city, district and village level. The divisional office is in touch with the irrigation department and doing a continuous vigilance over the discharge from various dams mainly Koyna.”Speed boats donatedMinister of state Vishwajeet Kadam on Monday launched speed boats at Sangli district. The speed boats had been kept in Krishna river on the background of the rainy season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-divisional-commissioner-holds-review-meeting-with-army-on-possible-flooding/story-lYLXJDV1to7vHD7xgshtVJ.html
18-08-2020||City||Tibetan Parliament-in-exile postpones its session due to Covid-19||The Tibetan Parliament-in-exile has postponed its 10th session, slated to be held in December, until March 2021 due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The move to postpone the upcoming session was taken at the 327th Standing Committee meeting on August 13, in due accordance with Article 6 and clause 2 of Article 49 of the Charter of Tibetans in exile, said speaker Pema Jungney. “The decision has been taken considering the situation across the world due to Covid-19 which originated in Wuhan, China,” he added. He said due to the current international travel ban, Tibetan Parliamentarians from outside India may not have been able to attend the session and those in India too might have found it difficult to travel to Dharamshala,” he said.Although the September session will not be convened, Jungney said, matters and proceedings related to the Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile will be executed without any negligence. The annual reports of the CTA’s main offices and its institutions for the fiscal year 2019-2020 is being reviewed by members of the Standing Committee. “Accordingly, questions raised on the annual reports by the Standing Committee will be submitted to the respective departments through the Kashag secretariat,” he added.All the departments are required to submit, via email, their précis annual reports and clarification to the questions raised by the Standing Committee in PDF format to the parliamentary secretariat before September 20, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tibetan-parliament-in-exile-postpones-its-session-due-to-covid-19/story-dx1EGusrvukruNQuBFNWdI.html
18-08-2020||Pune||Panshet releases 2,000 cusecs water||After Khadakwasla, another reservoir Panshet dam has also filled up to capacity on Monday following the incessant rainfall in catchment areas. The increased stock prompted authorities to discharge 2,000 cusecs water from Panshet dam by 6pm. The continued rainfall for the past one week in Pune district has improved water levels of most reservoirs with 10 dams witnessing over 90 per cent stock in Pune district. At 5pm, the Panshet dam was filled at 98.82 per cent.“If the intensity of the rain increases at night then we will be releasing more water from Panshet,”said a state irrigation department official.With Khadakwasla dam filled 100 per cent, Warasgaon and Temghar have reported storage of 84.29 per cent and 67.81 per cent respectively.The total water storage in four dams is 88.57 per cent.After water was released from Koyna dam on Sunday, the water storage has been reported at 87.95 per cent.Rainfall activity to reduce in PuneThe Pune city which has received moderate rain until Monday will be receiving light rain on Tuesday and Wednesday.“In Pune city areas, the rainfall activity is likely to reduce marginally on August 18 and 19 but otherwise rainfall activity/cloudy, overcast condition will continue for 7-8 days at least,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of India Meteorological Department, Pune.The heavy rain in ghat areas will continue until August 23.On Monday, until 5.30 pm, Pune received only 1 mm rain while Lohegaon received 4mm rain respectively.“The likely formation of one more low pressure system over Bay of Bengal around August 19 will activate the strengthening of westerlies from the Arabian Sea. This will enhance rainfall activity in the state for more than a week,” said Kashyapi.From August 20-23, the city is expected to receive moderate rain.Water storage in dams of Pune DistrictKalmodi 100%Andra 100%Kasarsai 95.77%Mulshi 94.68%Panshet 96.99%Khadakwasla 100%Gunjwani 95.21%Bhatghar 92.92%Veer 92.14%Nazre 99.96%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/panshet-releases-2-000-cusecs-water/story-dqcaPm7ZNQqIYhDY0FfRwM.html
18-08-2020||City||9.61 lakh farmer families to be covered under natural farming by 2022: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday said the state government is contemplating to cover 9.61 lakh families of farmers under natural farming by 2022. While presiding over the Apex State Level Committee for monitoring of Prakritik Kheti Khushal Kisan Yojna, the CM said natural farming is a complete paradigm shift from traditional farming which involves various cropping inputs. He said continuous use of chemical pesticides and fertilizers have increased the yield of crops but has trigged negative impact on soil as well as the environment. He said natural farming emphasizes on natural growth of various crops without use of fertilizers and pesticides.The CM said during his first budget for 2018-19, he had allocated Rs 25 crore for promotion of natural farming in the state. “The scheme envisages to increase farm income in harmony with the nature with no use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides. Agriculture plays significant role in economy of the state with over 67% population directly depending on agriculture,” he said.He said natural farming not only helps in providing hygienic and chemical free fruit and vegetable to farmers but also gives them remunerative price of their produce. The state government had set a target of covering 50,000 families under natural farming in 2019 but succeeded in covering about 55,000 families. The CM said the target has been fixed to cover 2 lakh farmer families under natural farming during the current year. Out of total 3,226 panchyats in the state, 2,934 panchayats have been covered under Subhash Palekar Natural Farming.“As many as 72,193 farmers have been trained for natural farming during the year 2019-20 against the target of 50,000 farmers and about 2,000 training camps were organised,” he added.The CM said actual training camps were not possible amid the Covid pandemic but regular video camps and awareness campaigns through social media were conducted to motivate farmers to adopt natural farming. He said personal contact with trained farmers and meetings with small groups of farmers adopting natural farming were also held during this period. The state government will also consider providing separate market place for farmers to facilitate them in selling their produce, he added.“The state government is also providing subsidy of 25% on purchase of indigenous breed of cows which will not only help in supplementing the income of farmers but also help in natural farming,” the CM said. He also released publications on success stories regarding achievements of farmers under Prakritik kheti Khushal Kisan Yojna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-61-lakh-farmer-families-to-be-covered-under-natural-farming-by-2022-jai-ram/story-z4ZjWRcDbVqf2r6l0BdmGN.html
18-08-2020||City||Take concrete steps to prevent damage to apple crop: CPI M to Himachal govt||Expressing concern regarding the outbreak of various diseases like scab, mitr and untimely autumn in apple orchards of Himachal Pradesh, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Tuesday demanded that the state government should take concrete steps to prevent these diseases and immediately send experts from the horticulture varsity and department to the affected areas. The CPI (M) said the state government should provide necessary fungicides and pesticides in sufficient quantities to orchardists through centres of the horticulture department. Party leader Sanjay Chauhan said earlier the orchardists had also demanded action to prevent damage to the apple crop due to these diseases but the state government does not appear to be serious regarding it. “Rs 4,500 crore apple economy of the state will be wasted and orchardists will be facing employment crisis if the state government does not take concrete steps to prevent these diseases,” he added.The outbreak of these diseases have been witnessed in Shimla, Kullu, Kinnaur, Mandi and Chamba districts. “The state government is spending money on the pretext of zero budget farming but they have abolished subsidies which were provided for seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, fungicides and plants. This has increased the cost of production,” he said.Chauhan said the state government and orchardists will have to work together to fight these diseases. “In 1982-83, the state government and experts from the horticulture university and department had extended support to orchardists by visiting the affected areas. The same strategy can be applied to prevent these diseases now,” he said.The party will organise a statewide protest on August 26 to demand implementation of these ideas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/take-concrete-steps-to-prevent-damage-to-apple-crop-cpi-m-to-himachal-govt/story-dFjwzoTHU90XdIAbYeUKSN.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Muktsar Akali MLA Barkandi tests positive for Covid||Bathinda: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) legislator from Muktsar Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Barkandi said since he had a sore throat and cold for the past few days, he got himself tested. His samples were tested in Mohali and he is in home isolation at his Chandigarh residence. His family members and security personnel have tested negative. Barkandi had been holding meetings with supporters in violation of Covid guidelines. On August 7, he led a protest by SAD activists outside the public health office in Muktsar. Two days later, he inaugurated a volleyball ground at Sangrana village, where a large number of residents were invited for the event. On July 5, he had held a meeting of party workers at his residence to mobilise them for a protest against the Congress government in the state. 49 NEW CORONA CASES IN MUKTSAR DISTRICT Forty-nine new coronavirus cases were detected in Muktsar district on Tuesday. An official spokesperson said they included 10 patients from the city and nine each from Gidderbaha and Malout towns. Two residents of Badal village were among those who tested positive on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/muktsar-akali-mla-barkandi-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-RbJyeeWSYxTCNbLdR5Oe4K.html
18-08-2020||Pune||Platform ticket rates hiked at Pune to maintain social distancing on station: Railways||The Indian Railways on Tuesday clarified that the increase in the cost of platform tickets by Pune junction has been done to dissuade people from coming unnecessarily onto the platforms and to ensure social distancing is followed amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.The clarification from Railways came after senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh had stated that the price of platform tickets had been exorbitantly raised from Rs 3 in the Congress rule to Rs 50 by the incumbent BJP government.“Rs 3 railway platform ticket in Congress raj has become Rs 50 under BJP raj,” Singh had tweeted, along with photos of two platform tickets with emphasis on their cost.While the first ticket, dated December 14, 2011, showed a value of Rs 3, the second one issued at Pune junction, Maharashtra in August 2020 had a price of Rs 50.The Spokesperson for Railways, through its official Twitter handle, said that there was nothing new in this as the Railways have been using the method to control people since the start of coronavirus pandemic.“The objective of Pune junction pricing the platform ticket at Rs 50 is to stop those who unnecessarily come to the station so that social distancing can be followed. Railways have been controlling the platform ticket rates in this way through the start of the corona pandemic,” the tweet read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/platform-ticket-rates-hiked-at-pune-to-maintain-social-distancing-at-station-railways/story-XJZD8zkB8s0Z02yuoweZmI.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Sikhs, Hindus ‘endangered minorities’ in Afghanistan, says resolution introduced in US Congress||Washington: Describing Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan as “endangered minorities”, a resolution introduced in the US Congress has sought to resettle these persecuted religious communities from the war-torn country to America. Introduced in the House of Representatives last week by Congresswoman Jackie Speier and co-sponsored by seven others, the resolution supports refugee protection for Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan, noting the “systematic religious persecution, discrimination and existential danger” faced by members of these communities. “Sikhs and Hindus are indigenous but endangered minorities in Afghanistan, numbering approximately 700 out of a community that recently included over 8,000 members,” the resolution said. The resolution supports resettling Sikhs and Hindus from Afghanistan in the US under the United States Refugee Admissions Programme pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act. Expressing concern for the safety of Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan, the resolution condemns all terrorist attacks, religious persecution and discrimination against members of these communities in the war-ravaged country. Noting that Islamic militants attacked a gurdwara in Kabul on March 25, killing 25 worshippers, including a four-year-old girl, the resolution said that the terrorists made further attempts on the lives of the survivors before and after the funeral ceremony held for the victims. The resolution also mentioned the suicide bombing carried out by Islamic State-Khorasan in Jalalabad on July 1, 2018, which took the lives of 19 people, including leaders of Sikh and Hindu communities. “These acts of violence follow a greater pattern of targeted violence against Sikhs, Hindus, and other religious minorities in Afghanistan in recent years,” it said. According to the resolution, the Department of State and US Commission on International Religious Freedom have documented systemic discrimination against Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan, including restrictions on religious practices, illegal seizure of property, the inability to send their children to public schools due to harassment, judicial bias against religious minorities, and constitutional limitations on the political rights of religious minorities. The former Taliban-led government routinely persecuted and discriminated against the Afghan-Sikh community, restricting their funeral rites and forcing the community to publicly identify themselves by wearing yellow armbands, it said. The resolution rued that President Donald Trump has proposed resettling up to only 18,000 refugees for 2020, in contrast to the Obama administration’s proposal of 1.1 lakh refugees for fiscal year 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikhs-hindus-endangered-minorities-in-afghanistan-says-resolution-introduced-in-us-congress/story-DolXMAEbvr6d7H0l2oBfoK.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two Moga cops suspended after they were found drinking alcohol at police post||Moga: Two sub-inspectors were placed under suspension for drinking alcohol inside Balkhandi police post under Kot Ise Khan police station on Tuesday. The policemen were identified as SI Darshan Singh and SI Gurdeep Singh. Both were posted at Balkhandi police post. On August 16, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Subeg Singh raided the Balkhandi police post and found both the personnel drinking alcohol while on duty. Sources said on seeing the DSP, both policemen locked themselves in a room to hide but it was too late. DSP Subeg Singh said, “I have sent the report to senior superintendent of police Harmanbir Singh Gill for further action.” Last week, an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) at Balkhandi police post was arrested for extorting money from truck drivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-moga-cops-suspended-after-they-were-found-drinking-alcohol-at-police-post/story-7qGqo5ZyDFQs8PSjhVOh9K.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||North, south portals of Rohtang tunnel will have police stations||Shimla: The 8.8-km Rohtang tunnel that will be opened to traffic by September-end will have police stations at the north and south portals at Dhundi in Kullu district and at Sissu in Lahaul and Spiti district. The Himachal Pradesh Police has set up a five-member board of officers to ensure the safety of the tunnel, which will shorten the distance between Manali and Leh by 46km. The tunnel is strategically important for the defence forces as it will provide all-weather connectivity to the frontier with China. “Police need to prepare for providing round the clock security. To work out the requirement, a board of officers has been set up,” director general of police Sanjay Kundu said on Tuesday. The board will visit Jawahar Tunnel in Banihal and the Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Tunnel at Chenani-Nashri to study the security set-up of J&K Police. The board will submit its report by September 14. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to inaugurate the tunnel in September-end.The board comprises Daljit Singh Thakur, inspector general, security; deputy inspector general of police, central range, Madhusudhan, Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh, Lahaul and Spiti SP Rajesh Dharmani and a representative of the Intelligence Bureau. “The best practices followed in similar road tunnel projects in the Swiss Alps, China, Japan and Pakistan may be studied in-depth and replicated when it is compatible to our needs. We should also learn from the good and bad experiences of tunnel traffic management systems of Jammu and Kashmir and elsewhere,” Kundu said. Close circuit cameras will be installed not only inside the tunnel but along the Manali-Leh axis. Besides, the board will study the communication systems that could work inside the tunnel as cellular phones and ordinary wireless sets do not function in tunnels. Contingency plans will be worked out for crash evacuation, trauma management and embedded firefighting systems; tunnel-related emergencies such as cave-ins, water bursting will be tested too. The board would propose a unit with strength, gadgets and equipment that will function as a repository of all information and database related to vehicles, passengers besides scientific management of traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-south-portals-of-rohtang-tunnel-will-have-police-stations/story-pr70NXS5grcJKpLnyX3cBL.html
18-08-2020||Ranchi||Ex-bank manager held in Rs 97 lakh scam||A former bank manager was arrested in a Jharkhand State Cooperative Bank (JSCB) scam worth Rs 97 lakh under Majhgaon police station West Singhbhum district of Jharkhand on Monday, police said.“The former manager of Majhgaon Cooperative Bank branch has been arrested for financial irregularities worth Rs 97 lakh during his tenure. He has been sent to jail after production in the court Monday. I have directed Majhgaon OC to move a remand application in the court for further investigation and interrogation,” Indrajit Mahatha, West Singhbhum superintendent of police (SP), said.Majhgoan PS OC Akil Ahmed said a team arrested the former manager, Gulshan Sinku , from his Gitilpi residence near Chaibasa. “An FIR was lodged against him in Majhgaon police station on September 27 last after an internal inquiry by the bank found him guilty of financial irregularities worth Rs 9,677, 903 during his tenure,” said Akil.As per available information, Sinku was accused of irregularities in Kisan Credit Cards (KCCs) distribution and loan disbursement and transferring public money from the bank to his personal account and also in the accounts of his son and daughter. The matter had come to fore after JSCB Chaibasa regional office assistant manager Siddhheswar Biruli had lodged a complaint with bank authorities on September 20, 2018.Subsequently, a four-member probe team of the bank found the allegation of Rs 96.77 lakh defalcation against Sinku during his tenure as manager from 2000 to 2014 to be true. Police investigation also confirmed withdrawal and transfer of Rs 1,135, 318 to his personal account from the bank on overdraft during the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-manager-of-majhgaon-branch-held-in-rs-97-lakh-scam/story-1aah3p5eMwfwyrjsjgPWqM.html
18-08-2020||Jaipur||Wildlife dept begins ‘individual monitoring’ of tigers in MHTR||After the death of two tigers in Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) recently, the wildlife department has started “individual monitoring” of the remaining two tigers in the park.The department has also carried out health audit of the two tigers and found them to be healthy, officials said.“We have decided to conduct day-night individual monitoring of the two tigers present in MHTR,” said Sedu Ram Yadav, chief conservator of forest, MHTR, Kota.“We have already started day time individual monitoring of the two tigers by a two-member team for each of them,” he said, adding that an assistant conservator of forest and two forest rangers have been entrusted with the responsibility of individual monitoring of the tigers.Yadav said tiger monitoring was being done earlier also, but now it would be done in more dedicated manner.Yadav said health audit of both the tigers -- Tiger MT-1 and Tigress MT-4 -- has been carried out, in which both the tigers have been found healthy.Dr Arvind Mathur of Jaipur carried out the health audit in presence of wildlife officials. “No injury has been detected in both the tigers,” he said.He said antibiotic injection shots were given to both the tigers from a distance without tranquilizing them to keep them safe from diseases.Meanwhile, the wildlife department has also got new radio collars for the two tigers as their radio collars were not working.A member of the MHTR’s local advisory committee, Nikhilesh Sethi said that MHTR is congenial for tiger relocation so more tigers should be relocated in the park. “Issues of staff crunch, village relocation and tiger conservation should also be dealt on priority basis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/wildlife-dept-begins-individual-monitoring-of-tigers-in-mhtr/story-JUyXo2rsgcs3X13mR6KPqI.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Rebel AAP MLA Manshahia, SP among five contacts of Punjab revenue minister test positive for Covid-19||Bathinda: Rebel Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Nazar Singh Manshahia and SP (headquarters) Satnam Singh were among five people who tested positive in Mansa district on Tuesday. Officiating Mansa civil surgeon Dr GB Singh said a journalist and two Punjab Police constables were the other primary contacts of Punjab revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar, who was tested positive hours after the Independence Day function. Dr Singh said tracing of other contacts of the minister is underway. Several test reports are awaited and more samples will be collected in the next five days. Sardulgarh sub-divisional magistrate Rajpal Singh and Mansa municipal council executive officer Vishal Jindal also tested positive on Monday. Other top district functionaries of Mansa, including deputy commissioner Mohinder Pal, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surendra Lamba, and additional deputy commissioner (general) Sukhpreet Singh Sidhu are among those in home quarantine after they came in contact with Kangar last week. Meanwhile, a coronavirus positive undertrial Gurmeet Singh managed to flee from an isolation facility at Red Cross compound in Bathinda on Monday. Bathinda deputy superintendent of police Gurjeet Singh Romana said the accused ran away from the toilet block. He had been arrested by the Government Railway Police (GRP) in a theft case. Special teams are conducting raids to bring the Covid patient back. On August 10, eight people being treated for coronavirus had also run away by scaling the wall of another isolation facility at Government Meritorious School in Bathinda. They were labourers from different states and had come to work at an oil refinery in the district. Romana said the samples of all eight were taken on August 9 and two days later they tested negative. “Though they were no longer Covid cases but we are trying to locate them for violating the Disaster Management Act and stepping out of the isolation ward without medical authorisation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rebel-aap-mla-manshahia-sp-among-five-contacts-of-punjab-revenue-minister-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-raeClnUNw0e1t5TyxpougL.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab seeks re-assessment of river water share, while Haryana wants neighbour to complete SYL Canal||Chandigarh: Capt Amarinder Singh and Manohar Lal Khattar, the chief ministers of Punjab and Haryana, will be meeting for the first time to discuss the contentious Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal issue under the aegis of the Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Tuesday afternoon. The meeting follows the Supreme Court’s direction to the Centre on July 28 to mediate between the two states to resolve the long-pending SYL issue. The report of today’s meeting will be submitted to the court. During the meeting, Capt Amarinder Singh is expected to compare the figures of availability of water from 1980 to 2020. “The availability of water in the Sutlej, Ravi and Beas rivers over 40 years has reduced drastically and the Centre knows that fact. We want them to start reassessment afresh,” a Punjab government officer said, requesting anonymity. The Punjab chief minister met a battery of officers, including principal secretary, water resources, Sarabjit Singh, newly appointed chairman of the Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority (PWRDA) Karan Avtar Singh, on Monday evening to discuss the state’s stand and strategy. AVAILABILITY RELEVANT ONCE CANAL IS BUILT: HARYANA Khattar met senior irrigation department officials on Monday evening at Haryana Bhawan in Delhi, where he is camping. Haryana officials have said that completing the construction of the canal and the availability of water are two separate issues. “The water availability issue is relevant once the capacity to carry the water is in place,” a Haryana government official said. Quoting an example, the officials said that during the monsoon when there are no restrictions on water indent, the surplus Ravi and Beas waters can be used for Haryana’s parched southern districts to supplement the receding groundwater table. “Otherwise, this surplus water flows into Pakistan,” the official said. The Union water resources ministry has also recorded Punjab government’s unwillingness to complete the canal after several rounds of meetings between the Centre, Haryana and Punjab in 2019 remained inconclusive. “Punjab has clearly refused to complete the canal on the pretext of non-availability of spare water. This argument is a mere excuse to not implement the apex court orders,” a Haryana official added. LONG-PENDING DISPUTE To enable Haryana to use its share of the waters of the Sutlej river and its tributary, Beas, a canal linking the Sutlej with the Western Yamuna Canal, cutting across the state was planned. The 212-km canal was to carry Haryana’s share of water to its southern parts. While 122 km of the canal was to run through Punjab, the remaining 90km was to pass through Haryana. Haryana completed its stretch of the SYL Canal in 1980 at a cost of Rs 56 crore, while Punjab kept delaying the construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-seeks-re-assessment-of-river-water-share-while-haryana-wants-neighbour-to-complete-syl-canal/story-9FVTqkUtv5CEjbaDDIc5DP.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh govt transfers 14 IAS officers||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh government has transferred 14 Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officers. A notification issued on Monday evening said that special secretary, excise and taxation, Dorje Cherring Negi has been transferred to the post of settlement officer, Shimla division. Additional deputy commissioner (ADC)-cum-project director, District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), Kangra, Raghav Sharma has been posted as the managing director, HP Backward Classes Finance and Development Corporation, Kangra, at Dharamshala. Arindam Chaudhary will now be the special secretary, excise and taxation and PWD, Shimla. He will also be holding additional charge of the post of managing director, HP State Electronics Development Corporation Ltd, Shimla. Director, elementary education, Rohit Jamwal has been transferred to the post of director, town and country planning, Shimla. Anurag Chander will be ADC-cum-project director, DRDA, Solan, while Amit Kumar goes as ADC-cum-project director, DRDA, Una, and Jatin Lal as ADC-cum-project director, DRDA, Mandi, Rahul Kumar as ADC-cum-project director, DRDA, Kangra, Torul S Raveesh as additional controller of stores, industrial department, Shimla. Abhishek Verma is the new sub divisional officer (SDO), civil, Kangra, Manesh Kumar is SDO, civil, Amb in Una, Ajay Kumar Yadav SDO, civil, Kullu, Saurabh Jassal SDO, civil, Dalhousie, and Mahendra Pal Gurjar SDO, civil, Nalagarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-govt-transfers-14-ias-officers/story-NjYfKYLbbY1R8WlzZoqmsK.html
18-08-2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar condoles killing of 2 CRPF men from Bihar in J-K terror attack||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday expressed grief over the killing of two Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans, who hailed from the state, in a terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir.The country would always remember the martyrdom of Khurshid Khan and Lavkush Sharma, Kumar said in a statement.Khan and Sharma, who hailed from Rohtas district and Jehanabad district respectively, were among the three security personnel who were killed in the attack in Baramulla district of the union territory. The third person who died in the attack by suspected militants of the Lashkar-e-Taiba was a local policeman.Kumar prayed to almighty to give strength and courage to the bereaved family members of the CRPF jawans.Their bodies would be cremated with police honours, the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nitish-kumar-condoles-killing-of-2-crpf-men-from-bihar-in-j-k-terror-attack/story-5yZdWe6RvYNLBcik1X7ocK.html
18-08-2020||Lucknow||UP is unlikely to experience winter load-shedding||Uttar Pradesh residents are unlikely to experience winter load-shedding this year with the state tipped to have substantial surplus electricity, when compared to the expected demand between October 2020 and March 2021. On the annual basis, though, it may have a marginal peak demand-supply gap.The Load Generation Balance Report (LGBR) or the power demand forecast report released by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) recently shows UP to have a peak demand-supply deficit from 0.2% in April to 7.6% in May this year. But the report forecasts that the state will have surplus power from October onwards.The state, according to the report, is expected to have a power surplus of 25% in October, 43.2% in November, 51% in December, 34.5% in January 2021, 36.8% in February and 36.7% in March, the last month of the current financial year.Overall, UP’s peak power requirement during the current financial year has been anticipated to be 24,220 MW against the expected 23,440 MW demand, the peak shortfall being of 780 MW which is 3.2% of the requirement. The country, as a whole, is expected to have a peak surplus of 18,160 MW or 9.1%.“As may be seen, 11 states/UTs are likely to experience an energy deficit and 13 States/UTs peak deficits of varying extents. Further, 23 states/UTs are anticipated to have net surplus energy and 21 states/UTs are expected to be surplus in peak on an annual basis.1 State/UT each will have ‘Nil’ surplus/deficit in Energy and Peak,” the report says, adding “All other states/UTs in the country are likely to have demand-supply gaps of varying degrees both for energy and peak.”Among the Northern states/UTs Chandigarh, Delhi, Haryana, Punjab apart from UP may have peak demand-supply gap to the tune of 20%, 9.0%, 0.8%, 11.2% and 3.2%, respectively, while three other states—Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand are expected to have extra power vis-à-vis their demand, by 82.8%,21.9% and 22.7%.UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad chairman and state advisory committee member Avadhesh Kumar Verma said it was encouraging to see that UP is expected to have surplus power in winter and only a marginal deficit in summer. “In UP, availability of power may no longer be an issue ,” he pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-is-unlikely-to-experience-winter-load-shedding/story-T5MwWar0RAyocSxhkDbXQK.html
18-08-2020||Ranchi||Woman cuts tongue, offers to God to get missing daughter-in-law back||A woman in her forties cut her tongue and offered it to God to apparently get back her missing daughter-in-law, on NIT campus under RIT police station in Seraikela-Kharsawan district of Jharkhand on Sunday evening, police said on Monday.“The woman was not ready to go to a hospital, but we somehow managed to convince her and took her to MGMMCH in Jamshedpur. She is now stable and recovering well but is not able to talk. The woman works as a domestic help,” Srinivas Singh, officer-in-charge (OC), said.The woman, Lakshmi Nirala, allegedly cut her tongue with a blade at her house after worshipping Lord Shiva and offered it to him, praying for her daughter-in-law Jyoti Nirala’s safe return. According to the police, Jyoti went missing with her child on August 14 evening.Her husband Nandu Lal Nirala, however, said she did it on someone else’s advice. “Someone told her that if she offers her tongue to God, Jyoti would return,” said Nandu.“We searched for Jyoti throughout the night on Friday, but could not find her. Later, I went to RIT police with my son but was told to come next morning. Since Saturday was Independence Day, we went to police in the evening. Lakshmi cut her tongue on Sunday,” said Nandu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-cuts-tongue-offers-to-god-to-get-missing-daughter-in-law-back/story-x0kJWAwU5QgkDg0tBez0zJ.html
18-08-2020||Kolkata||Bengal launches system to deal with admissions at Covid-19 hospitals||The West Bengal government on Monday launched a Covid Patient Management System to deal with admission and treatment-related issues at the hospitals.Addressing a press conference, Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said the system has been started with three Covid hospitals in Kolkata, and in another week 84 hospitals in the state will be brought under its purview.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe system will help people get an update about the facilities available in a particular hospital, facilitate admissions, and ensure that a patient does not have to move around for bed in case of an emergency, he said.“Our Covid-19 healthcare system is good and this new mechanism is unique. It is one of the biggest steps of the government,” Sinha said.This will also help ensure transparency, he added.Further, Sinha said that the state has made provisions to provide oxygen support at all the beds in the Covid hospitals.Oxygen support will be available in all the 11,775 beds now, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-launches-system-to-deal-with-admissions-at-covid-19-hospitals/story-HvUrBSHhM5SRk8Z6YLYwUM.html
18-08-2020||Bangalore||Patients shifted as Bengaluru hospital runs out of oxygen supply||Patients, including those who are Covid-19 positive and on oxygen support at the Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences, were shifted to various hospitals in Bengaluru on Monday night as the medical facility was short of oxygen supply, official sources said. Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar tweeted that as soon as he came to know about the shortage of oxygen at the KIMS, a private hospital, directions were issued to shift patients by ambulance to Victoria, Bowring and Rajiv Gandhi hospitals in the city. For the treatment of critical patients, 20 huge oxygen cylinders have been sent to the KIMS, Sudhakar said. According to official sources, nearly 50 patients, including those coronavirus positive, have been shifted. The KIMS said in a statement that due to shortage of liquid oxygen from the manufacturing company, authorities were informed about the situation and requested for arrangements of liquid oxygen from other suppliers. “We have anticipated that low oxygen volume hypoxic crisis may occur for oxygen dependent patients,” it said. “For damage control and on precautionary measures, we plan to shift all oxygen-dependent patients to various government and private hospitals. “During this crisis, all government officials and authorities immediately responded to our call and supported us by joining hands with the management for saving the lives of the patients. We are indebted for their kind co-operation,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/patients-shifted-as-bengaluru-hospital-runs-out-of-oxygen-supply/story-9Luak8Xp4iPt8wQMUEkbiN.html
18-08-2020||Pune||13.5% decline in suicide cases during lockdown period in Pune||There has been a drop of 13.5 per cent in suicides during March-July 2020 as compared to the same period last year, says a study conducted by SNDT Arts and Commerce College for Women, Pune.According to the report, 264 suicides were reported from March-July 2020 as compared to 305 during the same period last year. Also, the majority of suicides were reported in the age group of 20-40 years, 61 per cent in 2020 and 59 per cent in 2019. As per the three-month suicide data of this year, 198 were males and 66 females. The 2019 figure was 226 males, 78 females and one gender was not mentioned.The research was conducted by professor Madhavi Kulkarni, vice-principal and associate professor of Commerce (project coordinator); Manasee Rajhans, head and associate professor of Psychology and Vasanti Joshi, associate professor of Commerce.DCP (crime branch) Bachchan Singh coordinated with the SNDT team for research and police inspector Ajit Lakade provided statistics for research and analysis.Kulkarni said, “The study was undertaken to identify the reasons behind the decline in the number of suicide cases in the city during Covid-19 lockdown. However, no association of this decline can be established with age, gender, source of income and economic status of the victims.”“The main factors or causes of suicide attempts and means used also have no significant association with the decline. By the logic of elimination, it can be inferred that the decline has a direct association with the lockdown and Covid-19 phenomenon,” she said.According to the report, the main reason for decline in the number of suicides during the lockdown period was family support which helped people overcome loneliness, depression, financial penury, loss of a job among others. Singh said, “One of the reasons is the support of family. Prima facie, proximity to family members gives people morale support and helps to fight suicidal tendencies.”Other reasons for the decline in suicides include the probable victim did not get the opportunity to attempt as all the family members were at home, the fear of pandemic engrossed all other depression generating fears and worries, tightened policing and social patrolling made it difficult to attempt suicide.“Suicide has been one of the most common causes of death in our country for a while now. Our city, our state and our country need initiatives to raise awareness about suicide prevention,” Nikunja Gujar, founder-director, psychologist, psychotherapist, Empticons India. “This study shows the results of the efforts and initiatives by police and other organisations,” she said.Findings of studyOverall there is a decline by 13.5% in suicides (264 in 2020 from March to July vs 305 in 2019)March to July 2019 -305 suicides (226 male, 78 female, 1 – gender not mentioned)March to July 2020 – 264 suicides (198 male, 66 female)Majority of suicides reported between 20 and 40 years age (59% in 2019, 61% in 2020)Majority of the victims are from middle class (53% in 2019, 51% in 2020)Domestic disputes and depression are the major reasons for suicides (both combined are the cause of 45% suicides in 2019, 30% in 2020)Cases in which more number of family members are there — joint families, saw lesser suicides while nuclear families saw more. In 2020, 72% suicides in nuclear families. (90 out of 125).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/13-5-decline-in-suicide-cases-during-lockdown-period-in-pune/story-Z9itDhTGQHc9aYZ5RQwqZI.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Orange alert for Kolhapur, Satara, coastal Maharashtra; heavy rainfall likely for 2 days||An orange alert has been issued for Kolhapur and Satara districts in western Maharashtra and for coastal areas for August 18 and 19 with the prediction of heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places in ghat areas, the Met department said on Monday.A forecast of light to moderate rains is made for Pune and adjoining areas of the district for the next two days, an official said.Issuing an orange alert, the Met department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places in coastal areas in the state on Tuesday and Wednesday.“The southwest monsoon would remain active over Maharashtra for the next 4-5 days which will cause strong spells of showers,” an official said in Mumbai.Meanwhile, water levels of Krishna, Warna and Koyna rivers in Sangli district have risen due to continuous rains, officials said, adding that residents have been put on alert.Massive floods had caused widescale damage in Sangli and Kolhapur districts last year during monsoon.“Light to moderate rains are likely to take place in Pune and adjoining areas on Tuesday and Wednesday. Rain activity in the district will increase as moderate rains are predicted on Thursday and Friday,” an Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) official said in Pune.In Sangli district, very light to light rains are predicted for the next two to three days.Meanwhile, Pune city recorded light rainfall in the last 24 hours.Due to good rainfall in catchment areas of Warasgaon, Temghar, Panshet and Khadakwasla dams, which provide water to Pune city, the collective water storage has risen to 25.82 TMC (Thousand Million Cubic Feet), which is 88.57 per cent of their total capacity.“As the Panshet dam filled to its capacity, water will be released at the rate of 2,000 cusecs,” a district official said.In Sangli and Kolhapur districts, water is being released from Koyna, Warna, Chandoli and Radhanagari dams.“The water is currently being released from Almatti dam (in north Karnataka) at the rate of 2.5 lakh cusecs,” said an official.The water level of Krishna river which flows through Sangli district was at 35.4 feet while the water level of Panchaganga river at Rajaram weir in Kolhapur district was at 38.9 feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/orange-alert-for-kolhapur-satara-coastal-maharashtra-heavy-rainfall-likely-for-2-days/story-JcQQErqvGVPLG2u4hL4IBI.html
18-08-2020||City||Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai’s private hospitals seeing rise: Civic body||Despite the decline in Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases, the high death rate continues to be a worry for the authorities. Mumbai’s death rate is around 5.4%, much higher than the state’s 3.4%. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has observed that currently, private hospitals are reporting a higher death rate than civic-run hospitals. In a meeting held on Monday, the civic body asked private hospitals to take more precautionary measures to ensure a decline in the deaths. BMC has instructed the representatives of private hospitals to follow the directives of the civic body under the ‘Mission Save Lives’ initiative.As per an analysis by BMC, at civic-run hospitals, the death rate has declined from 5.8% in June to 4.8% in August. But in private hospitals, it has increased to over 40% during the same period. “Earlier, out of 100 deaths, we used to record on an average 82 deaths from civic-run hospitals and 18 from private hospitals. But now, we are recording around 59 deaths from civic hospitals and 41 from private hospitals. The death rates in private hospitals are gradually increasing,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “We have asked to pay special focus on critical patients. They have been instructed to provide faster treatment to patients with pre-medical ailments,” said Kakani..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-deaths-in-mumbai-s-private-hospitals-seeing-rise-civic-body/story-ZlgEYfZJ6Ahr41hPIyNryK.html
18-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Strolling in CP during the new normal||Nothing has changed. The same white colonial-era columns. The same showrooms, with their immaculately dressed mannequins gazing by the glass displays. The same giggles of passersby. And wait, there are even two earnest-seeming young activists, boldly stopping strangers to collect funds for animal rights.The pandemic-era Connaught Place (CP) feels the same. To some extent. But as this evening walk reveals, it exudes even more intense vibes. Indeed, this is the perfect time to take a stroll about the Inner Circle arcade if you, like many people, haven’t come here since the first coronavirus-triggered lockdown began in late March. Every little familiar landmark or corner appears to be permeated with a melancholic sense of what life used to be in the much freer pre-corona era. This evening appears even more solemn due to the slight but steady drizzle. The large glass windows of an upper floor in A-block are lit up with a golden lamp, glowing palely, like a weak candle flickering under a dark cloudy sky. The arcade is almost empty except for a few stray dogs lazily lying on the dusty floor. Two girls are seen walking fast, one of them excitedly murmuring to the other, “Lets do a chakkar (round)!”Many shops are closed, but a few showrooms are open — and seem to be crowded with more masked staffers than customers. However, there’s a queue of about half a dozen shoppers outside the glass doors of a clothing shop that formerly used to be the site of two long-time bookstores. They shut down long ago. The shop window is displaying a discount of 70%.If you gaze towards Central Park on your right, you will see the familiar flag mast installed in the centre of the garden—but no flag, at least this evening. And now a little girl appears hawking a tray full of badges of Indian flag. “I always sell these when independence Day nears,” says Varsha. She is 12. (This walk was undertaken a day before 15th August). Further ahead a street seller is sitting on a bench with a basket of white flowers by his side. He is about to finish his chocolate bar. Too shy to reveal his name, he simply shrugs his shoulders, saying, “I was feeling bored... so I bought an ice cream.” Nearby, two suited male mannequins are staring out of a shop window. One of them is in a mask. The poster stuck on the glass says—“Safe Sales.”Next on the route: one of Connaught Place’s oldest restaurants. At this time, in the old normal, the tall glass windows would show blurry profiles of animated diners inside, probably feasting on buttery curries and tandoori rotis. But today the windows are cloaked in darkness. The restaurant is closed at the moment.And here’s a much-loved secondhand book stall. It, too, is shuttered. An auto is parked nearby, with no sign of its driver. The lane is completely silent for the moment.In the N-block arcade, a frail white-haired woman is walking extremely slowly, carrying a bundle. Can she be a shopper? She stops by a bench, sits down, looks around, places the bundle at one end of the bench and lies down on the bench, making the bundle her pillow. She closes her eyes and seems to fall asleep. It is still drizzling and she is getting wet.The time is only 8pm, and Connaught Place is feeling like midnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-strolling-in-cp-during-the-new-normal/story-HPk0AUxMXlvdTviiFukLXI.html
18-08-2020||City||Central body sees no locust threat in Punjab, Haryana||As the rainy season entering the last phase in northern India, scientists have assessed a bleak chance of revival of locust attacks in the states of Punjab and Haryana in the coming few months. The evaluation based on the field input by Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), a subsidiary of the central ministry, has brought breather to cotton and paddy growers of the semi-arid districts of south Malwa belt of Punjab. Several districts of Punjab, including Fazilka, Muktsar, Ferozepur and Bathinda, were on constant alert for the last over five months for possible invasions by swarms of migratory pests that target vegetation. KL Gurjar, LWO deputy director and national coordinator on mitigating locust attacks, said on Monday that no locust swam was reported in Punjab and Haryana noticed in the last few weeks. He said after movements in the parts of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, locust swam have returned to Rajasthan to mature and lay eggs. “Locust tends to lay eggs during humid weather. The desert locusts normally live and breed in semi-arid regions and numerous egg colonies were reported in various parts of Rajasthan. But our teams have significantly contained the situation and almost entire these egg colonies have been wiped out,” said Gurjar. The expert said with the onset of winter, the locust population is expected to leave the Indian region from October onwards. Gurjar said there is no threat assessment of the pest attack in the coming months but much will depend upon Pakistan how effectively it manages the locust crisis. On February 1 this year, Pakistan had declared a national emergency to tackle the insects destroying crops on a large scale in its Punjab province. Two days later, few villages located along the Pakistan border in Fazilka district witnessed locust attack. Agriculture secretary KS Pannu said no egg-laying by locust was reported in Punjab or its adjoining areas in Rajasthan and Haryana. “Since February, Fazilka and few other districts experienced stray incidents of locust invasion but no crop loss was reported since February this year,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/central-body-sees-no-locust-threat-in-punjab-haryana/story-bDZJkaoLE5sE1IQSn90iPO.html
18-08-2020||City||Inform us about illegal constructions, we will act immediately: Maharashtra minister to locals||Housing minister Jitendra Awhad has asked all the residents to stay vigil and inform him about any illegal constructions in the city. The minister has assured residents of immediate action against such constructions. According to him, many illegal structures may come up in the city, taking advantage of the lack of vigilance amid the lockdown. “I have information about some illegal constructions coming up within Mumbra during the lockdown. Hence, I request locals to send photos of any such illegal constructions if they spot any and I will personally be a part of the team that will go and get it demolished,”Awhad said on Monday, while talking to reporters from his constituency Mumbra.He also warned officials that they will face strict action if they are privy to information about the illegal constructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inform-us-about-illegal-constructions-we-will-act-immediately-maharashtra-minister-to-locals/story-9fEuLgnOHMXpG2hPDIvfPL.html
18-08-2020||City||Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations: Thane civic body introduces mobile immersion facility for residents in Covid containment zones||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Monday introduced a mobile immersion facility for residents within containment zones to immerse Ganpati idols. Last week, the civic body took many similar initiatives to prevent crowding during the immersion of Ganpati idols.“We will have three vehicles with a syntex tank attached to it and volunteers will help with the immersion process. Devotees should perform aarti at their homes and get the idols to the mobile immersion facility, where the volunteers will carry out the immersions as per rituals,” said Dr Vipin Sharma, commissioner, TMC.A similar initiative to book slots online for the immersions has also started in Thane. However, many residents found it difficult to find slots online. “We are releasing these slots in phases to avoid overcrowding at a one particular time. There might be instances during which one may not get to book the slot on a particular day. They can try doing so the next day morning,” said Manisha Pradhan, pollution control officer, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civic-body-introduces-mobile-immersion-facility-for-residents-in-containment-zones/story-JtAGvrgfEkjPBmgx2vVC4I.html
18-08-2020||City||In first-ever virtual interviews, internship offers for 236 students at Mumbai’s B-school||The internship placements for the postgraduate (PG) diploma in management (PGDM) batch of a top B-school in the city were conducted virtually this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The process, which concluded recently, brought together 88 recruiters, who rolled out 268 job offers for 236 PGDM students of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan’s SP Jain Institute of Management & Research (SPJIMR) at Andheri (West). The recruitment offers came from across industries such as banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI), e-commerce, fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG), pharmaceuticals and consulting. FMCGs and e-commerce continued to be the most dominant sectors in terms of the number of recruitments with 33% and 15% of the students finding placements. The median compensation for offers with stipends for the two-month internship clocked in at ₹2.40 lakh, and more than 60% of the batch received offers of ₹2 lakh and above,” said Sajeev Abraham George, the PGDM programme chair, SPJIMR. Ranjan Banerjee, dean and professor of marketing, SPJIMR, said, “This is a commendable performance in a difficult situation. Not only did some students bag more than one job offers, we were also happy to see 61 first-time recruiters joining us this year, which included Allianz Investment Management, Invesco Mutual Fund, ICICI Prudential AMC and Prione.” He added that the present batch was also the first to complete their specialisation semester of the course online. “Virtual recruitment process was handled across a combination of platforms including Zoom, Microsoft Teams, Google Meet, Cisco WebEx and Amazon Chime. Real-world systems and processes such as group discussions and interview panels were replicated virtually through unique features across the different platforms,” added Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-first-ever-virtual-interviews-internship-offers-for-236-students-at-mumbai-s-b-school/story-3kw4KM13S0bgKWXXGKYW5K.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana revenue dept widens ambit of probe into property registration malpractices||Widening the ambit of inquiry into the malpractices in registration of sale deeds of properties in Haryana, the revenue department has ordered that the registrations carried out from April 3, 2017 to December 31, 2019 be probed for violation of Section 7-A of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (HDRUA) Act. The broadening of the extent of probe was done at the insistence of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who holds the charge of revenue portfolio. The fresh inquiry would start from the day (April 3, 2017) an amendment in Section 7-A was notified by the ML Khattar-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in 2017 to water down the HDRUA Act provision. The detection of malpractices in execution of sale deeds has cast a shadow on the functioning of the revenue department under Dushyant’s command. By widening the ambit of inquiry, the Jannayak Janta Party leader is trying to bring the functioning of the previous BJP government under scanner. In separate communications, additional chief secretary, revenue, Vijai Vardhan has asked the divisional commissioners of Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak, Hisar, Gurugram and Faridabad to conduct a fresh inquiry within next six weeks for property registrations done in all districts since April 3, 2017. “While doing so you are expected to fix the responsibility by name upon the erring revenue officers (sub-registrars, joint sub-registrars) if any, so that appropriate disciplinary action can be initiated against them as per disciplinary rules,” reads the communication. The initial inquiry which led to registration of criminal cases against six tehsil officials of Gurugram district was for the period between January and July 2020. The stipulations in Section 7-A of HDRUA pertained to grant of a no-objection certificate (NoC) by the town and country planning department (TCPD) before registration of land in notified urban areas. The 2017 amendment The 2017 amendment of Section 7-A of HDRUA Act which watered down the law was steered by the BJP government in the assembly. It led to two modifications in the provision. First, it decreased the size of notified urban area land holding for which NoC is required from less than one hectare (2.5 acres) to less than two kanals. Secondly, the definition of land for which the NoC was required was changed from vacant land to agricultural land. The agricultural land was defined as Nehri (canal irrigated), Chahi (irrigated from well), Barani (dependent on rainfall) or any other term in revenue records. “The 2017 amendment passed by the assembly ensured that the real estate developers were able to circumvent the requirement of NoC by converting agricultural land into uncultivable (gair mumkin) in revenue records. Also, the reduction of size of land from less than hectare to two kanals worked to the advantage of realtors,” said a revenue official. Officials said the registration of properties without a NoC in notified urban area land under Section 7-A led to mushrooming of unauthorised settlements. It came to the notice of Gurugram divisional commissioner that a number of naib tehsildars were executing sale deeds indiscriminately without the NoC,” said an official. 2017 amendment being undone The cabinet meanwhile has also approved an ordinance to undo the 2017 amendment in the HDRUA Act to water down Section 7-A of the Act. With the assembly session starting next week, a Bill in this regard will be brought in the House. The definition of notified urban area land and size of the holding for which the NoC was required is being modified. The land holding for which NoC is required is proposed to be less than one acre instead of less than two kanals and the notified urban area land definition will be changed from agricultural to vacant again. The requirement of a NoC stating that land transfer does not contravene any provisions of the Act was to prevent ill planned and haphazard construction in urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-revenue-dept-widens-ambit-of-probe-into-property-registration-malpractices/story-77NdYDKeajL9hiQXUO4qfN.html
18-08-2020||City||Ganesh immersions: Collection units in all wards to be set up, says Mumbai civic corporation||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will set up seven-eight collection units in every administrative ward during the 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi festival. The units will be set up to prevent devotees from carrying out any procession or to avoid crowding during the immersion process. The civic workers appointed at these units will undertake the immersions of Ganpati idols collected from devotees, as residents will not be permitted to step inside the ponds. In an advisory issued on Monday, the civic body urged citizens to get Ganpati idols three-four days ahead of the festival which falls on August 22. The corporation’s advisory further stated that only residents in the radius of up to 2km of natural ponds or the sea can carry out immersions at these natural water bodies. Devotees will have to visit the 167 artificial ponds in the city or the collection units set up in their wards where civic officials will be deployed for the immersion. These units will be set up in open grounds in every ward.Those living in containment zones have been permitted to set-up artificial ponds for immersion of idols within the zones. “Every year, devotees carry out processions while bringing the idols home and during immersions. This year, it cannot be allowed as everyone needs to follow social distancing owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. So devotees should visit the nearest artificial pond for immersion. Only few people will be allowed at the spot and social distancing norms need to be followed,” said the official.In a set of guidelines issued earlier, the height of household Ganpati idols were capped at two feet. Devotees were also directed to hold low-key celebrations as much as possible.For community idols, the height of the idols is restricted to four feet. The earlier guidelines also stated that not more than five people will be allowed while bringing the idol from the workshop to the pandal or to homes. During immersions of the idols too, only five people will be allowed without any processions. The corporation also advised children and senior citizens not to participate in the processions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ganesh-immersions-collection-units-in-all-wards-to-be-set-up-says-mumbai-civic-corporation/story-x75kZI8Eu9NLSSe4F1fYNJ.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||No entry in Haryana Vidhan Sabha without Covid-19 negative report||With the 90-member Haryana assembly set to meet for a monsoon session on August 26, the first time since the pandemic outbreak, speaker Gian Chand Gupta has put in place some precautionary measures to keep the infection at bay. For starters, no one, not even lawmakers, will be allowed to enter the Vidhan Sabha until they present a Covid-19 negative report, not older than three days. Also, it will be for the first time that visitors will not be allowed to witness the House proceedings. The speaker’s as well as the visitors’ galleries will be converted into a sitting place for legislators to ensure social distancing. And every paper to be laid on the table of the House will go through the sanitisation machine. “The Covid-19 negative report must not be more than three days old from the date of first sitting of the Vidhan Sabha,” said Gupta, who on Monday held meeting of the assembly secretariat to put in place the restrictions needed to “insulate the House from Covid-19.” “We are fully geared up to meet every challenge and hold the assembly session,” he said. Though the Business Advisory Committee of the Vidhan Sabha will decide the duration of the session, there are indications that there would be two or at the most three sittings of the House. The session is being convened to meet the constitutional requirements of holding a session within six months of the previous session. Sources say that till Monday, the Vidhan Sabha secretariat had not received any business from the state government, except questions from legislators for the Question Hour. According to the speaker, a special camp will be organised at the Vidhan Sabha complex for assembly employees to undergo a Covid-19 test “free of cost.” From chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to his cabinet colleagues, and speaker, deputy speaker, officials of the security staff and the media, it is mandatory for all to carry a Covid-19 negative certificate. The MLAs and ministers, Gupta said, have been urged to not bring their staff and supporters along. If needed, the personal assistants of the ministers will be allowed entry in the assembly premises. MLAs and ministers will be provided a kit, containing masks, gloves and sanitisers. Besides, shoe covers will also be provided at the entrance of the Vidhan Sabha. Special care is being taken to ensure that all items such as sanitisers, gloves, masks, sanitising machines, shoe covers that will be used during the session are ‘Made in India’ products. “The sitting arrangements of the lawmakers have been made in such a way that social distancing norms are followed,” the speaker said, pointing out that one MLA instead of two will sit on a bench. Two days before the beginning of the session, the MLAs’ hostel will be sanitised and members will have to vacate the hostel. Every inch of the house will be sanitised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-entry-in-haryana-vidhan-sabha-without-covid-19-negative-report/story-DjdO7qa69Hj5DQJ0qQ1LhI.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||12 staff at NCP chief’s Mumbai home test positive for Covid; Sharad Pawar, kin’s results negative||Twelve staff members working at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s home Silver Oak in south Mumbai were tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Following this, Pawar and his family members also underwent antigen tests. Their results came negative. However, as a precautionary measure, Pawar will remain in isolation for the next four days and will not meet people.“The antigen test report of Pawar sahib, conducted at Breach Candy Hospital, has come negative. He is taking all the precautions. There is no reason to worry,” state health minister Rajesh Tope said, adding that the party would request the senior leader to postpone all his visits for some days.Of the 12 staffers whose Covid-19 test results came positive on Monday, 10 are members of Pawar’s security detail, while the other two are drivers of his family members. Some other staff members also underwent tests and their reports are awaited. The security personnel have to ensure that there is a distance maintained between the NCP chief and the people who meet him. Thus, they may have come in contact with someone who was infected while ensuring security, the health minister said.“We conduct the Covid-19 testing of the family members and staff every 15 days. The samples were taken on Sunday. All the 12 staffers are asymptomatic and have been admitted to the NSCI facility at Worli,” said a close aide of the veteran leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-staff-at-ncp-chief-s-mumbai-home-test-positive-for-covid-sharad-pawar-kin-s-results-negative/story-f2vIqASykDrRuEGXpyXvrK.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Didn’t insult doctors, comments directed at WHO: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut||After the medical fraternity demanded an apology from Shiv Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut for a statement he made during an interview, the Rajya Sabha member stood his ground. Raut on Monday said that he did not disrespect doctors and that there is a difference between an “insult” and a “joke”. Raut faced the ire of doctors after he said that compounders know more than doctors and blamed the World Health Organization (WHO) for the spread of Covid-19 during an interview to a Marathi news channel. The Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and asked if he too has a similar opinion on the knowledge that doctors have. “They [doctors’ body] are seeking an apology, but they should first understand that I have not insulted them and had no intention to do so. Whatever I said was in reply to a question on WHO. There is a difference between an insult and a joke. I have always had respect for doctors and the medical community. The politics over the statement should stop,” Raut told reporters. The Sena leader stated that his comments were directed at WHO, which according to him has become a “political organisation more than a health organisation”. He said that that the doctor’s body should not take statements against WHO to their heart, as similar statements, against WHO, have been made by United States President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin too. “I am of the clear opinion that WHO has now become a political entity and is no longer a health organisation. Many leaders, including Trump and Putin, have said that WHO is responsible for the spread of Covid-19 across the world. Will doctors here hold protests against Trump and Putin for their statements against WHO? Will they go on a strike against it,” he questioned. The Sena Member of Parliament (MP) added that he hailed doctors and the medical fraternity for their work during the pandemic in public statements and through articles in party mouthpiece Saamana, which he edits. He also claimed that he has sided with MARD whenever they have come up with any issues against the government. Directing criticism to Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, Raut claimed that the PM had insulted Indian doctors at an event in London. “Narendra Modi went to London and insulted doctors. Somebody sent me a clip. He said how doctors in India are businessmen and are not interested in the service of the patients, but are only interested in earning money and utilising medicines. [After this] doctors there [in London] had protested, but not the ones here,” he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/didn-t-insult-doctors-comments-directed-at-who-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut/story-5X5EMkkCfHAbFbwSdcT2yJ.html
18-08-2020||City||After curbing spread of Covid-19 virus, Maharashtra’s Malegaon sees spike in cases again||Mumbai: After controlling the spread of Covid-19 in June, the textile town of Malegaon in north Maharashtra’s Nashik district has reported a spike in new cases over the past two weeks. While some have suggested this indicates a “second wave”, experts and the local administration say the increased cases are due to the infection spreading beyond the areas of Malegaon that were initially afflicted by Covid-19. Malegaon reported five cases and one death on April 10, and the local administration responded quickly. On June 10, the tally of Covid-19 cases in Malegaon was 861 and the death toll was 65. By the end of the month, on June 30, the tally had risen to 1,087 and fatalities were at 81. With 226 cases and 16 deaths in 21 days, and the number of daily new cases down to single-digit numbers, the ‘Malegaon model’ received applause from many quarters. However, in the past two weeks, there has been a rise in the number of reported cases. As of August 16, Malegaon had 623 new cases, with 35-40 new cases being recorded daily. Nitin Kapadnis, deputy commissioner of Malegaon municipal corporation, confirmed this, saying, “Cases have risen over the last few days and it will take at least four weeks to control, like we did in June.” The positivity rate in Malegaon is more than 30%, compared to the state’s rate, which hovers between 18-20%. Dr Avinash Bhondve, president of the Maharashtra chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), said Malegaon may be experiencing a “second wave”. “It is largely as per the global trend witnessed in countries like New Zealand, Spain and because of complacency. Not only Malegaon, the second wave may be witnessed in Mumbai if due precautions are not taken,” he said. Dr Amol Annadate, who has worked in Malegaon, said that after the initial success, many locals have ignored distancing norms and personal hygiene requirements, like regular hand-washing, leading to the spike in cases. “The textile town has trade exchanges with Mumbai and other cities and it leads to the rapid movement of people. This too is a major reason for the resurgence,” he added. Dr Abul Irfan Ansari, former principal of Unani Medical College in Malegaon, said the numbers may reflect the infection spreading to the outskirts of Malegaon. “It is true that the people here do not follow the norms and a large chunk even does not admit that any such virus exists. But the areas where we witnessed the outbreak three months ago have developed antibodies and are unlikely to be infected again,” he said. Kapadnis also refuted the notion of Malegaon facing a second wave of infection. “This time the surge is from the western part, where density is relatively low and now has slums. We would not call it the second wave as it has not relapsed in the eastern parts where it had spread rapidly in May. We have ramped up our infrastructure and are testing about 260 contacts a day. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-curbing-spread-of-covid-19-virus-maharashtra-s-malegaon-see-spike-in-cases-again/story-R7FiD6g9imetK1KyCG12LL.html
18-08-2020||City||From today, shops at Ulhasnagar can remain open on all days||The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) on Monday announced that shops in non-containment zones can remain open on all days from Tuesday. Currently, shops are allowed to remain open as per the odd-and-even system under ‘Mission Begin Again’ phase of the lockdown, imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. The decision was taken after the city witnessed a decline in the number of active cases and owing to the repeated demand made by shop owners’ associations to allow the shops to remain open on all days. At containment zones, shops will be permitted to only deliver goods at homes. “The rules for the hot spots and containment zones will continue to remain the same. Shops in non-containment zones can now open on all days between 9am and 7pm but shopkeepers have to ensure that social distancing and other measures are followed and there is no crowding at the shops,”said Yuvraj Badhane, public relations officer, UMC. Jagdish Tejwani, president of Ulhasnagar Shopkeepers’ Association, said, “We have been waiting for this decision since August 4. The civic body had assured us that a decision will be taken after August 15. Our demand was to allow shops to remain open on all days because it will help divide the crowd in the shops. With only one side shops opened, there used to be a lot of crowding outside the shops as consumers had fewer options to purchase.” Meanwhile on Monday, UMC recorded 38 new Covid-19 cases after which the total case count reached 7,401, including 185 deaths. Of these, only 303 are active cases. The civic body marked a recovery rate of 93.41%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-today-shops-at-ulhasnagar-can-remain-open-on-all-days/story-rAViwXzZ4j64ibR0pDgRVL.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Senate polls deferred: Panjab University syndicate members stage dharna||The members of the Panjab University syndicate on Monday held a dharna at the varsity demanding that the documents on the basis of which the senate elections had been postponed be shared with them.The syndicate members including Ashok Goyal, Navdeep Goyal, Emanual Nahar had also met vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar on Monday. This comes two days after PU postponed the senate polls for two months on August 15, which were scheduled to start from August 24.The senate is the apex governing body of PU with 91 members, out of which 36 are nominated by the varsity’s chancellor. The 16-member syndicate is the apex executive body elected from among the senate every year.The members started the protest at the registrar’s office late Monday evening demanding that they were the members of the varsity’s executive body and hence, they should be told the reasons for postponing the elections.Syndicate member Ashok Goyal said, “We had met the V-C two days before the announcement was made, but he misled us into thinking that nothing such was in the pipeline. On Monday we again held a meeting with the V-C demanding that documents be shared with us. They showed us the documents, but refused to share them with us.”Syndicate member Navdeep Goyal said, “We will continue to protest until the administration does not share the documents with us. We have also requested the V-C to convene a special meeting of the syndicate so that discussion can be held over the matter.”Registrar Karamjeet Singh was not available for comments.The term of the present senate is scheduled to end on October 31 this year. The term of the new senate is scheduled to begin from November 2020 till October 2024 after elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/senate-polls-deferred-panjab-university-syndicate-members-stage-dharna/story-BAKXivBZwjip3MBxG29X9I.html
18-08-2020||City||After gyms, Raj Thackeray demands opening of temples in Maharashtra||After the reopening of gymnasiums, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray has now called for the reopening of temples in Maharashtra. While addressing the trustees of the famous Trimbakeshwar temple in Nashik, Thackeray said, “If malls can be opened, then why not temples? The trustees approached Thackeray for his support for their demand to reopen the temples, which are closed from the past four months owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. Last week, gym owners met Thackeray, seeking his support for the reopening of the amenity. Thackeray then appealed to the state to reopen gyms, as the Centre already gave a green signal for gyms to operate in its guidelines. Thackeray also questioned if there is a plan in place to prevent devotees from thronging temples in large numbers. “Proper SOPs [standard operating procedures] need to be in place, as this issue [of crowds] concerns all the temples in the state,” said Thackeray. He also expressed his apprehensions over devotees following the SOPs. The demand to reopen religious places is being made by several groups. Recently, the Raza Academy also sent a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, requesting the government to open mosques under the ‘Mission Begin Again’ initiative. “If marriage functions and funerals are permitted to be held, then why not open the gates of the masjids so that people can pray. We also demand the reopening of the mosques with proper SOPs,” said Saeed Noori, general secretary, Raza Academy. On Sunday, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislator Rohit Pawar too called for the reopening of religious places in the state to support the local economy of a place. Meanwhile, the state is taking a cautious stand on the decision. “The Covid-19 pandemic continues to exist and we cannot allow everything to open indiscriminately as we want to control the spread of virus,” said a senior bureaucrat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-gyms-raj-thackeray-demands-opening-of-temples-in-maharashtra/story-FfIhPKWWfCkqSrICS2PL1O.html
18-08-2020||City||Mumbai’s Nair Hospital submits protocol for clinical trials of Covishield||BYL Nair hospital at Mumbai Central on Monday submitted its protocol to run clinical trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine-also known as COVISHIELD- to its ethics committee. Once approved, the protocol will be sent to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for a final green nod. Last week, ICMR selected Nair and Parel-based KEM hospitals to undertake human trials to determine the efficacy of COVISHIELD, considered promising after results of phase 1 trial conducted in the United Kingdom against the novel coronavirus. “We have to decide on the age of the volunteers who want to be part of the trial along with the selection process. We cannot randomly select volunteers, and therefore we need to set out standard operating procedures before we can start the trial. Once the ethics committee of the college approves it, ICMR has to give us the final permission,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of the hospital. “It will take two-three days before the ethics committee reviews and approves the protocol.” KEM hospital dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh did not respond to calls and messages from HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-s-nair-hospital-submits-protocol-for-clinical-trials-of-covishield/story-rPxo4FVaTkrW9F708cEWnL.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||110 more beds to be added to PGIMER Covid-19 facility||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has agreed to add 110 more beds at the Covid-19 facility on the institute campus.There was an initial delay in extending the facility and the UT administration, too, had asked the institute to make arrangements at the earliest.Professor Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said that they had conveyed to UT in a war room meeting that 110 beds will be added in a phased manner at the Nehru Extension Block (Covid-19 hospital). “As desired by the UT administrator, we have decided to add 110 more beds phase-wise. Currently, 30 beds have been added to the 200-bed facility,” said the director.In addition, 30 more beds have been earmarked for children at the Advanced Paediatrics Centre at the Covid hospital.EXTENDING FACILITY NOT AN EASY JOBThe tertiary care institute caters to the patients referred from North Indian states, and has an occupancy of around 1,300 beds at its general hospital including those in the emergency wards.“Quality care takes up a lot of our workforce. We have to maintain an adequate workforce for the patients in non-Covid areas as well. Plus, in Covid-19 hospital, healthcare workers have a shift of only six hours because it is very tough to work in PPEs that increases the number of staff that has to be posted there,” said Dr Jagat Ram.He added that only healthcare workers who had the experience to work in ICUs were called for duty in Covid-19 wards. “This in turn reduces the fatality rate and we have to train more workers for the same so that they can be assigned duties there.”BEGIN MOBILE TESTING: BADNORE TO GMSHIn the war room review meeting held here on Monday, Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed Government Multi-Speciality Hospital (GMSH) at Sector 16 to begin mobile testing facilities to collect samples and give test results on the spot. This will be helpful to senior citizens who are reluctant to go to hospitals for such testings.Badnore said that area volunteers or social workers could keep a watch on influx of people from outside. He added that the focus of the administration should be for early detection of the cases, particularly those of co-morbid patients, so that fatalities could be kept at minimum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/110-more-beds-to-be-added-to-pgimer-covid-19-facility/story-fvgArykE1Giw9FfBdFhRgM.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||4 fruit vendors held for killing 53-year-old man in Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham Colony||Four fruit vendors were arrested for killing a 53-year-old outside his house in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, the police said on Monday.The accused were identified as Danish, Munish, Nadeem and Kasim, who attacked one Mohammad Muftkeen on Saturday night after a fight with the latter’s sons. Police said that Muftkeen’s son, Arbaz, had an argument with one of the accused, Danish, on August 14. The matter was resolved but on Saturday night, Danish, along with Munish, Nadeem and Kasim, again had a fight with the victim’s sons, Arbaz and Shahul, at Bapu Dham Colony. Police said that Muftkeen tried to intervene when he was hit with a rod on his head. Leaving him injured, the accused fled from the spot. Muftkeen was rushed to the hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.On Arbaz’s complaint, a case under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) was registered. The police are awaiting the post-mortem report of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-fruit-vendors-held-for-killing-53-year-old-man-in-chandigarh-s-bapu-dham-colony/story-v97Cg3uWIj1bNq6XwL5j7M.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||12 lose Covid battle in Haryana, fatalities now touch 550||Twelve patients battling coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in eight different districts of Haryana succumbed to the infection on Monday, taking the death toll to 550, as per the state health bulletin.Total of 887 new cases were recorded in the past 24 hours across all 22 districts. With this, the cumulative tally of Covid-19 cases has reached 48,040 in the state.In Panchkula district, four people died of Covid-19. Two patients succumbed in Yamunanagar district, while one each passed away in Faridabad, Ambala, Jhajjar, Kurukshetra, Nuh and Kaithal. Of these, a 70-year-old man having the infection died in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh.While 1,009 patients were discharged in the past 24 hours after recovering from the disease, the number of recovered patients stood at 40,610 on Monday. The doubling rate of cases was 31 days and the recovery rate improved to 84.53%.There were 6,880 active Covid-19 patients until Monday evening in the state.Faridabad recorded the highest (107) new cases. It was followed by Gurugram (97), Sonepat (39), Rewari (71), Ambala (71), Rohtak (58), Panipat (81), Karnal (46), Hisar (29), Palwal (6), Panchkula (15), Mahendergarh (41), Jhajjar (12), Bhiwani (12), Kurukshetra (51), Nuh (9), Sirsa (5), Yamunanagar (62) Fatehabad (9), Kaithal (31), Jind (1) and Charkhi Dadri (34).Among the 12 fresh cases reported in Jhajjar were two nursing staff members — one posted in a Delhi hospital and another at PGI Rohtak — besides a forest guard and two members of his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-lose-covid-battle-in-haryana-fatalities-now-touch-550/story-7hqgD1yjayvAknAxYueO4N.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Director-actor Nishikant Kamat passes away at 50 in Hyderabad||Hindi and Marathi film director-actor Nishikant Kamat breathed his last at a Hyderabad hospital on Monday. Kamat, 50, was battling liver cirrhosis for the past two years. A statement issued by Hyderabad’s AIG hospital, where the filmmaker was admitted, confirmed the news. “Since yesterday [Sunday], he developed respiratory failure and hypotension. Despite maximum efforts from hepatologists, gastroenterologists, pulmonologists and intensivists, his condition deteriorated, eventually leading to multiple organ failure. Today [Monday], from afternoon onwards, his vital parameters started declining and he succumbed to his illness. Our condolences are with his family, friends and fans,” a part of the statement read. Kamat is best known for directing Bollywood films namely the Ajay Devgn-Tabu starrer Drishyam, Irrfan Khan’s Madaari, R Madhavan-Kay Kay Menon starrer Mumbai Meri Jaan, and John Abraham’s films such as Force and Rocky Handsome, among others. He also directed acclaimed Marathi films such as Dombivali Fast and Lai Bhaari, besides acting in Marathi film Saatchya Aat Gharat and Rocky Handsome. Bollywood actors offered their condolences. Devgn tweeted: “My equation with Nishikant was not just about Drishyam, a film which he directed with Tabu and me. It was an association that I cherished. He was bright; ever-smiling. He has gone too soon. RIP Nishikant.” Riteish Deshmukh, who starred in Lai Bhaari, said on Twitter: “I will miss you my friend. #NishikantKamat Rest In Peace.” Abraham tweeted, saying: “Will not get over this .... Rest In Peace #NishikantKamat.” Kamat was last seen as an actor in 2018, in Vikramaditya Motwane’s Bhavesh Joshi Superhero alongside actor Harshvaradhan Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/director-actor-nishikant-kamat-passes-away-at-50-in-hyderabad/story-Viez2Pfa6YPCyyzqU3IccM.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway gets 2 drones to inspect tracks and premises||To maintain security on the railway network, in a first the Central Railway (CR) will soon be using drones for surveillance purposes. Two Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) have been procured by the CR to inspect railway station premises, railway track sections, railway yards and rail workshops.The drones will also be used to monitor crowds on foot overbridges and platforms during festival season. It will also be used to check the criminal and anti-social elements including gambling, throwing of garbage and hawking on railway platforms.Two thieves were apprehended recently during the inspection of drones at Central Railways Wadibunder railway yard and Kalamboli railway yard. Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel were checking the functioning of the drones when the thieves were seen trying to steal from the yard premises.“The drone has an operational range of 2km and can fly up to 25-minutes. It also has real-time tracking, video streaming and automatic failsafe mode.A team of four Railway Protection Force (RPF) from the railway’s cyber modernisation cell have been trained for flying the drones.The CR uses drones in to inspect ghat sections. The drones are also used to monitor the movement of boulders during monsoon.Recently, the Western Railway had used drones to carry out disinfection of its Lower Parel workshop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-gets-2-drones-to-inspect-tracks-and-premises/story-13sBu20ZZKCaz8VzP6BWjP.html
18-08-2020||City||Jewellery shop owner files false burglary report||Nerul police are filing a case against a jewellery shop owner after finding that he had filed a false report of burglary. While investigating the ₹12.07-lakh burglary at a jewellery store, police found that the shop owner had concocted the story to buy time from debtors. The man had also attempted to kill himself a few weeks ago, said police.On Friday, the shop owner, a 28-year-old Nerul resident, had approached the police claiming unknown burglars broke the shutter of his shop and robbed ₹12.07 lakh worth gold and silver jewellery. “When we investigated the case, we found a lot of discrepancies in the sequence of events. After sustained inquires and questioning, it became clear that the complainant had come up with a fake story,” said Rajendra Chavan, senior inspector at Nerul police station.The man allegedly broke the shutter to make it look like burglars broke into the shop. The valuables were not in the store, police said.Chavan added that they are filing a case under section 182 of the Indian Penal Code for submitting a false complaint against the shop owner and will submit a charge sheet in the court. Police said the man had started the jewellery store in sector 8, Nerul with his business partner, who at the time, was in his hometown. He had a debt of over ₹4.5 lakh which he was unable to repay. “When the lockdown was imposed, he attempted to end his life in July due to financial stress. He was saved back then. Then he made up the story of burglary so the debtors would give him some time,” said another officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jewellery-shop-owner-files-false-burglary-report/story-ztYLTDUxVT3YYng9kTkvUJ.html
18-08-2020||City||Man missing in Vasai stone quarry||A 20-year-old man, Abhijeet Wankhede of Rajivili in Vasai, has gone missing after he, along with seven others, had gone for a swim in a stone quarry filled with rain water in Rajivli on Monday. Vasai Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) fire brigade and locals have launched a search operation.The incident took place when Wankhede and his friends visited the stone quarry around 8.30am to clean themselves after playing football in the rains. His friends had allegedly warned him against entering the 50-foot-deep stone quarry, but Wankhede said he knew swimming and entered the waters, said senior inspector Vilas Chowgule of Waliv police station.Wankhede was swept away by strong currents while the rest of the group were on the bank. The group alerted the police, who, in turn, informed the civic fire brigade. “We expect to find him soon,” said Chowgule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-missing-in-vasai-stone-quarry/story-nzO1wbfAxMIVSGpF6oZhFL.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn’s plan to transition to electric buses deferred||The city’s bid to transition from fossil fuel to renewable sources of energy has received the corona jolt.Facing a fund crunch in the wake of the pandemic, the UT administration has stalled the shifting of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) bus fleet from diesel to electric for the current financial year at least.The plans, set in motion last year, to buy 40 electric buses for the CTU local fleet has been suspended for the current financial year. The medium sized (9m) battery-operated buses were planned to be procured on the gross cost-contract model.Confirming the development, Uma Shankar Gupta, director transport, said, “For the time being the project has been deferred. There were financial constraints in view of the pandemic.”The addition of electric buses to the CTU fleet is a long-term plan for a greater environmentally-friendly public transport system. The transport department plans to phase out ordinary buses after the full cycle is completed.ALL 400 BUSES TO BE MADE ELECTRICAs per the plan, all ordinary buses will be replaced with electric buses in time. There are around 400 buses, and nearly half of these are nearing completion of their operational life.The administration had even floated tenders for the buses. After failing to procure electric buses in its previous two attempts, the administration received two bids in the third tender it had floated in January this year. The new buses were to be made operational by September, but the pandemic hit.After the Union government refused to finance the buying of 40 electric buses, the department in June last year decided to procure them on the gross cost-contract model. Under the model, the successful bidder has to procure, operate and maintain the buses. All revenue is collected for the administration, and the company is paid on a per kilometre cost basis. The medium-sized (9m) battery-operated buses are to be equipped with air-conditioners and are to be used on local city routes.QUESTIONS RAISED ON PROJECT’S FINANCIAL VIABILITYThe finance department had raised questions over the financial viability of the project. In response, the transport department had contended that the department’s own revenues and the revenues generated from the project itself would finance the project.But with only 150 local buses operating from the 400-bus fleet, generating adequate revenue to make the project viable will be difficult. “Due to the pandemic, for nearly three months, all the CTU buses were off road and consequently no revenue was generated. Even now for ensuring social distancing norms, the buses are running on half of their capacity. The CTU is now under a greater financial stress,” said a CTU official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-s-plan-to-transition-to-electric-ctu-buses-deferred/story-Vy2pFr7swaXoe42oVeMMFM.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Why CCTV was not installed in Wadala TT police station, HC asks state||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state to file an affidavit regarding its failure to have CCTV surveillance in all police stations in the city despite a 2014 order of the high court giving specific directions on the same. The court was hearing a petition filed by the father of Vijay Singh, who allegedly died in the custody of Wadala TT police on the night of October 27, 2019. The division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice Abhay Ahuja, while hearing the petition of Hriday Narayan Singh and others, was informed by advocate Vinay Nair that Ankit Mishra, Vijay’s friend, had gone into hiding and was not traceable as the police had threatened him. Nair also submitted that though the post-mortem report of KEM Hospital indicated that Singh had died to a concussion on his chest and that no action was taken against the police officers. Nair further submitted that though Mishra was present with the deceased while in the custody of Wadala TT police station, his statement on what happened on the fateful night was not recorded by investigators. He then added that the state was in contempt of a 2014 order of the HC wherein a bench had directed the state to have 24-hour rotating CCTV surveillance in the passages, doors and interior of police stations and to retain the cassettes of the footage for a year. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare, however, refuted the Nair’s allegation and said the investigators had recorded Mishra’s statement soon after the case was registered against the police personnel. He also submitted that CCTV was installed in the police station, but they were not functional at the time due to some work. After hearing the submissions, the court directed the state to record the statement of Mishra and also file an affidavit explaining as to why no CCTV was installed in the police station and posted the matter for hearing after four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/why-cctv-was-not-installed-in-wadala-tt-police-station-hc-asks-state/story-bPJ81lFfhTX4cGRxNRrChN.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Level-2 fire reported at shop on Mohammad Ali Road||A medium fire was reported from a shop on Mohammad Ali road in Bhendi Bazar in south Mumbai on Monday morning. No injuries have been reported, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The fire was reported to the fire brigade at 11.06am at a shop in Sutar building. The fire intensity increased at 11.40am and was reported as a level-2 (medium) fire by the fire brigade. It was brought under control at 12.56pm and was doused at 1.25pm. According to the civic body’s disaster management department, four fire engines, four water tankers, an ambulance, and a breathing apparatus van were pressed to the spot. Mohammad Ali Road is a densely-populated area in south Mumbai, characterised by narrow lanes and buildings constructed close to each other, which posed a challenge to the fire brigade. Another small fire was reported in an under-construction high-rise in Malad. No injuries have been reported. The fire was reported at Bhumi Sylestia, a ground plus 32 storey building with six additional podium floors, at 1.13pm and the fire was extinguished at 1.41pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/level-2-fire-reported-at-shop-on-mohammad-ali-road/story-tHYGAwRl70bc4hfgM2juuK.html
18-08-2020||City||Now, eateries to close by 8:30pm in Mohali||New rules will kick in from August 18 restricting timings of restaurants, hotels and other hospitality units as well as restaurants/hotels within shopping malls and liquor vends till 8.30pm and shops and shopping malls till 8pm instead of 9pm due to the Covid-19 outbreak. District magistrate Girish Dayalan said on Monday that the night curfew hours will remain fixed at 9 pm to 5am, with movement of all non-essential activities within the municipal limits the city restricted. However, essential activities including operation of multiple shifts, movement of persons and goods on national and state highways and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and aircraft will be permitted. Industries running two to three shifts will also remain open. Violation of these guidelines and lockdown measures will be punishable under sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, inviting legal action under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). According to various advisories issued by the health and family welfare department, compliance of rules is mandatory. Violations will invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code, 1860.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-eateries-to-close-by-8-30pm-in-mohali/story-PW3Kwpi1wPCqdSLVfvNY1H.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||City witnessed light showers with isolated heavy rain on Monday||The city and suburbs witnessed continuous light to moderate showers on Monday with some areas witnessing isolated heavy rain spells.While the two primary weather stations at Santacruz and Colaba recorded only 3.8mm and 3.4mm rain between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Monday, parts of northern, western and central Mumbai received heavy rain. Chembur recorded 79.6mm rain, Dadar 75.6mm, Dahisar 69mm, Mira Road 65mm, BKC 63mm, Powai 44mm, Bandra 43mm while Thane recorded 44.7mm rain. Between 8.30am Sunday and 8.30am Monday, Mumbai recorded only light showers.The weather bureau has not issued any warnings for the next three days with the possibility of light to moderate rain for Tuesday to Thursday. “Mumbai and surrounding areas could witness isolated heavy spells in some areas between Monday night and Tuesday morning, but intense rain activity is expected over ghat areas, central Maharashtra and Marathwada in the next 24 to 48 hours,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Hosalikar added that there was dense cloud formation over the state due to a low-pressure weather system over northeast Madhya Pradesh adjoining Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh. “A fresh low-pressure area is likely to form over Bay of Bengal around August 19, which will enhance rain activity for the Maharashtra coast and interior areas later this week,” he said.Meanwhile, Mahabaleshwar surpassed its monthly rain average on Sunday with 1,861mm rain against the average of 1,784.3mm rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-witnessed-light-showers-with-isolated-heavy-rain-on-monday/story-zSgkUHAhTU4QiRGZvuCrBJ.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra announces 30% pay cut to consultants||After initiating 67% cut to the outlay of its development schemes and banning new recruitments, the state government has now announced a 30% cut in the remuneration paid to outside consultants. The government has 400 such consultants working through six leading companies. The move is expected to save the exchequer to the tune of Rs36 crore in this financial year.Also read: India’s economy is ailing from more than Covid-19The government resolution (GR) issued on Monday has directed all the departments to reduce 30% of the remuneration paid to the consultants. Various departments of the government have appointed six companies including Ernst & Young, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Wipro for technical and other consultancies on various programmes and schemes. The consultants are paid a remuneration ranging between Rs198,000 and Rs356,400 per person per month depending on their experience, as per the last rate revision on March 20, 2019. The government, in the GR, asked its departments and sub-establishments to restrict the appointment of such consultants to two per department. “Most of our consultants are from the information and technology sector, which itself has given pay cuts to their employees. On the similar line and in light of the economic crisis, we have decided to reduce their payments,” said an official from the finance department, requesting anonymity.The remuneration of these consultants is mainly incorporated in the project cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-announces-30-pay-cut-to-consultants/story-r0PMFPp7K8t6hKyz3lBy9I.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Juhu police brutality: HC transfers case to SIT||Noticing a slow pace of investigation into the death of 22-year-old Raju Velu Devendra, who allegedly died due to brutalities of policemen attached to Juhu police station, the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday transferred the case to a special investigation team (SIT).The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Anuja Prabhudessai directed the commissioner of police, Mumbai to appoint two senior police officers having “impeccable integrity and unquestionable competence” to the SIT within 24 hours of receipt of the order. The team has been ordered to try to complete the investigation within a month.“We are not at all impressed by the state of affairs,” the bench commented after noticing that the investigation was at standstill after the assistant commissioner of police of Bandra division, who was investigating the case, was found Covid-19 positive and the investigation was handed over to another police officer about a fortnight ago.“Since, prima facie, there are allegations of police excesses on the victim, we expected that the Mumbai Police would complete the investigation with utmost urgency,” said the bench.The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by lawyer and human rights activist Firdause Irani raising concerns about police excesses during enforcement of the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection.Apart from pointing out the assault on him, his wife and two sons by a team of policemen and civic staff outside his house in Goregaon (West), Irani has also highlighted a report by a human rights organisation that revealed that 15 persons had lost their lives across India due to police brutalities during the lockdown and two of them were from Mumbai. Devendra was one of them. According to the report, Devendra’s family members alleged that on March 30, when they proceeded to see a relative, a police team chased them and caught the deceased. The policemen, the report added, informed the relatives that they were taking Devendra to Juhu police station, but in the morning they were informed by the police that Raju was lying at Nehru Nagar Chowk and when they took him to a hospital, he was declared dead on arrival.Juhu police had, however, maintained that Devedra’s death was a case of mob lynching. Police said he was caught by local residents while trying to enter a house at Mutthu Swami Chawl at Vile Parle. They claimed the deceased attempted to flee by climbing the roof, but slipped and fell on the ground. When he tried to run away, the mob chased him to an open space and started beating him up, which led to him losing his consciousness.It was only after the matter reached HC, that the police admitted that the deceased was assaulted by four policemen, all of whom were suspended during pendency of departmental inquiry.During the course of hearing on Monday, petitioner’s lawyer, advocate Gopal Shakarnarayanan, brought to the attention of the court several videos showing police charging lathi on people riding bikes. “This is not what we expect from the state,” the lawyer said complaining about the use of force by police.The bench, however, refused to accept the contention. “There are black sheeps everywhere,” said the bench. “There are many among us (members of general public) who don’t care about lockdown restrictions,” it said.The judges said that if people violate law, some people will have to be dealt with strong hands. “Ultimately, police also have to safeguard the interest of the public, and we, as judges, cannot foresee when lathis and teargas etc. would be required to be used,” the judges said.HC has now posted the PIL for further hearing on September 21 with a direction to the SIT to submit copy of the charge sheet to HC if its investigation is complete by then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/juhu-police-brutality-hc-transfers-case-to-sit/story-BSDug7hZpZXG6AXA43U5bI.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||PU to get Dental Council of India nod for BDS, MDS exams||Panjab University will seek permissions from the Dental Council of India (DCI) to conduct undergraduate and postgraduate examinations at the Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute and Dental Science and Hospital.The request to conduct examinations for the bachelor’s (BDS) and master’s of dental studies (MDS) programmes was made by PU’s dental college. The matter was discussed on Monday at the meeting of a special committee constituted by the PU syndicate, which is headed by syndicate member Navdeep Goyal.The committee has allowed the dental college to conduct the undergraduate exams in blended mode, while for postgraduates it has permitted regular exams, subject to DCI permissions. Around 400 UG students and 17 PG students will be writing the exams.According to a committee member, “We have permitted them to conduct exams as per DCI advisory, now PU will seek permission from DCI to do so. Given the number of PG students is very small at the dental college, we have permitted them to conduct the exams physically.”DCI in its advisory of June 30, 2020, directed colleges/universities to conduct theory examinations for UG and PG strictly in accordance with the council’s norms.It said the final year BDS/MDS exams will be conducted as per existing advisory at a suitable time as and when normalcy was restored. For first to third year BDS students, the exams should be conducted at a suitable time when students would start studies for the next higher classes, the advisory read.Dr Jagat Bhushan, principal, Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute and Dental Science and Hospital, said, “We had written to the University to allow us to conduct the exams of UG and PG students. Timely exams are in the best interest of students and dental institutes in many states have conducted the exams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-to-get-dental-council-of-india-nod-for-bds-mds-exams/story-XkcoTF1GsU6QhSwk9TL7jK.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Developer stabbed to death in Juhu; three detained||A 55-year-old real estate developer was stabbed to death by a man while he was on his way to offer prayers at Irla Jama Masjid in Juhu at 6am on Monday. Abdul Munaf Shaikh, a resident of Saifi House in Andheri (West), was walking towards the mosque when an unknown person wearing a cap attacked him from behind. Juhu police have detained three suspects in the case so far, but the killer is still on the run. The police, after reviewing CCTV footage which recorded the murder, said that Shaikh, who is also a trustee of the mosque, was caught unawares when a man attacked him and slit his throat. The accused then stabbed him multiple times on his head, back, stomach and chest, said police officers. Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police, zone 9, said, “Soon after the incident, people from the mosque rushed him to Cooper Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.” “We have identified the killer and an offence under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Juhu police station. The killer is still on the run. We are investigating case thoroughly,” said Trimukhe. “Being a real estate developer, he had built many buildings and had also undertaken a Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) project recently. We are probing possible angles,” added the officer.As part of the investigation, the police detained three men, including the son of a man who had sold a piece of land to Shaikh in 2010. He was allegedly unhappy that his father had sold the land at a cheap rate and had threatened Shaikh on many occasions, said a police officer.“In 2019, Shaikh was planning to develop the plot. We are questioning many and have detained three people so far,” said the police officer.Asif Ali Shaikh, a relative of the deceased, said, “Shaikh had notices someone following him when he used to go to the mosque for morning prayers. He had also filed a written complaint to DN Nagar police, but no one took cognizance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/developer-stabbed-to-death-in-juhu-three-detained/story-7i8NJgl6oTGLIYYzVnC80M.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||BKC gets its own art installation||Maharashtra tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray and urban development minister Eknath Shinde on Monday inaugurated an art installation at the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC). The installation with the letters B, K and C symbolise what BKC is, “modern and bold,” tweeted Thackeray. The art installation is a part of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s “BKC Art district plaza” near the Nandadeep Garden. The plaza will include seating space, amphitheatre and green space. MMRDA is also planning on an annual festival on lines of the Kala Ghoda festival here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bkc-gets-its-own-art-installation/story-Deayrce2XzGpOlblgjQoDO.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Let Varavara Rao make video calls to his family: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday directed the state to allow activist and poet P Varavara Rao contact his family using video calls, while following hospital protocol. Rao is one of the accused in the Elgar Parishad case and he is currently receiving medical treatment at Nanavati Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19. HC also directed court officials to provide Rao’s family and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) copies of Rao’s medical report, which was submitted to the court last week. The next hearing will be held after two weeks. While hearing an appeal filed by Rao challenging a special court’s decision to deny him bail on medical grounds, a division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice Abhay Ahuja was informed by Rao’s advocate R Satyanarayan that Rao’s family was concerned about his well-being as they had been provided no information about his health status after Rao was shifted to Nanavati Hospital. In a previous hearing on July 28, a bench headed by justice RD Dhanuka had directed Nanavati Hospital to submit a report on Rao’s health to the court, which the hospital did last week. Satyanarayan submitted that Rao’s family should have access to a copy of the hospital’s report in order to make arguments for his bail plea. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, appearing for NIA, submitted that as Rao’s bail application had been made with reference to his ill health, the petition should be dismissed as Rao was currently being provided the best available treatment. After hearing the submissions, the court sought to know the current status of Rao’s health as the report was almost two-weeks old. It also directed the state to allow Rao’s family to speak to him through video calls, as had been allowed by an earlier bench, provided all protocol required by the hospital was followed. The bench also directed court officials to give a copy of the report submitted by Nanavati Hospital to NIA and Rao’s family. On July 13, Rao, who is charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and has been under arrest since August 2018, was taken to Sir JJ Hospital from Taloja Jail after his health deteriorated. In the course of a week, Rao tested positive for Covid-19; was transferred from Sir JJ Hospital to St George Hospital, where he suffered an injury to the head; and was finally taken to Nanavati Hospital, where he is currently admitted. Rao’s family has alleged negligence on part of jail and hospital authorities. Bharadwaj appeals against denial of bail In another hearing for an appeal filed by lawyer and activist Sudha Bharadwaj, advocate Ragini Ahuja appealed against a special court’s decision to deny Bharadwaj interim bail. Ahuja informed the court that as Bharadwaj suffers from various ailments, she is susceptible to Covid-19. Bharadwaj is another accused in the Elgar Parishad case and is currently lodged in Byculla Women’s Jail. Though the state and NIA opposed the submissions, the bench of justice AA Sayed and justice Abhay Ahuja sought to know the steps being taken by the jail’s administration to safeguard inmates from contracting Covid-19. The court has also sought Bharadwaj’s latest medical report. The matter will be heard after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/let-varavara-rao-make-video-calls-to-his-family-hc/story-RGPAv2k9R7NZiCu2e9edYO.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||SAD MLA to move HC to recover Rs 20 cr paid by Zirakpur MC to NHAI||an 8 km stretch of service lanes from the Chhat Junction of Proposed Road -7 ( PR-7), with NH-22 near McDonald’s on the Ambala-Zirakpur stretch is illegal, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA from Dera Bassi NK Sharma has alleged.The money has been “transferred unconstitutionally,” Sharma says, adding that he will move the Punjab and Haryana high court to recover the amount.Addressing mediapersons at Zirakpur on Monday, Sharma alleged that the Punjab government had diverted funds illegally from the civic body. “We will move the Punjab and Haryana high court to recover the money as it was meant for providing basic amenities for Zirakpur. We fear that the Punjab government might divert Rs 150 crore of the civic body to some other head.”The civic body, he said, had failed to improve the basic amenities in the city, displaying a pitiable lack of involvement in the town’s welfare. Nothing had been done about the damaged roads, choked sewerage and non-functional street lights, he said.In response, MC executive officer Sandeep Tewari said the money had been paid on the instructions of the Punjab government. “Moreover, as per the agreement with NHAI, we are charging cess of Rs 5 lakh per project, which is coming up within 1 km of the road of MC limits. We have already collected Rs 1.75 crore from the one-time cess from any project,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-mla-to-move-hc-to-recover-rs-20-cr-paid-by-zirakpur-mc-to-nhai/story-JrHOzO523H7MJbAJKiQ31H.html
18-08-2020||Pune||Sassoon hospital hands over wrong corpse to family||Confusion prevailed at Noorani Muslim graveyard on Monday evening after a family discovered that the body whose last rites they were preparing for, was not related to them.“We received a message that my estranged husband, Asif Ghulam Bagwan, died in Khadki today. We rushed to the Sassoon General Hospital and the body, inside a bag, was handed over to us and we directly brought it to the graveyard. When we were readying the body for the burial, I finally got to see the face and realised that it was not the body of my husband. To confirm, I checked the body for marks on the leg, which my husband has. The marks were missing and confirmed my suspicion. My relatives, then, contacted my husband and found that he was alive,” said Nazneen Bagwan (35), wife of the person who was assumed dead. Sassoon Hospital authorities and Kondhwa police station have been informed about the unidentified corpse. The body was brought to Sassoon Hospital and handed over by the hospital authorities to the family at 11.20pm on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sassoon-hospital-hands-over-wrong-corpse-to-family/story-z71xNwTYOTIOY7c0Idm6aI.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||UT employees’ housing scheme: High-rise plans, costing issues likely to come up at meeting||A high-rise housing complex for the city is one of the options likely to be explored by senior UT administration officials, UT employees and the Union home secretary when they meet on August 19 to discuss the long pending UT employees housing scheme.Issues likely to be thrashed out at the meeting involve costing - whether charges will be applicable only for plotted areas instead of the total land parcel in the scheme; and that of building the 11-storey apartment blocks in Sector 56. Both options are aimed at reducing housing costs for employees since the project failed to take off earlier because potential buyers thought it was too expensive. “All the alternatives will be discussed on August 19 with UT employee representatives and Central government officials. This includes increasing the floor area ratio (FAR) for the project. The floors can go up to 11. With increase in FAR, the housing scheme will come up only in Sector 56,” said a senior UT official requesting anonymity. Currently, project plans cover three sectors and include constructions of ground plus five floors.Significantly, the meeting is to take place on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court.A six-member committee, comprising three senior UT officials and an equal number of employee representatives, will participate in a meeting through video conferencing with the Union home secretary. The HC had directed that the issue of costs of the self-financed housing scheme be resolved through discussions between UT officials, employees and the Central government. Acting on a petition, the HC had directed the Union home secretary to convene a meeting with the UT adviser and the chairman of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) to make efforts to resolve the issue and submit a report by the next date of hearing.Initially fixed for August 4, the meeting had to be rescheduled to August 19. The next hearing in the case has been fixed for September 1.THE SCHEMEAround 4,000 flats were to be built in Sectors 52, 53 and 56 by the CHB for government employees as part of a scheme launched in 2008.A draw of lots was held in 2010, in which 3,930 employees among 7,827 applicants were selected. They had then deposited around Rs 57 crore with CHB under the scheme.Later, the scheme was shelved and then revived after the employees took up the matter with city MP Kirron Kher. But the ministry of home affairs (MHA) allowed the administration to transfer the land to the CHB at the current collector rates.With this apartment costs shot up to Rs 50 lakh for Category D, Rs 1 crore for Category C, Rs1.64 crore for Category B and Rs2.08 crore for Category A.When the scheme was announced the rates were only Rs 34.70 lakh for Category A, Rs24.30 lakh for Category B, Rs13.53 lakh for Category C and Rs5.76 lakh for Category D.The employees then moved the high court alleging that the CHB was charging five times the initial price for land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-employees-housing-scheme-high-rise-plans-costing-issues-likely-to-come-up-at-meeting/story-n25g1J20pyTio6hXzPsbhJ.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Portion of vacant building collapses in Bandra, 2 injured||Part of a vacated residential building near Rizvi College, in Bandra (West), collapsed, on Monday. Two people are injured in the incident. Emergency responders are at the site of the level-3 collapse.Fire brigade team have so far rescued seven people. Search and rescue operation were still on till the time of going to print.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management cell, around 8.30pm, Kalpana Building collapsed on the four-storeyed Hardik Villa residential complex, on Sherley Rajan Road, near Rizvi College.The collapse damaged the compound wall and ground floor of Hardik Villa. The cars parked on the road were also damaged. After the incident, Hardik Villa has been vacated.Civic official said that Kalpana Building is more than two decades old. It tilted towards Hardik Villa and collapsed within a few seconds.Saduq Rizvi, a resident of the area, said, “We heard a loud noise and saw that huge portion of the vacant building had collapsed, damaging another building, it’s ground floor and the road that passes through both the buildings. Few persons are feared to be trapped.”Swapna Mhatre, local corporator, said, “The injured have been sent to a hospital and are being treated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/portion-of-vacant-building-collapses-in-bandra-2-injured/story-ZX9UVwgpr04hC1wJQyFKrK.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||State to appoint international architect to revamp SGNP as ecotourism destination||The state will appoint an international architect to draw up a plan for a facelift and to develop amenities to improve tourism at the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), Borivli.State forest minister Sanjay Rathod laid out his plans for improving the green cover in urban areas during a review meeting held by Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar with all states through videoconference on Monday.Rathod said, “As per directions of the CM, a proposal to develop the 103 sq. km SGNP as an international ecotourism destination is being formulated. A tender has already been floated to appoint an international architect who will study features of SGNP and suggest ways of revamping without interfering with the provisions of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980,” said Rathod. In 2017, a similar proposal for the park’s revamp (signed between Belgiium and state) was stalled due to ‘technical difficulties and pending clarifications’. The plan included a mini zoological park and leopard safari.Rathod said despite repeated requests to transfer endangered Asiatic lions from the Gir National Park were turned down over three years, the forest department will submit a proposal before CM Uddhav Thackeray to request Gujarat and the Centre that at least one lion, preferably a female, be transferred to SGNP to enhance breeding.SGNP currently has three lions — a male, Ravindra, 17; brother and sister Jespa and Gopal, both nine years old. “These are hybrid lions (a cross between Asiatic and African lions) and their parents were brought to the park from abandoned circuses. The Central Zoo Authority has issued clear instructions to ensure there is no inbreeding and phase out breeding of hybrid and Asiatic lions. But the park needs both male and female Asiatic lions to increase their numbers,” said Vijay Barabde, superintendent (lion and tiger safari), SGNP.Meanwhile, the minister added that a state-wide policy to enhance green cover for urban cities, towns and districts was being prepared. “Plans similar to SGNP will be replicated for 50 locations across 26 municipal corporations under our City Forest Park scheme (Nagar Van Udayan). These locations would have either eco-tourism destinations of international standards, reserved forests or conservation reserves admeasuring 25 to 100 hectare range either within the city or in its periphery. Maximum of Rs2 crore will be provided for each city forest, but funding share (between Centre and state) is yet to be decided,” said Rathod adding that the policy will be submitted before the state cabinet during the first week of September. “A panel of architects from within the country will be appointed to come up with individual proposals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-to-appoint-international-architect-to-revamp-sgnp-as-ecotourism-destination/story-PnoxaJLbWuAvIfkckqaxyL.html
18-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally goes from 500K to 600K in just 9 days||One-hundred and sixty-two days since Maharashtra’s first Covid-19 case was reported on March 9, the state crossed another grim milestone of 600,000 infections with 8,493 new cases on Monday. The case count stood at 604,358.The number of days for completing one lakh cases is reducing with the state taking only nine days to move from 5 lakh cases to 6 lakh cases. The state’s first lakh cases took 96 days, the second took 22 days, third 14 days, fourth 11 days and the fifth lakh took just 10 days, indicating a surge in daily caseload.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The state’s active cases tally stood at 155,268, accounting for 25.69% of the total cases reported so far. The state recorded its highest single-day spike with 12,822 cases on August 8. The daily caseload dipped to around the 8,000-mark after a gap of 13 days. It had reported 8,968 cases on August 3.Death toll of the state reached 20,265 after 228 deaths were reported on Monday. Of them, 172 were reported in the last 48 hours, another 36 deaths were from last one week, while the rest 20 deaths were from the period before that, health officials said. Highest toll in a day was reported 413 on August 13.It can be further understood with the fact that in the past 17 days of this month, the state has reported 182,834 cases. On an average, it came to 10,754 a day. This is against 247,392 cases recorded in July, 102,172 cases in June, 57,157 cases in May, 10,196 cases in April and 302 cases in March.The major reason for the surge is that cases are rising in semi-urban and rural areas. Two months ago, majority of the cases were coming from 19 cities that were declared as red zones, but the situation has changed ever since the lockdown was eased with ‘Mission Begin Again’, starting from June 3. This can be explained in numbers as all 34 districts had contributed only 6,165 cases on June 3 (8.23% of the total cases), which has increased to 163,377 cases (27.03% of the total cases) on August 17.The 19 cities were Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Mira-Bhayander, Vasai-Virar, Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Nashik, Malegaon, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, public health expert, who is also heading the communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state, said cases are rapidly rising in rural areas, which started after lockdown restrictions were relaxed. “Distribution of cases started soon after the state opted for unlocking of restrictions. Before that, cases used to come only from urban areas, but now it has spread to rural areas. The cases are also increasing in an accelerated fashion at present,” Dr Salunkhe said.He sees two major reasons for surge in cases, one unlocking and second, in general the careless attitude of people. “Easing out the lockdown restrictions has given the virus opportunity to spread. It is also an impact of careless or non-serious attitude of the people, which is making the situation difficult in the state,” he added.The surge in small cities and rural areas is also a cause for concern, given the limited capacity of the existing health infrastructure. The state government is augmenting health infrastructure in each and every district along with the cities to cope up with the situation, officials said.Shortage of health staff that includes doctors, nurses, para medical staff etc. is another problem the state is facing with, the officials informed.On Monday, Mumbai recorded 753 cases, taking its tally to 129,479. Of them, active cases are 17,704This is for the third time daily caseload in the city dipped to 700-mark in the last one month. On July 28 and August 4, it has recorded 700 and 709 cases respectively.On June 27, Mumbai has reported highest single-day spike with 2,077 cases. City toll stood at 7,173 after 40 deaths were reported on Monday.Pune city continued to contribute maximum infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 919 cases on Monday. Its tally stood at 80,407 cases. Pimpri Chinchwad, satellite city in Pune Metropolitan Region, recorded 615 cases, third-highest contributor in the state. Its tally went up to 35,194One more problem the state is struggling with is high number of deaths. Maharashtra still has highest number of deaths across states in the country.As many as 5,271 deaths have been reported in 17 days of this month as against 6,988 deaths in July, 5,638 in June, 2,286 deaths in May, 449 in April and 10 deaths in March. With 20,265 deaths, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded at 3.35% on Monday. It continued to be second highest in the country after Gujarat, where the CFR was 3.54% with 2,785 deaths (78,680 cases) till Sunday, according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health expert, said the government doesn’t have resources in terms of specialised staff and health infrastructure to deal with the situation especially in rural areas. “Tertiary care treatment can only prevent Covid-19 casualties. We need specialised staff to treat critical patients. Both the state and the Central government could not provide that quality of trained health staff and infrastructure in rural and semi-urban areas,” said Dr Pattiwar.He also said that the state needed to train its doctors and health staff in these areas. Further, there should be a system for regular interaction between doctors from semi-urban and rural areas with the members of task force formed to reduce Covid-19 casualties, which is not happening at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-s-covid-tally-goes-from-500k-to-600k-in-just-9-days/story-7xguXQdTd0ACNcGAh9YN3L.html
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||50 cases of illegal sand mining in Mohali in 3 years, but trials still on||The Mohali district mining department on Monday lodged a police complaint in Kharar against the sarpanch of Majat village Harminder Singh for illegal sand mining, but how far the case progresses is anyone’s guess as 50 FIRs have been lodged to cope with the problem – but trials are still continuing.Illegal mining is rampant here despite 17 cases being registered in 2018; 21 in 2019 and 12 in 2020, when 20 other cases are being investigated, police records state. Around 50% cases in the past three years were registered in Mubarakpur, Dera Bassi. According to district mining officer Gurpreet Pal Singh Sandhu, “We have lodged a complaint against the sarpanch of Majat village for illegal mining in the village as during our investigation we found that he had started digging in a 2.5 feet by 5.5 feet area in the village.” Sandhu also claimed that swift action was taken when complaints were received, the police informed and FIRs registered. “On August 6, an FIR was registered against Sukhveer Singh of Shekupura village in Kurali for illegal mining... even machinery was seized,” he said. He added that fines of Rs 60 per tonne for sand and gravel and Rs10 per tonne for ordinary earth would be imposed on the offenders. On July 16, the mining department conducted a raid at Gocher village and found that 5,000 cubic feet gravel had been extracted from privately owned land in the area. A stone crusher was also seized during the raid, but the revenue department claimed it had not identified the landowners even after a month. On July 6, Majri Police had booked former director general of police (DGP) Paramdeep Singh Gill and 44 farmers of Saini Majra under Section 21 of the Mine and Minerals (Regulations and Development) Act for allowing illegal mining on their land. A fine of Rs 11 crore was imposed on them by the mining department. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said he had directed officials to take strict action against offenders. Action will also be taken against people who owned land where illegal mining was carried out, he said. In July last year, the mining department had imposed a penalty of Rs 52 crore on 193 landowners in three villages of Mohali — Mianpur Changar, Kubaheri and Abhipur— for allowing illegal mining on their land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/50-cases-of-illegal-sand-mining-in-mohali-in-3-years-but-trials-still-on/story-HmzHo0iVtmm9SpbF4YobNI.html
18-08-2020||Gurugram||Two held for sexually assaulting a 17-year-old British national of Indian origin||The police on Monday held two persons, out of a group of 10, for their alleged involvement in physically and sexually assaulting a 17-year-old British national of Indian origin on the night of July 23 in Sushant Lok -1. The police said the two were caught from different locations traced through technical surveillance, while the remaining eight suspects have also been identified. According to the police, raids are currently underway in at least two sectors to nab them. Police commissioner KK Rao said that five of the 10 suspects involved in the case are minors. One of the two suspects has been identified as 21-year-old Vishal Yadav, a resident of Wazirabad village in Sector 52. The other suspect is a 17-year-old boy from a nearby area. Both were caught from their respective localities.Bijender Singh, station house officer(SHO) of Sushant Lok police station, said Yadav is the main suspect who had a tiff with the victim on a mobile application on house parties. This prompted him to enlist his friends in taking revenge on the victim. “In July, the victim and Yadav had met on an application named House Party. Later, they had a tiff , which ended in both of them verbally abusing each other. The suspect said that this upset him and prompted him to ask his friends to take revenge on the victim. They finally got a chance on the night of July 23, when the victim was going to a house party in a residential society in Sushant Lok-1,” he said. The police said that the suspects had chatted with the victim using fake profiles and during one of the conversations, the victim had informed them that he would be visiting his friend’s house in Sushant Lok-1 to attend his birthday party. “The suspects had created several fake accounts and often signed into the application to keep a a tab on the victim. They chatted with him to know his whereabouts,” said Singh. On night of July 23, as soon as the victim’s father dropped him outside the gate of the residential society,the suspects surrounded the victim and started thrashing him. They also sexually assaulted him and recorded four videos of the act, which were shared on social media to defame the victim, said the police. During the assault, the victim was repeatedly asked to “say sorry” on camera, the footage of which was shared across social media. The video went viral, following which the peer group came to know of the incident. The victim narrated his ordeal before his parents last Saturday, following which a case was registered against the suspects, said the police. In one of the four videos circulating online, the suspects can be seen assaulting the boy, tearing his T-shirt, beating him up, and seemingly asking him to apologise to Yadav. There are four videos that were shot and uploaded by the suspects on social media, police said. Rao said that they have recovered a CCTV footage from the residential society and have recorded the statements of the security guards who had witnessed the assault. “We have collected the evidence and remaining suspects will soon be nabbed. We have questioned the suspects separately to know the sequence of the incident. At least five suspects are minors and will be sent to an observation home in Faridabad,” he said. Police said that the incident came to light last Saturday, after the family discovered that the boy had started missing his online classes and was not talking to them properly. During investigations by the police, it was revealed that the suspects had sexually assaulted him. A case under sections 147(rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimation) of Indian Penal Code and sections 6 and 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act(POCSO) has been filed at Sushant Lok police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-held-for-sexually-assaulting-a-17-year-old-british-national-of-indian-origin/story-X7cudQvHJ0Z0IhtyVrKMPI.html
18-08-2020||Noida||Three agencies apply for Parthala flyover project, work may begin next month||The Noida authority on Monday said that three private firms have applied to build a six-lane flyover at Parthala Chowk that remains congestion-ridden.The authority had, on July 4, floated a tender to finalise a private agency to construct the flyover and provide signal-free smooth commute on this stretch.“We will examine if these three agencies technically qualify to carry out such a big project. After that, we will finalise the agency in a week’s time,” said Mukesh Vaish, project engineer with the Noida authority.The authority is expected to start work at this project next month if all goes as per the plan.“We have fixed September 15 as the date to start work at the site. This project will ease traffic pangs on this road that connects Noida with Greater Noida West also known as Noida Extension,” said Vaish.Around 18,000 motorists use the stretch at Parthala Chowk, where Master Plan-III road meets Faridabad-Noida-Ghaziabad Expresswa,during the morning and evening peak hours, according to a survey conducted by the Noida authority’s traffic cell. The six-land flyover will be 650 metres long and will be built on Master Plan-III road that connects Noida with Greater Noida West. It is expected to cost ₹83 crore and benefit those who travel from and to Noida to Greater Noida West, Ghaziabad, Meerut and other areas. The work will be completed in 18 months from the day work begins, as per the deadlines set, said officials.As the flyover will be built on Master Plan-III road the motorists will not have to face any traffic signal on this to reach Greater Noida’s Kisan Chowk located in sector 1. The commuters, who use FNG Expressway will also not have to face any traffic signal at Parthala, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-agencies-apply-for-parthala-flyover-project-work-may-begin-next-month/story-7Ld9KN48ugXlbRU3tw23OO.html
18-08-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 fears forcing many to give vital treatments a miss||After having beaten breast cancer, Santosh Batra (72) was a bit concerned when she felt pain and uneasiness on the left side of her chest in mid-June, but she postponed a visit to the hospital for fears of contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection. “I took Santosh to a friend, a doctor, and he prescribed an ECG (to assess her heart function). I considered taking her to a neighbourhood hospital but she refused because that facility was treating Covid-19 patients. We came home but that night, her pain and uneasiness got worse and her blood pressure began fluctuating, I kept checking it throughout the night. The next morning, when we went to a hospital, they said she had had a severe heart attack and there was some damage to the heart. We were asked to rush her to a bigger hospital,” said Batra’s husband Bal Kishan Batra, who works as a consultant in a private company. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayBatra was then taken to Indraprastha Apollo hospital’s emergency department. “By the time the patient came to us, she had a ruptured septum (heart wall that separates the left and the right side). When a person has a heart attack, there is a 1% chance of complications such as a leakage of the heart valve or rupture of a chamber wall, but if they delay treatment the risk increases to 5%,” said Dr Mukesh Goel, senior cardiac surgeon at Indraprastha Apollo hospital who treated her. “Because of the delay, she had to undergo a complex surgery instead of a simple angioplasty (a procedure where a tube is inserted through the blood vessel to remove the arterial blockage). The surgery that had to be performed was also very risky as the tissue around the heart became friable and the stitches wouldn’t hold,” he said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Since the onset of the pandemic, many like Batra have been missing out on crucial treatment for fear of contracting Covid-19 at hospitals. A Delhi-based doctor, not wishing to be named, says half of his patients have been coming in with complications resulting from delays in treatment. Dr AK Singh Rana, medical superintendent of Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, said, “With hospitals flooded with Covid-19 patients in June and July and public transport not being available, the general tendency among people to was to wait for symptoms to resolve themselves -- patients were not coming to hospitals even they needed to. Even after the lockdown has been lifted, the number of patients in the OPD is a fraction of what we got before March. This is leading to people needing life-saving emergency surgeries that could have been avoided with timely treatment.” Open surgeries, longer hospital stays Initially, it was on account of the lockdown and then out of fear that patients were postponing elective surgeries resulting in further complications and longer hospital stays. In the last three months, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital has seen at least 31 such cases in the emergency, including those of ruptured gall bladders, intestines and appendices. Also read: Govt kick-starts talks to explore Covid-19 vaccine deal“The number of such cases that we have had to perform in the last three months is probably what we would have done over two years pre-panedmic. When we say a procedure is elective, it means that it can be planned in advance, but it cannot be postponed indefinitely. Some of the procedures were cancelled when the lockdown happened but even after restrictions were lifted, patients are reluctant to come in because of the fear of Covid-19. This results in complications such as gall bladder ruptures, or blockage of the intestine, or the appendix bursting,” Dr Vinod Bindal, vice-chairman of minimally invasive surgery, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said. He narrated the case of a patient who had initially been diagnosed with gall stones and insisted on just tele consultation thereafter. Bindal said, unfortunately, the patient had gall bladder cancer that had already metastasised and could not be removed surgically. Many patients also had to undergo open surgeries. “All these procedures are fairly simple and can be done using minimally invasive techniques. But because of complications, at least 10 patients had to undergo open surgery. The complications also led to a longer hospital and ICU stay,” Dr Bindal said. Delays in reaching the emergency Patients with routine problems such as high fever and stomach ache have vanished from the hospital emergencies these days and have been replaced with complicated cases. “In the emergency, we categorise patients as priority 1, 2 and 3 – with priority 3 patients being those who come in with fever, headache, tummy ache, gastroenteritis and suchlike and can wait till we manage the more severe cases. This category of patients is completely missing right now. Earlier, even with a full out-patient clinic running, we used to see these cases in the emergency department,” Dr Priyadarshini Pal Singh, head of emergency department, Apollo Hospitals, said. Instead, they have been seeing patients with complications arising out of not coming to a hospital sooner. “Patients with fever had waited till they got pneumonia and were breathless. Diabetes patients who were not able to regularly monitor and maintain their blood sugar levels ended up with diabetic ketoacidosis (a severe complication where the body starts releasing high levels of blood acid called ketones),” Dr Pal Singh said. “With a person suffers a stroke, we need the patients to come to a hospital as soon as they see some slurring of speech or facial deviation or something as simple as dizziness. In case of a stroke, we need to act fast to prevent further damage. But now we get cases that come in only after half the body is paralysed,” she said. Patients also come in with fractures days after the injury. “Usually, in cases of orthopaedic injuries, people tend to reach hospitals immediately because of the severe pain. But we have seen a few cases wherein patients waited days before coming to the emergency -- a fracture needed surgery or resulted in embolism (a clot formed because of the bone fragment getting lodged in a blood vessel),” Dr Pal Singh said.Doctors advise patients that if they are wary of going to a hospital, then they must consult doctors online in a timely manner. Dr Pal Singh said, “A simple rule is that if you considered going to a hospital or a doctor for any discomfort or ailment and don’t want to, then at least get an online consultation. And please follow the advice of the doctor. If the doctor thinks you need to go to a hospital, please do so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/many-delaying-treatments-for-fear-of-covid-putting-their-lives-at-risk-say-doctors/story-k5x7qV219rNl3OCv8ckuNI.html
18-08-2020||Delhi||DMRC begins work on Aerocity-Tughlaqabad Metro corridor||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has started construction work on the Aerocity-Tughlaqabad corridor, part of its Phase-4 expansion plans. The 22km-long corridor will have a double-decker viaduct –with Metro tracks on the upper deck and a flyover for vehicular traffic beneath — on a 2.5km-stretch between Sangam Vihar and Ambedkar Nagar.The six-lane flyover, as well as an underpass at Saket-G station (in the south Delhi neighbourhood’s G Block), on the corridor will help decongest the busy Mehrauli-Badarpur (MB) Road, a DMRC official said.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said, “MB Road will become signal-free between Sangam Vihar and Saket, after the flyover and underpass are complete. A ramp will help traffic move uninterrupted from Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg to MB Road, and an underpass will aid movement from MB Road towards Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg.”This is the second double-decker viaduct the DMRC has planned in the Capital, after a similar move in the works for the Metro’s Majlis Park-Maujpur corridor, though the section will be shorter than the one on Aerocity-Tughlaqabad corridor.The Aerocity-Tughlaqabad corridor will have 15 stations, and will connect border areas in south Delhi such as Tigri, Khanpur, Tughlaqabad, and others, to the Indira Gandhi International airport.On Monday, the DMRC started casting U-girders to be installed on a 4.2km elevated section between Sangam Vihar and Saket-G. “This stretch includes four elevated stations — Sangam Vihar, Khanpur-Devoli, Ambedkar Nagar and Saket-G — of the corridor. Casting work is being done at the yard in Pushp Vihar,” Dayal said.U-girders are precast pre-tensioned, U-shaped girders on which tracks can be layed immediately. These are prepared in casting yards and brought to the sites.While the Metro corporation had started work on the Phase-4 in December last year, work was stalled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Construction work on all three priority corridors of Phase-4 has gained pace, despite a severe workforce crunch due to the ongoing pandemic, and other lockdown-related constraints,” Dayal said.Aerocity-Tughlaqabad is one of the three priority corridors under Phase-4. Work on the RK Ashram - Janakpuri West Metro corridor started in December last year, while work on Majlis Park-Maujpur corridor started on Sunday. As per the expansion plan, 61.6km of new Metro lines will be constructed across three different corridors, to comprise 45 stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dmrc-begins-work-on-aerocity-tughlaqabad-metro-corridor/story-FyYIvyYxGiEJs8uiGyh2eI.html
18-08-2020||Delhi||Flooding, snarls: Rain brings Delhi to halt again||Rain that lashed parts of the national Capital on Monday, leading to water logging and traffic snarls at a number of locations across the city.According to officials of the India Meteorological Department, Delhi received moderate rainfall on Monday with the Safdarjung Observatory, representative of city’s weather, recording 23.2 mm rain. Lodhi Road received 24.6 mm rain while Delhi Ridge got 6.4 mm. Palam received 0.6 mm while Aya Nagar received only traces of rainfall. The Met department has forecast light to moderate rainfall over the next two days. However, a heavy spell is likely around the same time.The Delhi traffic police and civic and road-owning agencies said water logging was reported in around 25 places in the city. Some of the locations where water accumulated on roads include Tilak Bridge, Okhla Sabji Mandi, Begampur, Kirari, areas near Batra Hospital, Rajdhani Park Metro station, areas near Adhchini flyover, Bhairon Marg, areas near Lajpat Nagar Metro station, Maharani Bagh, Loni roundabout, Mandoli traffic signal and IP Flyover.The Public Works Department (PWD) and civic bodies maintained that adequate arrangements were in place and the water that accumulated on main roads and streets was pumped out immediately.“Immediately after receiving information about water logging, we installed temporary pumps and cleared roads of water within 15-20 minutes. Since the rainfall was not heavy, water logging took place at fewer places than usual,” the PWD official said.Due to water logging, commuters got stuck in traffic on Mathura Road, Ring Road near Maharani Bagh and Sarai Kale Khan, Vikas Marg, Tilak Bridge, Adhchini, Rohtak Road, Rohini among others.“There were snarls at a few places due to water logging, but we deployed our staff at those spots to prevent jams from building up,” said a senior traffic police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rain-in-capital-leads-to-water-logging-snarls/story-xyjPVUVA8Xif6U2idekWmN.html
18-08-2020||Delhi||Masked men open fire, barge into houses in Delhi’s Mori Gate, case lodged||Tension ran high in the Kucha Mohtar Khan neighbourhood in north Delhi’s Mori gate on Monday morning after nearly a dozen masked men, all armed, allegedly went on the rampage for nearly 30 minutes — firing in the air, vandalising vehicles and homes and assaulting women and children.Senior police officers said Monday’s violence was the fallout of a tiff that had happened on Monday morning between a habitual criminal from northwest Delhi’s Model Town and five-six locals from Kucha Mohtar Khan over an unknown issue. The fight and the subsequent violence lasted for nearly half-an-hour, with the assailants fleeing before police could reach the spot, they said.While locals alleged that at least six rounds were fired by the miscreants, the police said that they had found just four empty bullet shells from the spot. At least four persons, including a woman and a girl, were injured while more than two dozen cars, auto-rickshaws and two-wheelers were damaged in the violence, police said. Locals told the police that one of the alleged assailants had put a knife on the throat of a 13-year-old boy and threatened to kill him in front of his family members.The alleged assailants forcibly barged into a few houses, misbehaved with the residents and vandalised items inside, locals said. The sudden firing and violence left locals shocked and scurrying for cover, residents alleged. As many as 50 police personnel were deployed in the neighbourhood later to maintain law and order and avoid a rerun of violence.Some videos of the violence were captured on mobile phone cameras and uploaded on social media websites. The videos show several bikes and scooters toppled on both sides of narrow lanes, as residents narrated how the men had allegedly barged into their houses and threatened and misbehaved with women and children. A case of rioting, attempt to murder, house trespass and firing has been registered against Lalit alias Pong, a man with criminal antecedents, at Model Town police station for Monday’s violence, deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said.DCP Bhardwaj said around 1am, the police control room received information regarding a “quarrel between two groups” in Mori Gate. But when a police team reached the spot, they found several vehicles damaged and some bikes and scooters lying overturned in the lanes. Scores of residents were present outside and they told the police about the firing and rioting by 10-15 unidentified masked men.During preliminary enquiry, the DCP said, it was learnt that Lalit, who had previously been arrested in a murder case, had come to his in-laws home in Mori Gate. Around 1am, Lalit had an altercation with two locals over some issue. Three-four locals joined the duo and they together assaulted Lalit, she said.“Lalit then called some of his associates to the spot . Within 15 minutes, Lalit’s associates arrived at the spot and seeing them, the locals fled. The assailants,however, followed them and fired in the air, damaged vehicles, and barged into some houses,” said DCP Bhardwaj, adding that multiple teams have been formed to identify and nab the assailants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/masked-men-open-fire-barge-into-houses-in-mori-gate-case-lodged/story-TRk453X6Ueu09P8sBQ7gVN.html
18-08-2020||Delhi||BJP inducting Shaheen Bagh protesters part of election plan, says AAP||Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for admitting to its fold some people who took part in the long-running protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in the Shaheen Bagh area which, it alleged, had been planned by the BJP to polarise the electorate ahead of the February assembly elections.AAP alleged that the Shaheen Bagh protest was “pre-planned, scripted and strategised” by the BJP. to win more seats in the February 8 elections. It also accused the BJP of engineering the communal violence later that month in northeast Delhi that left 53 people dead and around 400 injured.At a digital press conference, AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj questioned the BJP, which heads the Central government, and Delhi Police, which reports to the Centre, as to how they allowed the Shaheen Bagh protest to continue for 101 days when other protests in the city -- by farmers, students, doctors or the differently abled -- are not allowed to last even three hours.Also read| Tahir Hussain was given task of collecting glass bottles during Delhi violence: Report“It was because the BJP planned and executed the Shaheen Bagh protests that its vote percentage rose from 18% to 38% in the recently concluded Delhi elections. The BJP used the protest to polarise the north-east Delhi region and it won some seats there as well. After that, it engineered a riot there. Today, the people who raised anti-national slogans or pro-Pakistan slogans or talked about dividing India during the protests are part of the BJP,” Bhardwaj alleged.The BJP denied AAP’s allegations and said the party led by Arvind Kejriwal was making baseless claims to garner support from the minority communities ahead of the municipal elections in the capital. due to take place sometime in April 2022. The last municipal elections in Delhi took place on April 23, 2017 and the BJP managed to win a majority in all three civic bodies. “The AAP has misled people in Delhi, especially the Muslim community, for its political gains. Their allegations have no meaning as the Muslim community supports the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Now, with the municipal elections scheduled in 2022, the AAP is nervous about losing its support base in the community,” said Delhi BJP chief.Adesh Gupta.AAP’s attack came a day after the BJP announced that several Muslim residents of Shaheen Bagh, which was the epicentre of anti-CAA protests for months, have joined the party. While taking them into the party’s fold on Sunday, the Delhi BJP chief had said it was a result of the Prime Minister’s efforts to reach out to every section of the society and end the triple talaq practice. Also read: How Shaheen Bagh lost the plot | HT EditorialAt his press conference, Bhardwaj also mentioned inflammatory comments allegedly made by BJP MPs Parvesh Verma and Anurag Thakur during the party’s Delhi assembly election campaign. In the elections, the AAP won 63 of the 70 assembly seats and the BJP the remaining sevens.“On December 11, 2019, the Indian Parliament passed the citizenship amendment bill and on December 14, a group of 10 women blocked a portion of the Delhi-Noida highway. The protest was technically happening only at the GD Birla Road, but the Delhi police closed all the connecting roads and kept it shut for 101 days giving a harrowing time to lakhs of commuters. The high court had also noted that it was completely a law and order issue. But still, the police did not do anything and remained a silent spectator of these violations,” the AAP said in a statement.(ends)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-inducting-shaheen-bagh-protesters-part-of-election-plan-says-aap/story-nNvjC7jqBx7QCtog7OuiVM.html
18-08-2020||Delhi||Drive against trespassers at Delhi’s Asola wildlife sanctuary, 21 fined||As trespassing becomes a major problem in the Asola wildlife sanctuary, considered the green lungs of the national capital, the state forest department has launched a drive against the unregulated movement of people and vehicles that pose a threat to the critical wildlife habitat in the protected forest area. During the drive that has been under way over the past 20 days, the department has so far seized 21 motorbikes from within the area and fined violators under the Wildlife Protection Act. There is a provision of a fine of ₹ 5000 for trespassing under the Act.The sanctuary, a precious green belt, is located in the Southern Ridge and is spread across an area of 1,960 hectares. It is part of the northern terminal of the Aravallis, one of oldest mountain ranges in the world. It serves as a carbon sink for the Capital and is a potential shelterbelt against desert storms. According to officials, intense patrolling is being conducted throughout the day as well as during night. Also, 32 security personnel have been deployed in the problem areas that have been identified for trespassing. Earlier, security guards were deployed only at the entry and exit gates. “A number of people from the nearby villages and clusters, including Sangam Vihar, Deoli and Bhati among others, venture into the sanctuary on motorcycles illegally from the gaps made in the boundary wall. Many of them were using the area as a thoroughfare to go to neighbouring Gurugram. Many anti-social elements too venture inside to engage in gambling and substance abuse. The deployment of security personnel has helped curb the movement,” said Amit Anand, deputy conservator of forests (DCF) South. Anand said the boundary walls that has been broken at several locations is being restored. “The aim is to protect the wildlife habitat that is threatened by illegal activities such as continuous trespassing. Vehicular movement disturbs the habitat as well as breeding patterns of the animals. It also harms the growing vegetation. The activities came to fore while we were working on constructing check dams in the forest near the Sangam Vihar side,” he said. According to officials, the department may take help from the Eco Taskforce (ETF), a wing of the territorial army, which was set up by the city government in 2000-01 to fight environmental degradation of the Asola-Bhati area. “We plan to take ETF’s help in planting thorny bushes around the boundary wall in order to discourage trespassing,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be named. The official said they are working out a system to regulate the entry of visitors such as morning walkers and joggers. “People wanting to visit the forest will now have to get a permit issued by the DCF. Visitors are allowed only during a specific time and only within an earmarked area so that the wildlife remains protected,” the official said.According to experts, unregulated human and traffic movement in the sanctuary can adversely affect the flora and fauna and needs to be under constant vigil. The sanctuary is home to wild animals such as golden jackals, porcupines, monitor lizards, neelgais and a diverse variety of birds among other species. Sohail Madan, centre manager of the Conservation Education Centre at the Asola sanctuary, maintained by the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) said that trespassing and even dumping of waste has been an issue, to tackle which the forest department has been making efforts. “Trespassing has a profound impact on the wildlife as well as the growing plants, as it fragments the habitat. It is a critical habitat for so many animals such as golden jackals and porcupines. Also, it is a typical habitat for ground nesting birds, for which it is breeding time at present. Vehicular movement and human intervention can damage their habitats, cause undue stress to the wildlife, badly affect breeding and disturb their mobility through the forest corridors. The new security regime will help restrict such activities,” said Madan. Surya Prakash, a biologist at the School of Life Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) said that vehicular traffic causes both air and noise pollution, which is highly damaging for a wildlife habitat. “It disturbs the animals and causes anthropogenic stress in them, which adversely impacts their breeding and behavioural patterns. It is crucial to curb such activities to protect wildlife habitats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drive-against-trespassers-at-delhi-s-asola-wildlife-sanctuary-21-fined/story-gjxsCyE2AmSxE8oW37yC9N.html
18-08-2020||Pune||66 new micro-containment zones announced for Pune||Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Monday announced 66 new micro-containment zones. Interestingly, containment zones increased in Kothrud area, which earlier was a green zone (low number of Covid-19 cases). Kumar said, “The Pune Municipal Corporation reviews containment zones regularly and once the number of cases reduce in an area, it gets deleted from the list and areas which report more number of cases are added to it.”In containment zones, only essential services are allowed and there is restriction on movement of residents in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/new-micro-containment-zones-announced-for-pune/story-VygNvFTySomHP1f182dyJN.html
18-08-2020||Delhi||SDMC deseals residential properties after Supreme Court order||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Monday night desealed residential properties in Vasant Kunj and Rajokri following the Supreme Court’s ruling that the monitoring committee had no powers to act against private residential properties violating rules, including unauthorised construction. Civic officials said the process was started in the morning and an order to deseal the properties was issued on Monday afternoon.The development comes after the top court on Friday had said the court-appointed monitoring committee, formed in 2006 to check the illegal use of properties, can act only against commercial properties flouting laws, and not residential ones. The Supreme Court has given three days to unlock these properties in Vasant Kunj and Rajokri, which were sealed in March 2019 for unauthorised construction on their premises.“We have complied with the SC orders and desealed all the 11 residential properties in Vasant Kunj and Rajokri. Today (Monday) late evening, our teams visited these properties and unsealed them,” a senior SDMC official said, who wished not to be named.The sealing was conducted on a complaint by revenue department officials. On February 22, 2019, the area SDM wrote to the monitoring committee regarding “large-scale” unauthorised construction in Green Avenue, Pocket D-3, of Vasant Kunj.In March 2019, acting on the complaints, the committee, along with officials of SDMC, the revenue department and the police, sealed at least 11 residential properties, some of which are farmhouses, over a period of two days. The court had on Friday specified that the monitoring committee could take action only against commercial units operating in residential areas and encroaching on public land. It said the committee is “not authorised” to take action against unauthorised constructions in residential premises situated on private land. The municipalities will have the authority under law to take action against illegal construction, it said.A member of the monitoring committee said, “We are aware of the Supreme Court order on desealing of residential properties and farmhouses in Vasant Kunj. We will follow the apex court’s directives and all these properties will be desealed in the given time frame of three days. We have conveyed this (to deseal farmhouses) to the SDMC.” Another senior SDMC official said that now efforts would be made to determine the action that can be taken by the civic body against the property owners for illegal construction.“There are properties where unauthorised constructions were being done without any sanctioned plan or approval from SDMC. After desealing, the property we will determine if a penalty has to be slapped against the owners or demolish the unauthorised construction in the premises,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdmc-deseals-residential-properties-after-sc-order/story-r31ufj0UAdTxc7vxLTzPLK.html
18-08-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal addresses party leaders across India, pitches for ‘oxi mitras’||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Monday asked party leaders across the country to deploy ‘oxi mitras’ in different states, especially rural areas, to set up ‘oxygen testing centres’ so that Covid-19 patients get emergency care when required. Senior party leaders said the campaign is also aimed at expanding AAP’s base across the country. In a digital address to all state presidents of the AAP on Monday evening, Kejriwal assigned specific tasks to every level of workers within the party. He asked all state unit chiefs of AAP to draft a plan for their respective states by Wednesday, directed district or constituency in-charges to visit every village and make people aware of the party’s initiative. Volunteers will start visiting every household having Covid-19 patients to check their oxygen levels in order to curb deaths, he said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The chief minister in his Independence Day address to AAP workers on Saturday had announced that the party would open oxygen testing centres in all villages across the country. “We will assign one person in each area or village with the duty of checking oxygen levels of the people residing in the area. These volunteers will put up a board, saying ‘Aam Aadmi Party - Oxygen Testing Centre’ outside their homes for people to come and get their oxygen levels checked. They will distribute pamphlets to the people. If a person shows Covid-19 like symptoms, they must be guided to the nearest government Covid-19 testing centre to get themselves tested for Corona. But in some states, test results take time. In such cases, their oxygen levels must be measured. If their oxygen levels are lower than 95, they should be immediately transferred to hospitals. In this way, AAP will be able to save more and more lives,” Kejriwal said in his address. The AAP chief said apart from saving lives, the campaign will help setting up an organisation of AAP in various regions of the country. The party has a presence in 25 states, but it is not as prominent as in Delhi or Punjab. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“If this activity happens in every village and region of the country, it will help AAP to send out a powerful message that there is a party which is ready to help people whenever needed and we will be able to establish a strong organisation in part of the country. Senior AAP leader Gopal Rai said every ‘Oxi Mitra’ will create a team of volunteers who will visit the people residing in the villages. They will carry hand sanitisers, wear masks, AAP’s cap, and they will talk to every person in the village and say, ‘We are from AAP. There is a pandemic going on. People are losing their lives because of Corona. We will test your oxygen levels to ensure your good health. If you permit, we would like to come inside your home’.Also read: Govt kick-starts talks to explore Covid-19 vaccine deal“When you go inside their homes, talk to them about the efforts of the Delhi government in controlling Covid-19 in the national capital. Explain to them how oximeters have been useful in the treatment of the patients and convince them to get their oxygen levels checked for their safety. While starting the testing procedure, please sanitise their and your hands first. After sanitising, test their oxygen levels through the oximeter and sanitise their hands again. If their oxygen levels fall below 95, tell them to immediately visit the hospitals. Arrange help such as ambulances and transport them to the nearest hospital. You must keep the information of the nearest hospital or the nearest ambulances with you,” the Delhi chief minister explained to the party workers.The plan involves creating WhatsApp groups for every village where the area’s AAP workers will put regular Covid-19 updates from the region and where people can call in for help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kerjiwal-addresses-party-leaders-pitches-for-oxi-mitras-across-india/story-lmGEs7Tgfh2SxLwzJa8PTL.html
18-08-2020||City||Two workers dead, four injured in chemical plant blast in Palghar||Two workers were killed, while four others were injured in an explosion at Nandolia Organic Chemicals plant, located in the Plot 141 of Tarapur Chemical Zone on Monday, at 7.30pm.The company manufactures fine and organic agrochemicals, pharma intermediates, pigments, and other products, like methoxy phenylacetone, benzaldehyde, benzimidazole, propanil and other highly inflammable products, since January 1998. “The blast occurred in the reactor and its parts fell into the adjoining pharma unit, shattering the window panes and other materials. Fire dousing process is still on,” said senior inspector Pradip Kasbe of Boisar, MIDC police station. Five fire tenders from different areas rushed to the spot. The fire dousing process was still on till the time of going to press. The four injured persons - Pramod Mishra, 35; Dilip Gupta, 28; Umesh Kushwaha, 21; Mohammed Mohsin Altaf Ansari, 31, are undergoing treatment at the Thunga Hospital in Boisar, while Sandeep Kushwaha, 28, and Brijesh Maurya, 25, succumbed to injuries. The 11 other who were at the unit at the time of the blast managed to escape safely.“We will file a first information report (FIR) only after we receive a report from the director of industrial safety and health (DISH), Vasai. We have registered a case of accidental death for now,” said Kasbe. A civic body official said, “Our priority is to rescue any workers who may have been stuck inside the unit the said. We are contacting the owners who reside in Jogeshwari.”On April 13, three workers were killed and 2 others were injured in a blast at a soap and sanitiser manufacturing unit in Tarapur Chemical Zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-worker-dead-four-injured-in-chemical-plant-blast-in-palghar/story-xx2DASN4CAgP0LCbmX4ZzH.html
18-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s first sero survey reports 51.5% seroprevalence of antibodies against Sar-Cov-2 virus||At least 51.5 per cent residents from five highly-affected areas in Pune have seroprevalence of antibodies against Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection, data from the first sero survey, released on Monday, shows.The sero surveillance had 1,664 respondents (all above 18 years) from the city’s 35 lakh residents. Sero surveys are being conducted to detect how many people have developed immunoglobulin (IgG) antibodies to the coronavirus disease and to gauge the extent of infection through random sampling.According to the findings, an extensive spread of the infection -ranging between 36.1% and 65.4%- in five areas of the city, has been found. Of the five sampled areas (wards), Lohiyanagar (Kasewadi) in Bhavani peth accounted for the highest 65.4 per cent of seropositivity. Navi peth (Parvati) accounted for 56.7%; Yerawada 56.6%, Rasta peth 45.7% while Kasba peth (Somwar peth) stood at 36.1%.Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said that the first survey was not comprehensive and two more sero surveys will be conducted with a larger sample size. One will be conducted by BJ Medical College focused on Pune city and another for PCMC area will be undertaken by DY Patil College.The first sero survey was conducted by the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) in collaboration with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC); Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU); Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), Faridabad; Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore and funded by Persistent Foundation.Dr Aurnab Ghose, associate professor, IISER, said that 52.8 per cent men and 50.1 per cent of women were found to have seroprevalence of antibodies, as per the report. He added that blood samples were collected from people who were asymptomatic or symptomatic, but undetected from high-incidence wards of PMC and collective population of these five wards stands at 3.66 lakh.The study stated that 51.5% of the people tested did not know that they were infected and so, most in the city could now be infected without them realising it. While Delhi’s sero survey prevalence was 23% which was conducted in early July, Mumbai showed a prevalence of 36.5% when surveyed in July.The city survey states that while there is no difference in infection between genders, or age groups, more number of people living in slums were infected as compared to those living in bungalows. Also, those living in congested homes were highly prone to be infected as against those living in spacious homes. About 62.3% of those tested and who shared a toilet, were found with antibodies as compared to the 45.3% of those tested with an independent toilet. “This study does not prove that those with antibodies are immune to the virus. For that we need a separate study which is more expensive and time consuming. The study definitely proves that the spread of the virus is across all socio-economic strata. Serological testing for antibodies against Sars-Cov-2 virus in a representative sample population can estimate the cumulative incidence of infection in the population,” said Dr Aurnab Ghose from IISER who was part of the study.The study will now help the administration take necessary steps to contain the spread, said Rao. “This study will help us draw measures to reduce the spread of the virus. Pune city’s testing has been ramped up and contact tracing is completed in two-three days,” he said.However, according to Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, despite such high prevalence of antibodies, the number of cases keep rising, which means that we cannot depend on herd immunity now.“Why is it that if 51% of the population was infected once that we keep reporting more number of cases? Clearly, antibodies do not guarantee herd immunity. We need to focus more on case fatality now for which our aim should be senior citizens with comorbidities. We should put them on institutional quarantine before they develop any complications. The new drugs are supportive drugs, not curative. Contact tracing, home quarantine and institutional quarantine needs to continue,” said Salunkhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-first-sero-survey-reports-51-5-seroprevalence-of-antibodies-against-sar-cov-2-virus/story-3T8blj0BrEdMfDrJW87NoL.html
18-08-2020||Pune||Pandit Jasraj’s Mewati gayaki will be missed at Pune’s Sawai||The legend of Mewati gharana, Pandit Jasraj, who passed away at the age of 90, will be missed at the annual Sawai Gandharva classical music festival. Pt Jasraj was a regular performer for years. The doyen of Indian classical music and a Padma Vibhushan-awardee known for his ‘Kann ki Gayaki’ was a star attraction at Sawai Gandharva Bhimsen Mohotsav, the yearly festival started by late Pandit Bhimsen Joshi around 67 years ago and has most prominent platform for classical music across the country. “Sangeet Martand Pandit Jasraj will be missed. A musical doyen who created his own style in classical music and has left a legacy of three generations of disciples, was a regular at Sawai,” said Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal executive president Srinivas Joshi adding that it was a love affair with our family that began in 1983 in Sawai. “My mother Joshi could not come because she was ill during one such concert in 1998, so Panditji came to our house, performed for my mother and became a regular,” he said. Pandit Jasraj’s disciple Sanjeev Abhyankar described him as an artist of the millennium. “His passing will affect the entire music scene, he was much bigger and had followers across the world. For me he was god as my guruji, and became guru for thousands who came to listen to him sing. He is a creative genius who is born once in a century. His style of singing was very appealing and that ‘gayaki’ influenced four generations. He created history for till the age of 90, music lovers wanted him to be performing on the stage, especially the audience of Sawai Gandharva as well as those across the world.” Satish Paknicker, photographer and a music lover, remembering Pandit Jasraj said, “I have clicked a lot of photos while he was singing right from his first time in Sawai in 1983 until his last performance in 2019. He would hold not just the audience, but also versatile singers in his trance, like when he sang in Hubli for the 75th birthday of Gangubai Hangal and he brought tears to her eyes as he mesmerised her with his gayaki.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pandit-jasraj-s-mewati-gayaki-will-be-missed-at-sawai/story-hYULvaNZ4DvNL7bPsEZoeL.html
