19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Admn to calculate exact pricing for Chandigarh Housing Board’s scheme for UT employees||The UT administration will be recalculating the exact pricing of the two different options for making the UT Employees’ Housing Scheme affordable. The detailed pricing will be shared with the employee representatives for their consent.This was decided in a virtual meeting held here on Wednesday on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court, and chaired by the Union home secretary.Senior UT officials including UT adviser Manoj Parida, Chandigarh Housing Board chairman Ajoy Kumar Sinha, CHB chief executive officer Yashpal Garg along with the employees’ representatives Dr Dharmender Shastri, Balwinder Singh, and Dr Brahmprakash Yadav were present in the meeting.Dr Shashtri said, “The administration has shared three options. First, charging only for the plotted land, and not for the total land. Second, construction of an 11-storey tower project in Sector 56. Third, the Solanki proposal—to allot at an old rate with 10% interest. But, we said, employees need to know the exact pricing in each of the options before they can take any decision.”“After deliberations to resolve the issue regarding rates of flats, it was decided that the calculation of rates be made again for different categories by applying various factors like floor area ratio, collector rate, plotted area etc. in consultation with the representatives of petitioners of the scheme’s court case,” stated an administration press statement.Thereafter, another meeting will be held with the Union home secretary for further directions in the matter. Parida stated that the project will not be abandoned and employees will certainly get houses at concessional rates.The housing scheme, floated in 2008, failed to take off even though the employees had already deposited around ₹57 crore with the CHB in 2012. The latest administration action to resolve the issue pending for more than a decade came only after the HC intervened. The court had stated that it will hold individual administration’s officers accountable for the non-resolution of the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/admn-to-calculate-exact-pricing-for-chandigarh-housing-board-s-scheme-for-ut-employees/story-9WU18HHLJSIaKHyf6RFjQN.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||2 couples including traffic cop, GMCH nurse held for brawl in Chandigarh’s Sector 33||Two couples including a traffic constable of the Chandigarh Police and his nurse wife were arrested after a fight broke out over playing at the housing complex in Sector 33 here.Traffic constable Naveen, who was accused of sexual harassment, was sent to judicial custody and the Covid test report of his nurse wife is awaited. Meanwhile, the other couple was released on bail.A woman had alleged that Naveen had molested her and even tore her clothes after a fight with her and her husband on August 16. The woman also alleged that Aarti, Naveen’s wife, had manhandled her. A case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354B (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 506 (criminal intimidation), 509 (insulting modesty of women) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.Aarti, working as a staff nurse in GMCH-32, in a counter complaint said that on August 16, she and her husband Naveen were playing with their daughter when a few men and two females came and started verbally abusing them, asking them to leave the place.When they resisted, the group in which some people were drunk started assaulting them. She alleged that one of the females tore her clothes and threatened to frame Naveen in a false case. Another case was registered under Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 352 (assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-couples-including-traffic-cop-gmch-nurse-held-for-brawl-in-chandigarh-s-sector-33/story-9ek3UG8T6cWguWitmsjQZJ.html
19-08-2020||City||Seven years on, Mohali’s ring road project now caught up in bureaucratic maze||Hanging fire for nearly seven years now, the construction of the 200 feet wide, six-lane ring road project, which was to decongest Zirakpur by providing an alternative route to the Shimla-bound traffic incoming from Ambala, is now stuck in a bureaucratic maze.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has asked Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to transfer the 100 acres of land, which they have already acquired, but GMADA is yet to take a decision on it.The 8-kilometre road will originate from McDonald’s on the Ambala-Zirakpur highway, will pass through Peer Muchalla, Sanoli, Gazipur, Nagla, all Mohali villages, and then join the Sector 20-21 dividing road in Panchkula.A senior official of NHAI said, “We held a meeting with the senior officials of GMADA and have requested them to hand over the land to us, which they have already acquired, and they have assured us they will expedite the issue.”Superintending engineer of GMADA Davinder Singh said a meeting in this regard was held and a decision was expected soon.PROJECT CAME TO HALT IN 2014It was in 2013 that the work on the project had started, but it came to a halt in February 2014 when some of the landowners went to court seeking higher compensation. Once the road is complete, the Shimla-bound traffic can take this road, bypass the bottleneck meted at Zirakpur, and join the Shimla highway at the Panchkula end. Similarly, Ambala or Delhi-bound traffic from Shimla can also avoid Zirakpur.The road will also open an alternative route from Panchkula to the new international airport terminal in Mohali, but it will be much longer than the existing route via the Industrial Area, the Zirakpur-Chandigarh road, Sector 48 of Chandigarh, through Aerocity and IT City in Mohali. However, the new route will avoid the traffic of Chandigarh.APPROVED BY MASTER PLAN COMMITTEEThe project is being implemented to prevent around 1.5 lakh vehicles from Punjab and Haryana from entering the city daily. Chandigarh’s Master Plan also proposes this road to divert the inter-state traffic around the city for better traffic management.According to the Master Plan committee, traffic between Mullanpur and Panchkula, and that from Kansal, Zirakpur and Panchkula, goes towards Chandigarh for “no reason”. Hence, the project will help significantly reduce traffic congestion on the arterial roads of Chandigarh—Madhya Marg and Dakshin Marg.In August 2017, the then Union home minister Rajnath Singh had approved the project during a meeting of the Northern Zonal Council in Chandigarh. The project holds more significance in the wake of Rajnath putting the brakes on the much-touted Metro project for Chandigarh in July 2017, and asking the UT administration to look for alternative modes of transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-years-on-mohali-s-ring-road-project-now-caught-up-in-bureaucratic-maze/story-zXPf98QAGjpWjUMJ9JuUHM.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: PSPCL Collects Rs 52-lakh fine in 2 weeks for power norm violations||Teams of suburban circle, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), Ludhiana, has collected Rs 52.08 lakh in fines for stealing power, overloading and metre tampering in the last 17 days. Under the directions of A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL, and DPS Grewal, director distribution, special drives were conducted in divisions of suburban Ludhiana from August 1 to 17. The teams checked as many as 2,395 connections, of which 60 consumers were found stealing power. Fines amounting to Rs 14.74 lakh was charged from them. Sarabjit Singh Raju, superintending engineer of suburban circle, Ludhiana, said that apart from these, 167 cases of overloading and meter tampering were found, and fines amounting to Rs 19.18 lakh was imposed for the same. He added that teams from other offices also conducted special checking drive in areas under Raikot division and charged Rs 18.16 lakh from consumers found stealing power, overloading and tampering. He added that apart from charging fine, cases have also been registered against those found stealing power. Prasad said PSPCL will intensify the drive to curb the menace of power thefts. He warned of stringent action against consumers found violating power consumption norms. He added that in case of any complaint regarding power supply, consumers can register their complaints on the helpline number 1912. “If the line is busy, consumers can send an SMS to 1912 and their complaint will get registered automatically,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-pspcl-collects-rs-52-lakh-fine-in-2-weeks-for-power-norm-violations/story-JFWtY5FIArMC9Z0UFrfgRO.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Now, Chandigarh admn asks private hospitals to reserve 25% bed for Covid-19 patients||In wake of the sharp fall in the city’s Covid-19 recovery rate and rise in growth rate, the UT administration on Wednesday directed private hospitals in the city to reserve 25% of their beds for Covid patients.The recovery rate in the city is around 56%, which is much below the national average of 73%. At the same time, the growth rate is hovering at more than 5%. Both, these parameters indicate that patients requiring hospitalisation is increasing rapidly, consequently, the need for beds.An order for tapping into the city’s private hospital bed capacity was issued by UT principal health secretary Arun Gupta on Wednesday, wherein the administration also capped the treatment rates. The charges will be borne by the patients willing to avail the facility at these private hospitals. (see box for detailed rates)Significantly, city MP Kirron Kher, in a recent interaction with UT officials, had also recommended involving private hospitals in Covid care.Last week, Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore had directed Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to extend their bed capacities for Covid patients by 100 beds each.RS Bedi, former president of Chandigarh IMA, said, “Private sector is taking the load of non-covid patients, which is equally important. The process of reserving beds for Covid patients has been initiated in private hospitals in consultation with health authorities. It is a lesson that robust and parallel healthcare system should be created in the private sector of the city.”DISCONCERTING FIGURESThe rapidly spreading infection has led to a massive decrease in the recovery rate of Chandigarh. At the onset of July, Chandigarh had a high recovery rate of 88%. It meant 88% of the city residents infected till early July had been discharged.However, by August 19, the recovery rate had fallen sharply to 56%, 17% less than the national recovery rate.The trend of sharp increase in cases, and lesser recoveries started in July. In June, 364 recoveries were recorded against 147 new cases. However, in July only 280 recoveries were noted against 570 fresh cases. Meanwhile, in August till now, 1,435 cases have been recorded against only 668 recoveries.Another grim factor, the number of people who died on account of Covid in August has doubled as compared to four months between March and July.While no death was recorded in March and April, four fatalities were recorded in May. Again in June, only two deaths were reported which increased to nine in July making a cumulative figure of 15.The number of deaths, however, has reached 15, in less than three weeks of August.OTHER MEASURESUT administrator VPS Badnore on Wednesday directed UT health department and MC to ensure that the vendors in markets are tested through Rapid Antigen Method, so that they do not become super spreaders in the community.The administrator also directed PGIMER to create plasma bank and also to study whether the Covid patients are suffering from any side-effects after treatment and recovery.UT administration on Wednesday also directed Dharam Hospital, Sector 15C, and Rahi Care Dialysis, Sector 22C, to reserve two dialysis machines each for Covid-19 Patients. These hospitals/facilities can charge up to Rs 800 over and above the normal charges from Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-ut-asks-private-hospitals-to-reserve-25-bed-for-covid-19-patients/story-Z2vBzjJtCDfXUn3ljgJC0M.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Councillor Tweets Punjab PWD minister over water accumulation in Ludhiana’s southern bypass underpass||Irked by the public works department’s (PWD) failure to find a solution for water accumulation at the southern bypass underpass in Ferozepur road, Congress councillor Mamta Ashu submitted a complaint with Punjab PWD minister Vijay Inder Singla through a tweet on Wednesday.The city received 50.8 mm rainfall till Wednesday afternoon and water logging was witnessed at different points of the city including Ferozepur road, Chandigarh road, Transport Nagar, Haibowal. However, water remained accumulated at the underpass till evening, prompting the Tweet. Following which Mamta Ashu submitted a complaint.Ashu had earlier complained against the same to the minister through a Tweet on July 21. In the Tweet on Wednesday, Ashu said that despite several complaints submitted with officials of the PWD, officials are not paying heed to the problem of water accumulation at the underpass, resulting in residents suffering and accidents at the site. Additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Amarjit Bains and sub-divisional magistrate Amrinder Malhi visited the spot following Ashu’s complaint and directed PWD officials to expedite the work to drain out the accumulated water.PWD superintending engineer, Kulwant Singh said, “The motor of the pump installed at the underpass developed a snag on Tuesday due to which water logging occurred. The department is working to repair the same and accumulated rain water is being drained out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/councillor-tweets-punjab-pwd-minister-over-water-accumulation-in-ludhiana-s-southern-bypass-underpass/story-vccruHVT2makrmhqSX3XQI.html
19-08-2020||City||Markanda river in spate, water enters Kurukshetra villages||Several villages of Kurukshetra and acres of standing crops have submerged due to overflowing of Markanda river. As per locals, the heavy rainfall witnessed in the past three days has led to the overflowing of river, whose water has entered Jharoli Khurd, Ajrana Kalan, Ajrana Khurd, Jhansa, Thaska Miraji, Khanjarpur, Bibipur, Kalsana, Kathwa, Tangor and Rohti villages of Shahbad block. According to the information, people living in slum areas, especially in Bazigar Dera, along Markanda river had to be evacuated. Kathwa village head Amarinder Singh said, “Hundreds of villagers are locked inside their houses as the connectivity to the village has been cut-off due to flood water. We are facing problems in feeding the cattle as the crops and fodder is under water.”Residents of flooded villages alleged that for the past at least four years, they have been encountering the same problem, but the government did not take any step to prevent the flooding.However, Shahbad SDM Kiran Singh said due to heavy rainfall, the river was in spate, but there were no floods. “The administration has sounded alert in some low-lying areas. As of now, there was no need of evacuation but if required, our teams are ready,” she added.She also urged people to cooperate with the administration and said a control room has been set up. “We have provided helpline numbers to ensure that people could avail immediate help if required,” the SDM said.Though some villagers claimed that their crops were submerged, the SDM said there were no reports of damage to crops yet. The water will take some time to recede, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/markanda-river-in-spate-water-enters-kurukshetra-villages/story-RGjbKI6utkR2xKstjKPd7N.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||BA 1 cut off at Govt College Ludhiana (east) rises by 9.3%||Online counselling for bachelor of arts 1 course at Government College Ludhiana (east), was conducted on Wednesday by committee members of SCD Government College. Over 200 students had registered online against 80 seats. Cut off in the general category was 77%, 9.3% higher than last year. During the online counselling, 72 seats were filled, and the remaining eight will be filled before August 22. The committee members contacted students according to rank list as many of them have not updated their required documents for admission.In Scheduled Caste category, the cut off was 62.67%, and 20 students got admission. Last year, the cut off was 56%. In other backward class category, the cut was 57.33%, and seven candidates got admission.Remaining seats were filled from other reserved categories. The work of the new college building for Government College, Ludhiana (east), started on November 3, 2018. The construction activity suffered due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The work is expected to be complete by December 2020. Principal of SCD Government College, Dharam Singh Sandhu, said, “The construction work of the new building of the college is underway, therefore, classes will be conducted online by the faculty of SCD Government College from September 1.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ba-1-cut-off-at-govt-college-ludhiana-east-rises-by-9-3/story-rEpzyy5fRJtEGby60GIw4J.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid claims 10 more lives in Haryana||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) claimed 10 more lives in Haryana on Wednesday as the state recorded biggest-ever single day spike with 994 fresh cases.According to the state health bulletin, in Faridabad, Rewari and Ambala, two patients each succumbed to the infection, while one person each lost the battle with Covid-19 in Gurugram, Hisar, Sirsa and Kurukshetra. Until Wednesday evening, 567 people in Haryana had died of Covid ever since the pandemic broke out and the cumulative number of the positive cases reached 49,930. However, the number of active cases stood at 7,307 as the total number of recovered people rose to 42,056 after 758 patients were discharged on Wednesday. The state’s doubling rate reached 32 days and the recovery rate stood at 84.23% It was for the first time in past many days that the count of fresh cases came down in Faridabad, where 79 new infections were recorded. On Wednesday, Yamunanagar logged 88 new cases, followed by Panipat (83), Karnal (78), Bhiwani (71), Ambala (68), Gurugram (67), Kurukshetra (60), Rohtak (56), Mahendergarh (55), Rewari (52), Panchkula (46), Sonepat (40), Hisar (39), Fatehabad (29), Jind (25), Sirsa (18), Kaithal (17), Jhajjar (10), Nuh (7) and Palwal (6). SURVEY FOR ANTIBODIES Health minister Anil Vij said in order to ascertain the presence of antibodies, arrangements are being made to conduct a survey of at least 850 people (550 in villages, 300 in the cities) in each district. He said on August 24, a Covid-19 screening camp will be organised on the premises of Haryana Vidhan Sabha, wherein MLAs, officers, employees and journalists will be able to get their tests done. Vij said this decision has been taken in view of the upcoming assembly monsoon session, which will commence on August 26. He said directions have been issued to all civil surgeons of the state to conduct Covid-19 test of the MLAs of their areas at their homes. Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said sufficient labs have been set up by the government to conduct tests for coronavirus. “If a person still wants to get tested by a private laboratory, then he/she can get the test done at a cost of ₹2,400,” he said , adding that the testing should be increased to curtail the death rate due to coronavirus. He said all DCs should inspect the Covid-19 care centres at regular intervals in their respective districts to ensure best medical facilities. He further asked the officers to check the availability of sufficient quantity of beds as well as oxygen cylinders. He also directed to depute a yoga teacher in each Covid hospital. Regular visits of psychologists should also be ensured in these hospitals to handle any kind of negative effect on the patients under treatment, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-claims-10-more-lives-in-haryana/story-ZWPWs1HpkPFeBjtLWXCnDO.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||HSSC dodges high court order to upload detailed results on website||Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) has been evading a six-year-old Punjab and Haryana high court direction to start uploading detailed results with break-up of marks, it has emerged. The high court has described as “defiance” the HSSC’s excuse that it is not feasible to upload the result. The HSSC conducts examinations for appointments to Group ‘C’ services and if required by the state government, the recruitment body also holds examinations for the appointment to Group ‘B’ and ‘D’ services. According to Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill’s August 13 order, as the case in question came up for hearing, the HSSC counsel sought four weeks’ adjournment to fulfil July 29, 2020 order of the court to upload the result. “No doubt at times there is some delay in accessing a website, but to say that it is not feasible to upload the result with detailed marks virtually amounts to defiance,” Justice Gill has stated in his order and described as “unfortunate” the delay in implementing the order. RECRUITMENT OF CONSTABLES As per the court orders, the petitioners were unsuccessful in the recruitment of police constables that HSSC had conducted. Their plea was that some of the successful candidates had made it on the basis of additional five marks given under the ‘socio-economic criteria’ although they were not eligible for the said marks. The petitioners’ counsel submitted that HSSC didn’t upload the detailed result with break-up of marks obtained by each candidate even as directions to this effect had been issued by this court on May 22, 2014, while dealing with another matter with identical facts. The HSSC, meanwhile, submitted the existing configuration of its web servers on which HSSC site is hosted can manage up to maximum 400 hits per minute. If the entire result file is uploaded, HSSC said, the web server may stop functioning as the maximum number of candidates will try to download the results. In case of server failure, HSSC stated, it takes one week to restore the website. The HSSC cited numerous instances when the server had crashed earlier. “This court is unable to accept the aforesaid explanation,” Justice Gill said in the July 29 order, directing the HSSC to discuss the matter with NIC and “apprise this court as to why it is impossible to upload complete result with break-up of marks obtained under each head by the candidates”. A RAP ON THE KNUCKLE When the hearing of the case began on August 13, the state’s counsel submitted that he had received instructions from the respondents concerned to request for adjournment for four weeks to comply with the July 29 order. “It is highly unfortunate that despite sufficient time of about three weeks having been afforded to the respondents, the needful has not been done,” Justice Gill’s orders says. “...the state counsel,” the order reads, “has today again tried to justify that uploading of the result with detailed marks is not feasible and in case it is uploaded, after 400 hits per minute, the web server will crash down.” Justice Gill stated that “this court is absolutely unable to accept the aforesaid reasons for non-compliance…” and set August 24 deadline to comply with July 29 order with direction to the HSSC to come up with a definite solution of the “so-called problem of uploading of result.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hssc-dodges-high-court-order-to-upload-detailed-results-on-website/story-p2trIqG8iHRO9iVI9mFz5H.html
19-08-2020||Noida||Waterlogged stretches slow down traffic in Noida||Traffic remained slow at different places in Noida and Greater Noida due to heavy rain on Wednesday while some motorcyclists took shelter at underpasses during downpour which further slowed down vehicular movement. There was waterlogging at the DND Flyway loops on both sides at Noida Film City, Mamoora underpass and Noida Phase 2. Traffic was also slow at Mahamaya Flyway in Noida and Pari Chowk in Greater Noida.Robin Mittal, a resident of Fusion Homes in Greater Noida west, said due to heavy rains, the road outside the society was waterlogged. “It appears waterlogging is due to clogged drains. This damages the road and also leads to health issues such as mosquito-borne diseases. The water receded once it stopped raining,” he said.Amit Gupta, a resident of Prateek Wisteria in Noida’s Sector 77, said Noida on Wednesday fared well. “There was some waterlogging in sectors during rain. We found that Noida has drains which are not well connected to the sewage line. There is a need for a revisit to these drains and conduct a cleanliness drive as monsoon has arrived,” he said.According to Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Traffic, there was heavy rain which slowed down traffic in the city. “Vehicular movement remained slow for a few hours during rain but there was no jam. We had alerted the traffic cops to facilitate commuting. Our control room did not receive calls about traffic jams on Wednesday,” he said.In Sector 34, a branch of a tree fell on an overhead wire which restricted internal traffic movement and resulted in power outage for four hours.K K Jain, General Secretary of the federation of Noida residents’ welfare associations (FONRWA), said the city is notified as a ‘no power cut zone’, but still it faces long-term outages. “Outages are caused by snags during the rainy season, not due to supply shortages. We feel that panel boxes and circuit breakers are rusty and the cables are defective. They need to be upgraded urgently,” he said. Rajeev Tyagi, general manager, Noida Authority, on the other hand, said the authority conducted cleanliness drive ahead of the monsoon. “We had directed the departments of civil, water and health to work on sanitisation and cleanliness of drains and sewages in advance. These departments worked in tandem with each other and we see the result as there is no waterlogging,” he said. He said that alleged residents have encroached and made unauthorised constructions at their residences by covering drains, which sometimes becomes a problem in cleanliness drive. “These drains sometimes choke and the water overflows. The residents should cooperate in making Noida a beautiful city,” he said.V N Singh, chief engineer, Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) was not available for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/waterlogged-stretches-slow-down-traffic-in-noida/story-RRI2rGbd29XvnogSNgnW2I.html
19-08-2020||City||Noida, Ghaziabad battered by rain, several places waterlogged||Noida, Ghaziabad and their adjoining regions saw heavy rain Wednesday morning which lasted almost throughout the day, bringing mercury down. According to weather analysts, both Noida and Ghaziabad received an estimated rainfall of around 60 to 70 millimetre (mm) from 8.30am on Wednesday. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Noida had also received an average of 6.5 mm of rainfall between Tuesday night and early Wednesday. The rain deprived Gautam Budh Nagar district – which, according to the IMD’s records had received only an average of 26.2mm till Tuesday rainfall against an expected 360.9 mm – may see light to moderate rain showers on Thursday.Rain below 15mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm moderate, and above 64.5mm is heavy. “Noida and Ghaziabad received heavy rainfall on Wednesday and it’s estimated to be at least 60 to 70mm, though it could be more. The heavy rains could be attributed to favourable weather conditions as the monsoon line of trough passed over Delhi. It’s now shifting northwards, however Thursday could still be rainy with light to moderate rains expected in the morning hours,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. The IMD had unmanned weather stations in Noida and Ghaziabad but both have been defunct for over a year and thus are unable to measure local precipitation or rainfall data. However, the regional meteorological centre in New Delhi -- as a pilot project -- has recently started mapping the rainfall in these two cities through the radar that provides estimated rainfall of a number of cities.The last time Noida saw such heavy rains this season was on July 19, with a recording of 56.7 mm.On Wednesday, mercury dropped by at least eight degrees Celsius from past 24 hours. Wednesday’s maximum temperature was recorded at 27.7 degrees Celsius, six notches below the season’s average, against 35.7 degrees a day earlier, while humidity oscillated between 100 to 97%. “The maximum temperatures are set to rise on Thursday and are likely to hover between 32 and 33 degrees Celsius due to likely drop in rains,” said Srivastava.Meanwhile, a number of places saw waterlogging and many a commuter were affected. While the Mamura underpass of Sector 66 was heavily waterlogged, among the industrial areas like Sector 63 and 62, phase-2, Sector 128, a few places along Noida expressway, Sector 76, Bhangel locality to name a few were hit. At Sector 63, commuters stated that the condition has not changed a bit over the past few years. “I live in Sector 46 and my office is in G block of Sector 63, which was all submerged in water. At some places, it was over two metres deep. My son who works in the same company has to leave late, so I suggested him not to come to the office as the condition was really miserable and it could have been dangerous. This is something that happens every year,” said TC Gaur, a resident of Sector 46.Another resident who was stuck in water logging stated that while the drains were cleaned, water logging still continued. “At a U-turn near Sector 76, there was heavy waterlogging; it was seen at other spots on the road from Sector 70 square towards Bhangel too. The issue is that while the drains were clean, there are no slopes on the roads, thus the water doesn’t drain properly,” said Kartik Sharma, a resident of sector 76.Several Ghaziabad areas submerged after rainMassive water-logging was reported from various locations on Wednesday afternoon after the deluge of the morning, which also spelt traffic snarls for residents.Residents said areas such as Indirapuram, Brij Vihar, Vasundhara, Govindpuram, Shalimar Garden, Navyug Market, and the Gaushala underpass were inundated in rainwater. “In Indirapuram, localities such as Ahimsa Khand-2, Kala Patthar road witnessed heavy water-logging. As a result, many vehicles submerged in water which had reached up to two feet. Traffic snarls were witnessed on one side of the CISF road as a result of rain-induced water-logging,” said BK Pandey, an Ahimsa Khand-2 resident. “Construction work is going on one side of the CISF road while the other side (Indirapuram to Vasundhara) witnessed heavy water-logging which resulted in traffic snarls adjacent to the sewage treatment plant,” he added.In other areas such as Govindpuram, residents found themselves stuck in heavily water-logged roads where many two-wheelers and cars also broke down. “We had to wade through heavily water-logged roads. My two-wheeler broke down in the rain and there was a mechanic available around. Even pedestrians had no clue how to cross the submerged roads” said Nishant Goel, a resident.As rain lashed the city, a fully-grown tree fell and damaged about four-five cars outside the district headquarters in Raj Nagar. At Indergarhi near Dasna, the wall of a local panchayat office collapsed due to heavy rains. No injuries were reported in both incidents.The Gaushala underpass a remained submerged in water, forcing commuters going from Ghaziabad city to Vijay Nagar to take alternate routes. In Loni, a two km stretch on the Delhi-Sahranpur road, outside the Loni police station, remained waterlogged.“Traffic snarls were reported from Bhopra, Sikandarpur, descending side of the Hindon elevated road, near Khoda underpass and also at Loni due to water-logging on Wednesday. However, traffic personnel deployed in the city stayed out and facilitated the movement of vehicles,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic).The Ghaziabad municipal corporation said it deployed pumps in various waterlogged spots and the water drained out from most of the areas by 2 to3 pm as the rain subsided.“There was massive water-logging in several areas and we had to rope in pumps to flush out water. If water doesn’t drain out within two to four hours at a spot, we categorise it as a waterlogged area,” said Pramod Kumar, additional municipal commissioner.“Since the drains have a limited capacity to carry water, waterlogging was witnessed in low-lying areas but the rain was also heavy on Wednesday. We will rope in more pumps if heavy rain continues,” he added.He added that most of the 554 small and big drains in the city were de-silted before the monsoon arrived this year. “Work on cleaning the rest of the drains is also going on and will be finished soon,” Kumar said.Residents in Kaushambi, however, said they experienced less waterlogging this year. “In light of the petition the residents had filed with the National Green Tribunal about construction of drains, the municipal corporation had renovated/built about 18 drains. Hence, the water drained out very fast this year. There was some water-logging but not as massive as last year,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartments’ RWA (residents welfare association).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-ghaziabad-battered-by-rain-several-places-waterlogged/story-nQu6OwIKSzY20mybzyCNGL.html
19-08-2020||Kolkata||Bengal government panel to probe ‘corruption’ in Covid-19 procurement||The Mamata Banerjee led administration in West Bengal has ordered a probe into the allegations of corruption in purchasing of medical equipment to fight Covid-19 pandemic in the state. A three-member committee headed by the state home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay will look into the allegations and submit a report to the chief secretary. “The state health department has purchased several items in the past few months to fight the pandemic. More than Rs 2,000 crore have been spent. The allegations relate to corruption in this expenditure,” said a senior official of the state government. Usually it is the West Bengal Medical Services Corporation Limited which purchases medicines and medical equipment in bulk. But the government had formed a committee for procuring equipment and medicines for Covid-19 to eschew delay. Also Read: Bengal BJP targets CM Mamata Banerjee with new anti-corruption campaign“Some of the allegations are serious, including purchasing items from some particular agencies bypassing rules. In some cases, the quality of the products is also alleged to be inferior. The allegations reached the chief minister a few days ago following which she enquired about it. Thereafter a committee was formed to look into the allegations,” said the official. The ruling Trinamool Congress has been on the back foot following two recent allegations of corruption—one involving relief distribution to Amphan-hit people and second involving the public distribution system. CM Mamata Banerjee has had to intervene in both the cases to contain the damage. Also Read: Bengal police raids MP Arjun Singh’s home, BJP vows change after 2021 pollsThe need for medical equipment and kits were felt in large numbers since the government announced free treatment for Covid-19 in government hospitals. “The state government has ordered nearly three million PPEs, around 3.7 million N95 masks and around 4 million gloves among others. Huge amount of expenditure is involved,” said a senior government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-government-panel-to-probe-corruption-in-covid-19-procurement/story-jcLjXLfQJXBcQXvwkXsnLM.html
19-08-2020||City||Chandigarh tricity area logs steepest single day spike of 311 cases||With 311 fresh infections, tricity’s daily Covid-19 count crossed the 300 mark for the first time and also recorded the steepest single-day spike on Wednesday.Mohali and Panchkula also witnessed the sharpest jump within 24 hours with 134 and 86 cases, respectively.Tricity’s last highest surge at 230 cases was logged just two days ago on August 17. The day also saw Chandigarh and Mohali’s previously highest cases at 114 and 102, respectively.ONE DEATH, RECORD RECOVERIES IN UTChandigarh confirmed 91 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 2,396, while the death toll rose to 31 with a 74-year-old man from Sector 24 succumbing to the virus at PGIMER. The elderly man, ailing from acute respiratory distress syndrome, had suffered refractory septic shock due to coronavirus.Wednesday also witnessed a record number of 108 recoveries. As many as 1,351 patients have been discharged so far, leaving 1,012 active cases.The new cases were reported from 21 different sectors, besides Dadumajra, Manimajra, Burail, Kajheri, Maloya, Daria, Raipur Khurd, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Khuda Lahora, Behlana, Bapu Dham Colony and Hallomajra.THREE FATALITIES, 134 NEW CASES IN MOHALI Mohali district’s Covid toll rose to 43 on Wednesday with three more people losing the battle to the virus.The day also saw the district recording its steepest single-day surge with 134 cases, taking the count to 2,138.Of the total fatalities, 23 (53%) people have died in the past nine days – one on August 10, two each on August 11 and 12, five on August 13, one on August 14, two on August 15, three on August 16, four on August 18 and three on August 19. Wednesday’s fatalities include two men, aged 41 and 42. Both were admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. The third deceased was a 53-year-old man from Padiala village. He was admitted at Grecian Hospital, Sector 69.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all three patients were suffering from comorbidities. “Their cremations were conducted as per protocol under the observation of health officials,” he added. Among the 134 fresh cases on Wednesday, 48 are from Mohali sub-division, 47 from Kharar sub-division and 39 cases from Dera Bassi sub-division.Also, on Wednesday, 178 patients were discharged after recovery, bringing down the number of active cases to 922. So far, of the total 2,138 confirmed cases, 1,173 patients have recovered from the disease and 43 have died. Speaking about the rising cases, Dr Singh said it was the result of extensive contact tracing. “Majority of the new cases are contacts of previously positive patients, most of whom had travel history,” he said.DERA BASSI MLA, KHARAR DSP FOUND INFECTEDMohali Two days after Shiromani Akali Dal MLA from Dera Bassi, NK Sharma, held a press conference in Zirakpur on Monday, he tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Kharar deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Pal Singh, who had been on duty for the past few days, was also found infected.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said both of them were asymptomatic and under home quarantine. “We will be taking the samples of their family and work contacts on Thursday,” he added. RECORD 86 PEOPLE TEST POSITIVE IN PANCHKULAPanchkula district saw the sharpest surge in infections in a single day with 86 new Covid-19 cases. The last highest spike at 65 was almost a month ago on July 21.The district’s tally now stands at 1,313, including 393 active cases, 912 recoveries and eight fatalities.The fresh cases includes nine commandos from the security team of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.“Every 15 days, we conduct tests of security personnel on duty at the CM’s residence. The commando tested positive on Wednesday were not on duty currently,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.Among the remaining cases, majority are from Kalka, Pinjore and Nanakpur village. While 24 people got infected in Kalka, 13 were tested positive in Pinjore and Nanakpur village.In Panchkula city, six cases are from Sector 4, three each from Sectors 6, 7 and 17, two each from Sectors 15 and 21 and one from Sectors 2, 10, 12 and 16.Other cases were reported from Manak Tabra, Kundi village, Raipur Rani, Abheypur, Kot, Indira Colony, Budanpur, Rajiv Colony, Industrial Area and Amravati Enclave.“The number of cases is going to spike further. Exercising precaution is vital,” said Dr Kaur.“We have increased surveillance and sampling so that cases can be detected early and patients are put in isolation. We have also constituted 10 teams of contact tracing with an official from the education department and para-medical in each team. Our focus is on aggressive contact tracing,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-tricity-area-logs-steepest-single-day-spike-of-311-cases/story-9Q16btX3Kqd5sr0sZsKzKJ.html
19-08-2020||City||Head constable arrested for hiding robbery booty||New Delhi: A serving Delhi Police head constable posted in north Delhi has been arrested for allegedly misappropriating R5 lakh he had recovered from a suspected robber. The robber and his three associates had snatched the money from a property dealer in north Delhi’s Civil Lines on August 6, officials privy to the development said on Wednesday.Officials said instead of informing his seniors about the cash recovery, the head constable allegedly concealed the fact and misled them by saying the person he had caught was involved in a vehicle theft case. The recovery of four stolen two-wheelers was shown with the arrest of the suspect, the officials said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj confirmed the head constable’s arrest. “An enquiry has been initiated to ascertain how and why the suspect, who was involved in a robbery case, was arrested in auto-lifting cases and recovery of stolen vehicles was shown. We have arrested three of the four robbers involved in the Civil Lines robbery. They have been identified as Rohan, Kunal alias Sanjay and Sumit. The head constable has been arrested in the same case,” Bhardwaj said.The concealing of information was discovered when a team of south district police caught Rohan and Kunal on August 14 in some other case and during interrogation, they told the police about their involvement in the Civil Lines robbery of August 6. The team contacted the Civil Lines police, which substantiated the duo’s disclosure regarding the robbery, said a police officer who did not want to be named.“Rohan and Kunal said that while they were fleeing after the robbery, one associate was caught by a policeman near Red Fort with their scooter and the stolen cash bag. The Civil Lines police visited that spot and scanned CCTV footage, which confirmed their claims. The footage showed a head constable catching the suspect with a scooter and the cash bag,” the officer said.Further probe revealed that the head constable posted with the Kotwali police station did not inform anyone in the police station about the recovery of the stolen cash.“The head constable was confronted and his questioning led to the recovery of the stolen cash. We arrested him,” DCP Bhardwaj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/head-constable-arrested-for-hiding-robbery-booty/story-fzcSCXfKlYQ30h2A8vXoDL.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab education dept launches app to make study material easily accessible||To provide hassle-free access to study material, the Punjab education department has launched the Punjab Educare app. Deepak Kumar, one of the team members instrumental in developing the app, said it has 4,02,261 users so far. As per latest data, as many as 2,67,000 viewers from Chandigarh, 2,05,000 from Rajasthan, 2,00,000 from Uttar Pradesh, 1,74,000 from Haryana, 1,18,000 from Himachal Pradesh, 2,57,00 from Delhi 19,000 from Uttarakhand and 1,23,00 from Jammu and Kashmir have visited the app so far. ”Our teachers have been doing a commendable job in exploring the use of latest IT applications to make teaching-learning process as easy and enjoyable as possible during the pandemic,” said education secretary Krishan Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-education-dept-launches-app-to-make-study-material-easily-accessible/story-5rtPpXnDmHgdLoiLeq4IaM.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||Former football coach held for stealing phones, wallets from dressing room at JLN stadium||The Delhi Police Wednesday said they have arrested a 50-year-old man for allegedly stealing 12 mobiles phones and wallets (together containing nearly ₹10,000 cash) of the players of Delhi United football club during the Delhi Football league match at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in March this year.The phones and wallets belonged to players from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Delhi, and were stolen from the dressing room of the stadium on March 13. Of the 12 stolen phones, nine have been recovered from the arrested man, identified as Shekhar Pathak, a former football coach, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said Pathak has told them that he committed the crime to take revenge on a former football player on whose complaint he was removed as coach of that team.“Pathak told us that when he got to know that the former player is presently associated with Delhi United club, he decided to settle the old score. However, he did not verify whether the player was actually associated with the club. He stole the belongings of the players to take revenge on that person,” Thakur said.Football Delhi association president Shaji Prabhakaran, however, said the theft had taken place during the senior division game between Delhi United and City FC in March.“This happened just before we had to close the league because of the (Covid-19) pandemic. They (team management) had the key to the dressing room and we knew it must have been someone from inside the club. But they were blaming Football Delhi,” said Prabhakaran, adding, “I am not aware of who Shekhar Pathak is.”Aditya Raghav, team manager of Delhi United, said, “After our third league match of the season in March, the team went back into the dressing room. So there are two keys to the dressing room -- one is given to us and the other remains with the office of Football Delhi. Our key was with me and I was in the dugout throughout the match. When we returned, we saw the lock intact and there were no signs of forced entry. But the phones and wallets were stolen. The Football Delhi officials had left the stadium by then.”“Shekhar Pathak was not involved with us, nor am I aware if he was part of the opposing team,” Raghav said.During the probe, Thakur said the investigating team checked CCTV cameras and put the stolen phones on surveillance. Recently, one of the phones was switched on and the investigating team caught its user after identifying his location. The person told the police that he had purchased the phone from Pathak but returned it since he did not show its original purchase receipt.“The person led us to Pathak, who was arrested and his interrogation led to the recovery of nine more stolen phones,” Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/former-football-coach-held-for-stealing-phones-wallets-from-dressing-room-at-jln-stadium/story-7HhFDzvFIII6wZAfDimDmI.html
19-08-2020||City||North Delhi civic body postpones proposal on new professional tax||New Delhi: The standing committee of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday postponed all four proposals to increase different taxes, including introduction of a new professional fee, due to resistance from the opposition and also to facilitate a discussion on the move.The proposals were tabled for approval with an aim to improve the civic body’s financial situation, which took a hit due to the Covid-induced lockdown. These included a new professional tax of different slabs, 1% hike in the duty on the transfer of immovable properties, 1% increase in electricity tax and a property tax hike.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders and councillors staged a protest at the Civic Centre, the headquarters of the corporation, to oppose these proposals. The north corporation decided to propose these taxes on the lines of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), which had cleared a professional fee and increased tax on the transfer of property. North body officials said the professional tax was to be imposed on self-employed people and on professionals working in companies.According to the proposal, those earning up to Rs 50,000 per month, or Rs 6 lakh per annum, will not have to pay the professional tax. Those earning between Rs 50,000 and Rs 75,000 per month will pay Rs 100 per month. For people earning between Rs 75,000 and Rs 1 Lakh, the charge will be Rs 150 per month, while it is Rs 200 per month for earnings above Rs 1 lakh. The north civic body had also moved a proposal to hike tax on the transfer of immovable properties. The present transfer duty is 3% for male buyers and 2% for female buyers. The corporation proposes to hike it by 1%. Another proposal envisaged an increase in electricity tax from 5% on the bill amount to 6%. The electricity tax is added in the power bill and collected by discoms on behalf of the corporation. A fourth proposal was moved to change the categories of properties in its jurisdiction. This would have led to an increase in property tax.A senior official said the civic body is going through a financial crisis ever since the lockdown. “Increasing our source of revenue and taxes is the only possible way to fill the financial deficit. But the proposals were postponed and we will table them again in the next meeting,” the official said.The officials estimated that the civic body had incurred losses between Rs 150 crore and Rs 200 crore.The north corporation had last month approved recommendations of the municipal valuation committee-3 (MVC-3) to increase tax on rented commercial properties, guest houses and banquet halls. Jai Prakash, mayor north corporation, said, “We are undergoing a financial crisis. We are making efforts to manage it. We have postponed the tax hike proposals as we cannot approve any hike without proper discussion. We don’t want the public to suffer.”Senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak led a protest along with party councillors, opposing the tax hike proposals. “The proposals to hike taxes and to introduce professional tax are anti-people and we will not let this pass. We will keep opposing such proposals that put an extra burden on people’s pockets,” Pathak said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-delhi-civic-body-postpones-proposal-on-new-professional-tax/story-tUTxjdEWPwnU5w6ii0TxYO.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||Woman security guard found hammered to death at home||A 43-year-old woman security guard was found hammered to death at her home in east Delhi’s Vinod Nagar on Tuesday night. Police said her live-in partner has since gone missing and is the prime suspect in the case. The woman was identified by her first name, Mamata, and her body was discovered by her 17-year-old son when he returned home from a restaurant with food parcels, prompting the police to believe that the murder took place during his absence, said Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (east). The suspect, 45-year-old Brahm Pal, the woman’s live-in partner, is on the run and efforts are on to trace him, the officer said. The motive behind the murder too is unknown, he said. Police said Mamata, who worked as a security guard with a private firm, had separated from her husband years ago. She has two sons -- the older one lived with her while her 14-year-old son attended school while living with a relative elsewhere in Delhi. “Mamata was involved with the suspect. Before the lockdown, he had moved into her rented home in Vinod Nagar,” the DCP said. Brahm Pal lived off money he received by renting out his home in another neighbourhood in east Delhi. “On Monday night, Brahm Pal sent the boy to fetch dinner from a nearby restaurant. When he returned around 10pm, he found his mother dead, her head smashed in with a hammer that was lying nearby,” the DCP said. Brahm Pal was missing from the scene. “We have registered a murder case and are looking for the suspect,” the DCP said, adding that the boy couldn’t shed any light on whether the couple had any differences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-security-guard-found-hammered-to-death-at-home/story-DxmUSRwBTEvZ5i63iRm2FN.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||19 cases registered for illegal mining this year: Mohali DC||Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Wednesday said the district administration has zero tolerance towards illegal mining and the menace is being dealt with sternly. Dayalan held a meeting with senior officers of administration after HT highlighted the issue of illegal mining being rampant in the district. Giving details of action initiated against illegal miners between January 1 to August 15, he said that as many as 19 FIRs have been registered and over 30 crushers have been sealed in Majri and Mubarakpur areas. Scores of tippers, trolleys and excavators have been seized, besides environmental compensation levy to the tune of Rs 67 crore has been imposed on defaulters and recovery notices have been issued, he added. Dayalan said the administration extends full protection to whistle blowers, so people can come forward and report such activity to additional deputy commissioner, general, who is the nodal officer, and will be monitoring mining activity in the district continuously. Action on complaints received has been expedited and no major complaint is pending, he said, adding that directions have been given for strict action and prompt registration of cases against illegal miners. Two cases registered in Dera Bassi Police registered two cases for illegal mining and extortion in Mubarakpur area of Dera Bassi on Wednesday. Unidentified persons were booked for illegally mining from the Ghaggar in Kakrali village. As the mining department officers reached the spot, they fled from the scene and even took their machinery. A case has been registered under Section 21 of the Mine and Minerals (Regulations and Development) Act. The mining department had received several complaints of illegal mining from Kakrali earlier as well. An 85-year-old squadron leader, Gulzar Mathauda (retired), had lodged a complaint saying illegal mining activities were ongoing near his fields in for the last two years and some unidentified people had recently dug up a 35-feet deep pit there. He said that an FIR was lodged in January 2019 in the matter, but nothing had been done. In another case, a case has been registered against unknown persons at Mubarakpur police station for collecting extortion money in the area. Sub-inspector Arshdeep Sharma said, we they received a complaint that some people were collecting extortion money in Mubarakpur area and case has been registered against unknown persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/19-cases-registered-for-illegal-mining-this-year-mohali-dc/story-BhaLUoIpqE5nfuypb4zZZI.html
19-08-2020||City||Eight dead, 199 Covid positive in Ludhiana||As many as 199 people tested positive for the coronavirus on Wednesday, and eight people, including two women, lost their lives in the district.With this, the Covid death toll in the district has mounted to 270 and the infection tally has reached 7,288.The active case tally stands at 2,039, while 4,976 patients have recovered from the virus. Out of the 270 Covid fatalities reported to date, 182 (67.4%) were reported in the month of August alone.Wednesday’s fatalities include 60-year-old male of Shastri Nagar, Jagraon; 51-year-old male of Basant Avenue; 75-year-old female of Tajpur Road; 63-year-old male of Dashmesh Nagar; 50-year-old male of Sherpur village; 59-year-old female of Haibowal Kalan; 76-year-old male of Sector 32, Chandigarh Road; and 53-year-old male of Jodhewal Basti.Among those who reported positive include DPRO Puneetpal Singh Gill, who is said to be mildly symptomatic and currently under home isolation. Others include 54 patients with influenza-like illness (ILI), 61 contacts of positive patients, 36 patients referred from OPD, two police personnel, two health-care workers, three domestic travelers and a pregnant woman.PROTEST OUTSIDE DMCHHigh drama took place late at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on late Wednesday night when the kin of a Covid-19 victim accused the hospital authorities of keeping them in the dark about the death of the patient and charged exorbitant treatment amount. The hospital authorities, however, said the allegations were baseless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-dead-199-covid-positive-in-ludhiana/story-fD65iUr6pOnT5MolRCQkjO.html
19-08-2020||City||Dumping of untreated waste by dyeing units goes unabated in Ludhiana||Despite National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) orders and claims made by the municipal corporation (MC) and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PCBB) regarding stricter norms, the dumping of untreated waste in the MC sewer lines by dyeing units continues to pollute the Buddha nullah.After he saw untreated waste at Shingar Cinema disposal point, former BJP councillor Inder Aggarwal even submitted a complaint with the MC.Former councillor, who is the husband of area councillor Manju Aggarwal, said, “The authorities are not paying heed to the problem. Three days have passed since I filed the complaint, but no concrete steps have been taken to stop the illegal practice.”Aggarwal also questioned why the MC did not snap the sewer connections of such units.An MC official, requesting anonymity, said that untreated waste being dumped by scattered units had always remained a major concern and the owners of those units had not even applied for connections of common effluent treatment plants (CETP) being established for the dyeing industry situated on Tajpur road and Focal point area.The MC officials said they had written to the PPCB several times in the past, but no concrete action was taken against the dyeing units.Earlier, MLA Sanjay Talwar had also raised the issue in MC General House and a resolution that the MC would snap the sewer connections of dyeing units if they fail to come up with CETPs by March 2020 was also passed.But the deadline to establish the CETPs was extended till December due to the lockdown and delays by the Union and state governments to release the subsidy.MC superintending engineer Rajinder Singh said, “PPCB has to take action in the matter and we are writing a letter to them for conducting an inspection at the point.”PPCB chairman Gulshan Rai said, “We have not yet received any complaint in this regard, but I will direct the department officials to inspect the point.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dumping-of-untreated-waste-by-dyeing-units-goes-unabated-in-ludhiana/story-XdBhsksUgcQSxpgCw7lsaI.html
19-08-2020||Bangalore||Siddaramaiah seeks judicial probe into Bengaluru violence||Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah on Wednesday alleged the BJP government in Karnataka was only interested in gaining mileage using the recent mob violence here and no relief measures had been taken up in the flood-hit areas.He also sought a judicial inquiry into the violence that broke out over a social media post by the nephew of a Congress MLA, claiming it showed intelligence ‘failure’.In a series of tweets, Siddaramaiah, who is also the Congress Legislature Party leader, asked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to direct his ministers to visit the affected places to carry out relief works.“The whole state is suffering due to floods & its mismanagement. But @BJP4Karnataka is only interested in gaining political mileage using Bengaluru violence,” he charged.He also claimed ‘failure’ to provide relief and rehabilitation for last year’s flood victims has added to the misery.Taking a dig at Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Revenue Minister R Ashoka, he tweeted the Home Minister was surveying flood affected areas while the latter continued to ‘speculate’ on Bengaluru violence, that left four people dead last week.“Is it not the duty of the Revenue minister to assess the damage due to floods?” he asked and urged Yediyurappa to “direct your ministers to carry out their work.” On the situation in his assembly constituency Badami, he said people there were under stress due to floods.Later in a letter to Yediyurappa, he demanded a judicial inquiry into the violence at the Devara Jeevanahalli and Kadugondanahalli, claiming it was an outcome of the “failure” of the government and the Intelligence department.If the government cannot protect an MLA and the police station then how can it be able to protect the people of the state?” Siddaramaiah asked.Reacting to it, Bommai said Siddaramaiah was agitated with the ‘squabbling’ in Congress.“His condition in the Congress is very critical. Hence, he speaks only about the BJP all the time,” he claimed.The violence in DJ Halli and adjoining areas on August 11 night was unleashed by hundreds of people over an inflammatory social media post allegedly put out by P Naveen, a relative of Pulakeshinagar Congress MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/siddaramaiah-seeks-judicial-probe-into-bengaluru-violence/story-XuvHBGdJZNbp1yhmVobzcJ.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Shifting of Ambala oil terminal gathers pace, truckers protest||Truckers staged a protest against the decision to shift the Indian Oil Terminal on National Highway 44 in Ambala Cantonment on Wednesday.The shifting of the 40-acre terminal has been pending for years. Locals have long demanded that the terminal be shifted because of the high population density around it and its proximity to the railway lines and the national highway that connects north India with the rest of the country.Truck drivers, on the other hand, said the decision will affect them and their families adversely amid the pandemic. “The decision will cost me my job. Around 300 trucks were stopped today without a reason. The depot supplies to the army and air force and in case of an emergency, it will take hours to supply fuel to the vehicles and aircrafts of the defence forces,” said one of the protesters, Praveen Kumar. Truck drivers’ union president Vinod Kumar said , “We are being hassled. Most of us have been waiting since morning and are being asked to leave in the evening without supply.”General manager of the terminal Ravi Sharma couldn’t be reached for a comment despite several attempts. A senior official of Indian Oil, Chandigarh, who did not wish to be named, said the shifting process had been initiated in phases and will be complete by September. “Security and safety threat to the cantonment area could also be one of the reasons behind the terminal’s closure,” the official said. “The Ambala terminal is one of the oldest in the region. A new terminal has come up in Una, Himachal Pradesh, which could cater to Punjab and north Haryana. Other districts of Haryana will probably get their supply from Panipat. There are depot terminals in Bathinda and Sangrur that could supply to Ambala’s customers but it all depends on the lending costs,” the official said.Ambala Sadar Municipal Council executive officer Vinod Nehra confirmed that the lease of land had expired long ago and was not extended by authorities. “We had sent them notices about their pending lease earlier this year but they moved to court,” Nehra said. The issue was a poll plank during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when locals called for its closure yet again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shifting-of-ambala-oil-terminal-gathers-pace-truckers-protest/story-LTTS9yy8LjCMRCN4djX14N.html
19-08-2020||Mumbai||Man hammers friend to death, injures other||A 45-year-old man bludgeoned one of his two friends with a hammer and inflicted serious injuries to another in an inebriated state. The injured man has been admitted to Sion hospital in a critical state. His condition is stable. The incident took place in the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday when Sabbal Jagal Chaudhary alias Bengali, who digs graves at Bohri cemetery at Kurla (West), was consuming alcohol with his friend Javed Shaikh, 32, at Chaudhary’s residence in Kurla. During their conversation, Chaudhary got angry over a trivial issue and started fighting. Another friend of theirs, Ayyaz Ejaz Khan, 29, heard them fight and went to check on them around 1.30am on Wednesday. According to Khan, both Chaudhary and Shaikh were drunk and Shaikh was allegedly asking Chaudhary as to why he wanted to kill Shaikh.“Chaudhary then picked up a hammer from the kitchen and hit Shaikh’s head two to three times. When Khan tried to intervene, Chaudhary hit him on his head with the hammer as well. However, Chaudhary managed to flee while Khan informed other neighbours about the incident,” said senior inspector Dattatray Shinde of Kurla police station. Shaikh’s brother Farukh and his friends rushed them to Sion hospital where Shaikh was declared dead on arrival. “Khan’s condition was critical till afternoon, but later the doctor said his condition was stable,” said Shinde. Following Khan’s statement, a case of murder and attempt to murder has been registered against Chaudhary. He was traced to Bhandup and was subsequently arrested on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-hammers-friend-to-death-injures-other/story-fvQSoy21mxVKUOiSPJqrcM.html
19-08-2020||City||Cases rising, but state well placed to handle situation: Chief secy||Chandigarh Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan on Wednesday said the state is well prepared to handle the current patient load and there was no dearth of facilities for the treatment of Covid patients at any level. In a statement, she said all necessary arrangements have been ensured at level 2 and 3 facilities. Level- 2 facilities in the state are well prepared to handle the current patient load with more than 60% beds lying vacant in the four worst Covid-hit districts — Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala and Amritsar. She said Punjab government has partnered with the private healthcare sector to ensure greater coverage and better utilisation of the available resources. The chief secretary said at Level 3 facilities in these four districts, cumulatively more than 40% beds are currently unoccupied. Though the occupancy of hospital/ICU beds by critically ill patients is increasing, the situation is far from being as grave as mentioned in some news reports, she said. She said it is possible that some individual centres may report full occupancy at times, but there is a strong mechanism in place at the district level to ensure that patients are referred immediately to another centre and given the best possible medical care. “The Punjab government has designated dedicated officers, called Covid Patient Tracking Officers (CPTOs), who monitor every person that tests positive right from the time that the test result comes till the completion of treatment. Similarly, senior IAS and PCS officers have also been made incharge of tertiary care and Level 3 facilities to ensure that there is optimal utilisation of resources,” she said. The live bed status availability will also be made available to the public shortly on the COVA App, she said. “While it is true that there is a spurt in the number of COVID positive cases, it has been limited to big cities. It is primarily driven by the easing of the lockdown restrictions, ramping up of testing facilities and also because of non-observance of the government directives, such as use of mask, social distancing, etc.,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cases-rising-but-state-well-placed-to-handle-situation-chief-secy/story-xORexzRdbdbmne8wazpFQN.html
19-08-2020||Mumbai||Developer’s murder in Juhu: 29-year-old attacker arrested||The Mumbai crime branch arrested 29-year-old Nadim Naushad Shaikh, the assailant who killed 55-year-old real estate developer and chairman of Al Sofi Group, Abdul Munaf Shaikh, in Juhu, on Wednesday from a slum pocket in Govandi. Following the arrest of Nadim, the case was transferred to the Mumbai crime branch. The victim, Shaikh was walking towards a mosque at around 6am on Monday morning to offer prayers when Nadim attacked the builder from behind, slit his throat and stabbed him multiple times with a chopper. Akbar Pathan, deputy commissioner of police (detection) said, “We found Nadim’s whereabouts through our informants and a team was formed. We arrested him from Govandi.” Nadim during interrogation has confessed of being offered ₹5 lakh to kill Shaikh. Crime branch officers said that Nadim was hiding in a ground plus two structure in the Shivaji Nagar slum in Govandi. “Nadim was playing carrom when a constable of ours walked into the second floor of the house. The moment he saw the constable, he jumped off from the window and ran on the rooftop of the houses in the slum,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity. Mahesh Desai, a senior police inspector who was leading the investigation, had formed a team of police inspector Sanjeev Gavade and assistant police inspector Vijay Ambawde who were standing outside the house with their staff. The moment they saw the accused run, the team started chasing the accused. Nadim after running through the rooftop of at least 20 houses reached a dead end and was then arrested. Nadim during preliminary questioning has revealed that he was arrested in a murder case at Vikhroli in 2014, and had been released on bail in 2018. After his release, he had started his own scrap business in Govandi. Four months ago, he got in touch with Abdul Rehman Abdul Latif Shaikh alias Sonu, who was arrested by Juhu police yesterday in the murder case. “Nadim was looking for a job and Sonu helped him get a job as an office boy. Three months ago, Sonu called him and offered him ₹5 lakh to kill Shaikh,” said a police inspector, requesting anonymity. Nadim agreed to Sonu’s offer. “Nadim and Sonu followed him on six to seven occasion in the morning. On Monday, Nadim took his employer’ bike to reach the spot alone and at around 6am he stabbed him to death,” added the officer. Crime branch sources said the conspiracy to kill Abdul Munaf Shaikh could have a larger plot with other elements being involved in the murder apart from Sonu. “We are investigating the possibility of the involvement of ganglords of a 6-acre slum pocket in Andheri which Abdul Munaf Shaikh was supposed to redevelop,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/developer-s-murder-in-juhu-29-year-old-attacker-arrested/story-vBd0BfEE3MfpKyV33l9VXL.html
19-08-2020||Mumbai||State waives of property tax of serving, retired defence personnel||The Maharashtra government has decided to waive off property tax of all the serving and retired defence personnel in rural areas of the state. The decision was taken considering their service to the country. State rural development minister Hasan Mushrif, on Wednesday said that the property tax of a residential structure owned by all the serving and retired defence personnel has been waived off. They won’t have to pay property tax of the said structure to the gram panchayat. An order to this effect has also been issued. Earlier, the defence personnel who received any service or gallantry medal or their next of kin, got this waiver from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-waives-of-property-tax-of-serving-retired-defence-personnel/story-tuituVpNb98hN7MOW0XRJL.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||70-year-old transporter shoots self in Ludhiana||Having suffered heavy losses in business, a 70-year-old transporter allegedly shot himself in the head at his residence in GK Estate on Chandigarh Road on Tuesday. Investigating officer Bhupinder Singh said the victim’s son said his father was suffering from depression.“The victim owned seven trucks but had to sell six due to losses. The one truck he had met with an accident in Rajasthan and his friend died in the crash,”Singh said. .The victim’s son heard a gunshot go off in his father’s room and found his father lying in a pool of blood. The body was sent for post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/70-year-old-transporter-shoots-self-in-ludhiana/story-1AVPEJ1mBnYB1W1b4aQFGL.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||HC overturns CAT order on seniority dispute between two PGIMER professors||The Punjab and Haryana high court has overturned the decision of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) in a seniority dispute between Dr Arun K Jain and Dr Surinder Singh Pandav, both professors in the ophthalmology department of Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). Dr Pandav was placed ahead of Dr Jain in the seniority list notified by the institute in September 2018, which was challenged by the latter before CAT. The tribunal had ruled in favour of Dr Jain, following which the matter had reached the high court in June 2020. HC in its order said that seniority list till September 2018 was the provisional/tentative seniority and did not create any vested right in favour of Dr Jain. “It was open to PGIMER to have corrected the mistake in assigning the right seniority to Dr Pandav in the earlier provisional seniority lists when it issued the list dated September 25, 2018,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-overturns-cat-order-on-seniority-dispute-between-two-pgimer-professors/story-3vCGMeCfLstVr5BvoNKc0M.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||As Ludhiana’s govt hospitals focus on Covid-19, dog bite patients run from pillar to post||With the health department focusing on containment and treatment of surging Covid-19 cases, dog-bite patients are being forced to turn to private clinics due to the unavailability of rabies vaccine. As many as 8,951 dog-bite cases were reported in the district till July. Around 382 dog bite cases were reported in Ludhiana civil hospital in July, while 937 cases were reported in the district. Rabies vaccination cell matron Rita Methews says, “No of record for August could be maintained as the vaccine was not available.”70-year-old vendor Joginder Singh of Hargobing Nagar was bitten by a stray dog on August 5. He says he was denied treatment at the civil hospital as the hospital was out of rabies vaccine. “First, I was told to visit the hospital on August 8 and later on August 12, I kept standing in the queue for nearly four hours only to be told the vaccine was not available. Finally, I purchased the remaining vaccines from the market and continued treatment,” he said. Dog bite cases reported in LudhianaJanuary: 1,413 February: 1,787 March: 1,565 April: 1,024May: 1,091 June: 1,134  July: 937 Total: 8,951Joginder is not alone, many patients are turning up at private clinics to get their vaccination done. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said he has asked officials concerned to look into the matter. However, Punjab Health System Corporation (PHSC) managing director Tanu Kashyap says, “We ordered 60,000 vaccines last week. Around 18,500 vaccines are available at three warehouses of the state. The remaining stock is due to arrive next week.” State Rabies Control Programme, programme officer, Dr Preeti Thaware, says as many as 1,34,827 dog-bite cases were reported last year while 65,000 dog bite cases were reported till June this year. In 2016, 1.10 lakh cases were reported, 1.12 lakh in 2017 and 1.13 lakh in 2018. Besides coronavirus cases, the industrial town has attained top slot in dog bite cases as well. As many as 15,000 dog bite cases were reported last year in Ludhiana, followed by Patiala and Jalandhar with around 10,000 cases and then Hoshiarpur with around 9,000 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-ludhiana-s-govt-hospitals-focus-on-covid-19-dog-bite-patients-run-from-piller-to-post/story-NqeGbsnseollhkneed9jmK.html
19-08-2020||Patna||Bihar govt cancels famous Pitripaksh mela due to Covid-19 crisis||The famous Pitripaksh Mela at Gaya, scheduled to begin on September 1, will not be held this time owing to Covid-19 outbreak.Based on the recommendation of the revenue and land reforms department in view of the ongoing lockdown, the Gaya district administration on Wednesday issued a notification to cancel the fair—an annual ritual for people to pay homage and offer food (pind-daan) to their ancestors.Gaya district magistrate (DM) Abhishek Singh on Wednesday said the decision to shelve the ritual was taken in view of the state government’s lockdown, which is effective till September 6, and the challenges of maintaining social distancing norms.Earlier, the district magistrate held a meeting with the management of committee members of Vishnupad Temple and convinced them to discontinue the ritual in view of the health risk due to surge in Covid-19 cases. He also urged the priests to convey the message to devotees, who were planning to attend the ritual. “It would be highly risky to allow the ritual, as devotees happen to be the vulnerable age group of 60-65 years. Those willing to offer pind-daan may come here after the coronavirus is contained. Moreover, all types of religious activities have been banned due to Covid. Even Vishnupad temple will remain closed till September 6 due to the lockdown,” the district magistrate said. The Pitripaksh Mela, which is scheduled to be held between September 3 and 17, invites people from all across the world. An estimated 5 lakh people usually visit Gaya to offer homage to their ancestors and catalayse economic activities of the town.Local legislator and agriculture minister Prem Kumar, however, expressed his reservations over cancellation of the fair and wrote to chief minister Nitish Kumar, urging him to reconsider the government’s decision. Prem Kumar said the priest community (Pandas) and local businessmen were enraged over the decision, as they rested on this fair to earn livelihoods for the entire year.Justifying the contention of Pandas and local traders, Kumar said that the fair could also be held in a controlled way as all activities in Bihar were limping back to normal after lockdown.Some local voluntary organisations have also protested the state government’s decision, saying that the temple management committee had already descaled the ritual and less than 50,000 people were expected to arrive in Gaya this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-govt-cancels-famous-pitripaksh-mela-due-to-covid1-9-crisis/story-bCE5pB8dg9zaUuFdqixAJI.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Govt not following SYL case to its root cause: Bains||At a time when chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh has urged the Union government to be cautious about the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue as it has potential to disturb the nation’s security, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) president and MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains has accused the Congress and SAD-BJP alliance of not following the case to its root cause and fooling residents of the state. During a press meet organised at his residence in Kot Mangal Singh area on Wednesday, Bains demanded that the CM call a session of the Vidhan Sabha and make changes in the The Punjab Termination of Agreements Act, 2004. “A pending case in the Supreme Court where the Punjab government challenged Sections 78 and 79 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, should be followed properly to save the water of Punjab,” he said.“Rather than stopping Haryana from claiming its right on the waters of Punjab, the government is saying they do not have water for Haryana,” he said. Bains said if the state government follows up the matter to its root, then the matter can be resolved but government is politicising the issue. “The Captain Amarinder Singh-led government had approved The Punjab Termination of Agreements Act, but a clause was mentioned where it was stated that Punjab has no issue with the water, which was already moving out of the state at the time. That clause should be cancelled,” he said. “Further efforts should be made to abolish the unconstitutional sections of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, which stops Punjab from having right over its water. The state government had filed a petition in the Supreme Court against the same in 2007, which is pending. But the government has not moved an application for hearing the case for a long time,” said Bains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-not-following-syl-case-to-its-root-cause-bains/story-HFT7kccYhOtCoUQSMpwj1J.html
19-08-2020||City||Expedite bunker construction along border, J&K admn tells agencies||Amid relentless ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the border in Jammu and Kashmir, the UT administration on Wednesday reviewed the progress of bunker construction for the villagers.Jammu divisional commissioner Sanjeev Verma chaired an online meeting of the officials from the border districts, including Kathua, Samba, Rajouri and Poonch.These officials apprised Verma about the progress made on the under-construction individual and community bunkers in their respective districts.It was informed that total 7,433 bunkers have been completed so far in Jammu division, including 6,521 individual bunkers and 912 community bunkers.“In all 1,522 community and individual bunkers have been completed in Samba district, 1,098 in Jammu, 1,427 in Kathua, 2,483 in Rajouri and 911 in Poonch,” the Verma was told.He was informed that the remaining bunkers were at different stages of construction.Giving district-wise details regarding the construction progress, ADC Tahir Firdous apprised Verma that of 1,320 bunkers (which include 1,200 individual and 120 community bunkers) in Jammu district, 1,098 bunkers (994 individual, 104 community) have been completed so far.In Samba, of total 2,130 bunkers (1982 individual and 148 community), 1,522 (1,512 individual, 10 community bunkers) have been completed by the executing agencies.Similarly, in Kathua, out of 2,126 bunkers (1,956 individual, 170 community), 1,427 bunkers (1,343 individual, 84 community) have been completed.It was further apprised that in Rajouri, of the total 3,141 bunkers (2,806 individual, 335 community), as many as 2,483 (2,264 individual, 219 community) have been completed till date, while in Poonch construction of 903 bunkers (408 individual, 495 community), out of total 1,188 bunkers (500 individual, 688 community, is complete.The divisional commissioner directed the officers concerned to closely monitor the construction of bunkers and asked the executing agencies to expedite the pace of work for timely completion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/expedite-bunker-construction-along-border-j-k-admn-tells-agencies/story-1qMfgE96nHEPtddu5AC1wI.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||National digital health mission launched in Chandigarh, sector-wise enrolment soon||The national digital health mission was launched in Chandigarh on Wednesday.Announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Independence Day, the mission aims to create a digital infrastructure for health care delivery through personal health IDs and e-records of citizens. Apart from the record of citizens, the digital data will contain details of doctors, their qualifications and medical infrastructure available for the residents. In future, it will be linked to e-pharmacy and tele-medicine too. Digital medical cards will enable doctors to look at the medical history of each person at the click of a button. Necessary care will be taken to ensure the privacy of the data and the medical information of card holders. ‘ENTIRE CITY TO BE COVERED WITHIN A MONTH’UT adviser Manoj Parida said the entire population of the city is expected to be covered under the mission within a month. He also stated that on the first day itself, 4,000 persons registered online and got their digital health cards.During the war room meeting, the UT administrator had directed the authorities of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, director general of police, municipal corporation commissioner and the deputy commissioner to ensure that, to begin with, all employees working under them register for the digital cards within a week. Director, health services, Dr G Dewan, who is also the nodal officer for the national digital health mission in Chandigarh, stated that a special drive will be conducted in all sectors to ensure that every resident gets enrolled. A formal launch took place in Punjab Raj Bhawan today, wherein Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore was the first to get his digital health card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/national-digital-health-mission-launched-in-city-sector-wise-enrolment-soon/story-NK8rukSfwdcgPf8Gro5DiP.html
19-08-2020||City||Man, woman found dead in Chamba village||The bodies of a man and a woman were found in a house in Sarahan panchayat of Chamba district.Deceased have been identified as Rakesh, 30, and Champa Devi, 31. The bodies were discovered by Rakesh’s mother on Sunday morning. The woman had a head injuries inflicted using a blunt object while the man was found hanging from the ceiling fan.Police said they are probing a love angle in the case. The man was unmarried while the woman was married but was staying at her maternal home.Chamba SP Monika Bhutungru said initial investigation point out that the man might have killed the woman before hanging self.Police have found a blood-stained iron rod at the crime scene. The bodies have been handed over to the families after postmortem. A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and further investigations are on.CHAMBA POLICE RENUITE GUJRAT MAN WITH FAMILYMeanwhile, the Chamba police have reunited a Gujarat man with his family. The man, Shankar Bhai, was missing for five years. He was found roaming in Pangi, a remote valley with limited access to the outside world.Initially he could not identify himself or explain how he reached the tribal area, said Chamba DSP (headquarters) Ajay Kumar. As per protocol, police first got his Covid-19 test conducted. Later, they found that he belongs to Katwara area in Dahod and was missing for five years.“Since he appeared to be mentally distressed, he was taken to Chamba where his medical fitness test was conducted. He was then put in an old age home at Chowari,” said police.Subsequently, police contacted their Katwara counterparts to contact his family. “On Wednesday, his family reached Chowari and took him back,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-woman-found-dead-in-chamba-village/story-b7PuI2UDHS0ekNiGiILHvN.html
19-08-2020||City||Don’t shift patients from Sirmaur, Solan and Kinnaur to DDU Hospital: HC to Himachal govt||The Himachal Pradesh high court on Wednesday directed the state government to continue with its August 8 decision not to shifting Covid-19 patients from Sirmaur and Solan districts to Deen Dayal Upadhaya Hospital (DDU), Shimla, unless run out of the capacity.The court was hearing a petition challenging the designation of DDU Hospital as a dedicated Covid care hospital for Solan and Sirmaur in addition to Shimla and Kinnaur districts.However, the HC gave liberty to the state to decide the shifting of patients on the basis of severity.A division bench comprising chief justice L Narayana Swamy and justice Anoop Chitkara passed these orders on a petition filed by one Inderjit Singh, who has alleged that DDU Hospital is itself lacking in basic infrastructure and is not fully equipped to handle the situation as per the guidelines of Union health ministry, so it would be detrimental to public interest to transfer the patients all the way from Solan and Sirmaur to DDU in Shimla.The court observed that when the infrastructure at DDU Hospital is incomplete, it does not lie with the state to order shifting of patients from Sirmaur and Solan, unless those hospitals have run out of capacity.The matter has been posted for hearing on September 1.STATE TOLD TO FURNISH PANEL DETAILSThe high court has also directed the Himachal government to furnish the particulars of committee members stated to be empanelled by the state for monitoring government and other hospitals dedicated to Covid-19.The same division bench passed these orders on a petition filed by Nareshwar Singh Chandel, who has alleged that though the state government is taking preventive measures for containment of Covid-19 pandemic, the same were not sufficient considering the wildfire-like spread of infection. He has suggested various measures to handle the situation. The court has posted the matter for September 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-shift-patients-from-sirmaur-solan-and-kinnaur-to-ddu-hospital-hc-to-himachal-govt/story-9UHna8VCzO8XrwcieAEGlN.html
19-08-2020||Patna||Bihar flood situation remains grim; 81.67 lakh people affected||The flood situation in Bihar remained critical on Wednesday with an additional 8,358 people affected by the calamity in 16 districts while Water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said, there was no “immediate threat” to the state capital from the rising water level of the Ganga.He said this after making a surprise inspection of various ghats along the river, which is flowing above the danger mark at Gandhi Ghat here.The Ganga is flowing 10 cm above the danger mark at Gandhi Ghat, over 26 cm above the mark at Hathidah in Patna and more than 13 cm above the mark at Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur.The minister carried out an on-the-spot review with officials and found that there was no immediate threat from the rising water level in the Ganga as it is 1.82 metres below its highest flood level of 50.52 metres at Gandhi Ghat, an official release said.The minister, who was accompanied by the departments secretary Sanjeev Hans, was apprised of Patna Town Protection Wall (PTP) in detail, it said.The PTP wall was constructed in 1976 to protect the city from any flood threat from the Ganga.During the inspection of the ghats, a surprise mock drill was carried out at gate number 55 of the PTP at LCT Ghat to ensure proper closure of the gates, Jha said.Meanwhile, the water level of the Ganga is witnessing a rising trend in Buxar, Munger, Bhagalpur, and Digha Ghat in Patna.A total of 81,67,671 people have been affected by flood waters in 1,317 panchayats of 130 blocks, official reports said.About 81.59 lakh people were affected on Tuesday.The Disaster Management Department said, the number of deaths in flood-related incidents remained 25 in the state.Of the total 12 relief centres, only six centres were functional on Wednesday.About 5.50 lakh people have been evacuated so far by 27 teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF).The number of people living in relief centres has reduced to 5,198 in six centres from 13,198 people in 12 relief camps on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-flood-situation-remains-grim-81-67-lakh-people-affected/story-lR7kUQ4zaIhkF5qHJE3AcK.html
19-08-2020||City||Nalagarh police rescue two missing girls from UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri||The Nalagarh police in Solan district have rescued two minor girls from Lakhimpur Kheri in Utter Pradesh. The two were missing since August 14.Superintendent of police (law and order) and spokesperson of state police, Khushal Sharma, said information about the two girls, aged 12 and 15, was received on the evening of August 14 Nalagarh police station.After investigating, they obtained concrete information that the girls had been taken away by their neighbours, Ram Pal, 18, and Mahil Kumar, 20, natives of Lakhimpur Kheri in UP.A police team, led by assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Rattan Lal, reached Dhaurahra police station, Lakhimpur Kheri, on August 18, traced the girls and the accused with the help of UP police.The girls were identified by their parents through video conferencing and the team arrived in Nalagarh on Wednesday. The entire rescue mission clocked over 50hrs and 1,400km of travel.Police team, the rescued girls and the accused will be tested for Covid-19 tomorrow, he said, adding that the accused will be produced before court as per protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nalagarh-police-rescue-two-missing-girls-from-up-s-lakhimpur-kheri/story-1YH4hASxnxyZV2Yoquk0cK.html
19-08-2020||City||Jobless man ends life in Ludhiana||Out of job due to the pandemic outbreak, a 41-year-old man ended his life in Ghumar Mandi of Ludhiana on Tuesday night. His wife said that he had been under stress ever since he had lost his job as he was worried about providing for his three children. Investigating officer, Jaswinder Singh said that the deceased worked at a shop and was laid off due to the economic slowdown. Inquest proceedings have been initiated. Undertrial booked for attempt to suicide A 58-year-old undertrial was booked for attempting suicide in Borstal Jail Hosptial. The accused had been booked in an abetment to suicide case and was sent to jail on August 10. He was undergoing the mandatory quarantine period at the hospital before he was to be sent to the central jail. As per information, the accused sneaked into a toilet and attempted to end his life, but an alert jail guard foiled the bid. He has now been booked under Section 309 (attempt to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jobless-man-ends-life-in-ludhiana/story-ztG6jDHpsa5qXNB5ZnhvDM.html
19-08-2020||City||Amid low rainfall, poor yield, fruit traders in Kashmir stare at losses||Kashmir’s fruit industry is staring at huge losses this year as rainfall deficit in the past four months coupled with plant disease outbreak has affected the overall yield in orchards across the Valley.Horticulture is the second biggest trade after tourism in Jammu and Kashmir and over 2.5 million people are directly or indirectly associated with it.The outbreak of diseases like scab and San Jose scale has affected the apple yield and growers fear that they will have to sell off their harvest as C grade instead of A grade.“Every orchard is affected by disease. Though we sprayed pesticides time to time, the results have not been encouraging,” said Mohammad Ramzan Bhat, who owns an apple orchard in Goshbough of Pattan, known for its high-quality apple varieties in north Kashmir. “This year, the production is half of what we had last year. Our aim now is to save the remaining harvest in the orchards from diseases.”Another orchardist from Sangrama, Mohammad Maqbool Rishi, is finding it difficult to sell his produce this season. “I used to sell my produce in mid-June, much before harvesting, to commission agents who used to form a beeline. This time, only one agent approached and offered a mere 30% of last year’s price. This is happening due to the quality of the apples. I have no option but to sell my produce in the next few weeks.”From early this year, Kashmir has witnessed bad weather which has affected the quality of apples and other fruits.Parimpora fruit growers’ association president, Bashir Ahmad Bhat, said from August last year, the growers have suffered heavy losses. “Even commission agents and big dealers who used to give advance money to growers haven’t released payments due to Covid-19, less and inferior fruit,” he said adding that this year’s cherry and plum crops also did not fetch good prices. “It is a bad time not only for growers but commission agents too.”However, there are some pockets, especially in south Kashmir’s lower belt, where production is normal and scab hasn’t affected the orchards. “I think the weather and substandard pesticides played a role in the spread of scab across orchards this year. I got pesticides from reputed companies so my orchards are free from the disease,” said Abdul Qayoom Bhat, a fruit grower from Pulwama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-low-rainfall-poor-yield-fruit-traders-in-kashmir-stare-at-losses/story-1p1npUO3Jy68C6rbmtD9rK.html
19-08-2020||City||SMC teachers warn Himachal govt of self-immolation||Disappointed with high court’s decision to cancel appointments of 2,613 school management committees (SMC) teachers, the SMC teachers have given a three-day ultimatum to the state government to clarify the situation.They have threatened self-immolation if the demand is not met.While addressing a press conference in Shimla, SMC Teachers’ Association president Manoj Rongta said, “We believe the state government did not represent us strongly in the court.”Rongta said there are 130 schools in which SMC teachers are providing online classes which include remote areas of Himachal.He said that SMC teachers have not received their salaries for eight months and are facing financial difficulties. Their difficulties have further increased due to the coronavirus pandemic, he added.SMC teachers have also decided to cancel conducting online classes until further orders.On August 18, a delegation led by Janjatiya Morcha state president Jawahar Sharma urged CM Jai Ram Thakur to file a review petition regarding SMC teachers in the state. The CM assured the delegation that government will consider the issue sympathetically and will take appropriate action in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/smc-teachers-warn-himachal-govt-of-self-immolation/story-7R8jYIZZlGTmK7ZeKnkzyO.html
19-08-2020||City||Two speeding cars leave four injured in Panchkula, drivers booked||Two car drivers were booked on Wednesday for crashing into a scooter and motorcycle, leaving four persons injured.In the first case, complainant Vandana Gupta, resident of Sector 2, Panchkula, told the police that a speeding car, with a Himachal Pradesh registration number, hit her scooter near the DC’s office in Sector 1 on Monday. She and her 21-year-old daughter suffered injuries in the mishap, while her phone was smashed.The car driver, who identified himself as Dinesh, took them to the civil hospital but left after her family arrived. On her complaint, the car driver was booked under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (whoever causes hurt to any person by doing act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs 50 or upwards) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 5 police station.In the second accident, Dharampal and his friend, Veeru, were injured after a speeding car hit their motorcycle in Barwala on August 14.The car driver fled the spot after abandoning his vehicle.Dharampal, a welder by profession and resident of Kami village, Panchkula, told the police that onlookers took them to the dispensary in Barwala from where they were referred to civil hospital, Panchkula, and then to PGIMER and GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh.Police later identified the car driver as Pardeep Kumar, of Jind district, Haryana. He has been booked under Sections 279 and 337 of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-speeding-cars-leave-four-injured-in-panchkula-drivers-booked/story-3VdMXjGvPFRsEcqVo2smrM.html
19-08-2020||City||Punjab to provide masks to govt school students along with uniforms||With masks becoming an essential commodity in the fight against Covid-19, Punjab government schools are all set to provide two reusable masks to students along with their uniforms this time. According to officials, a grant of Rs 77 crore has already been received by the state under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) programme and this will soon be transferred to the districts and subsequently to the schools. Each school will get Rs 600 for purchasing shoes, socks, belt, tie, shirt, trousers, skirt, sweater and turban. The masks are to be made from the leftover fabric of the uniforms. Over 12 lakh students across the state will benefit from the scheme. While many school principals appreciated the move, saying that it will help students coming from poor families who may not be able to purchase masks, others questioned as to how it was relevant as schools are not likely to open anytime soon in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. Punjab DGSE-cum-state project director, SSA authority, Mohammad Tayyab said,“The members of school management committees also need time to purchase the material and then get it stitched. If schools re-open in the next few months, then what will students wear if new uniform is not provided to them on time.”To ensure that students don’t have to venture out amid the pandemic, the authorities have decided that parents will be asked to provide the measurements of their wards to the school for stitching and collect it once it is ready. Till last year, students used to be handed over the uniform in the school itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-to-provide-masks-to-govt-school-students-along-with-uniforms/story-DH5x20cdEAru1qqOFz67VN.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Preparations for PU teachers’ body elections kick off amid pandemic||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has appointed a returning officer for the elections that were due to be conducted in August.However, the elections have been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Last year, the elections for the office-bearers of PUTA were held on August 21.Besides representing concerns of the PU teachers, PUTA’s president is also a member of the senate and various committees where teachers’ interests are involved.Vijay Nagpal, who has been the returning officer for the previous elections as well, has been given the charge again this year. With this, the teachers’ body has started working on the modalities to conduct the elections in line with Covid-19 protocols and will soon meet to finalise the schedule for polling. Around 800 faculty members of the university will cast their votes to elect the office-bearers.Recently, in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, Panjab University had deferred the senate polls, set to begin on August 24, for two months.Nagpal said, “Nothing is finalised yet, but we are planning to stagger the polling this year.”Before the PUTA elections are conducted, a preliminary list of members is released, followed by a final list of voters after which the candidates file nominations. The nomination papers undergo scrutiny before the final list of candidates is released. Rajesh Gill, who has been the body’s president for the past three terms, said the returning officer will advise on conducting the polls smoothly amid the pandemic.Meanwhile, Mohammed Khalid, a member of the PUTA executive, has written to the PUTA secretary, stating that since the membership drive had not taken place, how can the returning officer determine the voters’ eligibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/preparations-for-pu-teachers-body-elections-kick-off-amid-pandemic/story-lQVTb2DewAnap7X1So3p0I.html
19-08-2020||City||Serosurvey shows Covid infection among 2.5% health workers in Srinagar district||A fresh serosurvey carried out in the district has shown prevalence of Covid antibodies in 3.8% of general population and 2.5% of healthcare workers (HCWs).The survey was conducted by the community medicine department in collaboration with the biochemistry department of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Srinagar.“A total of 2,914 blood samples of HCWs were analysed for the presence of IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. The test provides information about past infection too,” said Dr Sabiya Majid, biochemistry HOD and co-principal investigator.“Seventy-two HCWs were positive for IgG against SARS-CoV-2, giving a prevalence of 2.5%. Out of them, 50 were males and 22 females. Among the HCWs, the prevalence was 2.7% among males and 2.1% in females. Twelve HCWs were above 60 years of age. The IgG positives included 27 doctors, 9 nurses, 10 technicians, two ambulance drivers, and eight hospital security staff among others. As many as 339 HCWs are reported to have at least one contact with a Covid-19 patient,” said Dr Inaam-ul-Haq, assistant professor, community medicine, and co-investigator.To check the prevalence of IgG antibodies among the general population, total 2,923 blood samples were collected from people visiting 20 selected hospitals across the district and three other sites.Officials said if this is applied to the current adult population of the district, which is over 10 lakh, then the number of IgG positives at the time of the survey was approximately 38,000.“Of the 111 IgG positives, 63 were males and 48 females. The prevalence of IgG positives was 4.3% among males and 3.3% in females. Total 115 persons were reported to have influenza-like symptoms four weeks prior to the survey and out of them 12.2% showed presence of IgG antibodies,” said Dr Salim Khan.He said IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 usually develop two weeks after the infection. Thus, the presence of IgG antibodies is indicative of past coronavirus infection.The results of this seroprevalence study shows that on an average, 3.8% people in the district have been infected with Covid-19.“As positive cases continue to emerge from the district, it is expected that seroprevalence may further increase in the near future as more and more individuals are getting infected and developing virus antibodies,” said Dr Samia Rashid, Principal GMC Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/serosurvey-shows-covid-infection-among-2-5-health-workers-in-srinagar-district/story-j600951fVdStdgrmT0yxPM.html
19-08-2020||City||J&K admn constitutes five-member committee for economic revival||Jammu and Kashmir administration has constituted a five member committee to work out modalities for the economic revival of the Union territory and extending support to its business community in the backdrop of the incessant restrictions and lockdowns since August 5 last year.The committee was framed after representatives of Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) met Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha at Raj Bhawan earlier this week and apprised him of the issues faced by the business community.A government spokesman said the L-G announced that the committee will be headed by his adviser Kewal Kumar Sharma with other members consisting of financial commissioner of finance department, commissioner secretary of industries and commerce department, secretary of tourism department and chairman of J&K Bank.“The committee will work out modalities for the economic revival and propose measures for extending the much needed support to the business community; and will submit its report to the Lt Governor by September 1 so that necessary measures can be initiated in the right direction,” the spokesman said.Led by its oresident Sheikh Ashiq Hussain, the KCCI apprised the L-G about a range of issues concerning the prominent business sectors including industries, hospitality, handicrafts sector, houseboats, tourism, private schools, apple cold storage, and young entrepreneurs.“We shared the pain and hardships which the business sector and traders suffered in the past 13 months,” Sheikh Ashiq told HT.“Businesses have been closed for the past one year and there are multiple reasons including post-August 2019 lockdown, internet shutdown, and then Covid-19,” he said.He said the LG took on the spot decision to form the committee for time bound inputs. “People have suffered immensely. There is growing unemployment and small time traders are on the verge of closure. We are expecting a bailout package from the administration and the Centre,” he said.The official spokesman said the LG assured the members of the delegation that a compassionate view will be taken for the redressal of their issues and demands. “The government is committed to addressing the issues concerning the industries, besides promoting entrepreneurship and business opportunities for the youth of J&K,” the L-G was quoted.Besides, decisions on extension of power amnesty scheme and taking a holistic view of the policy guidelines for the registration and operation of house boats were also taken in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-constitutes-five-member-committee-for-economic-revival/story-xjJ40A0df4uZSnwsnkxYhP.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s govt schools to hold online remedial classes||Government schools will hold online remedial classes for students of Classes 6, 7 and 9 from September to February during the 2020-21 academic session. An effort will be made to improve the mathematics, science and language skills of students performing poorly. For Class 6, remedial teaching will be provided in language and mathematics; for Class 7 and 9 remedial teaching will be provided in mathematics and science. Around 30% of the total students enrolled in Classes 6, 7 and 9 will be considered for remedial teaching.A communication issued by state project director-cum-director school education, Samagra Shiksha, Chandigarh, said, “To ascertain the performance of students, the teachers concerned will analyse assignments, projects, class tests undertaken by the students in the previous months. On the basis of students’ performance, teachers will support the targeted group of students with additional time for focused assignments and specific content.”Chandigarh director school education Rubinderjeet Singh Brar, said, “This initiative has been taken as per the guidelines of the ministry of human resource development( MHRD) to bridge the gap for weak students. Teachers will focus and concentrate on these students in remedial classes. The process will be monitored by mission coordinators.” Teachers have been directed to maintain a child-wise record of remedial teaching in the form of assignments, content and tests conducted during the remedial period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-govt-schools-to-hold-online-remedial-classes/story-XlzFcEyuYEBIbERngqFdxN.html
19-08-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka rains: Two swept away, one killed in house collapse||Two people, including a 16-year-old-girl, were swept away and a man was killed when a house collapsed in rain and flood related incidents in different parts of Karnataka,officials said on Wednesday.A Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre official told PTI the girl went to wash clothes in a river near Malakanahalli in Ranebennur Taluk of Haveri district on Sunday and was swept away by the strong current.“Search is going on by the Fire and Emergency Services Department and Police department,” the official said.There were reports of a shepherd being swept away in the Krishna river in Raichur while a man died in house collapse at Sadalga village in Chikkodi Taluk of Belagavi following rains.According to reports, bodies of two women were found in Jurala dam on Krishna river in Telangana.Search is continuing for two other women.It is suspected that they were from Raichur in Karnataka.Since August 1, at least 19 people have lost their lives and 63 head of cattle have died in rain and flood related incidents.The state government has opened 104 relief camps across the flood hit areas where 3,810 people are staying.According to the information received, a majority of rivers in the state are in spate for the last few days.The floodgates of all the important dams in the Krishna river basin have been opened in North Karnataka leading to flooding in Belagavi, Bagalkote, Gadag, Koppal, Davangere and Raichur districts in north Karnataka.In Kodagu district in South Karnataka, the originating point of Cauvery, the rain fury continued on Wednesday as well.According to the KSNDMC, Malaprabha, Ghataprabha, Markandeya, Krishna and Bhima rivers were in spate.Reports said that due to floods in Malaprabha river, the Cholachagudda Bridge was submerged in Bagalkote district.At least ten people, most of whom are shepherds, were reportedly stranded in Madaragadda in Lingasugur Taluk of Raichur district.In Anegundi in Gangavathi Taluk of Koppal district, the Sri Krishnadevaraya Samadhi (tomb) was partially submerged.Rain and thunderstorms are very likely to occur at most places over coastal Karnataka and at a few places over Interior Karnataka in the next 24 hours, the KSNDMC said in a statement.The KSNDMC said that since August 1 about 5,500 houses have been damaged including 216 completely.The rains damaged crops in at least 60,000 hectares in the state.It also hit horticulture crops in about 50,000 hectares.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-rains-two-swept-away-one-killed-in-house-collapse/story-3KzeF4ileoghLbTJBUGMUP.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Patients to get free treatment, medicines for ₹13 at Chandigarh hospital||In another foray into public service, Guru Ka Langar Eye Hospital, Sector 18, has launched the Tera Hi Tera Mission Super Specialty Hospital in Sector 45 where patients will be able to avail the services of a team of doctors free of cost. Patients will be able to get consultations regarding diabetes, kidneys, orthopaedics, depression, urology, and gynaecology from doctors from reputed institutions such as the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) free of cost. Doctors who have retired from PGIMER and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32 , have also been roped in. Medicines will also be available at nominal prices, said hospital general secretary Harjit Singh Sabharwal. IN A NUTSHELLMedicines to cost ₹13 a day, irrespective of actual cost CT scan to cost ₹313, MRI ₹1,313 and ultrasounds ₹113Doctors from PGIMER, GMCH 32, to treat patients free of cost “Even if a medicine is worth ₹500, a patient will be able to get it for ₹13 per day, Sabharwal said. Ultrasounds will be performed for ₹113, magnetic resonance imaging (3 tesla) will cost patients ₹1,313 and a computed tomography (CT) scan will cost ₹313. Other laboratory tests will also cost cheaper than the market price.Sabharwal said, “We are following the message of Guru Nanak Dev Ji and putting efforts into public we have made this effort for public service. Our organisation is also running Guru Ka Langar Eye Hospital in Sector 18, Chandigarh, where patients are treated without any cost.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patients-to-get-free-treatment-medicines-for-13-at-chandigarh-hospital/story-H17rSbxytiauxfIXSXBD3O.html
19-08-2020||City||Dog bite victims struggle as Ludhiana govt hospitals run out of vaccine stock||Ludhiana With the district health department focusing on containment and treatment of increasing covid-19 cases, dog bite patients are turning to private clinics due to unavailability of anti-rabies vaccine in government hospitals. A dog bite victim has to undergo a course of seven vials of the vaccine, which is administered free at government hospitals, but costs Rs 300 per vial in a private hospital. The district had reported 8,951 dog bite cases till July. The record of August could not be maintained, due to the shortage of vaccine. Ludhiana also reported 15,000 dog bite cases last year, and has also been the district with the most number of covid-19 cases to date. Joginder Singh, a 70-year-old vendor from Hargobind Nagar was bitten by a stray dog on August 5. Joginder claimed that he was denied treatment at civil hospital and was told that the rabies vaccine was out of stock. “On two occasions, on August 8 and August 12, I was called to the hospital, asked to queue up and then told that the vaccine was not available. Finally, I purchased the remaining vaccines from the market and continued the treatment,” Joginder claimed. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said he had asked the officials concerned to look into the matter. In Ludhiana, civil hospital 382 dog bite cases were reported in July, while 937 cases were reported across the district. “No record of August could be maintained as the vaccine was not available,” say Rita Matthews, matron of the rabies vaccination cell at the civil hospital.Punjab Health Systems Corporation managing director Tanu Kashyap said, “We ordered 60,000 vaccines last week. Around 18,500 are available with the three warehouses of the state that can be indented by any district as per need. The remaining stock will be received by the next week.” Dr Preeti Thaware, programme officer, State Rabies Control Programme, said 1.35 lakh dog bite cases were reported last year, while 65,000 dog bite cases were reported till June. In 2016, 1.1 lakh cases were reported. In 2017, the number was 1.12 lakh, and in 2018, it was 1.13 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dog-bite-victims-struggle-as-ludhiana-govt-hospitals-run-out-of-vaccine-stock/story-VhPOJr59dMUqdML29iKHGP.html
19-08-2020||City||GPS-enabled tracking device must in vehicles carrying spirit in Punjab||CHANDIGARH To break the nexus between manufacturers and transporters that led to the recent hooch tragedy chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has ordered stringent measures, including mandatory GPS linkage, to check in-transport pilferage of ethanol, spirits and other products by unscrupulous elements for use in the manufacture of illicit liquor.The move comes in wake of the recent hooch tragedy that claimed more than 120 lives in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur’s Batala.From September 5, no vehicles will be allowed to transport such products without tamperproof sealing and GPS enabling, as per the directives issued on Wednesday by excise commissioner Rajat Agarwal on the CM’s orders.The GPS coordinates of the vehicle will need to be preserved by the unit for a period of not less than 15 days from the date of completion of delivery of a consignment, according to the directives, aimed at providing checks on transportation of extra neutral alcohol (ENA), ethanol, specially denatured spirit (SDS), denatured spirit (DNS) and rectified spirit (RS) by distilleries.TAMPERPROOF SEALING A MUSTThe tamperproof sealing of the tankers will be done by the distillery units before dispatch and the seal will be broken only by the recipient, under the new rules. Both dispatch and receiving units will have to maintain records and certifications to this effect for each tanker/truck, said Agarwal.EN ROUTE STOPPING NOT ALLOWEDIn no case will the transport vehicle be allowed to stop en route its destination within Punjab, except in case of breakdown, when the manufacturing unit will be duty bound to inform the excise officer in-charge of the unit within 15 minutes of such breakdown. The seals on the outlet of the transport vehicle must be kept intact and not broken in any way in such instances, said the excise commissioner.If the breakdown necessitates transfer of the material/products to another vehicle, the same will be done in the presence of, or in accordance with the instructions of an excise officer of the jurisdiction in which the breakdown has occurred.In case the vehicle stops en route within the jurisdiction of Punjab for reasons other than breakdown, it would be assumed that the vehicle has been stopped for pilferage and should such a scenario arise, the distillery and the transporter shall be jointly and severely liable for civil and/or criminal action as per the law.Further, it will be the responsibility of the receiving unit to ensure that the entire contents of the material purchased and carried in the transport vehicle have been unloaded and there is no residue material in the transport vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gps-enabled-tracking-device-must-in-vehicles-carrying-spirit-in-punjab/story-Xj8vBa6K2LC3uSjFzVq7YO.html
19-08-2020||City||Shopian encounter: Army asks locals to share info for probe||The army on Wednesday asked eyewitnesses to share “credible” inputs for its probe into the killing of three alleged militants in an encounter in Shopian last month.In an advertisement issued in different newspapers, the army has asked people having any information about the encounter to come forward and assured full confidentiality. “Any person having any credible inputs/ information on the encounter by security forces at Shopian’s Amshipora village on July 18, 2020, may please contact Deputy GOC, HQ CIF (Victor) on 01933-247026 within the next 10 days. The identity and details of the person will be kept secret,” reads the advertisement. Pamphlets of similar nature were circulated in the neighbouring villages of the encounter spot.The army has begun a probe into the killing of three “militants” in an encounter in Shopian in July, following allegations by families in the Rajouri area of Jammu region that many of their kin were missing from the same place.Srinagar-based defence spokesperson Colonel Rajesh Kalia had said on Tuesday that the Army was committed to ethical conduct of all counter-terrorist operations. “Statements of key witnesses are being recorded and the progress is being monitored closely. Additional civil witnesses are being asked to depose before the court of inquiry. Concurrently, DNA samples have been collected from Rajouri, under the aegis of JK Police, and are being matched with those of terrorists killed on July 18,” he said.“Cases where doubts are raised are investigated under due process as per the law of the land. Since the case is under investigation, further details will be shared periodically, as appropriate without affecting due legal process,” he had said. The encounter took place on July 18 when the army claimed to have killed three militants at Amshipora in the higher reaches of Shopian in south Kashmir.However, little over two weeks thereafter, missing complaints were lodged in Rajouri area of Jammu region by the families of three youths, working as labourers in apple and walnut orchards, who had disappeared from the same region and they had last talked to them on July 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shopian-encounter-army-asks-locals-to-share-info-for-probe/story-ljQIbKjkX8MCqhiiWn39jJ.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||70-year-old cyclist hit by car dies in Chandigarh, driver booked||A 70-year-old cyclist, who was hit by a car in Sector 29 on Monday, succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday. The deceased, Chatrepal, was a resident of Mauli Jagran and painted houses for a living. His son, Virender Pal, told the police that he and his father were returning home from Sector 21 on their cycles after finishing work. When they reached near the taxi stand in Sector 29, a white Hyundai i20 hit his father’s cycle. He rushed his father to GMCH, Sector 32, where he died during treatment. The car driver was identified as Lalit Parshad, hailing from Uttarakhand. He was booked under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code at the Industrial Area police station. As many as 20 people have been killed in 18 road accidents in Chandigarh since January 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/70-year-old-cyclist-hit-by-car-dies-in-chandigarh-driver-booked/story-JyRzKapK97zCXSDAtQCOdN.html
19-08-2020||City||Police to roll out ITMS in Dharamshala town from Sep 1||The district police will roll out Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS) in Dharamshala town to rein in on traffic violators from September 1.The project is currently on a trial run and the results are encouraging, said Kangra senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vimukt Ranjan.Dharamshala will be the second town in Himachal after Kullu to have ITMS.Ranjan said two high-definition Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras have been installed on the highway connecting Dharamshala. The cameras, capable of different video analytics, are linked to a control room set up at district police headquarters through leas line.Presently, these cameras have analytics for three violations including overspeed, without helmet and triple riding, he said, adding that the cameras can capture clear images in any weather and more analytics will be added at the later stages.Ranjan said the personnel monitoring the traffic in control room can access the footages upto last one month. Once a violation is caught on camera, a video footage and picture of the number plate is stored in the control room system.“After analysis, the control room person in-charge pushes the data to the District Centre of National Informatics Centre (NIC) and ITMS service provider and a notice to the violator is generated on his mobile phone,” the SSP said.In case of false detection, the error is corrected at the control room. “From September 1, the system will be fully functional and we will start issuing challans to violators through it,” he said.The SSP said the initial plan was to install the system on all the access roads to the town but could not be materialised due to lack of funds. This system will reduce human intervention in implementation of traffic rules. Currently, the district police were running a campaign on social media to make residents aware about the new system.“This is to inform the people that no one will go scot free for violating traffic rules. They are being watched,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-to-roll-out-itms-in-dharamshala-town-from-sep-1/story-BfhBTpB7yy1qK49rUl0EKL.html
19-08-2020||Pune||PMC approves monthly amount of Rs 20 per home for garbage collections from slums||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday approved a proposal to give a monthly amount of Rs 20 per home to Swach (Solid waste collection and handling) employees who handle door-to-door garbage collection in slums. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Swach organisation staff collect garbage from the slums by going door to door. Keeping the current pandemic in mind, the organisation sought an increase in the amount given per home from Rs 10 to Rs 20 per month for the next six months to collect garbage.” Rasne said, “The standing committee approved the proposal and will give an amount of Rs 20 per month per home for collecting garbage.” Last week, the PMC approved a proposal seeking an increase in the amount given to collect garbage from housing societies and bungalows. Earlier, citizens had to pay Rs 50 per month, but now it is Rs 70 per month. For commercial properties, they would need to pay Rs 140 per month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-approves-monthly-amount-of-rs-20-per-home-for-garbage-collections-from-slums/story-7xqlGtAaTP8nrYHeEZUMKP.html
19-08-2020||Gurugram||Heavy rains lash Delhi-NCR; Gurugram worst affected||New Delhi, Aug 19 (PTI) Heavy rains lashed Delhi-NCR, particularly battering the satellite city of Gurugram on Wednesday, flooding the low-lying areas and bringing the traffic to a halt.Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department, said Delhi recorded light to moderate rains between 6 am and 8:30 am, thereafter the intensity increased.Heavy rains are very likely as the day progresses, he said.Till 8.30 am, Gurugram had recorded 23 millimetres of rainfall, he said.Gurugram witnessed very heavy downpour since morning. The rains flooded many streets, turning them into small rivers, as traffic came to a virtual standstill at key stretches. An underpass on the Golf Course Road was also submerged under water.   Many vehicles lay marooned on the roads as they got stuck due to the water. Police were also seen moving them to keep the traffic going. The traffic congestion also brought back the memories of the rains in 2016 when commuters were stuck in a massive jam for hours.   Also read: Incessant rains lash Delhi; waterlogging woes continue“Traffic has not moved an inch on Subhash Chowk (Gurgaon) since an hour because there is waterlogging,” said Deepak Sharma, a resident of Gurugram said. The Millennium City was among the worst hit as water entered complexes of high-rises, forcing them to turn off the power to avoid any mishap.   “The city has come to a standstill, roads are submerged under water, imagine what would be the state of subways. Gurugram is never prepared for rains,” said Nidhi Shukla, a Gurgaon-based architect. Keerti Uppal, another resident of Gurgaon, said the situation is so bad in up-class Gurugram areas, what could be the state of interior Gurgaon. “If it is known as cyber city, it cannot be floating every time it rains for an hour,” she added. In Delhi, waterlogging took place at 16 different locations in areas, including Kirari, Burari and Rohini, the North MCD said.Trees fell at seven different locations and at eight places and parts of buildings collapse due to rain.Seven cars were damaged after the boundary wall of a school in Block J, Saket in south Delhi collapsed allegedly due to heavy rains, the police said.   On road, vehicles moved bumper to bumper during the morning rush hours, as the downpour led to heavy waterlogging at key road stretches.The Delhi Traffic Police has been constantly updating its Twitter handle alerting commuters about waterlogging at several intersections across the city.According to them, waterlogging was reported at BRT near Central School, Badarpur to Ashram, Badarpur flyover underpass, Sarita Vihar flyover underpass, Dhaula Kuan towards AIIMS carriageway, Moti Bagh flyover underpass, MB Road near Batra Hospital, Palam Flyover and Chhata Rail.Also read: IMD predicts widespread rain in Delhi, monsoon deficit dropsOther areas, including Mayur Vihar Phase-2, Sarai Kale Khan to DND, Sashi Garden to Kotla, Seemapuri to Dilshad Garden underpass, MB Road at Maidan Garhi, MB Road at Anuvrat Marg, Apsara Border have also reported water-logging.The Delhi Traffic Police has alerted commuters to avoid specific stretches of roads where traffic congestion has been witnessed.Srivastava said Delhi recorded moderate rains till 11:30 am. More rains are very likely as the day progresses.The Ayanagar weather station in Delhi recorded 63.1 mm rainfall between 2:30 am and 11:30 am.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 29.8 mm rains. The Palam, Lodhi Road, and Ridge weather stations gauged 45 mm, 25.8 mm, and 42.5 mm precipitation during the period.Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5 mm is heavy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/heavy-rains-lash-delhi-ncr-gurugram-worst-affected/story-druGgOQlGyTeugFCFecTxN.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||Nod for reopening hotels in Delhi; weekly markets to open on trial basis, gyms to remain closed||The Delhi State Disaster Management Authority on Wednesday gave nod to reopen hotels in Delhi. The agency also allowed reopening of weekly markets on a trial basis. However, gymnasiums will continue to remain closed.The Delhi government led by Aam Aadmi Party’s Arvind Kejriwal had been advocating the reopening of hotels, gyms and weekly markets in the national capital since the start of Unlock 3.0 in the country. It had sent a proposal for this twice to the Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, who also heads the SDMA, citing the decline in the number of Covid 19 cases in the national capital. However, the LG’s office had indicated that relaxations such as allowing local weekly markets and gymnasiums to operate may lead to a resurgence in the number of cases and, therefore, rejected Kejriwal government’s insistence on that count.Wednesday’s decision to reopen hotels is likely to benefit around four lakh people employed in the hotel industry in the national capital.Senior government officials said that the trial period for re-opening weekly markets is likely to be anywhere between one week to 10 days.However, gymnasiums and yoga centres cannot open in Delhi as of now. A decision on this will be taken at a later stage in another meeting of the SDMA. Senior government officials said that a major concern expressed by the LG was the number of fresh cases Delhi continues to witness on a daily basis. According to the last one week’s data, Delhi on an average is getting 1,033 cases every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ddma-gives-nod-to-reopen-hotels-in-delhi-weekly-markets-to-open-on-trial-basis-gyms-to-remain-closed/story-bTNmE56IxvHiQQilJoMbFM.html
19-08-2020||City||Jai Ram approves creation of new panchayats in tribal, non-tribal areas of Himachal||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has approved creation of new panchayats in tribal and non-tribal regions of Himachal Pradesh. The decision was taken at a meeting of council of ministers held recently, panchayati raj minister Virender Kanwar said on Wednesday.Kanwar said in non-tribal areas new gram panchayats from those existing will be created, total population of which as per 2011 census is equal to and more than 2,000, number of household equal to and more than 500, number of villages equal to and more than five and distance of the farthest village from the existing headquarter of the gram sabha is equal to and more than 5km subject to the condition that minimum resultant population of the existing and newly proposed gram panchayat before and after bifurcation is minimum 600. He said the same criteria will be applicable for backward areas. Similarly, in tribal areas new gram panchayats from those existing will be created, total population of which is equal to and more than 750, subject to the condition that minimum resultant population of the existing and newly proposed gram panchayat before and after bifurcation is minimum 300. Kanwar said more than 470 proposals have been received in the department that are being examined on above criteria and new panchayats will be created from those which will fulfill the criteria. The draft notification in this regard will be issued on which residents of the concerned gram sabha can file objections before the concerned deputy commissioner within a period of seven days. The deputy commissioners will decide the same within three days and send their recommendations to the department enabling the state government to issue final notification. The minister said about 220 gram panchayats in the non-tribal areas and eight gram panchayats in tribal areas fall under the approved criteria. Therefore, there is a possibility of creation of 228 new gram panchayats in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-approves-creation-of-new-panchayats-in-tribal-non-tribal-areas-of-himachal/story-jsHtludjhbGl9L0jWgGJbN.html
19-08-2020||City||Congress accuses HP govt of mismanagement in fruit markets amid pandemic||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPPC) president Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Wednesday accused the state government of mismanagement in fruit markets during the apple season. He said there is a threat of spread of Covid-19 in the fruit markets due to poor management by the state government.While addressing a press conference at Rajiv Bhawan here, Rathore said he along with president of district Congress committee Shimla (rural) Yashwant Chhajta went on a two-day visit to apple growing areas of the district during which they interacted with orchardists, truck drivers and others involved in the trade. He said they came to know that there are no proper safety and security arrangements in the fruit markets and commission agents have made some arrangements at their level that are not enough.“No screening for the virus is being conducted, people are not practicing social distancing, no cleanliness is maintained and there are no safety and security arrangements in the fruit markets. No one is checking any person coming and going out of these fruit markets which shows that the government is least bothered, “ Rathore said.He said despite making huge promises, the state government has not been able to provide enough labourers to the orchardists till now. “The orchardists had no choice but to bring labourers on their own expense for which they had to pay excessive amounts to private taxis and buses. No arrangements were made by the state government to quarantine labourers,” Rathore alleged.He said diseases like scab are also spreading in apple growing areas due to unavailability of required pesticides and fungicides. “Commission agents have made it clear that they will not purchase scab affected apples but the chief minister and horticulture minister are not worried about it and their attitudes shows that they are anti-orchardists,” he added.Rathore also lashed out at the state government for adopting double standards in dealing with the pandemic. He demanded that cases should be filed against BJP leaders for spreading the virus and violating Covid-19 rules and guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-accuses-hp-govt-of-mismanagement-in-fruit-markets-amid-pandemic/story-LUp5vRXvc9ByJa0tC9HVSJ.html
19-08-2020||Patna||Parties see opportunity in Dalit assertion in Bihar||Dalit leaders have been hogging the limelight in poll-bound Bihar as the state gears for assembly elections scheduled in October-November. Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan has been attacking the Bihar government and chief minister Nitish Kumar over governance and management of migrant crisis and Covid-19 pandemic. Paswan has been upset over Janata Dal-United (JDU)’s reluctance in accommodating LJP in the 12 nominations to the Bihar Legislative Council from the governor’s quota even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wanted to give it one seat. The result has been the nominations still remain stuck.JD-U has maintained it does not have an alliance with LJP in the state and has become friendlier with former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi as it seeks to have a Dalit leader by its side to offset possible exit of Chirag Paswan’s party from the ruling National Democratic Alliance.Former Bihar minister Shyam Razak this month defected to Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) saying 99% of the leaders in JD-U were upset with the Kumar but did not have a voice. “I cannot stay in a party where social justice is stripped,” he said.Also Read: RJD, Congress finalise seat-sharing deal for Bihar polls, Manjhi’s HAM not happyBJP’s Dalit leader, Sanjay Paswan, a former union minister, has asked Kumar to vacate his post for someone else after having served for 15 years. This also antagonized the JD-U, but Paswan termed it his personal opinion.Sanjay Paswan said his attacks on Kumar were a kind of manifestation of the Dalit assertion. “Why only Chirag, even Shyam Razak’s move to resign as minister and assembly member... is a sign of growing Dalit assertion and there is nothing surprising in Dalit politics gaining momentum as it is a natural process.”Sanjay Paswan, who is a legislative council member, said the first phase of state politics was dominated by the forward castes, then came backward classes and now it was the turn of Dalits and extremely backward classes. “Earlier also Bihar saw the emergence of Dalit leaders like Bhola Paswan Shastri, Karpoori Thakur, and Ram Sunder Das... Now, Dalit politics is becoming stable and self-reliant.”Sanjay Paswan said that Dalit leaders would have to make sacrifices and refrain from blackmailing for petty gains. “They should not get carried away by the lure of identity politics as it will render them ineffective and defeat the larger goal.”DM Diwakar, a former director of Patna’s AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, said with over 18% of Bihar’s population, Dalits are a potent force that none of the political parties wants to antagonize. “In the past, Dalits identified with the Left parties and then with the Congress, but gradually they too drifted towards liberal parties once the Left weakened. ...Dalits [in the 1990s] found in Lalu Prasad [Yadav of RJD] a saviour and along with Muslims formed a potent force. Today all the parties have their Dalit morcha to take advantage of identity politics among Dalits and that is the reason quite a few leaders have emerged and are in demand by one party or the other to counter one another.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/parties-see-opportunity-in-dalit-assertion-in-bihar/story-RgaXlhRVKWdnp1GQhOuyzO.html
19-08-2020||City||J&K man held for hurting religious sentiments||Police on Wednesday arrested a man for allegedly hurting religious sentiments of a community on Facebook in Jammu and Kashmir’s Ramban district. The accused Mohammad Zahid of Champa Batote in Ramban has been arrested for posting objectionable comments on Facebook and hurting religious sentiments of a particular community, said Poonch SSP Ramesh Angral. Inspector general of police (IGP Jammu) Mukesh Singh also posted regarding it on Twitter. He said a case under section 295-A/153-A of the IPC has been registered.In the past four days, five FIRs have been registered against 15 people for hurting religious sentiments. Among those arrested include a 56-year-old naib tehsildar, four self-styled leaders of a Hindu outfit and cow vigilantes. Three FIRs were registered in Arnas Police Station of Reasi district against and fourth FIR was registered in Pucca Danga police station of Jammu district. The fifth FIR was lodged in Batote police station on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-man-held-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/story-bsjaVuRXlAIzz7qRvD0XTL.html
19-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 1,266 new Covid-19 cases, 10 more deaths||Jharkhand on Tuesday reported 1,266 new cases of Covid-19, taking its tally to 25,333, as per an official bulletin.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAmong the new cases were Health Minister Banna Gupta and AJSU Party president Sudesh Mahto.Ten more people died in the state, following which the toll rose to 265, the bulletin issued by the Health Department said.The state tested record 27,260 samples for Covid-19 during the day, it added.So far, 15,974 people have recovered in the state, while 9,359 are being treated, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-1-266-new-covid-19-cases-10-more-deaths/story-tDK04rzJ7StJVPRKYnfgNJ.html
19-08-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata maid held for stealing ₹35 lakh using dead employer’s ATM card||The Kolkata Police have arrested a maid who made her two sons-in-law withdraw ₹34.90 lakh from her dead employer’s account through several ATMs over 71 days. In what police officers called a “rare case,” 45-year-old Rita Roy, a widow, stole the ATM card of her dead employer Satyanarayan Agarwal who lived in an upmarket residential complex in south Kolkata. Since Agarwal used to forget the card’s PIN frequently, his son Anurag had saved it as a text message on Agarwal’s phone. The woman accessed the phone and got the PIN, said Murlidhar Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime). She got her sons-in-law, Ranjit Mallick (31), a resident of Karimpur in Nadia district and Soumitra Sarkar (45) a resident of Balagarh in Hooghly district, to steal the money. Anurag detected the theft and lodged a complaint at Jadavpur police station on June 1. The detective department at Lalbazar police headquarters took the case. The records of Yes Bank, where Agarwal had an account, showed that the money had been withdrawn from ATMs of various banks at Karimpur, Krishnanagar and Ranaghat in Nadia and Guptipara in Hooghly between March 20 and May 30. Security camera footage from these ATM kiosks showed that the thieves wore masks and caps inside the counters, taking advantage of the pandemic. With face recognition difficult, the detectives started tapping locals and nabbed Mallick and Sarkar on August 13. Their interrogation led to Roy’s arrest from her residence in the Nakashipara area of Nadia district on the same day. The police have recovered ₹27 lakh in cash from their homes. They will be in police custody until August 25, said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-maid-held-for-stealing-35-lakh-using-dead-employer-s-atm-card/story-TlsLlktgrd6ZsMzDl8VEYK.html
19-08-2020||Patna||Sero survey to start in six more districts of Bihar from today||Come Wednesday, Bihar will embark on second round of serological survey, commonly referred to as sero survey, to assess the Covid spread in six of its 38 districts.It will also indicate if the community transmission of the virus has happened in an area, as people to be tested for antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, will be asked if they ever came in contact with a Covid-19 person.The five-day survey will be confined to Arwal, Begusarai, Buxar, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur and Purnia districts.These districts have been selected as per the randomization plan of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which has collaborated with the National Institute of Research for Tuberculosis (NIRT), with headquarters in Chennai, for the survey across 70 districts in India.Even villages and urban wards within the districts have been selected as per their randomization plan to cover four corners of a district, said officials associated with the survey.A total 2,400 samples — 400 from each of the six districts — will be collected from Bihar. The result of the sero-survey is expected by mid-September, they said.The ICMR’s Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) will undertake the survey in Bihar.“The cumulative seropositivity in these districts was 0.7% during an earlier survey undertaken between May 17 and 20. This meant that only 17 out of 2,400 people surveyed developed antibodies (immunity) against SARS-CoV-2,” said Dr Pradeep Das, director RMRIMS, Patna.Of the 400 people sampled in each district earlier, Arwal had a seropositivity of 1%, Begusarai 0.25%; Buxar 1.25%; Madhepura 1%, Purnia 0.75% while Muzaffarpur reported 0%, he said.“We now have a baseline data and will compare it with the findings of this survey to find out the level of IgG antibodies against SARS CoV-2 (IgG is one of the predictive markers for Covid-19 antibody),” added Dr Das.“Higher the serological positivity, better for the community, as it indicates lower probability of re-infection of Covid-19. An antibody level of 30%-40% indicates better chance of protection against the virus,” said Dr Das.According to studies, India has recently reported a seropositivity of 17%-18% for IgG, he added.“We are expanding the age group of people to be surveyed. We will take samples from people in the age group of 10 years and above, as compared to 18 years and above in the first survey,” said Dr Das.Presence of Covid-specific antibodies reveals that the person has had the infection at some point of time.Bihar’s cumulative Covid-19 case count was 1,09,875, with 558 fatalities as on Tuesday. Of these, the six districts to be surveyed accounted for 18,765 cases.Arwal reported 1,068 Covid-19 cases with five deaths; Begusarai 4,304 cases and 13 deaths; Buxar 2,564 cases and seven deaths; Madhbani 3,300 cases and four deaths; Muzaffarpur 4,523 cases and 22 deaths and Purnia 3,006 cases with four deaths as on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/sero-survey-in-six-bihar-districts-from-aug-19/story-5iHMkUohe81Zo4iCsIkrmL.html
19-08-2020||Lucknow||UP will soon need post-Covid care clinics: Experts||While coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients are returning to normal life after being cured, experts fear that several of them may face long-term health issues, including shortness of breath, fatigue, headaches and other disorders that can be cured only in post-Covid care clinics.While a few such clinics have recently come up in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh is yet to establish a centre where patients who have recovered from Covid-19 can be looked after.“Over one lakh patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh and are at home, trying to catch up with normal life. However, very few realise that the three months after being discharged from the hospital are very important. Many patients can face post-Covid health issues, which need to be managed through proper medication,” said Dr Rakesh Kapoor, the director of Medanta Hospital, Lucknow. “Some recovered patients complain about discomfort in breathing, mental and physical fatigue, etc. For such patients, post-Covid care in post-Covid management clinics, like the ones set up in Delhi, is important,” added Kapoor, who is the former director of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS). Insisting that UP will also have to set up such clinics soon, Dr PK Gupta of Indian Medical Association said, “At post-Covid care clinics, recovered patients are given regular check-ups by cardiologists, chest specialists, psychologists, nutritionists, physiotherapists, psychiatrists and other specialists, as required for full recovery.” According to Dr Gupta, some patients will also require a CT scan of the lungs and other tests to ensure that they are completely rid of the virus. “Private hospitals must be roped in along with government facilities for this purpose. Private sector has doctors and trained paramedical staff to handle such patients.” “Post-Covid care is important as there have been cases wherein patients have reported a fall in oxygen levels, breathlessness and even psychological problems. In such cases, counselling and lung physiotherapy is required, which could be take place in post-Covid care clinics,” said professor Radha Krishna Dheeman, director, SGPGIMS. An official of the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC), who recovered from the infection around a fortnight ago, said, “Many things change after you get infected. I feel tired much quicker; for that I have been advised lung physiotherapy to expand my lung capacity, but I don’t know where to go. Perhaps a post-Covid care clinic would be helpful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-will-soon-need-post-covid-care-clinics-experts/story-LExhZ23HX4eykMemO8OXcK.html
19-08-2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot directs officials to check frauds by credit societies||Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday directed officials to put in place a strong system to protect people from frauds by various credit societies in the state.The chief minister expressed concerns over complaints of multi-state cooperative societies cheating common people in the name of investment. Gehlot instructed the officials to prepare such a system that in future no such cooperative society in the state could cheat poor people in the name of investment. He also stressed on making general public aware of such societies.Gehlot was addressing a review meeting of agriculture, cooperative and other departments on Tuesday.The chief minister also said that the benefit of the scheme of setting up an agro-processing unit to provide fair value to farmers and increase their income should be given to farmers on a priority basis.He said that this scheme will not only increase the income of farmers but also add value to crop and create new employment opportunities in the agriculture sector at the local level. Under this scheme, farmers can get a loan of up to Rs 1 crore for setting up agro-processing industries, on which a grant of up to 50 per cent will be given by the state government, a statement quoted Gehlot.The chief minister also gave directions to sanction Rs 250 crore from Farmers Welfare Fund for payment of insurance claims for the Rabi crop 2019-20.  He said that the process of recruitment of 1,000 posts in various cooperative institutions should be started soon.The chief minister has also decided to set up a State Level Monitoring Committee under the chairmanship of the Chief Secretary to provide maximum benefit of the agricultural infrastructure fund started by the Government of India to the farmers through the purchase and sale cooperative societies of the state.In Rajasthan, a target has been set to allocate Rs 9,000 crore under this fund and the newly-formed committee will regularly monitor its implementation.The chief minister said that the medical sales centres of all the cooperative stores in the state will be made online.Principal Secretary of Agriculture and Cooperative Department Kunji Lal Meena said that the Cooperative Department has disbursed short term cooperative crop loan of Rs 9,541 crore to 21.86 lakh farmers in 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/ashok-gehlot-directs-officials-to-check-frauds-by-credit-societies/story-riSidx4vRm6K6OGiZw1z6N.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Five months on, Lahaul-Spiti gets its first Covid-19 testing machine||Shimla: Five months after the first Covid-19 case was reported in Himachal Pradesh, a Covid-19 testing machine was set up at the community health centre (CHC) at Kaza in the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti on Tuesday. So far, samples were being sent to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, and local residents had to wait for days to get to know the results. At times, the district health officials had to take samples more than once. State technical education minister and the Lahaul-Spiti MLA Ram Lal Markanda had urged the district administration to get the TrueNat Quantitative Micro PCR worth Rs 14.56 lakh installed. Lahaul-Spiti, which has reported only six Covid patients so far, is the least populated district of the state. Sending samples from the district to IGMC, Shimla, was challenging for the administration as sometimes road traffic was disrupted due to bad weather. There was a possibility of samples getting wasted during transportation. Kaza sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Gian Singh Negi said that residents were concerned how samples would be sent to IGMC during the monsoon and later winter so the administration decided to install the Covid testing machine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-months-on-lahaul-spiti-gets-its-first-covid-19-testing-machine/story-dyQpCPAQaz5cupRnpG2WwI.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||DMRC introduces smart card with auto top-up facility||In a bid to promote cashless transactions and ensure contactless travel especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has decided to switch to new smart cards with automatic top-up facility. The cards will be available to commuters once the Metro gets a go-ahead to resume its train operations. According to senior Metro officials, the smart cards will automatically be recharged at the Automatic Fare Collection (AFC) entry gates with ₹200 whenever the balance reduces to under ₹100. For this, the DMRC has tied up with Autope, a mobile site specially developed for DMRC’s cashless transaction system, which will issue these smart cards. To avail the facilities, Metro users will have to download the Autope mobile application. They will have to register and link their bank / credit card / UPI account with the smart card. A DMRC official said that a nominal amount will be charged as a convenience fee from the customer for each transaction. Autope will auto-debit the topped up amount from the customer’s linked account the next working day.Mangu Singh, managing director, DMRC, said, “This initiative is in line with DMRC’s commitment towards supporting the digital drive to promote cashless transactions among Delhi Metro’s commuters. This new feature empowers a commuter to get his/her smart card auto topped up at AFC Gates across the network which will help him/her travel seamlessly without worrying about top ups from time to time”.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said that existing Metro smart card users can also avail the facility. “Those who have Metro smart cards will have to visit the customer care centre of any of the Metro stations three days after registering on the mobile application. They can get their smart cards activated for this facility as a one-time exercise.” The facility will be available from the day Metro operations resume. DMRC officials said that the new smart card will be home-delivered. Dayal said, “This new measure will eliminate the need to queue up at Metro stations for recharge. Currently, even when a smart card is recharged online, it has to be presented at Add Value Machines (AVMs) for the balance to be validated. But Autope will eliminate the need for AVM validation.”Anurag Bajpai and Pankaj Gambhir, founders of Autope, said, “The current Covid-19 situation has highlighted importance of contactless services and we remain committed to offering a full-scale and smart and hassle-free platform supported by innovative and scalable technology solutions to all our clients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dmrc-introduces-smart-card-with-auto-top-up-facility/story-LL3uhE38CgQyYOdjR4FB4K.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||A brick falling on a tray of eggs leads to murder in south Delhi||An altercation over a petty issue of a brick falling on a tray of eggs in a shop led to a fight between two groups, during which a 16-year-old boy was allegedly stabbed to death in front of his family members in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar on Tuesday. The alleged attacker, 22-year-old Farookh (who goes by his first name) fled the crime scene after stabbing the teenager, but was caught later in the evening. His interrogation led to the recovery of the bloodstained dagger that he had used to kill the teenager, deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said.The teenager lived with his parents and four siblings in Sangam Vihar. His father is an electrician. Since their house was being renovated, the family had rented a house in the neighbourhood.On Tuesday around 9am, the teenager, along with his father and brother, was stacking bricks outside a shop selling eggs, which belonged to their neighbour Taj Mohammad. One brick slipped from teen’s brother’s hand and fell on a tray of eggs, breaking five-six of them.“An argument started between the two groups, but it was resolved after some neighbours intervened and the teenager’s father said that he would compensate for the loss,” a police officer, who did not want to be named, said, quoting the First Information Report (FIR) registered on the complaint of the deceased teenager’s brother.Minutes later, the officer said, Mohammad’s son Farookh came by and started quarrelling with the teenager’s brother. The teenager intervened and pulled his brother away. That enraged Farookh, who took out a dagger and repeatedly stabbed the teenager before fleeing the crime scene, the officer added.The injured teenager was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. The police has registered a case of murder. “Our teams scanned CCTV cameras in the area and caught the suspect and recovered the bloodstained dagger,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-brick-falling-on-a-tray-of-eggs-leads-to-murder-in-south-delhi/story-Bso51tDhgv2Ggx75OWuoQM.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid norms forgotten as hundreds take part in nagar kirtan in Amritsar to mark 416th Parkash Purb of Guru Granth Sahib||Amritsar: Despite Covid-19 restrictions, hundreds of devotees took part in the nagar kirtan (religious procession) to mark the 416th Parkash Purab of Guru Granth Sahib in Amritsar on Wednesday. The hour-long procession started from Gurdwara Sri Ramsar Sahib and culminated at Golden Temple.Golden Temple head granthi Giani Jagtar Singh initiated the procession after ardas (offering prayers) at Gurdwara Sri Ramsar Sahib. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) functionaries, including senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta, were present. HOLIDAY IN AMRITSAR The district administration declared a holiday in Amritsar on Wednesday on the occasion of the Parkash Purb. Deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Kehra appealed to people to celebrate the occasion by staying home and ensuring safeguards to contain the spread of coronavirus but his plea went unheard as devotees gathered in large numbersRESPLENDENT GLORY On the occasion, the holiest shrine of the Sikhs, Harmandar Sahib, was decorated with 30 tonnes of flowers. The floral decoration has been done with 45 varieties of flowers brought from Kolkata, Pune, Kerala and Bangalore. According to the SGPC, the floral decoration has been done by 80 artists from Uttar Pradesh. The flowers have been provided by a devotee, KK Sharma. An SGPC spokesperson said the shrine will be illuminated on Wednesday night. He said besides the deep mala (lighting of lamps and candles), a fireworks display is planned for two minutes at the shrine. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-norms-forgotten-as-hundreds-take-part-in-nagar-kirtan-in-amritsar-to-mark-416th-parkash-purb-of-guru-granth-sahib/story-BgUmnTYDroea6ONRImMDMM.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||Incessant rains lash Delhi; waterlogging woes continue||Incessant rains lashed the national capital on Wednesday, submerging low-lying areas in knee-deep water and affecting traffic on key roads during morning rush hours. The India Meteorological Department issued an alert at 10:05 am for heavy rains in the national capital. Thunderstorms and moderate to heavy spell of rains are very likely to continue over the entire Delhi and adjoining areas over the next two hours, it said. The downpour may lead to “major traffic disruption” and there is an “increased chance” of road accidents, it warned. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said Delhi recorded light to moderate rains between 6 am and 8:30 am, thereafter the intensity increased. Heavy rains are very likely as the day progresses, he said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 7.4 mm rains till 8:30 am. The Lodhi Road, Ridge and Ayanagar weather stations gauged 9.2, 8.2 and 2.8 mm precipitation. Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5 mm is heavy. Vehicles moved bumper to bumper during the morning rush hours, as the downpour led to heavy waterlogging at key road stretches. Pictures and videos of vehicles and people wading through waist-deep water were widely shared on social media. Srivastava said the axis of monsoon will remain close to the national capital till Thursday. Therefore, more rains are likely. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and southeasterly winds from the Bay of Bengal are also feeding moisture to the region, he said. The downpour is expected to reduce the rain deficiency in the capital. The Safdarjung Observatory has recorded 139.2 mm rainfall against the normal of 157.1 mm in August so far, a deficiency of 11 per cent. Overall, it has recorded 457.8 mm rainfall, six per cent more than the normal of 433.2 mm since June 1 when the monsoon season starts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/incessant-rains-lash-delhi-waterlogging-woes-continue/story-zINf9FFmMqsS9FxlsIQGkK.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||BJP announces district presidents in Haryana||Rohtak: The state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party announced 22 district presidents on Wednesday. The BJP has retained three district presidents, namely Ajay Bansal in Rohtak, Ashok Kumar Dhand in Kaithal and Gopal Sharma in Faridabad. The other district presidents are Vikram Kadyan in Jhajjar, Rakesh Sharma in Mahendergarh, Ajay Sharma in Panchkula, Narender Patel in Nuh, Rajesh Sapda in Yamunanagar, Raju Mor in Jind, Hukum Chand Yadav in Rewari, Satyender Parmar in Dadri, Charan Singh Tewatia in Palwal, Raj Kumar Saini in Kurukshetra, former chairman Captain Bhupender Singh in Hisar, Baldev Geroha in Fatehabad, Rajesh Batora in Ambala, Rai MLA Mohan Lal Kaushik in Sonepat, Sankar Dhupad in Bhiwani, former deputy prime minister Devi Lal’s grandson Aditya Devi Lal in Sirsa, Yogender Rana in Karnal, Archana Gupta in Panipat and Gargi Khakar in Gurugram. BALANCING ACT The BJP’s district president list includes two women, Archana Gupta and Gargi Khakar from Panipat and Gurugram, respectively. The BJP’s new list is a combination of Jat and Brahmin candidates as five candidates are from the Jat community and four are Brahmins. Rai MLA Mohan Lal Kaushik, who has been named the Sonepat district chief, had defeated Congress’s Jai Tirath Dahiya in the 2019 assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-announces-district-presidents-in-haryana/story-jtqepnQYgKMQd2uyeCWOCK.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||BJP’s Doon MLA Paramjeet Singh Pammi among 176 test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Paramjeet Singh Pammi, who represents the Doon assembly segment in Solan district, has tested positive for Covid-19. “After fever on Monday night, I got my test done for Covid-19, the report of which is positive,” Pammi wrote on his Facebook page on Tuesday night. He urged people who came in his contact over the past few days to isolate themselves and get their tests done. Pammi has been admitted to the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, and his family is in home quarantine. The health authorities have started contact mapping and the source of infection is being traced. Pammi had visited Amritsar on August 16 and also gone to Golden Temple. He is the second lawmaker among the dozens of BJP functionaries to have contracted the virus. State power minister Sukhram Chaudhary tested positive on August 6, days after his induction into the cabinet. One more personnel in chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s security detail tested positive on Tuesday night. A total of 13 security personnel and a driver of the chief minister’s staff have tested positive. TWO FATALITIES, DEATH TOLL 19 Two people, including a 48-year-old woman succumbed to the contagion in Dharamshala and Chamba, taking the death toll in the state to 19. The woman, who originally belonged to Dalhousie sub-division in Chamba, was under treatment at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College for acute respiratory distress, said deputy commissioner Rakesh Prajapati. She was shifted to Dedicated Covid-Care Hospital (DCCH) Dharamshala after her Covid-19 report came out positive on Tuesday. Another patient, a man died in a Chamba hospital. The deceased was diabetic and also suffered from Pneumonia. He had tested positive on Monday. 176 NEW CASES The Covid-tally in Himachal reached 4,411 with 176 more people testing positive for the virus in 11 districts. This is the steepest single-day spike in the state. Earlier, the highest single-day spike was on Sunday when 163 people had tested positive. Of new cases, 51 were reported in Solan, 28 in Bilaspur, 21 each in Mandi and Sirmaur, sixteen in Kangra, 12 in Chamba, 10 in Kinnaur, five in Kullu, four each in Shimla and Hamirpur and three Una. In Sirmaur district, all 20 cases were reported from Paonta Sahib. Sixteen people tested positive in Kangra. The patients include a 51-year-old woman from Dharamkot village on the outskirts of Dharamshala town. She travelled back from Delhi recently. Another 65-year-old woman from Gharoh village near Dharamshala is a primary contact of a Covid patient. A 48-year-old man and a 27-year-old woman tested positive in Fatehpur area. They have a travel history to Chhattisgarh and Panchkula, respectively. A one-year-old child is among five people infected in Nurpur. All are primary contacts of Covid patients. A resident of Ghamroor village of Jaswan-Pragpur area also caught the infection. Active cases in the state are 1,358 and 2,992 people have recovered. Solan is the worst-hit district with 1033 cases, followed by Kangra (636), Sirmaur (537), Hamirpur (420), Una (343), Mandi (352), Chamba (309), Shimla (253), Kullu (243), Bilaspur (210), Kinnaur (69) and Lahaul and Spiti (six).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-bjp-s-doon-legislator-paramjeet-singh-pammi-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-1ovUt5xhQ79VJz0yXPIRQN.html
19-08-2020||Noida||Major fire at power substation that provides electricity supply to Noida Metro||A major fire broke out at the power station in Sector 148 of Greater Noida on Wednesday morning, officials said. This sub station provides electricity supply to Noida Metro. #WATCH Greater Noida: A fire has broken out at substation of Noida Power Company Limited (NPCL) in sector 148. Fire tenders at the spot; firefighting operations underway. pic.twitter.com/5vMIwN2l4R“We received information that a 500 MV transformer has caught fire.The power department officials swiftly moved into action to bring the fire under control and informed the police and the fire department,” said V N Singh, chief engineer, Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL).The fire was reported around 8.30am in a transformer at the power station of Noida Power Company Limited (NPCL). Ten fire tenders were rushed to the spot to and the fire was brought under control. Other the Sector 48 metro station, the sub-station supplies power to Sector 93 and Sector 84.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fire-breaks-out-at-power-substation-in-greater-noida/story-jOc1ASTW8NyPgRkC1YnRHK.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Rising water level in Pareechu river from China puts Himachal Pradesh on alert||Shimla: The rising water level in the Pareechu river, which meanders through the mountains of China-occupied Tibetan Autonomous Region before entering India, has the Himachal Pradesh government on alert. Pareechu is a tributary of the Spiti river that merges with the Sutlej at Khab, a village in tribal Kinnaur district of the hill state. “Water in the river has been rising consistently due to clear weather in the mountains which has accelerated glacial melting. We are keeping a close watch but there is no immediate threat. We have apprised the state government,” says Somesh Kumar, the executive engineer of the Central Water Commission. The flow of the Pareechu is recorded at a station at Zada in China, while the Central Water Commission has set up two stations at Chumar near Leh and Sumdoh in Lahaul and Spiti, where the Sutlej confluences with the main tributary of the Spiti river. Water flow is also monitored at Khab, where a dam is built on the Sutlej to generate 1,500 megawatt electricity for the Nathpa-Jhakri project. The Pareechu originates in India, meanders through the mountainous terrain in China-occupied Tibet and then merges into the Sutlej near Samdoh in Lahaul-Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh. LAKE CREATED HAVOC IN 2004 A glacial lake was formed in 2004 after a landslide in the Tibetan Himalayas on the banks of the Pareechu, causing water to build up into an artificial lake spread over 200 hectares and 60 metres deep. The lake formed behind the landslide dam burst on June 26, 2005. Gushing waters washed away the strategic Hindustan-Tibet road and National Highway-22 at a number of places. It swept away 10 bridges and 11 ropeways. Fifteen bridges and eight roads and footbridges were damaged on the 10-km stretch of NH-22 between Wangtoo in Kinnaur and Samdoh in Lahaul-Spiti. No loss of life was reported as the army and civil authorities had evacuated 5,000 people along the Sutlej, anticipating the breach of the lake. The flooding had caused a loss of Rs 800 crore. After the 2005 flooding, India and China signed a protocol for sharing information on the water level from the Pareechu. The lakes in the catchment area of the Pareechu are regularly monitored by the Himachal government’s State Centre in Climate Change (SCCC) by using satellite data. Last month, scientists had detected two landslides using satellite imagery but ruled out the possibility of flooding at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rising-water-level-in-pareechu-river-from-china-puts-himachal-pradesh-on-alert/story-3Jpt7rs1UxxFesXjcLwI3N.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR receives heavy rainfall, temperature drops||Rainfall lashed several parts of the national capital region on Wednesday morning. India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted, ‘generally cloudy sky with heavy rain’ for the national capital. According to an IMD forecast, the city is expected to receive moderate to heavy rainfall on Wednesday and Thursday. #WATCH: Rain lashes parts of Delhi; visuals from Rajaji Marg. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted, 'generally cloudy sky with heavy rain' for the national capital today. pic.twitter.com/HyIKKjb47BDelhi is expected to cover the cumulative rainfall deficit that the city has recorded in the month of August till Thursday, according to IMD. “Tuesday’s rain was mostly concentrated in parts of west and southwest Delhi, but from Wednesday, we will see moderate to heavy rains across the city,” Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre said. On Tuesday, parts of West and Southwest Delhi received moderate rainfall. Areas of Dwarka, Janakpuri, Palam, Uttam Nagar, Rajouri Garden and Tilak Nagar received intermittent showers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-heavy-rainfall/story-VNJyW1Rae0FnEDCzhYwA7J.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||IMD predicts widespread rain in Delhi, monsoon deficit drops||After beginning on a shaky note, Delhi has managed to reduce the rainfall deficit recorded this monsoon to 14% from 23%. India Meteorological Department (IMD) data shows that between June 1 and August 18, Delhi has recorded cumulative rainfall of 342.9 mm.However, the city is expected to cover the deficit in the next two days as IMD has forecast moderate to heavy rainfall.Delhi starts recording monsoon rain from June 1 and September 30 is considered the monsoon retreating date.Officially, monsoon’s arrival in Delhi was declared on July 24.Parts of the national capital on Tuesday received moderate rainfall. IMD data shows that areas around west and southwest Delhi received 2.4 mm rainfall, while central and south Delhi received trace rain.Intermittent showers were reported from Dwarka, Janakpuri, Palam, Uttam Nagar, Rajouri Garden and Tilak Nagar, starting Tuesday afternoon. The IMD forecast said that the intensity of the rain is expected to increase and a spell of heavy rain is likely in the capital on Tuesday night.The IMD said that these heavy spells of rainfall are likely to continue till Thursday. This, the weather scientists said, will cover the cumulative rainfall deficit that the city has recorded in the month of August. Data shows that after Tuesday’s rain, the monthly rainfall recorded in the month of August touched a surplus of 3%.“Under the influence of a large cloud cluster approaching from southwest direction, rainfall started over west and southwest Delhi. This cluster contained clouds with reflectivity as high as 50 dBz. By Tuesday night, wind speed is also likely to reach 40-50 kmph over parts of south, central and west Delhi,” an advisory released by the IMD read on Tuesday.Reflectivity in decibel relative to Z is a radar measurement used to estimate intensity of rain or snowfall.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said in the coming two days rainfall activity is expected to increase throughout the city.“Tuesday’s rain was mostly concentrated in parts of west and southwest Delhi, but from Wednesday, we will see moderate to heavy rains across the city,” Srivastava said.IMD data of rainfall recorded in August shows that parts of northeast Delhi, south Delhi and central Delhi have a deficit ranging between 20-40%. However, areas around northwest Delhi, southwest and west Delhi have received surplus rainfall ranging between 10-48%, making up for the rest of the city.“We are expecting that the overall deficit will be covered in the coming three days,” said Srivastava.IMD data also shows that till July 16, Delhi had a rainfall deficit of 46%, but by July end it was reduced to 29%. The IMD forecast also shows that this season Delhi is likely to record normal or surplus rainfall. Between June 1 and August 18, DelhiIn 2019, the monsoon season retreated in Delhi on October 10, with a rainfall deficit on nearly 38%. The city, however, witnessed surplus rainfall in 2018 and 2017, with 770.6mm and 672.3mm rain respectively. The IMD had recorded 524.1mm rainfall in 2016 as against the city’s average of 648.9mm and 515.3mm in 2015. The city had gauged 370.8 mm rainfall in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/imd-predicts-widespread-rain-in-delhi-monsoon-deficit-drops/story-F9XLQcuaGKWHOvI2jLYgoL.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Players from Punjab, Haryana get lion’s share in national sports awards||Indian women hockey skipper Rani Rampal, who hails from Haryana’s hockey hub Shahbad, and Asian Games gold medallist wrestler Vinesh Phogat of the famed Phogat clan from Charkhi Dadri were among the five outstanding sportspersons recommended for the country’s highest sporting honour Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratan award on Tuesday. The other nominees are star cricketer Rohit Sharma, Rio Paralympic gold-winning high jumper Mariyappan Thangavelu and paddler Manika Batra. A whopping 29 names were also recommended for the Arjuna award by the 12-member selection committee of the sports ministry. Of these, 10 hail from the region. What’s more, five out of the 13 coaches recommended for the Dronacharya awards, are from the region. These include former national women boxing coach Shiv Singh, who hails from Chandigarh, hockey coach from Himachal Romesh Pathania , Krishan Kumar Hooda, (kabaddi), OP Dahiya (wrestling), both from Haryana, and J&K wushu coach Kuldeep Handoo. “It’s great news for me. The sporting honours motivate us to achieve more and more and I am really happy to be the first women hockey player to get the Khel Ratna award,” says Rani, whose last-minute goal against USA in the Olympic qualifiers held in Odisha last year, helped the country to qualify for the second successive quadrennial games. She was also part of the team in the Rio Olympics. Two-time Asian Games medallist Vinesh is the second women wrestler to get the sporting honour. In the Dhyanchand awards category, seven out of the 14 names recommended by the panel hail from Punjab and Haryana. Hockey Olympic bronze medallist Ajit Singh, father of former Indian skipper Gagan Ajit Singh, has been recommended for the award. The other players from the region are Asian Games silver medallist discus thrower Kuldeep Singh Bhullar, Olympian boxer Lakha Singh, football coach Sukhwinder Singh Sandhu, double Asian gold medallist kabaddi player Manpreet Singh, rowing Olympian Manjit Singh and Asian Games medallist wrestler Netar Pal Hooda. The Panjab University, Chandigarh, has been recommended for the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) Trophy for the best all-round performance in sports among Indian varsities for the second time in a row. The university has won the trophy 14 times earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/players-from-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-himachal-get-lion-s-share-in-national-sports-awards/story-rxkFWnEhs2GFoZt0gzBm5L.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Centre talks of keeping SYL canal ready as Punjab, Haryana stick to their stands||Even as Punjab and Haryana stuck to their “stated positions” on the contentious Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal, Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Tuesday said the SYL could be completed and kept ready while discussions on water sharing continue and the final formula could be decided later. The Union minister’s view was reflected in an official statement issued by the Punjab government after his meeting with the state’s chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Shekhawat and Khattar were present in Delhi whereas Amarinder joined the meeting through video conference. “Detailed discussion was held in a positive and cordial atmosphere. Both chief ministers expressed their views in the first round of talks. Another meeting will be held in a week or so to take things forward,” Shekhawat told reporters after the meeting, adding that the logjam between the two states has been broken. The central minister convened the meeting with the two chief ministers to work out a solution for implementation of Supreme Court’s January 15, 2002, and June 4, 2004, orders to complete the remaining portion of the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) canal. The meeting was called on the directions of the apex court which, during a hearing on July 28, directed that the chief ministers of the two states “meet to find out the solution if any, else there is a decree which has to be executed”. The sharing of the Ravi-Beas waters has been a bone of contention between Punjab and Haryana for decades. While Haryana has been seeking its “rightful” share, successive Punjab governments have refused to share water and complete the SYL canal, which was to carry the former’s share of water, stating that it has not water to spare. During the video conference, Amarinder reiterated the need for a tribunal to make a fresh time-bound assessment of the water availability, even as he sought complete share of water for his state from the total resource available, including from Yamuna. Besides asking the Centre to look at the “emotive” canal issue from the national security perspective, he suggested that Rajasthan be involved in discussions on the SYL canal/Ravi-Beas waters as it was also a stakeholder. Construction of SYL canal has absolutely no connection with sharing of water between the states… The canal must be completed as per decree of the Supreme Court. Not doing so is gross injustice to the people of water- deprived areas of Haryana Khattar, on the other hand, said that completion of the SYL canal by Punjab and availability of water were entirely different issues. “We are open for dialogue and discussion on the subject but with a clear stipulation and condition that construction of SYL must be completed as per decree of the Supreme Court at the earliest. Not doing so is gross injustice to the people of water deprived areas of Haryana,’’ he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centre-talks-of-keeping-syl-canal-ready-as-punjab-haryana-stick-to-their-stands/story-DHdXIgiscMzBj6gAMoxz3L.html
19-08-2020||Mumbai||Social worker, booked for obstructing shelter for migrant workers, granted anticipatory bail by Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court (HC) on Monday granted anticipatory bail to a social worker booked for obstructing revenue officers from creating a temporary shelter for migrant workers at a school in Shirur village, Thane district, on the condition that he will contribute ₹50,000 to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.Social worker Farukh Sattar Dalvi had moved the HC after Kasara police booked him under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for obstructing the tehsildar from creating a temporary shelter for 80 migrant labourers who had walked from the Vasai-Virar to their hometowns.On April 5, 2020, the tehsildar of Shahapur and some other revenue staff were making preparations to create a temporary shelter at the school in Shirur, when Dalvi, along with several other persons, reached the spot and opposed the move.The tehsildar alleged that Dalvi verbally abused and threatened her with dire consequences if they continued with the work, and so she was forced to file a police complaint against him.The social worker had moved the high court after the district court rejected his anticipatory bail plea. He told the HC that he was apprehensive about the possible threat of exposure to the villagers from the migrant workers.“It is no doubt true that the applicant has attempted to deter the complainant from discharging her duty and, particularly when he considers himself to be a social worker, it was rather imperative on his part to assist the government agency in securing shelter for the migrants,” justice Bharati Dangre said.The judge, however, accepted that Dalvi acted on his genuine concern for the villagers and added that, “as a responsible person and a social worker, he must contribute an amount of ₹50,000 to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to aid the state government which is grappling with an unpredicted situation and coping with a grim and stressful scenario.”The HC has granted him bail on a personal bond of ₹25,000, on the condition that he will cooperate with the investigation and visit Kasara police station on September 2, 3 and 4. He is supposed to submit the receipt of deposit made to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund when he visits the police station on September 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/social-worker-booked-for-obstructing-shelter-for-migrant-workers-granted-anticipatory-bail-by-bombay-hc/story-1ALaquq9XVuj6C30Cq3ivI.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Living room of the pigeons||The house is quiet — well, almost. The late afternoon sky is glowing with brilliant sunshine. The balcony is framed by a leaf-heavy kachnar tree. The mistress of this elegant Nizamuddin East apartment in central Delhi is presently enjoying an afternoon nap, while her cook in the kitchen listens to romantic Mohammed Rafi songs on his mobile phone. The volume is low, as if it weren’t a famous playback singer but a gentle father lulling his child to sleep.Neither the mistress nor the cook immediately find out that a pigeon is trapped inside the drawing room, trying to find its way back to the great outdoors. The hapless creature is gliding about the book-lined walls like a shaky plane in massive turbulence, struggling to find a safe spot for emergency landing.The bird flaps its wings repeatedly, as if in distress. The cook enters the room to check what the fuss is about. His gaze follows the haphazard movements of the bird, who is now circling about the ceiling, close to the fan. The cook shakes his head resignedly, as if he has seen this movie too many times. Even so, he comes to the rescue, and opens wide the door to the balcony. The bird quickly escapes, and the cook lets the door remain open—just in case there might be other birds trapped inside, he explains. The sunlight swiftly streams inside the book-filled drawing room, spreading up to Sir Syed Ahmad Khan’s classic Asar-al-Sanadid, while Vikram Seth’s An Equal Music remains coolly shaded. A thick hardbound of Egyptian novelist Naguib Mahfouz’s Cairo Trilogy is lying half-opened on the divan. Soon afterwards, another pigeon now flies in, propping itself atop a bookshelf, directly above — believe it or not — The Book of Indian Birds by Salim Ali. The new bird putters about and plunges down towards a settee, finally landing on the Kashmiri carpet.This bird is bolder than the earlier one, and seems unmindful of the much-treasured Sadequain painting hanging just behind the blue sofa. Now it’s joined by another bird, and together they roam around fearlessly, as though they had established that it was their own drawing room.The pair finally flies outside as the evening sun starts to burn golden bright.Not long after, the mistress appears on the scene sleepily, muttering affectionate words about “these foolish kabutar who happily come inside the house but don’t know how to get out.” She shakes the curtains one by one to check for other birds, possibly hiding in fright. Finally, she asks the cook to provide her with chai and butter-toast. The lady now settles down on the sofa with her mobile, her feet on the coffee table, as though by banishing the birds she had again rightly claimed back her undisputed ownership of the drawing room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-living-room-of-the-pigeons/story-NDCK3BEgSm7JjSU08pxAGK.html
19-08-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC restrains Emami from using ‘Glow and Handsome’ mark||Reiterating that the Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL) was prima facie the prior adopter of the mark ‘Glow and Handsome,’ the Bombay high court (HC) temporarily restrained Emami Ltd from using the same trade mark for grooming and skincare products until further orders. The court also observed that the order would, however, not restrain Emami from gaining a similar order in the suit it filed in the Calcutta HC. The single bench of justice SC Gupte was hearing the interim application in a commercial suit filed by HUL – seeking a restraint on Emami from using the trademark ‘Glow and Handsome’. The counsels for HUL submitted that the mark was adopted by the company in September 2018 and it also applied for permission from the Food and Drug Administration to change the mark ‘Fair and Lovely’ to ‘Glow and Handsome’, which was granted on August 2 this year. The counsels further submitted that in July this year, HUL announced its decision to change the mark and also submitted details of the sales of its products under the new trademark as well as the expenditure it incurred for the promotion of the new trademark. Senior counsel Virag Tulzapurkar and advocate Hiren Kamod for HUL submitted that as Emami was in process of launching products under the trademark on August 17 or 18 and announced its intentions on July 27, the application seeking an interim injunction restrained Emami from using the trademark “Glow and Handsome”. Senior advocate Jishnu Saha for Emami opposed the application and said that it had been marketing skin care products under the trademark “Fair and Handsome” and if HUL was allowed to use the trademark “Glow and Handsome” for a similar product it would infringe their registered trademark. He also submitted that Emami had adopted the mark before and applied for its registration on June 25. He added that Emami moved an application against HUL before the Calcutta HC related to the use of the trademark in question, and did not obtain any interim order therein. Saha further submitted that if HUL was allowed to market its products under the “Glow and Handsome” mark, there was a concrete likelihood of confusion and deception in the public, if identical marks are allowed to hold the field for popular and much sold commodities. After hearing the submissions, the court noted that HUL’s action was an action in passing off, since it did not hold the registration of the trademark “Glow & Handsome”. The court then said that as Emami did not introduce its products into the market under its proposed trademark “Glow & Handsome”, it deserved to be restrained from doing so and passed an ad-interim injunction restraining Emami from using the alleged mark till the final disposal of the suit. The court while directing Emami to file its reply to the application within two weeks said, “It is made clear that this order shall not in any manner come in the way of the defendant (Emami) claiming in its own suit in Calcutta high court a restraint order against the plaintiff’s (HUL) use of the trademark “Glow & Handsome”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-restrains-emami-from-using-glow-and-handsome-mark/story-TILMcGO7z7YywZtGF8W0PN.html
19-08-2020||City||Kharegaon RoB to open by January: Thane civic body||Come January, the Kharegaon rail overbridge (RoB) will finally be ready for use, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Tuesday. The work for the bridge was delayed for almost a decade. After the bridge is constructed, the railway crossing used by motorists and pedestrians to travel between Kalwa east and west will be closed. Many people were hit by trains in the past while crossing the bridge. TMC executive engineer Pravin Papalkar said, “For two months during the lockdown, the construction work was stopped. We have resumed it now and only the work of installing the slabs is remaining. We are in the process of placing girders for this slab and shall complete the work by January 2021 and open the bridge for the citizens. After the bridge is constructed, we will close the railway crossing.” Constructed at a budget of Rs27 crore, the work for the RoB has been undertaken jointly by the railways and TMC. While the railways had completed the work of laying the girder over the tracks a year ago, the corporation started the work for the bridge in January 2018. The bridge will be 692.27m long, of which 625.83m will be constructed by the corporation. The budget will also be shared by both railway and TMC. For the convenience of pedestrians and motorists, the bridge will have a ramp as well as a staircase. Nandkumar Deshmukh, president of Thane Railway Passengers’ Association, said, “We have been demanding the RoB since many years. We have also written letters seeking an explanation on the delay. Many pedestrians cross the tracks during peak hours even if the gates are closed, leading to several deaths. More than 50,000 residents staying in Kalwa cross the track on a daily basis. In the past few years, the population in the vicinity has increased, making it necessary for the RoB to be constructed to avoid more deaths in the future.” The ground where the proposed bridge would land would have to be split into two, which the locals were not keen on. Hence, the civic body made some alterations to the plan and ensured that the ground is not affected. Similarly, one part of the land where the bridge is to come up, was owned by a firm and the matter was sub judice for many years, adding to the delay. The civic body has now paid compensation of Rs40 crore to the private company and taken over the land. Shrikant Shinde, Shiv Sena parliamentarian from Kalyan, said, “We held various meetings with the corporation, railway authorities and locals to resolve the multiple hindrances that caused the delay. Eventually, the work had started but the lockdown led to further delay. Otherwise, by now the bridge would have been opened to locals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharegaon-rob-to-open-by-january-thane-civic-body/story-ZzfK1PhRiGEiLjGBoMb1pO.html
19-08-2020||City||5 arrested for attacking youth with hockey stick, knives at Navi Mumbai||Days after a Pune family moved to Koparkhairane because they opposed their teenage daughter’s friendship to a 22-year-old man, the youth with his four other friends, armed with knives and a hockey stick, went to the girl’s new home at Navi Mumbai and attacked her brother outside their home. The police have nabbed the five accused. The girl’s brother has sustained minor injuries in the attack. According to the police, the main accused, Avinash Khatape, wanted to marry the minor girl but her family opposed the alliance. The girl’s family then moved from Pune around three days ago. An officer from Koparkhairane police station said, “After knowing about the girl’s whereabouts, he and his four friends reached Koparkhairane on Sunday to threaten the minor’s family. The five had a hockey stick and knives and attacked the girl’s brother.” The police received a call from the control room, following which constables Sainath Sonawane, Mahesh Gawde, Mukinda Solankar and Sachin Dalvi reached the spot at Sector 11 but by then the accused fled the area. “A crowd had gathered there. One of the persons managed to see the partial number of the accused’s van. We immediately left on the patrolling bikes to chase them,” said Sonawane. The five drove towards the Thane-Belapur Road. Along the way, with inputs from autorickshaw drivers and roadside shops, the police chased the car towards Dighe in Navi Mumbai for close to 8 kilometres and cornered the accused near Rabale MIDC area. The men then left the van and ran but the constables nabbed them from the forest area. The police recovered the hockey stick and three knives from their possession and seized the van. The other accused were identified as Sumit Shinde, 19; Bharat Parte, 22; Anil Pilane, 22, and Sandip Dardige, 23. All the five are arrested for rioting and assault along with other sections of the Indian Arms Act. They have been remanded in judicial custody. All the accused are unemployed, said the police. The police are yet to record statements of the girl’s family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-arrested-for-attacking-youth-with-hockey-stick-knives-at-navi-mumbai/story-BPzwi4ZJe4F72yDLeL8yqK.html
19-08-2020||Mumbai||BJP used social media to spread religious hatred: Shiv Sena||The ruling Shiv Sena, which is part of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, comprising the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, on Tuesday, launched into ally-turned-rival the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and alleged that the party benefitted the most electorally using social media and gained politically by spreading religious hatred since it assumed power at the Centre in 2014.An editorial in Saamana, the party mouthpiece, referred to a news report published in The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on August 14 that took a dig at Facebook’s India operations for turning a blind eye to hate speech by a BJP elected representative and three other “Hindu nationalist individuals and groups” in a bid not to hurt the social media company’s lucrative business prospects in its biggest market.The editorial in the Marathi daily said that social media platforms can be used to voice opinions but “if it is used to spread hatred to divide the country, then action should be taken against those without thinking about which party they belong to. Facebook cannot turn a blind eye to the person spreading hatred because he is from the ruling party.” It exhorted foreign companies to abide by Indian laws.The BJP leader cited in the WSJ report is T Raja Singh, the lone party member of the Telangana legislative assembly (MLA), who is known for his provocative social media posts against Muslims and dabbling in divisive and rabble-rousing politics.“It is alright to have a difference of opinion on platforms such as Facebook… However, the social media company [Facebook] is not a platform to create a divide between Hindus and Muslims,” it said.“Instead of connecting society, social media is used to spread hatred. Today, countless new age Goebbels have their own law, judicial process, prison. Social media is on the payrolls of political parties. In 2014, the social media army had made a big contribution because of which the BJP had won the election under the leadership of [Narendra] Modi,” it said.“In the last seven years, truth is being twisted and falsehood is being openly propagated. Rumours and hatred against religion are being spread for political gains,” it added.The editorial pointed out that social media was full of jokes and memes about former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh until not too long ago, but now the same platform has turned on the heat on PM Modi and ex-Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, which is “tragic”.Keshav Upadhye, BJP’s chief spokesperson, Maharashtra, dismissed the allegation that the party has gained electorally because of its divisive politics. He described Sena’s charges as “laughable”.“Such claims made by the Congress or the Shiv Sena are baseless. It is far from reality. Before last year’s parliamentary elections, over 700 [Facebook] pages, which had right-wing propaganda, were banned. Today, too, materials written against Modiji are available on Facebook. The BJP has not benefitted electorally in any way,” Upadhye rebutted.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had also taken a swipe at the BJP over the WSJ report.“BJP and RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) control Facebook & WhatsApp in India. They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook,” Gandhi had tweeted on Sunday, two days after WSJ had published the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-used-social-media-to-spread-religious-hatred-shiv-sena/story-HpDf7dbtuRRaC2eJQKVnyI.html
19-08-2020||Mumbai||PMC Bank fraud case: Shift HDIL’s Rakesh Wadhawan to govt hospital, says PMLA court||The special court set up to try cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, on Tuesday, directed jail authorities to shift Housing Development and Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL) promoter Rakesh Wadhawan to a government-run hospital to undergo colonoscopy or endoscopy.The court has ordered that he could be admitted to a private healthcare facility, if the treatment is not available in a government-run hospital.Wadhawan, who has been suffering from multiple ailments, through his lawyers, had pleaded to transfer him to a private hospital for treatment.The plea was made after the court had refused to grant him bail.His lawyer Subir Kumar said that the court initially, has directed the prison authorities to transfer him to a government hospital.But, he could be shifted to a private hospital, if the government-run hospital doctors recommend it.“The jail authority is directed to take accused Rakesh Wadhawan to either KEM hospital or Nair Hospital or any other government hospital for colonoscopy or endoscopy, if the procedure has not been carried out yet. If it is noticed during the treatment by the government-run hospital doctors that Wadhawan would need to be treated at a private hospital, then he could be shifted there. However, the hospital’s administrative and jail authorities’ advice will be required before he can be shifted to a private hospital,” said PP Rajvaidy, judge, special PMLA court.Wadhawan and his son Sarang have been booked by the Mumbai Police’s economic offence wing (EOW) after they had defaulted on the repayment of a loan taken from the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank (PMC).The bank had run into acute financial troubles, as HDIL had 73% of the financial institution’s total loan exposure of Rs 8,300, which works out to around Rs 6,226 crore.They had allegedly conspired with bank officials to secure the loan without security.Soon after the EOW case, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) also had initiated a separate probe into money laundering allegations against the Wadhawans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-fraud-case-shift-hdil-s-rakesh-wadhawan-to-govt-hospital-says-pmla-court/story-Po6RDe3T97Zn7ESwf57QBL.html
19-08-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows MMRDA to cut 86 mangroves for Metro Line-2B||The Bombay high court (HC) has allowed the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) to cut 86 mangroves in Parigachi Khadi for the construction of six piers of the Mumbai Metro Line-2B, which connects DN Nagar in Andheri to Mandale. MMRDA has pledged to plant 4,400 mangroves and deposited the amount required for compensatory afforestation.“We are convinced that Metro Line-2B project is carried out in public interest,” said a bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Madhav Jamdar last week while giving the go-ahead.The bench took into consideration the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority’s November 2018 clearance for the construction in the mangroves forest and the Union environment ministry’s approval for it in January.MMRDA moved the court after the latter in September 2018 held that mangroves cannot be permitted to be destructed unless the work is necessary for the public good or is in the public interest. It said about 111 square metres of forest land were permanently required for the construction of the six piers. About 1,860 square metres area around the piers was needed temporarily to enable their construction.MMRDA assured the court it will restore the temporary area to its original condition once the construction is completed, and abide by the Union ministry’s conditions for approving the proposal.Mumbai Metro Line-2B is a 23.64 km long elevated corridor which will have 22 stations. The corridor will reduce travel time between the eastern and western suburbs by 40 to 55 minutes. It will result in a 30 to 35℅ consequent reduction in vehicular traffic.MMRDA has argued that apart from providing eco-friendly transportation, the Metro Rail project is also expected to reduce emission, improve traffic conditions in Mumbai Metropolitan Region, and save precious fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-allows-mmrda-to-cut-86-mangroves-for-metro-line-2b/story-n2hYtIidj8HvV69tV8Ge4O.html
19-08-2020||City||270kg ganja recovered, two held from Jind||Two persons were arrested and 270kg ganja was recovered from their possession in Jind’s Kila Zafargarh on Tuesday, police said.The accused have been identified as Kamal alias Bholu and Ajay, both from Jind district.Detective team in-charge Inspector Samarjeet said they seized 270kg ganja from a truck coming towards Jind side and arrested two persons.“During questioning, the accused confessed that they brought the ganja from Vishakapatam and were planning to supply it to various parts of Jind. We have booked them under the NDPS Act and started investigating the role of other accused in this case,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/270kg-ganja-recovered-two-held-from-jind/story-9e2wqRirRj1VxtTTHkEqqN.html
19-08-2020||Mumbai||JEE-Mains in September: 6-ft space between candidates is must||A day after the Supreme Court refused to further postpone the entrance examinations for admissions to undergraduate engineering and medical courses, the National Testing Agency (NTA) released the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for more than 9 lakh engineering aspirants, slated to appear for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Mains Paper 2 between September 1 and 6. The guidelines released by the national exam organising body requires that a 6-feet distance be maintained at all times between students. Candidates will also have to mandatorily wash and sanitise their hands before entering the examination centre. “Before the start of each shift, and after the last shift ends, candidates’ seating will be thoroughly sanitised, including the work station, keyboard, seat etc will be disinfected. Hand sanitisers will be available at the entrance of the examination centre and inside the exam hall at all times,” stated the SOP released by NTA. It further stated that the usual process of checking the admit cards of candidates will be replaced with barcode readers, which will be made available to the examination centre authorities. While all the candidates will be asked to go to the exam centres with masks and sanitisers, once they enter the centre, they will have to use the masks provided by the examination authority. “Each candidate will be offered a 3-ply mask at the time of entry and expected to wear the same during the examination in order to avoid any form of unfair means at the time of examination,” stated the SOP, adding that each candidate will also be provided with separate rough sheets on their desks at the examination centre. NTA has further clarified that no eligible student will be denied permission to appear for the examination until the aspirant violates the Covid-19 directives/advisories given by the Centre. Candidates and parents, however, are worried if students who have tested positive for Covid-19 will also be allowed to appear for the exam. “NTA needs to clarify this in order to avoid any trouble in the future,” said a candidate. Based on the results of the JEE-Mains Paper 1 and Paper 2, the top 2.45 lakh candidates will be eligible to appear for the JEE-Advanced exam, which is a one-stop exam to get admission into the 23 premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). JEE-Advanced is scheduled to take place on September 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jee-mains-in-september-6-ft-space-between-candidates-is-must/story-1RRPlxuU5gtUIYytoBSSRO.html
19-08-2020||City||PM Modi to interact with ragpickers from Karnal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually interact with ragpickers from Karnal on August 20.As per the information, Karnal is among the four cities chosen for this interaction on Thursday when the Prime Minister will also announce the results of the fifth edition of annual cleanliness survey ‘Swachh Survekshan 2020’ .Commissioner of Karnal municipal corporation Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “There are 250 registered ragpickers in Karnal and they have been provided all facilities, including Ayushman card.” He said about 20 ragpickers remain present for the interaction and all the arrangements have been made by the MC to facilitate the interaction from material recovery facility centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pm-modi-to-interact-with-ragpickers-from-karnal/story-7ZA0pdT6WjVnX1RZImsTlL.html
19-08-2020||Mumbai||1 dead, 1 injured after portion of Mumbai building collapses||One person died and another was injured after a portion of a vacated, two-storey building in Bandra (West), collapsed on Monday. The incident took place around 8.30pm. Mumbai Fire brigade rescued two persons who were trapped in the debris. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is yet to determine the legality of the structure. Debris was being cleared from the crash site at the time of going to print. According to BMC’s disaster management cell, around 8.30pm on Monday, one wing of the ground-plus-two storey Bharti Building collapsed on the compound wall of the neighbouring, four-storeyed Hardik Villa. Bharti Building has been empty for more than 20 years, said locals. Emergency responders were immediately sent to the site of the level-3 collapse. The deceased has been identified as Bruce D’Penha, 41, who was rescued and taken to Lilavati Hospital on Monday night. He succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday morning. D’Penha had been visiting an electronic repair on the ground floor of Hardik Villa. Arjun Pandit, 22, has sustained a head injury and is being treated at Bhabha Hospital. D’Penha had taken his laptop to be repaired at a shop on the ground floor of Hardik Villa. The proprietor of the shop Zeeshan Shaikh said D’Penha had been in the shop’s reception area. “He [D’Penha] had no chance to escape as it was a sudden crash. We were stuck inside the shop. The fire brigade and locals somehow managed to remove us,” Shaikh added. Hardik Villa was vacated after it sustained damage to its compound wall and ground floor. Some cars parked in its compound were also damaged. Vinayak Vispute, assistant municipal commissioner of H (West) ward, said, “The debris is still being removed and we have allowed residents from Hardik Villa to go back to their homes for now. We will soon hold a meeting with building proposals department to get details of Bharti building. So far, we only know that it was a legal structure but thorough information can be only be given after inquiring the matter.” According to civic officials, Bharti Building was constructed in 1992 and Hardik Villa was constructed in the early 1980s. Sadiq Rizvi, a resident of a nearby building, said, “This structure [Bharti Building] was standing vacant for the past 20 years and none of the authorities have taken notice. The structure had become dangerous and BMC should have demolished the building long ago. This collapse could have caused major damage and casualties.” Meanwhile, state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray visited the crash site on Tuesday. “This morning I visited the site of the crashed building and reviewed the ongoing relief work. I have suggested providing financial help from state government to the family of the deceased. Other injured person is getting treated in the hospital. Two persons were injured in the accident, one of whom died tragically,” Thackeray tweeted.Congress legislator Zeeshan Siddique said, “I have requested a thorough inquiry into the matter. The demolition of this building, provided no one was staying in the building, should have taken place before such an untoward incident happened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-dead-1-injured-after-portion-of-mumbai-building-collapses/story-32ZYekK8Bs8mtiaM05kuAJ.html
19-08-2020||City||Hong Kong bans Air India flights for 2 weeks after 11 passengers test positive for Covid-19||Hong Kong has banned flights operated by Air India for two weeks after 11 passengers on board a Delhi-Hong Kong flight tested positive for Covid-19 on August 14. Sources said Air India will not be able to operate flights to Hong Kong from August 18 to 31, and the decision will adversely affect several Hong Kong-bound passengers stranded in Delhi. Air India did not comment on the matter despite repeated calls and messages by HT. A tweet from the national carrier on Monday read, “Due to restrictions imposed by Hong Kong Authorities, AI 310/315, Delhi-Hong Kong-Delhi of 18th August 2020 stands postponed. Next update in this regard will be intimated soon. Passengers may please contact Air India Customer Care for assistance.” The operations of all the repatriation flights under the Centre’s Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) will now be halted. A spokesperson from the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) said, “We are working on it and hope to resolve the matter soon.” It is learnt that Hong Kong government invoked the Prevention and Control of Disease (Regulation of Cross-boundary Conveyances and Travellers) Regulation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hong-kong-bans-air-india-flights-for-2-weeks-after-11-passengers-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-9u6Vn1iXVdyPfvF3YmxUbO.html
19-08-2020||City||Small farmers seek support from government to deal with stubble burning||BLURB/ STRAP Allege small farmers are being ignored and big farmers are taking advantage of govt’s cash subsidy schemes  Some farmers have raised objection over the government’s policy of providing direct subsidy on machines being used for management of crop waste, saying the schemes are designed to benefit rich farmers with larger land holdings. During a virtual state-level seminar attended by farmers from all districts of the state, most farmers said the government’s scheme was not beneficial for small and marginal farmers as most machines were purchased by rich farmers. They said the machines purchased by farmers’ societies under the Custom Hiring Centres (CHCs) schemes with hefty subsidies upto 80% were also beyond the reach of small farmers. “Heavy machines like the super seeder are being provided by the government but these machines are beyond the reach of small farmers as a 75HP tractor is needed to run big machines”, said a farmer from Karnal. A farmer from Nuh district said most machines and subsidies were meant for farmers who burn crop waste. “The government should introduce schemes for farmers who do not burn crop waste and harvest the crop manually,” he said. A farmer from Yamunanagar said the government should check CHCs as they do not help small farmers and rent the machines as per their whims. Haryana Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department director general VS Dahiya said that they have noted the suggestions of the farmers and efforts will be made to ensure that all farmers benefits from government schemes and shun the practice of stubble burning. He said as many as 2,089 CHCs had been set up in the state and 820 new CHCs will also be set up to eradicate the practice of burning crop waste in the coming Kharif harvesting season. Need to make crop waste profitable, says JP Dalal Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal said farmers should earn from crop waste to increase their income. He urged agricultural scientists to conduct research so that crop waste can be made profitable for the farmers. Dalal also urged the farmers to take advantage of government schemes. Responding to a question, Dalal said the BJP will win the Baroda bypoll with a considerable margin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/small-farmers-seek-support-from-government-to-deal-with-stubble-burning/story-3beGntecsbJH5Pn3xPN97M.html
19-08-2020||City||Two men shot dead in Panipat village; 9 booked||Two men were shot dead following a clash in Bandh village of Panipat district late on Monday, police said.The victims are Manish Kumar, 35, and Satish Kumar, 40, both residents of Israna village. As per the information, the incident took place when the victims had gone to Band village to settle an old dispute with owners of a roadside Dhaba in Kohand village.In his police complaint, Praveen Kumar, brother of Manish, said the victims had gone to a dhaba along with their friend Vikas of Bandh village on August 14 where they got engaged in a clash with eatery owners.Later, the dhaba owners filed a police complaint, accusing the victims of theft. On Monday evening, Manish and Satish along with two others had gone to Bandh village to settle the dispute, but accused Dharambir, Dhajja Ram, Rajbir and others allegedly attacked them and later shot them dead.The police have booked nine people, including two women, under sections 148, 149, 302 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and section 25 of the Arms Act.The police also detained some people, which agitated some residents of the Bandh village and they reached Panipat police headquarters and demanded a fair investigation from superintendent of police Manisha Chaudhary.“We have detained some people for questioning and the police are verifying the involvement of those accused in the complaint,” she said.As per the SP, some family members of the accused came to meet her and she has asked them to give their written statement for the investigation.She said efforts were on to apprehend Vikas in order to get collect more information as he was with the victims when they went to the dhaba on August 14. Murder convict beaten to death in JindA 46-year-old murder convict, who was out on parole, was beaten to death by a mahant and his four accomplices at a temple in Jind’s Gosain Khera village on Monday night.The deceased has been identified as Dharambir, who had been serving 20 years’ jail term in a murder case.In his complaint to the police, victim’s brother Dharampal said Dharambir had gone to the village temple on Monday night to pay obeisance.“My brother had a verbal spat with temple’s mahant Sanjay Nath over some petty issue. Following that, the mahant and his four accomplices started thrashing my brother with sticks and he got severely injured. We took Dharambir to PGIMS, where doctors declared him brought dead,” he added.A spokesman of Jind police said they have registered a case under sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code and they have started investigation into the matter.“We have launched a man hunt to nab the accused, who are at large,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-shot-dead-in-panipat-village-9-booked/story-V4dGzqAHc3jreuMQrgVaCI.html
19-08-2020||City||Haryana sees 7 deaths, 896 new infections||Seven coronavirus patients died on Tuesday in Haryana, taking the death toll to 557, the state health bulletin said.Among the dead, four were from Karnal and one each from Faridabad, Rohtak and Panipat districts. The state also witnessed 896 new infections in the past 24 hours with maximum 116 infections reported from Panipat followed by 99 from Faridabad, 98 from Gurugram, 95 from Karnal and 81 from Rewari district. As per the bulletin, the cumulative tally of Covid19 cases reached 48,936 in the state.While the state’s recovery rate remained 84.39% and 688 patients recovered from the disease. DGP office, Shiksha Sadan to remain closedThe office of Haryana director general of police in Panchkula will remain closed on Wednesday and Thursday as six police personnel working there have tested positive for the virus. Haryana’s Siksha Sadan in Panchkula will also remain closed till August 21 following outbreak of Covid-19 in the department. As per the orders issued by director, secondary education, J Ganesan, the officials of this department will work from home till August 21. Rohtak DC tests positive After two staff members of Anoop Dhanak, who had taken part in a Jannayak Janta Party leader’s birthday programme here on August 14 evening, tested positive for the virus on Monday evening, Rohtak deputy commissioner RS Verma was also found infected on Tuesday.Rohtak civil surgeon Dr Anil Birla said, “We will collect samples of those who came in contact with the DC,” he added.Minister violates social distancing protocol on eve of I-DayDhanak had violated the social distancing protocol by taking part in a dinner here on the eve of the Independence Day, where over 100 people were present.A district health official pleading anonymity said five members of the JJP leader and two staff members of Dhanak had tested positive on Monday.“The minister has gone into quarantine at his Chandigarh residence,” the official added.(With inputs from Sunil Rahar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-sees-7-deaths-896-new-infections/story-l2kyiUuEY25RErcpkKXrjJ.html
19-08-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena MP writes to state home minister, demands action against Arnab Goswami||Shiv Sena MP Arvind Sawant on Tuesday wrote to home minister Anil Deshmukh demanding action against Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami for allegedly naming a Maharashtra cabinet minister in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput case without any evidence and violating the norms of the Press Council of India.  Goswami did not respond to HT’s texts till the time of going to press. The former Union minister in his letter said that Goswami’s reference to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is “aggravating”. The South Mumbai MP alleged that Goswami, for the interest of a few people, was spreading false news. The news channels have named Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray and his son and minister Aaditya Thackeray in connection with Rajput’s suicide. “Under the garb of journalism, Mr Arnab Goswami, chief editor of Hindi news channel Republic Bharat and English news channel Republic TV, is constantly airing news irresponsibly. Without any evidence, the news channels and its chief editor Arnab Goswami have been levelling allegations on Maharashtra Cabinet minister,” he alleged in the letter. The Sena deputy leader alleged that in the past too, Goswami, while presenting news, had spoken in a derogatory manner against politicians and opposition leaders, for which cases have been lodged against him. Speaking to TV channels on Tuesday, Sawant said there is a new fad of “media trial” and said guidelines of the Press Council of India and code have to be followed while reporting about an ongoing case. “Recently, it is seen channels decide the accused, name some people, and indulge in character assassination. The body language and the manner in which this is done is so disrespectful. It came to a point where Maharashtra Chief Minister was singularly named. Such language is aggravating. This is not just disrespecting the person but the insult of the entire state, because he is the CM of this state. I have asked the home minister to take cognisance of this. They think nobody will question them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-mp-writes-to-state-home-minister-demands-action-against-arnab-goswami/story-toZaajDmXeuH9o09zfPDjI.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh property case: NRI alleges impersonation, UT top law officer roped in for probe||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked UT’s top law officer Pankaj Jain to ascertain facts into a case of ownership of a Sector-5 property wherein a former UN executive and NRI Padamjit Singh has alleged impersonation.The HC bench of justices Daya Chaudhary and Meenakshi Mehta passed the order after Singh filed a plea stating that a petition filed on July 8 using his name was not, in fact, filed by him.The 84-year-old former UN executive lives in the USA. The property in question as per submissions in court is owned 50% each by him and family members of his brother.Pankaj Jain, senior standing counsel, has been asked to verify the facts about the property ownership. He has also been asked to verify who authorized a lawyer to file the July 8 petition using Singh’s name. The lawyer, who had appeared in the July petition, has also been asked to cooperate for the probe.Registrar (judicial) has been directed to keep complete record of the case in a sealed cover and restrained from allowing inspection of the file without permission. The construction, if any, being done at the property has also been stayed.The July 8 plea had claimed that Singh never sold the 50% share of the property to a woman named Pritam Kaur. However, a fresh affidavit filed by Singh says that he has sold his share of property to the woman and that he had authorized none to file the July 8 plea. When the lawyer appearing in the July 8 petition was questioned, he told the court that the matter was brought to him by another lawyer and all requisite permissions to file the plea were obtained on mail, a fact denied by Singh in his latest plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-property-case-nri-alleges-impersonation-ut-top-law-officer-roped-in-for-probe/story-jlUno6C5aDJ5rWDthGD76L.html
19-08-2020||Noida||UP govt launches new electronics manufacturing policy||With the hopes to make the state the new global electronics hub post the coronavirus pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday launched a new electronics manufacturing policy.“ With the new UP Electronics Manufacturing Policy 2020, UP will be able to position itself as the leading state ready to welcome global investors making India as an alternative investment destination in the post Covid-19 scenario. It has a goal of inviting investment of ₹40,000 crore in five years and four lakh direct employment,” read a statement released by the state government.The new policy also has a special focus on Purvanchal and Bundelkhand regions. “Addressing the regional imbalance, the new policy will provide special benefits to Purvanchal and Bundelkhand regions. Policy provides very attractive incentives over and above government of India incentives,” the statement further reads.In a bid to attract investors, the new policy has made the investors eligible for capital subsidy of 15% and additional capital subsidy of 10% on investment more than Rs 1,000 crore. “The investors will also get interest subsidy of 5% per annum on the loan obtained from scheduled banks/ financial institutions. The new policy will also provide stamp duty exemption, land subsidy, patent cost reimbursement, electricity duty exemption, incentive for EMC development and individual units,” the statement said.For the Bundelkhand and Purvanchal regions, the new policy has provided 50% land subsidy on prevailing sector rates to the investors. Incentives offered under the new policy will be up to 100% of the fixed capital investment (FCI) excluding PLI incentives offered by the Centre.The statement said the Uttar Pradesh Electronics Manufacturing Policy 201 had got tremendous success and had achieved the investment and employment generation targets in its third year itself.“Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway regions have established as one of the emerging mobile manufacturing hubs in the world which have attracted foreign direct investments from many countries. More than 60% of all mobile phones manufactured in India are from UP. To further accelerate the Electronics eco-system in the state, the coverage of the new electronics manufacturing policy 2020 has been extended to the entire state from the current EMZs (electronic manufacturing zones) of Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna expressway regions. The incentives proposed in the policy shall be applicable to all units setting up their bases anywhere in state,” it said.The new policy will be valid for five years. A nodal agency under the aegis of the department of IT and electronics will be nominated for the effective implementation of the policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-govt-launches-new-electronics-manufacturing-policy/story-NxZM8rwjXCKOdp2qUBsSXL.html
19-08-2020||Gurugram||DTP threatened during demolition drive in Gurugram’s Sector 72A||The district town planner (DTP) was allegedly threatened on Tuesday by the developers of an unauthorised colony during a demolition drive in Sector 72 A. DTCP officials said, notwithstanding the resistance, the colony and offices of property developers were demolished by the team. Criminal action would be also be taken against the violators for trying to hinder the work of government officials. Officials said that the incident took place when a team of DTCP officials started a demolition drive in an unauthorised colony in Sector 72A. The area has been designated by the department as an open space zone by the DTCP. “Two persons, who appeared to be developers, tried to stop the demolition work and threatened us for carrying out demolition work. We reasoned with them and tried to make them understand that these constructions were in violation of government rules and need to be demolished. We shall initiate criminal action against them. A complaint for an FIR would be submitted to the police in this regard on Wednesday,” said RS Bhath, DTP, adding that action against illegal constructions across the city will continue. This is the second incident in which the district town planning team targeted during a demolition drive. Two weeks back, a property owner had hit the official while a demolition was being carried out in Dharmpur village.The DTCP team on Tuesday also cleared five-acre area being illegally developed without any permission from the government. Two temporary tin shed offices, two permanent rooms and a tin boundary wall were demolished by the team, which was supported by a large team of city police. Officials said that road network and sewer network was also demolished and the forest officials were asked to shift the plants in the area as well. Earlier on Monday, a demolition drive was carried out in Budhera village where farm houses were being developed in a 12-acre area. Bhath said that seven large boundary walls and one big office, which was illegally developed in the form of farm house, were demolished||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtp-threatened-during-demolition-drive-in-sector-72a/story-jbTOhKKtBIRi2mNBoK2heJ.html
19-08-2020||Real||Logix and Supertech promise compliance of pending RERA orders in 6 months||The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory authority (UP-Rera) on Tuesday pulled up two prominent builders -- Logix Group and Supertech Limited -- for not complying with its orders on homebuyers’ complaints. It warned them that failure to do so would result in their unsold properties being auctioned to fulfil the orders.“We held one-to-one meeting with five defaulting builders -- Supertech, Logix, Mascot Homes, Mist Direct Sales and Aura Buildwell,” said Balvinder Kumar, member, UP-Rera. “Of them, Supertech and Logix defaulted the most.”Supertech Limited had 1,806 complaints against them of which UP-Rera disposed of 1,100. “In 864 cases, refund and possession order was given and in 106 cases, refund orders were issued. Around 111 RCs (recovery certificates) were issued against against Supertech for recovery of Rs 44.64 crore. In 758 possession order was issued,” said Balvinder Kumar, member UPRERA.Logix Group had 796 complaints, of which 672 were disposed of. “In 542 cases, possession order was issued and in 27 cases, refund order was issued. RCs were issued in 35 cases amounting to recovery of ₹14.93 crore,” said Kumar, adding the company had given possession to around 270 buyers as per its orders. Both companies said they would comply with the orders soon.“Out of 54 pending compliance cases, 18 will be complied by September. The rest will be complied by February 2021. Besides, 25 partially complied cases shall be attended on most urgent basis within three to four months,” Shakti Nath, chairperson of Logix Group, said.RK Arora, chairperson of Supertech Limited, said, “The company plans to settle the pending 530 complaints by 100 cases per month and the entire complaints will be settled within next six months. So far we have settled 334 cases.”UP-Rera’s Balvinder Kumar said: “RCs were issued to Mascot Homes, Mist Direct Sales and Aura Buildwell for recovery of ₹3.54 crore, ₹4.72 crore and ₹39 lakh, respectively.”These companies could not be reached for comment.“We have asked (all of) them to take a special drive to comply with the orders and also to refund amount on installment basis in view of cash crunch. The builders have been asked to give details of properties which can be auctioned and recover the amount due for buyers,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/logix-and-supertech-promise-compliance-of-pending-rera-orders-in-6-months/story-LxeiWOa4LMiWVJZngiiOcI.html
19-08-2020||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray seeks action plan from economists, scientists to revive Maharashtra economy||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has sought an action plan for eminent economists and scientists to revive the state economy, which is facing a severe crisis following the Covid-19 lockdown. The economists, in a video interaction with the CM on Tuesday, also suggested several measures for economic revival that included concessions for various sectors.The ongoing financial crisis has already led the state government to declare a 67% cut in its spending for developmental works this fiscal year. To revive the economic situation, Thackeray had called for the interaction with various economists and scientists associated with Pune International Centre.Deepak Parekh, chairman, HDFC, who also participated in the interaction, said that it is necessary to provide concessions in taxes and other charges for revival of the real estate sector. He said the sector should be given three months waiver from stamp duty; ready reckoner rates should be changed, and charges against of use of a plot should be reduced considering the current situation.Parekh further suggested that all taxes should be recovered only after completion of a housing project. Ajit Ranade, economist, said that the Maha Mumbai Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in Raigad should be revived by bringing in fresh projects. He said that robotics, telemedicine, information and technology (IT) and export-oriented projects can be set up on the 5,000-acre plot acquired for SEZ. He said the state has also acquired 10,000 acre of land for the Multi-modal International Cargo Hub and Airport at Nagpur (Mihan), and similar kinds of initiatives can be taken to bring new projects there too.Another economist, Vijay Kelkar suggested that the Nanar refinery project should be started which will bring jobs for 1 lakh people and an investment of Rs 3 lakh crore. He said that the Chembur refinery project can also be shifted from Mumbai and the plot can be properly developed.Responding to the suggestions, Thackeray asked for a time-bound action plan from the economists that will be prepared after further discussions with senior officials. The chief minister said that there should be complete transparency while bringing in any new projects. There should be a dialogue with locals and the state over the project. Thackeray said he did not believe in development that requires force, responding to the suggestion to start the Nanar refinery project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-seeks-action-plan-from-economists-scientists-to-revive-maharashtra-economy/story-x8segTBwHe92bNKFYX0IZM.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||ADB approves $1 billion package for Delhi-Meerut rapid rail project||In a big push for the high-speed Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor between Delhi and Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) has approved a $1 billion loan for the venture, officials of the NCR Transport Corporation (NCRTC), the entity executing the project, said on Tuesday. Civil construction work for the project, which aims at providing a high-speed rail link between Delhi and Meerut to cut down on travel time and boost housing in NCR towns and cities to ease pressure on the national capital, is on in full swing over a 50km stretch between Sahibabad in Ghaziabad and Shatabdipuram in Meerut. The 82-km corridor that will connect Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi, Ghaziabad and Meerut will have with a total of 24 stations -- 21 in Uttar Pradesh and the rest in Delhi. According to officials, the detailed project report states that about eight lakh passengers will board the high-speed RRTS trains, which will run at 180kmph, for long and short-distance commuting every day. Commuting time between Delhi and Meerut is expected to reduce drastically — from around 120 minutes at present to 55 minutes once the line is commissioned. The Delhi-Meerut expressway is another project aimed at improving connectivity between Delhi, Meerut and other western UP towns.“The approval of the $1.049 billion funding package by ADB for the high-speed, high-capacity Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS reflects upon the funding agency’s trust in the project that promises to transform regional mobility besides giving push to polycentric economic development across the region and will lead to improvement in the quality of life of the citizens,” Vinay Kumar Singh, managing director of NCRTC said in a statement. “Efficient and integrated transport solutions are critical for managing the rapid urbanisation and ensuring balanced urban development of the region,” ADB’s principal transport specialist, Sharad Saxena, said in statement. “This project will provide safe, reliable and seamless travel between Delhi and other cities and pave the way for a paradigm shift in mobility across the NCR,” he said. The cost of the RRTS project is pegged at Rs 30,274 crore. The project will involve loans to the tune of about Rs 14,000-15,000 crore from external sources while the rest will come from the Centre and the state governments (UP and Delhi) involved, besides Rs 270 crore from the private sector, officials associated with the project said. “A total loan of about $2.049 billion will come from three sources and will amount to $1.049 billion and two other parts of $500 million each. ADB’s approval will give a major boost to the project. Civil construction tenders for the 50km stretch from Sahibabad to Shatabdipuram have been already awarded and construction activities are on. Tenders for rolling stock was awarded earlier. The rest of the tenders are in different stages,” said Sudhir Sharma, chief PRO of NCRTC. The NCRTC has first identified a priority stretch of 17km in Ghaziabad (Sahibabad to Duhai) for which work had started in the first phase. Work has also begun for another 33km from Duhai to Shatabdipuram in Meerut. The priority section is scheduled for commissioning in March, 2023, while the entire 82-km corridor from Delhi to Meerut is expected to be open by March 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/adb-approves-1-billion-package-for-delhi-meerut-rapid-rail-project/story-Lm80ShRwf3QWgib7MePSWN.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC asks state, Centre and civic bodies to sit together and sort out financial issues||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the Centre, Delhi government and the civic bodies to meet and find a solution to the financial difficulties being faced by the three municipal corporations.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said a committee should be constituted to look into the financial aspects of the corporations as well as the Delhi government. “We expect that this meeting shall be convened at the earliest,” the bench said.The court was hearing an application moved by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, alleging that Rs 90.60 crore payable as grant-in-aid under the sanitation/urban development head, for the first quarter ending June 30, had not been released yet by the Delhi government. The plea said Rs 181 crore under the same head for the second quarter is also due.On Tuesday, advocate Satyakam, the additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, told the court that it had not received over Rs 10,000 crore from the Centre as its share of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection and hence the government had not been able to release money to the civic bodies.Following this, the court said that a meeting between all stakeholders should be convened to discuss all the issues, especially the financial aspect. The matter would be now heard on September 8.In its plea filed through advocate Mini Pushkarna, the north corporation said the funding was meant for payment of salaries of sanitation activities.In its application, the north corporation has said expenses towards salaries till May 2020, sanitation services and providing PPE kits, gloves, masks, sanitizers to the workers, had been incurred by the corporation from its own internal resources, in the absence of any amount being released by the Delhi government.The application has been filed in a pending writ petition by one Rahul Birla seeking directions to the Delhi government and the municipal corporations to pay salaries to sanitation workers with arrears.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-asks-state-centre-and-civic-bodies-to-sit-together-and-sort-out-financial-issues/story-fDgMCslZhDMDCVlWA8UlkK.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||Opposition fanned north-east Delhi riots, says AAP; BJP hits back||A day after accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of scripting the Shaheen Bagh protests, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday said leaders from the opposition party provoked people from both Hindu and Muslim communities and delivered hate speeches, which led to the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February that claimed 53 lives.“Several senior leaders of the BJP openly delivered provocative speeches that led to a toxic atmosphere and ultimately caused communal violence in north-east Delhi in February. The BJP is scared of getting exposed now and that is why the central government did not let public prosecutors of the Delhi government argue on riot-related cases and instead appointed their own lawyers,” AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said in a press conference at the party head office in central Delhi.He said, “Several leaders of the BJP were creating tension among Hindus on the one hand, and, on the other, they were provoking Muslims protesting (against the amended citizenship law) in Shaheen Bagh. The BJP’s role stands exposed now after around 50 individuals of Shaheen Bagh associated with the protest recently joined the party. All these individuals should be probed – what roles they had in the protests, who they took instructions from and who were the top BJP leaders they were in touch with.”On Monday, Bharadwaj had alleged that the Shaheen Bagh protests were “pre-planned, scripted and strategised” by the BJP to win more seats in the February 8 Delhi Assembly elections. His remarks came after the BJP announcing on Sunday that around 50 Muslim residents of Shaheen Bagh had joined the party.Reacting to AAP’s latest charges, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “They are making an issue out of nothing. They are doing this as they fear of losing their support base of the Muslim community, which has come out in support of the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-provoked-people-in-north-east-delhi-aap/story-LLRU86ITBwPFF9mPTzMhTI.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Results of second sero survey this week, says Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said results of the second serological (sero) survey will be announced this week. The minister also said that the government consulted with experts and found that there has been no case in Delhi so far where a recovered Covid-19 person has contracted the viral disease again.The survey will indicate what percentage of the city’s population has developed antibodies against the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, since the first such survey was conducted between June 27 and July 10. Of those surveyed in that instance, 22.6% had antibodies against the infection.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayTalking to reporters, Jain said the prevalence of antibodies among people is likely to increase in all likelihood compared to the result of the first sero survey. He, however, did not give details on how many of the over 15,000 samples collected showed antibodies for Covid-19 in the latest survey.“Results of the second sero survey is expected this week. The first survey showed that over 22% of the people from Delhi were exposed to the virus,” he said.Compared to the first serological survey where close to 21,800 samples were collected from across the Capital, the second round comprised of over 15,000 samples which were randomly collected between August 1 and 7. Of the total samples collected this time, half were from people between the ages of 18 and 49.Also read: New immunity insights a boost against Covid-19A senior government official said the state health department was still compiling data as on Tuesday afternoon. “The findings of the study will help determine how much closer Delhi has got to the herd immunity threshold. The collected samples have been tested for Sars-Cov-2 antibodies that will indicate a past infection,” said the official.According to the government’s standard operating procedure (SOP), the highest number of samples were collected from the Northwest district (2,200), followed by West (2,145), and Central (1,548). The fewest were from New Delhi district, where over 880 samples were collected.The health minister dismissed reports that some recovered Covid-19 persons were testing positive again in the city.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “We consulted experts on this and it was found that these cases were not of them testing positive afresh for Covid-19. Till one-two months after recovery, such results can come. But till now, we have not got any case in Delhi where a recovered person has got the coronavirus disease again in one or two months,” he said.Jain also said testing has been started at the Anand Vihar ISBT where even those coming from the railway station are getting tested if found symptomatic. He also said that the Delhi government’s anti-dengue ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Din’ campaign will be organised this year from September 1 to mobilise the support of people in combating vector-borne diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/results-of-second-sero-survey-this-week-jain/story-jQ3Y3c70lEOwrIBfBaN4WI.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||20-year-old BBA student arrested after cyclist dies in accident||Four days after a 33-year-old cyclist was mowed down by a car near Siri Fort Auditorium in south Delhi, a 20-year-old woman who was driving the car was arrested from her home in Greater Kailash, the police said on Tuesday. The white Honda Amaze car she was driving has also been seized from her home, they said.Senior police officers, who refused to reveal the identity of the woman, said she was pursuing her Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) from a private university outside Delhi. They did not clarify if the university is in India or abroad. “She is pursuing her second year in BBA. Her father runs a restaurant in Delhi,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur, who also refused to divulge the name of the restaurant. Farooq Ahmed, a security guard, was cycling towards his work place in south Delhi when his bike was hit from behind by a white Amaze car on August 14 around 7 pm. Ahmed was admitted to AIIMS Trauma Centre by an unidentified man, who gave his wrong details and contact numbers before disappearing from the hospital. Police suspected that the man who took the injured cyclist to the hospital could be the same person involved in the mishap, officials said.Ahmed succumbed to his injuries on August 15. A case was registered and investigation was taken up. “We scanned more than 30 CCTV cameras installed between the accident spot and the hospital. It helped us identify the vehicle and arrest the woman who was driving it when the mishap took place,” said Thakur. During the questioning, DCP Thakur said, the woman told the police that Ahmed was trying to overtake another car when she rammed her car into his bicycle from behind. She stopped her vehicle and with the help of a passerby rushed him to the hospital. However, she did not report the matter to the police. Also, her family members were unaware of the accident, added the DCP.On April 13, a 52-year-old doctor, who served as a Covid-19 nodal officer and was cycling back home from work, was killed in a hit-and-run case near Malviya Nagar police training college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-year-old-bba-student-arrested-after-cyclist-dies-in-accident/story-hFwF6C87VMFx6LhdJl80qJ.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro announces 50% cut in perks, allowances of its staff||Perks and allowances of Metro employees will be slashed by 50% from August, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in an order on Tuesday. The rail corporation said the decision was taken as Metro had incurred a financial loss of Rs 1,500 crore since March 22, when train operations were shut due to the nationwide lockdown announced to contain the Covid-19 pandemic.With no clarity on when Metro operations will resume, DMRC in an order dated August 18 communicated its decision to its employees. “In view of the extreme adverse financial condition due to non-operation of Metro services, it has been decided that perks and allowances shall be reduced by 50% w.e.f the month of August 2020, till further orders,” the order read.The Metro has also decided to put on hold all “sanctions of fresh advances for house building advance, multipurpose advance, laptop advance, etc.,” which its employees could avail till now. “However, the advance already sanctioned shall continue to be disbursed as and when a demand is received,” the order said.A senior Metro official, requesting anonymity, confirmed the development. The DMRC officially refused to comment on the matter.With Metro operations shut since March 22, DMRC has suffered a revenue loss of about Rs 1,500 crore. Last month, DMRC had written to the Centre, requesting it to defer repayment of its loan till next year.The Union housing and urban affairs (HUA) ministry had asked DMRC to approach the Delhi government for financial assistance to repay its loan instalment for this year, HT reported on August 7.The rail corporation had taken a soft loan of Rs 35,198 crore for construction work from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). DMRC has repaid Rs 3,337 crore of the loan to JICA. According to another DMRC official, Metro has to pay Rs 1242.83 crore as instalment for the financial year 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suffering-losses-dmrc-slashes-perks-and-allowance-of-employees-by-50/story-X5RYTCWX4EST8fkRXGBm8K.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||No digging of roads in Delhi till monsoon ends||Alarmed by incidents of heavy water logging across Delhi after short spells of rain, the municipal corporations and the public works department have decided not to permit any road-digging work till the monsoon season is over. Many agencies such as telecom companies, discoms and the Delhi Jal Board often have to dig up roads to lay or repair wires, sewer lines or water pipelines. According to municipal officials, digging of roads was one of the main reasons behind water logging and road cave-ins during the rainy season. Only crucial work may be permitted in special circumstances, they said.North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash said digging work by different agencies on municipal and PWD roads to lay or repair sewer lines, water pipelines, telephone cables and electric wires often lead to water logging during the rains.“Apart from clogged drains, road cutting was a major cause of water logging. Many a time, it is seen that the agency concerned, be it any discom or telecommunications company, does not properly repair the dug-up portion, which not only leads to accumulation of water but enhances the threat of road cave-in. As a precautionary measure, we have decided not to permit any road-cutting during monsoon. An order to this effect has been circulated,” he said.The mayor said in special circumstances, only works that are of “utmost importance” would be allowed.South Delhi Anamika Mithilesh also said only emergency work will be permitted, with a rider that the agency concerned will have to properly re-carpet the stretch so that it does not get inundated after rain.The municipal corporations manage over 1,000 km roads less than 60 feet in width. The PWD manages more than 1,260 km arterial and other big roads wider than 60 feet. Delhi has been experiencing heavy water logging even after moderate rain. In July, at least seven instances of road cave-ins were reported at different locations after just three days of heavy rain. The PWD has issued a circular to avoid deep digging work and cover open trenches during monsoons.“All deep work should be stopped and it should be ensured trenches are filled in and malba/surplus earth should be removed on a daily basis after completion of work. It should be ensured that trenches (where work is already in progress) are properly barricaded, diversion boards are fixed at appropriate locations and lighting arrangement during night hours are in place,” the PWD circular said.PWD officials said there are instances of dug-up stretches kept lying open or unattended, posing a threat to commuters, especially during the rainy season.The officials said the guidelines were issued to avoid instances of road cave-in, water logging and mishaps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-digging-of-roads-in-delhi-till-monsoon-ends/story-zx07BeU6pPGa6JEYdrotlL.html
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Malfunctioning streetlights irk residents of Chandigarh’s southern sectors||Residents of the city’s southern sectors are now complaining about non-functional streetlights in their area.In 2018, the municipal corporation (MC) had carried out a survey in which 9,310 dark spots had been identified in the city. Of these, 5,900 dark spots were present in the south (Sectors 31-63) alone, while 3,400 spots were identified in the north (Sectors 1-30).However, MC officials said a survey to determine how many of these spots had been lit up hadn’t been done since then.General secretary of the Sector 40C resident welfare association (RWA) SK Khosla said, “During monsoon every year, the wiring gets damaged and the streetlights on the main roads as well as in parks stop working. We write to the MC and the administration, but our complaints fall on deaf ears.”President of the Sector-39B RWA Amardeep Singh agreed that streetlights had remained non-operational for a while now and should be restored soon for the safety of the people.President of the Sector-48 RWA JJ Singh said even the parks weren’t properly lit. “Two flood lights were installed in the park here a year ago. The lights work, but their sensors are off and many times they don’t switch on even when it starts getting dark.”CYCLISTS, PEDESTRIANS AT RISKRoad safety activist Harpreet Singh said, “It is important for roads to be lit as dark patches put cyclists and pedestrians at risk. After a black spot is identified, one of the first courses of action should be to increase the luminosity of the streetlights installed there.”Meanwhile in the northern sectors, although most streetlights were functional, Sector 8 resident welfare body president Ranvinder Singh Gill said the timing of the lights was erratic. “Sometimes the lights would be on late in the morning and even afternoon. On one hand, the MC wants to charge an entry fee on gardens, and on the other power is being wasted.”MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said, “Everyday, we receive 15-20 complaints that are mostly fixed within a couple of days.”MC officials who maintain the lights said that many times, the lights stopped working because wires or other components would get stolen. The new parts would then take a few days to procure and so the process would take a fortnight to finish, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/malfunctioning-streetlights-irk-residents-of-chandigarh-s-southern-sectors/story-HTGvx3OnMrgGXk6YosMwxH.html
19-08-2020||Pune||SPPU online learning model to be followed by others||The ‘Pune Model’ for online learning started by the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is going to be implemented in all other universities across the state, announced state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant. Samant appreciated the efforts taken by SPPU to encourage online learning for its various courses. “The loss occurred due to the Covid-19 pandemic is huge, but it has given new opportunities to us. Online education is the new way forward and SPPU has done fabulous work in terms of online learning for its students. I have personally seen the studios, facilities and work going into creating online content for students. So, there is a need to make all the universities in the state self-dependent and develop such an online education system,” said Samant.“The system which SPPU has put in place for online learning is different and is receiving good results. So, we are now planning to take the Pune Model of SPPU to all other universities in the state. For this, further process has been initiated by our department and soon we will see the outcome of it.” added Samant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-online-learning-model-to-be-followed-by-others/story-FyOOjkljqoqZUya4uypYCN.html
19-08-2020||Pune||Pune records highest active cases in the country||Pune district has now topped the country in terms of the number of active cases. Compared to some of the major cities, Pune is not far ahead in terms of the number of active cases which has raised serious questions on the administration’s capacity to handle the situation. Despite Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the district corporation claiming to test most number of tests per million and further ramping up the testing capacity since the past one month, city has failed to break the chain. The district administration is now accepting loopholes in its strategy to contain the spread.As of August 17, Pune has 39424 active cases, closely followed by Bengaluru which has 34,584 active cases, while Mumbai, which was considered as the worst hit city in the country, now has only 17,704 active cases; Delhi, country’s capital which has four civic bodies, has only 15,066 active cases while Chennai has 12,003 active cases. Due to data discrepancy, district health office for Pune reports 26,719 active cases, out of which 15,673 are in hospital isolation while 11,046 are in home isolation. Despite different agencies reporting different numbers, the fact remains that Pune district’s active cases are higher than most metro cities in the country. Admitting to the loopholes in strategy to contain the spread of the virus, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “It is true that we have the highest number of progressive positives and also active cases. The sero survey clearly shows that there is high prevalence and since we are doing high testing we are able to identify and isolate patients quickly. Further strategy is going to remain the same, aggressive testing and focusing on super spreaders. Super spreaders would include those who constantly come in and out of the containment zones, which includes those working in essential services, vegetable vendors, milkmen, nurses and sanitation workers. The economy is not opening up and it is not possible for the administration, including the police, to behave in a ruthless manner. Also, they are the most affected due to the lockdown economically, it would not be possible to keep people locked inside the containment zones anymore. We are focusing on comorbid patients and senior citizens for which we have dedicated teams which will help keep check on the case fatality rate.” Rao said, “However, it is also true that despite high testing we are unable to arrest the spread. There are two possible reasons, one people are not following the social distancing norms, not wearing masks or following respiratory and hand hygiene and the second is containment. We would accept it that there is some lethargy in containing the containment zones. Because in an ideal case, a containment zone should be free of the virus in the next 14 days. People are jumping over the barricades, but forcing them to stay inside since the past five months is not possible unless we are ruthless.” On August 17, PMC announced its latest list of containment zones which included 66 areas which would be barricaded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-records-highest-active-cases-in-the-country/story-j3rjpmmyMZBBkmpujv6dQL.html
19-08-2020||Pune||PMC deploys more staff for property assessment, tax collection||The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) approved appointment of extra personnel for the property tax department in order to increase its tax collection capacity.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Standing committee approved appointment of at least 400 personnel for the property tax department as they can help in the recovery of more tax.”Rasne said, “Many new flat owners are willing to pay tax to the PMC, but as their property assessment has not been completed, they are unable to pay the tax. By using the additional manpower, the PMC administration will be able to complete more assessments and verify existing flats and its use. It will help get in additional revenue for the civic body.”Rasne added, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the PMC has to bear an unexpected financial burden and hence, it is necessary to improve the revenue collection of the civic body. The standing committee had given Rs 2,000 crore tax collection target to the property tax department for the financial year 2020-21.”Due to pandemic induced lockdown, PMC collected Rs 673 crores, a fall of Rs 90 crores, in the first quarter of 2020-21 compared to Rs 763.90 crores during the same period last fiscal. This was mainly due to taxpayers did not pay tax for around 93000 properties. During last fiscal, PMC collected tax from around 5.95 lakh properties. The PMC this year encouraged online payment of tax, which helped he civic body as 84000 more online transactions were recorded. Rasne said, “PMC acquiring total 600 personal for property tax department. 200 employees from other departments and 400 are from contract who will get six months appointment and around Rs20000 per month salary. “These additional man power will mainly focus on increasing the tax. “From last few years many properties changed their use. Many residential properties converted in commercial spaces but till paying tax as a residential property. Even many illegal works happened in existing properties and some new illegal properties. Though properties are illegal, they need to pay tax as people staying in such properties are using services provided by pmc like water, road, public places and sewage facility. Paying a tax for illegal properties means, they are not became legal. Tax is only for using services. On this background the property tax focus would collect maximum tax from defaulters.Rasne said, “property tax is important tool for getting revenue. If pmc would get tax, it will help to carry out development works. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-deploys-more-staff-for-property-assessment-tax-collection/story-bJ2Zyh2d2uXod9paDKkU7J.html
19-08-2020||Pune||Special RTO drive in Pune to check private transport providers charging exorbitant fees||The Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) kicked off a special drive on Tuesday to check private travels and tourist buses charging exorbitant fares during the festive season. With the Ganpati festival next week, many people travel to their hometowns and village and private transport service providers charge high fees. Therefore to keep a check on such transport providers, the RTO started the drive, said officials. “The state government has fixed the per kilometre travel rate for private buses and other vehicles. They should follow the rules and regulations accordingly and if anyone is found violating the norms, they will face strict action. We appeal to all the private players to not charge more than 1.5 times the rates of the Maharashtra state road transport corporation (MSRTC) buses as per the instructions from the state government,” said Pune regional transport officer Ajit Shinde.Every year before Ganpati and Diwali festival, there is a heavy rush at ST stands and at private tourist buses parking lots around the city. Taking advantage of the situation, private players charge a high fare from passengers. This year, however, the inter district travel has been restricted, many travel agencies are taking necessary permission and passes to transport passengers to various destinations, but in turn charging a high fare for it.“I wanted to go to Solapur to my hometown for the Ganpati festival for which one of the private tourist owner quoted Rs 1,500 as the fare which included the police pass and fare tickets. It’s a very high charge and the common people cannot afford such heavy fares. Instead, I will prefer to stay in Pune and travel when the situation gets normal.” said Hari Reddy, a health professional.Meanwhile, the Pune RTO has increased its daily permanent licence quota. Earlier, the daily quota for Light Motor Vehicle (LMV) permanent licence and motorcycle with gear permanent licence was 80, which has now doubled to 160 per day. The motorcycle without gear permanent licence earlier quota has been increased to 90 from the earlier 60.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/special-rto-drive-in-pune-to-check-private-transport-providers-charging-exorbitant-fees/story-pZ2CtsY3c6S4sECr9yoifK.html
19-08-2020||Pune||Preterm and underweight Covid positive baby successfully discharged from Pune hospital after four weeks of ventilator support||A preterm baby boy born weighing just 1.8 kg was admitted for over a month after being tested positive for Covid-19 at a private hospital. The baby could be the first such occurrence as the first preterm baby who was successfully discharged after undergoing ventilator treatment for about 22 days, including 100% oxygen requirement, in the state, according to the hospital authorities. Although doctors could not confirm if this is a case of vertical transmission, they are reporting the case as the first of its kind in terms of multiple symptoms, including lung fibrosis, pneumonia in both the lungs and cytokine storm which are not usually reported in Covid-19 positive infants.Dr Pradeep Surawanshi, who was the treating doctor at Bharati Vidyapeeth University and Medical College and Hospital for the baby, said, “The baby was brought to us after delivery from another private hospital. He experienced breathlessness and was not responding to the normal treatment procedure, and so we got the baby tested for antibodies which tested positive for the Covid-19. The mother was also tested later and was found positive. The baby was born at 34 weeks and weighed only 1.8 kg. The baby was under ventilator treatment for over 22 days and was successfully discharged after 35 days of treatment. The baby is successfully breast feeding. This is a rare case because we observed cytokine storm and lung fibrosis, just like in case of adults. We will be reporting it to the Lancet publication as a first of its kind in the world.” Neelima Suryavanshi, aunt of the baby said, “The baby was born on July 12 and the same day was shifted to Bharati hospital after experiencing breathlessness. It was a very critical case, but thankfully due to timely intervention the baby is now healthy.” Dr Sanjay Gupta, former president of the Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India said, “This is definitely a rare case and a positive one in that. However, the breathlessness in the baby could be because of either being born preterm and that the lungs were not fully developed and underweight or due to Covid.” The case study report of the case states that “the breathing difficulty gradually increased over the next two days and the baby was put on a ventilator. The infant also received two doses of special medicine called ‘surfactant’ into the baby’s lungs to help the delivery of oxygen. In spite of this, baby required 100% oxygen and was put on a special type of ventilator called high frequency ventilator. The X rays were showing widespread pneumonia in both lungs and resembled the disease presentation as seen in adults with severe Covid-19. “A special gas called nitric oxide was also used to help oxygen delivery. Baby also had all the blood investigations suggestive of the ‘cytokine storm’ and the antibody test for Covid-19 came to be positive in both baby and mother. It is noteworthy that mother never had any symptoms of Covid-19, except the fact that she had preterm delivery (which itself can be due to corona virus-2). “A special therapy (Intravenous Immunoglobulin) which helps the immune system was also given. Due to the severity of the disease and after detailed discussion with parents, baby was given high dose steroids (methylprednisolone) for 5 days after which the baby started its gradual recovery.“The child remained on ventilator for 22 days out of which high frequency ventilator was given for 16 days. In modern day NICU care it is an exceptional event to require such a prolonged ventilatory care. Eventually the baby came off the ventilator on 25th day of life. At this stage, the CT scan of the chest showed some residual scarring (fibrosis) of the lungs, which has been recently documented in adult patients, who have recovered from the severe Covid-19. After few days of oxygen therapy during the recovery process, baby was discharged home on day 35.” Dr Suryavanshi said, “This is a unique case of a preterm small baby, who suffered from severe Covid-19 disease and required almost 4 weeks of ventilatory support and heavy dose of steroids, which lead to recovery albeit with some residual damage. This kind of severe disease presentation has not been documented world over in preterm small babies. As we know babies have a tremendous potential to recover from any damage, much faster and better than adults, we hope with time, baby will eventually overcome the scars left by this dreadful disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/preterm-and-underweight-covid-positive-baby-successfully-discharged-after-four-weeks-of-ventilator-support/story-njiMrFEX5a3Kmdt0rQqGPM.html
19-08-2020||Pune||Dabholkar murder case: After 7 years, family unhappy with CBI probe||Seven years have passed since the murder of rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar and eight arrests have been made by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) over the years, however, Dabholkar’s family members are unhappy with the probe stating that it still hasn’t reached a logical conclusion. Dabholkar was shot dead by two assailants near Omkareshwar temple in Sadashiv peth on August 20, 2013, when the rationalist was returning home after a morning walk. Dabholkar’s daughter Mukta and son Hamid in a joint statement on Tuesday said that the CBI has not been able to find the ‘masterminds’ who directed the killing of their father and as a result the threat to the lives of rationalists, activists and journalists remain imminent till date. “The murder investigation has stopped only till the arrest of eight persons including Virendra Tawade and Amol Kale. The CBI must go ahead and investigate the masterminds of the murder failing which the danger to the lives of rationalist thinkers will not fade away. Seven years after the murder, the investigation remains incomplete,” stated the release issued both by Hamid and Mukta on Tuesday. The family’s submission comes at a time when the Union home ministry on August 12 awarded the CBI officer, who probed the Dabholkar’s murder case. The Union home ministry awarded a total of 121 officers, including 15 from the CBI, which included assistant superintendent of police (ASP) SR Singh, who not just investigated the case, but also ensured that the weapon used in Dabholkar’s murder was recovered from the Thane creek. The family members said that it is a painful experience that the case has remained unsolved till date by an agency like the CBI. According to their statement, every government conveniently used the word ‘progressive’ for their political mileage. “The political parties and their leadership keeps espousing the ideology of Phule-Shahu-Ambedkar, but the murder investigation of a personality who gave his life for creating a progressive society is yet not over which pains us,” stated Hamid and Mukta. The CBI arrested ENT surgeon Dr Vinod Tawade, a Sanatan Sanstha member in 2016, alleging that he was the mastermind behind the murder. In the Dabholkar murder case, the CBI has also arrested three others identified as Amol Kale, Amit Digwekar and Rajesh Bangera — who are accused in the murder of Bengaluru-based journalist and activist Gauri Lankesh in September 2017. Later, the agency arrested Sachin Andure and Sharad Kalaskar, in August 2018, as the ones who opened fire at Dabholkar on August 20, 2013. Vikram Bhave and advocate Sanjiv Punalekar were arrested by the CBI in May 2019, on the basis of a statement by Kalaskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/family-unhappy-with-cbi-investigation-in-dabholkar-murder-case/story-3kGVh9Ycp1mw669yyjTRuI.html
19-08-2020||Pune||PMC ropes in corporates to turn its building into hospital||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has set up a Covid care facility at its six-storey building at Baner with the help of private firms under CSR, officials said on Sunday. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who visited the facility last week, had asked officials to expedite the process of turning the building into a hospital. The hospital will soon be functional to serve patients with moderate and high-risk symptoms related to Covid-19. It will have 270 oxygenated beds and 42 beds with ventilator at intensive care units (ICU), said PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane. The standing committee on Tuesday approved the staff for the hospital coming up at Baner. “We have got the hospital ready for free with the help from corporates under corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative. The civic body will run the facility,” said Rasane. PMC city engineer Prashant Waghmare said that the PMC building was ready and lying unutilised. “PMC has got a 48,000 square feet ready building under reservation from the Panchshil builder at Baner survey number 109. Our department suggested to mayor Murlidhar Mohol and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar to start a Covid hospital in this building. They okayed our suggestion,” said Waghmare. The six-storey building has 48,000 square feet ready construction with each floor having 8,000 square feet. “Under the CSR, we had appealed to corporate firms to contribute for erecting the hospital and they agreed to our proposal,” said Waghmare. The latest facility will help to bring down the hospital bed burden in the city especially among critical patients. An 800-bed jumbo facility is coming up at College of Engineering, Pune and will be operational by this week. “The Baner facility will be permanent and PMC can run it as per the requirement even after the Covid pandemic,” said Waghmare, who added that many private firms are joining hands with PMC to strengthen the city’s medical infrastructure. Firms who funded to set up hospital at Baner under CSRPanchshil Foundation ABIL Foundation Mindspace Business Park Pvt Limited Gera Development Private Limited Malpani Group Sangamner||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-ropes-in-corporates-to-turn-its-building-into-hospital/story-71WKaxLyBy9Azp0gaAi8vJ.html
19-08-2020||Pune||Five-time Pandharpur MLA Sudhakar Paricharak dies of Covid in Pune||Sudharak Paricharak, a five-time Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) from Pandharpur, passed away at a private hospital in Pune, his family members said on Tuesday. Paricharak, 85, was with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) till recently and was detected with Covid on August 5, following which he was hospitalised at Sahyadri hospital in Pune. “He was on ventilator support since the past two days. On Monday, at around 11:30 pm, he breathed his last. The final rites will be carried out in Pune,” said Paricharak’s grandson Pritish in a message posted on social media. According to doctors, Paricharak, a diabetic, was also detected with blood pressure. Paricharak represented Pandharpur constituency between 1985 and 2009. He also headed the state transport body Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) between 1999 and 2008. During his early days in politics, Paricharak as Congress leader was close to Vasantdada Patil. After Sharad Pawar formed the NCP, Paricharak remained loyal to Pawar till 2014 when his son joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-time-pandharpur-mla-sudhakar-paricharak-dies-of-covid/story-xU2TLlK3GBJwSD4Dy5UboJ.html
19-08-2020||Delhi||Skill training for class 9 and 11 drop-outs in Delhi govt schools||Around 34,000 class 9 and 11 students who dropped out of Delhi government schools in the 2018-19 academic session will get a chance to opt for free vocational training in a field of their choice. Following the completion of the training, the trainees will receive certificates and placement opportunities.The pilot project will be managed by the Delhi unit of Samagra Shiksha (SS) in collaboration with the National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM) and Department of Training and Technical Education (DTTE). The Union government’s Samagra Shiksha scheme is a holistic education programme functioning across the country, within the respective states’ education departments.“Vocational training, in a field of their choice, will provide these children with a respectable way to catch up on lost education, equip them with necessary skills and increase their employability for improved livelihoods,” read a circular released earlier this month signed by Rajanish Kumar Singh, special project director (SS). HT has a copy of the circular.The pilot project, a first of its kind under Samagra Shiksha, aims to reach out to 27,970 class 9 students, and 6,755 class 11 students who dropped out in the 2018-19 academic session. Kavita Rana, Assistant Project Director, Samagra Shiksha said, “Since the class 9 and 11 results for the previous academic session were delayed, we are starting the pilot project with these students. These children will also be in the appropriate age group for employment and internships. Once we are able to get these children skill training, we will expand the scope to all children above 14 years of age who have dropped out of school.”The vocational training programmes offered by these institutes include courses from the garments sector, such as tailoring or stitching; beautician courses; IT sector programmes offering computer training, web-design and data-entry courses; healthcare sector programmes like nursing courses, and others. “We had asked schools to contact children by Monday and forward the data to district offices. Once we have the compiled data, we plan to hold a meeting with DTTE and NULM to go ahead with the project,” Rana said. As per the circular, the meeting, scheduled for August 24, will also explore the feasibility of setting up vocational labs in schools for dropouts.Mary Jyotsna Minj, principal of a Delhi government school for girls in New Kondli, welcomed the initiative, and said it would offer scopes for children who may not opt for academics. “It was difficult to compile data during the pandemic, since many students have left the city and we don’t know where they are. The goal is to start getting children on board at least. They will need to be motivated to bring them back into the mainstream. But there is hope for all dropouts, especially girls.”Sarbjeet Kaur, the Educational and Vocational Guidance Counsellor (EVGC) at Minj’s school, said, “We pulled out old registers to get in touch with students. In our school, of 80 students, we were able to track only 60. Among these, many either moved back to their hometowns outside Delhi or are married, or are not keen on joining the course for other reasons.”Schools have also been asked to constitute outreach teams consisting of EVGCs who can help these children opt for the right skill training, based on their aptitude.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/skill-training-for-class-9-and-11-drop-outs-in-delhi-govt-schools/story-VWGyanHQewbaJRJg7TXGFK.html
